SUSTAINABLE IMPACT REPORT 2018 ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT This report includes HP’s performance data through Part 1: EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Part 2: DETAILED DISCLOSURES FY2018 (which ended October 31, 2018), unless stated pages 5 to 45 pages 46 to 146 otherwise. It also describes HP’s Sustainable Impact policies, programs, and goals. This section provides a high-level This section provides in-depth overview of our Sustainable Impact management and performance The information in this report is current as of the date of its initial publication. The report has not been updated to strategy and progress, and vision information across the broad reflect any changes since that date, including any changes for the future. range of environmental, social, to HP’s business or strategy. HP assumes no obligation and governance issues. and does not intend to update this report to reflect any Additional information is available on our such changes. Sustainable Impact website. The performance data in this report covers 100% of HP’s global business operations and/or revenue, as of HP’s most recently completed fiscal year, unless stated otherwise. All references to years are to HP’s fiscal year, which ends October 31, 2018, unless stated otherwise. All references to dollars are to U.S. dollars. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 2 HP Inc.’s vision is to create technology that makes life better for everyone, everywhere. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 3 LETTER FROM PRESIDENT AND CEO Our customers, consumers and employees are passionate about the environment and social justice, and they expect companies like ours to lead with purpose. 80 years ago, Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard cleared Yet while we are making significant progress, we are manufactured with respect and care for the people who out a small California garage to launch a business. nowhere near the end of our journey. We are doubling make them, and we have provided skills and well-being With all the funding they could muster — a grand down on our commitments and seeking new ways to turn training to more than a quarter-million workers worldwide. total of $538 dollars — they set out to create a the challenges of today into the opportunities of tomorrow. different kind of company. And, as we push forward on our journey, we’ll be This requires us to set our sights high. It’s not enough investing to equip and empower communities to One that pushes the boundaries of human potential to simply check a box and move on. It’s about creating thrive. We believe education is a fundamental human and progress. An engine of innovation that not only technology that is truly in the service of humanity. right. We have now enabled better learning outcomes creates value for its customers and shareholders, It’s about always aspiring to produce something beyond for 21 million people around the world, well on our way but also for society. products and profits. to achieving our goal of 100 million by 2025. At the same time, our people are investing their time, talents This mindset was decades ahead of its time, and it has At HP, we aspire to create a world without waste. From and resources in their local communities. By 2025, HP never been more important. Because, while we are seeing our supply chain, to our operations, to our technology and employees will log 1.5 million volunteer hours. unprecedented technological innovation across industries, service offerings, we are transforming our entire business we’re also confronting serious societal challenges — for a circular, low-carbon economy. We are reinventing Across HP, we are reinventing our company to meet from climate change and other threats to our planet, to how we design, deliver and recover our products to enable the evolving needs of our business and the world we persistent inequality that prevents far too many people our customers to drive growth while shrinking their carbon share. We will continue to adapt to changes and rise to and communities from reaching their full potential. footprint. And we are disrupting the global manufacturing challenges. And, together with our partners, we will lead sector with 3D printing technology that’s making a sustainability revolution fueled by technology. Companies have critically important roles to play in solving companies more competitive, productive and sustainable. Afterall, that is what innovation is all about — finding these problems — not simply because it’s the right thing solutions that benefit our business and society as a whole. to do, but because it’s a business imperative. A growing We also know that, to achieve this vision, we must be number of our customers, consumers and employees are powered by diversity and inclusion. We are proud Best Regards, passionate about the environment and social justice, and to have the most diverse Board of Directors of any U.S. they expect companies like ours to lead with purpose. technology company and be amongst the top technology companies for women in executive positions. Attracting Across HP, our people and our partners are doing just that the brightest talent and building a culture where people Dion Weisler — and it’s having a measurable impact on our results. In from all walks of life can contribute and flourish is a President and Chief Executive Officer, HP Inc. 2018, our Sustainable Impact programs drove more than cornerstone of our success. This work is not confined to $900 million of new revenue, a 35 percent increase versus the walls of HP. We work hard to ensure our products are prior year. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 4 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Business Reinventing Overview Impact 8 ABOUT HP 15 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT 29 FEATURE STRATEGY ZERO DEFORESTATION 9 BUSINESS STRATEGY 16 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT 32 HUMAN RIGHTS 10 BUSINESS MODEL GOALS & PROGRESS 33 SUPPLY CHAIN 11 RECOGNITION 18 CIRCULAR ECONOMY 35 DIVERSITY & INCLUSION 12 GLOBAL MEGATRENDS 22 CLIMATE ACTION 38 EDUCATION 24 FEATURE CLOSING THE LOOP 40 LOCAL IMPACT ON PLASTICS 42 INTEGRITY 27 FEATURE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL 43 THE HP WAY REVOLUTION HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 6 Business Overview 8 ABOUT HP 9 BUSINESS STRATEGY 10 BUSINESS MODEL 11 RECOGNITION 12 GLOBAL MEGATRENDS HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 7 BUSINESS OVERVIEW — ABOUT HP KEY FACTS HP Inc. creates Dion Weisler President and Chief Executive Officer, HP Inc. technology that makes Chip Bergh Chairman of the Board life better for everyone Incorporated in the State of Delaware, everywhere—every person, United States Fortune 100 company Ticker symbol HPQ every organization, and on the New York Stock Exchange every community around Corporate headquarters Palo Alto, California, United States the globe. Approximately 55,000 employees globally1 Through our portfolio of printers, PCs, mobile devices, solutions, and services, we engineer experiences that amaze. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 8 BUSINESS OVERVIEW — BUSINESS STRATEGY Our Strategy FISCAL YEAR 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Our strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of products and services to meet the demands of a continually changing technological landscape and to offset certain areas of industry decline. $58.5 in net revenue. BILLION To successfully execute this strategy, we must emphasize the aspects of our core business where demand remains strong, identify and capitalize on natural areas of growth, and innovate and develop new products and services that will enable us to expand beyond our existing technology categories. $4.5 BILLION of net cash provided by operations, $3.5 billion of which was returned to stockholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends. Driving long-term shareholder value STRATEGY WHAT TO EXPECT printing personal systems 26,000 + registered patents.2 LEADERSHIP • Revitalize consumer • Lead commercial Predictable cash flow IN CORE • Drive commercial • Grow premium and return of capital ACCELERATE IN GROWTH • Disrupt copier market • Accelerate graphics •  Drive commercial transformation Sustainable growth opportunities over time 250,000+ channel partners. CAPTURE • Lead 3D printing •  Create new Long-term THE FUTURE immersive categories value creation Leading with Sustainable Impact $1.4 R&D spend. BILLION See our full financial performance.. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 9 BUSINESS OVERVIEW — HP BUSINESS MODEL How We Deliver Value As we drive progress on our business strategy, we remain committed to leveraging our breadth and scale to create powerful change Value created in 2018 Inputs in 2018 and sustainable impact. HUMAN HUMAN Skills, expertise, competencies, 88% of employees feel HP values diversity9 and capabilities of HP’s approximately 1.66 million training hours, 55,000 employees globally3 an average of 30 hours per employee 12,000 supplier factory workers engaged in 73% engagement rate skills-building and wellbeing programs among HP employees10 SUPPLY CHAIN OPERATIONS INTELLECTUAL INTELLECTUAL $1.4 billion invested in R&D 26,000+ patents11 Key stakeholders: Key stakeholders: Market and customer insights Suppliers and supply chain workers HP employees and local communities FINANCIAL Key activities: Key activities: FINANCIAL Raw materials extraction, Marketing, employee development Net revenue: $58.5 billion Total assets: $34.6 billion4 Net earnings: $5.3 billion manufacturing, final assembly, and engagement, facilities operation, Long-term debt: $4.5 billion5 Net cash provided by operations: $4.5 billion transportation volunteerism, and giving Share re-purchases and dividends: $3.5 billion MANUFACTURED MANUFACTURED HP manufacturing plants 1 printer and 1.7 PCs shipped per second; 100’s of production suppliers 100 million products delivered each year12 REPAIR, REUSE PRODUCTS ECO declarations covering 93% of revenue13 & RECYCLING & SERVICES NATURAL NATURAL 41% decrease in Scope 1 and 2 589,217 MWh of electricity used Key stakeholders: Key stakeholders: Customers, GHG emissions, since 2015 in global operations, including Customers, channel partners, channel and retail partners, 47% renewable electricity use6 recycling vendors regulators, global communities 5% increase in materials use intensity for personal systems products compared to Approximately 1 million tonnes Key activities: Key activities: R&D, product 2017, and 14% decrease versus 2016 of materials in our products and packaging7 Product take-back, design, product stewardship, 12% reduction in materials use 21,250 tonnes of recycled plastic repair, remanufacturing, marketing, sales and channel intensity for printers compared to 2017, used in HP products re-marketing, engagement, channel and 16% decrease versus 2016 materials recycling partnerships, product delivery, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP services, and support SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP Employee, supplier, and partner Customer, partner, and supplier codes of conduct and engagement retention and satisfaction $7.12 million in HP cash and Better learning outcomes for more product contributions 8 than 21 million students and adult learners 140,000 employee volunteer hours through 2018 Improved resilience in communities where we live, work, and do business HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 10 BUSINESS OVERVIEW — RECOGNITION BUSINESS IMPACT $900+ MILLION HP is recognized as in new revenue in 2018 where Sustainable Impact was a key differentiator.14 one of the world’s most 35% sustainable companies Year-over-year increase in value of deal wins where Sustainable Impact was a key differentiator.15 RATINGS AND RANKINGS EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 89% of employees agree that HP 100 Most Sustainable is socially and environmentally U.S. companies responsible.16 Diversity and 88% Inclusion Index of employees agree that HP values diversity.17 Listed for nine straight years HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 11 BUSINESS OVERVIEW — GLOBAL MEGATRENDS Global Megatrends Shaping our Future At HP, we believe Megatrends will have a sustained, transformative impact on the world in the years ahead — on businesses, societies, economies, cultures, and our personal lives. By studying these forces and their effects on business and society, HP is better able to develop and deliver solutions that meet and exceed changing customer needs, and also help to address some of the most pressing challenges and transformative opportunities on the horizon. Read more at HPMegatrends.com. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 12 BUSINESS OVERVIEW — GLOBAL MEGATRENDS Global Megatrends RAPID CHANGING HYPER ACCELERATED URBANIZATION DEMOGRAPHICS GLOBALIZATION INNOVATION By 2030, there will be By 2025, Millennials and Gen Z From 2017 to 2030, the number In 30 years, processing 8.5 billion people18 on earth will make up 75% of the of connected IoT devices will power per dollar will increase global workforce20 increase by 12% per year on a billion-fold By 2050, 68% of people average, to 125 billion22 will live in cities19 By 2050, twice as many By 2022, artificial intelligence people will be over age 65 By 2025, nearly half of the and robotics will create as today, globally21 world’s big companies will almost 60 million more jobs be headquartered in today’s than they replace24 emerging markets23 EFFECTS AUTOMATION ECONOMIC RISE JOBS & EDUCATION ENERGY & IMPACT OF ASIA & LABOR SUSTAINABILITY Greater automation will help Incomes are rising for Asia is expected to drive Changing demographics and to address the labor gap while By 2050, we would need most people around the two-thirds of global income a shrinking working age changing the nature of work 2.3 Earths to sustain the world, but inequality has growth by 2035 25 population will drive a and requiring new skills and resource demands of our also been increasing growing labor gap lifelong learning global population26 HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 13 Reinventing Impact 15 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT 29 FEATURE STRATEGY ZERO DEFORESTATION 16 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT 32 HUMAN RIGHTS GOALS & PROGRESS 33 SUPPLY CHAIN 18 CIRCULAR ECONOMY 35 DIVERSITY & INCLUSION 22 CLIMATE ACTION 38 EDUCATION 24 FEATURE CLOSING THE LOOP 40 LOCAL IMPACT ON PLASTICS 42 INTEGRITY 27 FEATURE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL 43 THE HP WAY REVOLUTION HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 14 REINVENTING IMPACT — SUSTAINABLE IMPACT STRATEGY HP's Sustainable Impact Strategy Create lasting, positive change for the Sustainable Impact is at the heart of our reinvention journey — fueling our innovation and growth, strengthening our business for the long term, planet, our people, and communities and enabling us to develop and deliver the best solutions for our customers. Planet People Community Transform our entire business Empower all people who help bring our Unlock educational and to drive a more efficient, circular, products to market to thrive at work, economic opportunity through and low-carbon economy. at home, and in their communities. the power of technology.  Enable our customers to invent Embed diversity and inclusion  Improve the vitality and resilience the future through our in everything we do. of our local communities. most sustainable portfolio of products and services. UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 15 REINVENTING IMPACT — GOALS AND PROGRESS HP is driving progress toward a more sustainable We measure success by how our actions and solutions help create a more sustainable future for our planet, people, and the future. We set bold, long-term goals and focus our communities where we live, work, and do business. strategy where we can have the greatest impact. Planet People PRODUCTS AND SERVICES SUPPLY CHAIN OPERATIONS Develop skills and Double factory NEW GOAL Achieve zero deforestation NEW GOAL improve wellbeing participation in Use 30% post-consumer associated with HP brand Use 60% renewable of 500,000 factory sustainability recycled content plastic paper and paper-based electricity in global workers by 2025 programs by 2025 across HP’s personal systems product packaging by 2020 operations by 2025 PROGRESS PROGRESS and print product portfolio PROGRESS PROGRESS by 2025 51% of goal achieved 0% of goal achieved PROGRESS 100% of goal achieved for 78% of goal achieved HP brand paper 23% of goal achieved 65% of goal achieved for NEW GOAL Reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG Community emissions by 60% by 2025 NEW GOAL paper-based packaging Reduce HP product use PROGRESS Enable better learning Contribute 1.5 million GHG emissions intensity outcomes for 100 million cumulative employee by 30% by 2025 Reduce supply chain GHG people by 2025 volunteer hours by 2025 68% of goal achieved emissions intensity by 10% PROGRESS PROGRESS PROGRESS by 2025 Reduce potable water 37% of goal achieved PROGRESS 21% of goal achieved 19% of goal achieved consumption in global 0% of goal achieved operations by 15% by 2025 Recycle 1.2 million tonnes PROGRESS Enroll 1 million Contribute $100 million HP LIFE users by 2025 in HP Foundation and of hardware and supplies Help suppliers cut 2 million employee community by 2025 40% of goal achieved PROGRESS tonnes of CO2 equivalent giving by 2025 PROGRESS emissions by 2025 17% of goal achieved PROGRESS PROGRESS 33% of goal achieved 23% of goal achieved 58% of goal achieved For additional details, see the following page. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 16 REINVENTING IMPACT — GOALS AND PROGRESS DETAILS Planet People Goal Progress in 2018 UN SDGs Goal Progress in 2018 UN SDGs PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Develop skills and improve wellbeing of 500,000 255,400 supplier factory workers have 8, 10 NEW GOAL factory workers by 2025, since the beginning of participated in programs since the beginning 2015. of 2015. 32 Learn more. Use 30% post-consumer recycled content plastic Through the end of 2018, we achieved 7% 12, 14 across HP’s personal systems and print product post-consumer recycled content plastic use in Double factory participation 33 in sustainability Factory participation decreased by 3% compared 8, 10 portfolio by 2025. 27 HP personal systems and print products. Learn more. programs by 2025, compared to 2015. to 2015, due in large part to changes in the composition of our supply chain in 2018. NEW GOAL Learn more. Reduce HP product use GHG emissions intensity by Through the end of 2018, we achieved an 7, 12, 13 30% by 2025, compared to 2015. 28 11% decrease. Learn more. Recycle 1.2 million tonnes of hardware and supplies by 2025, since the beginning of 2016. Reached 395,200 tonnes recycled through the end of 2018. Learn more. 12 Community SUPPLY CHAIN Goal Progress in 2018 UN SDGs Achieve zero deforestation associated with HP brand 100% achieved for HP brand paper in 2016 and 13, 15 paper and paper-based product packaging by 2020. 29 maintained that performance through 2018. Enable better learning outcomes for 100 million More than 21 million students and adult learners 4, 5 Reached 65% for paper-based product packaging. people by 2025, since the beginning of 2015. have benefited from HP’s education programs and Learn more. solutions that advance quality learning and digital Reduce first-tier production supplier and product Through December 2017 (the most recent year data 13 literacy, and enable better learning outcomes since transportation related GHG emissions intensity by is available), GHG emissions intensity increased by the beginning of 2015. Learn more. 10% by 2025, compared to 2015. 30 6% compared to 2015. Learn more. Enroll 1 million HP LIFE users between 2016 166,000 users have enrolled in HP LIFE courses 4, 5, 8 Help suppliers cut 2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide Through 2017, suppliers have avoided 1.16 million 13 and 2025. since 2016. Learn more. equivalent (CO2e) emissions between tonnes of CO2e emissions. Learn more. 2010 and 2025. 31 NEW GOAL Contribute 1.5 million employee volunteering HP employees have contributed 284,000 11, 17 OPERATIONS hours by 2025 (cumulative since the beginning volunteer hours to local impact projects through NEW GOAL of 2016). 2018. Learn more. Use 60% renewable electricity in global operations 7, 13 HP’s global operations procured and generated NEW GOAL by 2025. 275,944 MWh of renewable electricity and attributes, equivalent to 47% of our global electricity Contribute $100 million in HP Foundation* Giving from the HP Foundation and employees 11, 17 NEW GOAL consumption. Learn more. and employee community giving 34 by 2025 reached $23.21 million through 2018. Use 100% renewable electricity in global operations (cumulative since the beginning of 2016). Learn more. by 2035. NEW GOAL *The HP Foundation is a nonprofit, 501(c)3 organization. Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from HP’s global operations produced 229,600 tonnes of 13 global operations by 60% by 2025, compared to Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions, 41% less than 2015. our 2015 baseline. Learn more. Reduce potable water consumption in global Potable water consumption equaled 2,997,000 cubic 12, 13, 15 operations by 15% by 2025, compared to 2015. meters globally, 6% less than in 2015. Learn more. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 17 REINVENTING IMPACT — CIRCULAR ECONOMY 1.7x A World Global resource consumption in 2018 occurred 1.7 times faster than the planet’s Without Waste ecosystems can regenerate.35 Against a backdrop of rapid population growth, an expanding middle class, and increasingly scarce natural resources, the traditional linear “take, make, dispose” production model is no longer viable. We require a fundamental shift toward a more circular and low-carbon model. Companies that can grow without also increasing raw materials consumption will thrive in a resource-constrained future — and will be well placed to help customers do the same. Our commitment to transforming our business model spans our value chain: from our sourcing practices and operational excellence to how we design, deliver, recover, repair, and reuse our products and solutions. This transformation will redefine how we function as a business and how our customers work and live, through technology and solutions that enable entire industries to eliminate waste and drive efficient, circular value chains. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 18 REINVENTING IMPACT — CIRCULAR ECONOMY HP promotes public policies, cross-industry initiatives, and sustainable product standards that support progress in As a member of the Ellen this area. In 2018, we endorsed the European Strategy for MacArthur Foundation’s global Plastics and the French Circular Economy Roadmap. HP builds durable products that are easier than ever to commitment to address plastic repair and upgrade, which extends their useful lives while reducing costs. Several HP products have received high waste at its source, HP is scores from the iFixit product repair site. For example, working toward an economy the Elite x2 1013 G3, an EPEAT® Gold tablet, has an iFixit repairability rating of 9 out of 10. Our EliteBook 800 G5 where plastic never becomes Business Notebook series also received a 10 out of 10 iFixit repairability score. waste or pollution. At the 2018 World Economic Forum in Davos, we joined the Platform for Accelerating the Circular Economy (PACE) and To achieve this objective, we must eliminate problematic and in 2019 extended our commitment to continue transitioning unnecessary plastic items from our products, innovate to our company and our customers to a circular “make, ensure the plastics we use are reusable or recyclable, and use, reuse” approach that seeks to close the loop for our circulate plastics away from the environment and back into products, including capital equipment such as our digital the economy. industrial printing presses. FOR EXAMPLE: We use recycled ocean-bound plastic bottles to make Customers can return used electronic products to any one of Original HP ink cartridges, diverting over 25 million plastic about 1,000 Best Buy stores in the United States (in addition bottles since 2016; see Closing the loop on plastics. to a wide range of other customer take-back programs). We use the recovered post-consumer recycled plastic resin HP’s groundbreaking closed-loop recycling program uses to make new HP ENVY Photo 6200, 7100, and 7800 Printers; plastic from recycled Original HP cartridges (plus recycled see Materials innovation. bottles and hangers) to create new Original HP cartridges. HP works with Homeboy Electronics Recycling to recycle HP products and recover material, supporting employment and jobs training while enabling a more circular economy. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 19 REINVENTING IMPACT — CIRCULAR ECONOMY OUR PRIORITIES HP’s Full Circle Decoupling growth from Approach MATERIALS RECOVERY AND REUSE Product recycling, print supplies closed-loop recycled plastic content, hardware recycled consumption content (PCs, printers) • D ematerialization and increased CIRCULAR recycled content ECONOMY • Durability and repairability REUSE / REFURBISHMENT ENABLERS HP Indigo Reconditioning Program, • Product repair, reuse, and recycling PC and printer reuse PARTS PRODUCT-AS-A-SERVICE HP Subscription Services, HP Device HP commercial and industrial graphics Transforming as a Service, HP Managed Print Services, HP Instant Ink printing solutions industry business models MAINTENANCE / UPGRADE MODEL • S hift from transactional to service-based models HP Indigo, HP PageWide Web Presses, modular design, • D igitizing supply chains HP 3D PRODUCTS to reduce waste and cost freely available printing service manuals technology Collaborating Materials with partners SERVICES reduction/reuse and renewable energy and customers initiatives in HP’s supply chain and operations also • B uilding new circular support the circular supply chains economy • Supporting customers USER HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 20 REINVENTING IMPACT — CIRCULAR ECONOMY 2018 PROGRESS TOWARD A CIRCULAR ECONOMY LOWERING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF COMMERCIAL PRINTING 14% In 2018, HP saved more than 800 reduction in personal systems tonnes36 of metal and plastics through materials use intensity since 2016. the extended take-back of spare parts, supplies, and used commercial print presses. During the last four years, we have more than doubled the weight of raw 16% reduction in printers materials materials saved through the return of use intensity since 2016. HP Indigo press binary ink developer (BID) components, and in 2018 used more than 50 tonnes of recycled content EXTENDING PRODUCT LIFE AND SUPPORTING INNOVATION WITH SERVICE-BASED SOLUTIONS plastic in Indigo supplies. The clickcharge cost-per-print business model TRANSFORMING INDUSTRIES WITH 3D PRINTING 21,250 TONNES includes consumables, which increases of recycled plastic used in HP products. our incentive to deliver consumables HP Multi Jet Fusion 3D printing Service-based solutions — such as HP in the most resource-efficient way technology has the potential to Device as a Service (DaaS), HP Managed possible. All Indigo presses collect and revolutionize manufacturing and other Print Services, and HP Instant Ink — provide customers with access to the latest technologies, enabling them reuse imaging oil, and the Regenerated Imaging Oil (RIO) system in our bestindustries and transform supply chains by providing on-demand, more localized means of production. 4.34 MILLION selling presses further reduces waste oil units of hardware repaired. to scale as business needs evolve. In by 20–50% on average.37 2019, HP completed a preliminary life This offers enormous potential for the cycle assessment (LCA) comparing its By the end of 2019, we aim to increase circular economy in terms of expanding DaaS offering for commercial PCs with traditional transactional sales offerings. the reuse of spare parts in HP Indigo presses to 70%, and increase the BID product life, reducing waste and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and avoiding the impacts associated with 1.25 MILLION Results showed a substantial reduction return rate to 80%. units of hardware in environmental impacts across all transportation and inventory of raw remarketed / reused. categories assessed, due to the DaaS materials and finished goods. service model, which keeps PCs in use 3D printing can also reduce the amount for multiple life cycles. We are working with an LCA consultancy to conduct a of materials, time, and cost needed to make finished parts by realizing 133,800 TONNES full, ISO-compliant, peer-reviewed LCA complex shapes or redesigning complex of hardware and supplies recycled. to more fully understand the magnitude assemblies into a single part. of those benefits. We plan to publish study results in the coming year. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 21 REINVENTING IMPACT — CLIMATE ACTION Engaging in policy advocacy and industry collaboration Transforming We support marketand sciencebased policies and solutions that aim to mitigate climate change, provide We also continued our support for the Paris Agreement as one of 17 companies to sign a C2ES-led joint for a Low-carbon transparency and accountability, promote innovative technologies to lower carbon footprints, and business statement welcoming the work at COP24 to set forth the Paris “rulebook” to guide the Future encourage the production and use implementation of the agreement. of renewable energy. In addition, we work to accelerate As part of HP’s continuing drive to collective climate action through combat climate change, in September global programs, including: Climate change is one of the most 2018, at the Global Climate Action Summit in California, HP and 20 other CDP — to engage and drive significant and urgent issues facing business technology companies signed the performance with our suppliers “Step Up” Declaration, indicating the and society today. The science is clear, industry’s ongoing commitment to WWF Climate Savers — accelerate progress. to share, learn, and the urgency to act is increasing. and adopt best practices RE100 — to advance the shift to 100% renewable power At HP, we recognize that addressing climate change is not only our responsibility, but also vital to the long-term success of our business. Our vision is to transform our entire business to help drive a more efficient, circular, and low-carbon future, and to support our customers and communities to achieve more, with less impact. HP’s long legacy of environmental leadership and demonstrated commitment to climate action has been widely recognized. For the 5th For the 3rd #5 as of consecutive year consecutive year Q1 2019 HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 22 REINVENTING IMPACT — CLIMATE ACTION HP’s carbon footprint 53% PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS increased by 9% in Reducing the energy needs of our products 2018, compared to the is key to reducing our impact and supporting 2018 our customers’ sustainability goals. We are prior year. Growth in Carbon working toward our goal of decreasing product use GHG emissions intensity by 30% by 2025, PC and printer sales footprint compared to 2015. Transformations such as increased emissions in the our shift to service-based models and the Fourth Industrial Revolution will also support 44,699,600 tonnes C02e production and product the transition to a decarbonized future. • Product use 23,300,000 tonnes use phases. These factors • Product end of service 200,000 tonnes offset reductions from design innovation and product portfolio shifts. 46% 1% SUPPLY CHAIN OPERATIONS Setting goals and tracking progress to reduce Emissions from our supply chain represent nearly We have the greatest control over emissions that climate impact across our value chain half of our carbon footprint. In addition to driving result from our direct operations and model progress on our own supply chain GHG emissions sustainable business practices in this area. We aim HP was the first global IT company to publish reduction goals, we engage with and incentivize to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from a full carbon footprint. The understanding our suppliers to improve tracking, secure global operations by 60% by 2025, compared to 2015, we gain through this analysis helps us target assurance of their GHG emissions data, and set and have reached a 41% reduction through 2018. We opportunities for improvement and drive science-based GHG emissions reduction targets. aim to use 100% renewable electricity in our global progress. We were also the first to set bold goals Through product design, we continually work to operations by 2035. As of 2018, we have achieved to reduce GHG emissions across our entire value reduce materials use, a key driver of emissions in 100% renewable electricity in the United States, and chain, and one of the first 65 companies to have this category. 47% in our global operations. its GHG emissions reduction targets approved by the Science Based Targets initiative. • M aterials extraction through • Facilities 197,400 tonnes manufacturing 18,600,000 tonnes • Transportation fleet 32,200 tonnes See more detail in Footprint. • Capital goods 200,000 tonnes • Business travel 70,000 tonnes • Upstream energy production 100,000 tonnes • Employee commuting 200,000 tonnes • Transport 1,800,000 tonnes HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 23 FEATURE: CLOSING THE LOOP ON PLASTICS EXTENDING OUR LEADERSHIP TO HELP TACKLE PLASTIC POLLUTION Use 30% postconsumer 7% GOAL PROGRESS recycled content plastic across HP’s personal systems and print Through the end of 2018, we achieved 7% postconsumer recycled content plastic use product portfolio by 2025.38 in HP personal systems and print products. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 24 FEATURE: CLOSING THE LOOP ON PLASTICS 20,000 HP is working to transform our business plastic bottles are 39 produced every second. model to support a more efficient, circular, and low-carbon economy. One critical piece of this transition is building new, A legacy of leadership in closed-loop plastic circular supply chains that close the loop Through 2018, driven by our Planet Partners recycling program, HP has on important materials. We are leading the manufactured over 4.2 billion HP ink and toner cartridges using more than a cumulative 107,000 tonnes of recycled plastic. This has kept 830 industry on efforts to source and incorporate million HP cartridges and an estimated 101 million apparel hangers and 4.37 billion post-consumer plastic bottles out of landfills; instead, upcycling post-consumer plastic into our products — these materials for continued use. More than 80% of our Original HP ink cartridges contain 45%–70% post-consumer recycled content, and 100% and keep it out of the ocean. of Original HP toner cartridges 42 contain 5%–45% post-consumer or postindustrial recycled content. In 2016, we expanded our closed-loop recycling program to include hardware. During 2017, we launched the HP ENVY 6200, 7100, and 7800 Photo Printers, the world’s first in-class printers made from recycled printers and other electronics — more than 10% by weight.43 In 2018, we increased the recycled content plastic in some HP ENVY photo printer models to 20%–30% by weight. We continue to expand the level of recycled content in our products and expand into new product lines. INCREASING POST-CONSUMER RECYCLED CONTENT ACROSS OUR PORTFOLIO 8 MILLION TONNES BY 2050 HP ENVY photo printers contain between 20-30% recycled plastic by weight. Recycled content plastic makes up more than 33% of the plastic used in the HP T1700, Z6, and Z9 DesignJet of plastic leaks into the marine there will be more plastic, environment from land-based by weight, than fish in the ocean. 41 Printer series. sources every year. 40 HP Tango is made with more than 30% closed-loop recycled plastic by HP business PCs and displays weight using plastic from recycled include 24% recycled plastic printers and other electronics. content, on average.44 HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 25 FEATURE: CLOSING THE LOOP ON PLASTICS We are proud of our progress, but also recognize that this is a challenge bigger than any one company or organization can address. To further advance our progress, in 2018 HP joined NextWave Plastics, a global consortium of worldwide businesses committed to scaling the use of ocean-bound plastics by developing the first global network of ocean-bound plastics supply chains. To tackle the global challenge of ocean plastic, collaboration within A Haitian woman's reinvention story, powered by HP and the First Mile Coalition and between industries is critical. PARTNERING TO TACKLE OCEAN-BOUND PLASTICS Through March 2019 In 2016, HP launched an ambitious program in Haiti to help tackle the growing challenge of ocean-bound plastics. 716,000 pounds (325 tonnes) of ocean-bound In partnership with the First Mile Coalition plastic sourced for use in HP products. and our supplier partners, we have now built a fully functioning ocean-bound plastics supply chain. 795 income opportunities Through March 2019, we have collected more than 25 million plastic created for adults in Haiti.45 bottles to be upcycled into HP print cartridges and hardware products — that’s approximately 716,000 pounds (325 tonnes) of plastic material that 100 might otherwise have washed into the Caribbean Sea. Through this initiative, we have opened a new market opportunity, providing a steady revenue stream for local collectors, enabling safer working conditions, and local educational opportunities. children enrolled in school. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 26 FEATURE: FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND INCLUSIVE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION WITH DIGITAL MANUFACTUR ING As we accelerate into the Fourth Industrial Revolution, we are witnessing a profound transformation that will disrupt and reinvent virtually every aspect of the global manufacturing industry. HP Multi Jet Fusion 3D printing technology is poised to help power this transformation, while driving a more sustainable and inclusive industrial revolution. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 27 FEATURE: FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION REINVENTING SUPPLY CHAINS THOUGHTFUL MATERIALS USE In a recent HP assessment, AND PRODUCTS AND INNOVATION our Multi Jet Fusion By shortening and simplifying supply chains, digital A significant part of the life cycle impact of HP Multi manufacturing enabled by 3D printing technology Jet Fusion 3D printed parts relates to materials. HP technology performed in helps to reduce greenhouse gas and other emissions Jet Fusion 3D printers enable industry-leading surplus related to manufacturing and transportation. As material reusability of up to 80%.48 By providing highly the top level in eight of smaller-scale, distributed manufacturing becomes the reusable printing materials, we enable production of norm, products can be produced locally as needed, finished parts that have a lower impact. 3D printing nine dimensions related to reducing lead times, enabling better matching of supalso enables more materials-efficient designs comhealth and environmental ply and demand, and avoiding excess production that could end up as waste. Short runs will become more pared to traditional manufacturing, further reducing overall impact. attributes. 46 cost effective, enabling greater product customization based on local market tastes or unique needs. In 2019, HP expanded its recycling program to include 3D consumables, such as Original HP agent printheads and cartridges. TRANSFORMING JOBS HP ON HP AND ECONOMIES HP is using 3D printing technology to transform The accelerating growth of 3D printing will disrupt and our own supply chain and to print selected parts for need photo from from HP redistribute an estimated $4–6 trillion of the global our own products. This improves speed-to-market, economy in the next five to 10 years.47 Jobs will shift reduces costs and environmental impact, and around the globe, with manufacturing migrating to enhances customer satisfaction. places where 3D printing is fully embraced. By reducing upfront costs and enabling economically feasible, smaller-scale production, this technology will also lower barriers to entry for start-ups and established PERSONALIZED players alike, while opening the door to innovative HEALTHCARE INNOVATION solutions that address our most pressing issues. UK-based Crispin Orthotics is using HP’s Multi Jet In 2018, HP and key strategic partners launched the Fusion 3D printing technology to make custom-printHP-NTU Digital Manufacturing Corporate Lab to ed support devices for almost any part of the body, drive the innovation, technology, skills building, and including ankles, knees, wrists, and spines. These cost economic development critical to advance the Fourth less than the traditional carbon fiber versions and Industrial Revolution. can be made to exacting specifications. Compared to previous designs, the 3D-printed orthotics are flexible, lightweight, and much less bulky, which helps to speed up patients’ rehabilitation. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 28 FEATURE: ZERO DEFORESTATION PROTECTING, RESTORING & PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE FORESTS Achieve zero deforestation 100% GOAL PROGRESS associated with HP brand paper and paper-based Achieved for HP brand paper in 2016 and maintained that performance product packaging by 2020. 49 through 2018. Reached 65% for paperbased product packaging. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 29 FEATURE: ZERO DEFORESTATION Forests are key to the survival of human, animal, and plant life 18.7 acres of forests are lost each year MILLION through deforestation.50 around the world. 80% They are a source of food, medicine, fuel, and jobs for more than a billion people, are essential to biodiversity, and help filter our air and combat of the planet’s terrestrial biodiversity climate change by absorbing carbon is supported by forests. 51 from the atmosphere. 2 As HP works to transform our business to drive a more efficient, low-carbon, and circular economy, protecting the world’s BILLION forests is a key part of the solution. tonnes of carbon dioxide are absorbed by forests each year. 52 HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 30 FEATURE: ZERO DEFORESTATION Vision for a Forest Positive53 Future In March 2019, HP announced its A Long Legacy of Supporting Responsible Forestry bold vision for print sustainability — A decade ago, HP became the first IT pledging to make printing with HP company to publish a forestry policy, the forest positive, carbon neutral, HP Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy. and part of a circular economy. In June 2016, we announced a commitment to achieve zero deforestation for our HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging. This commitment means that all HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging will be derived from certified and recycled sources by 2020, with a preference for virgin fiber from certified sources of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), a nonprofit that promotes responsible management of the world’s forests. In addition to sourcing wood-based fibers more responsibly, we also look for ways to reduce the amount of materials used in our packaging, recycle materials where possible, and shift to more sustainable materials. For example, in our Asia Pacific and Japan region we have partnered with a supplier to replace the wood pallets used to ship HP printers in the area with pallets made from straw that otherwise would have been burned and created air pollution. We also help customers print more responsibly by designing printers and software to optimize paper use, defaulting many print fleets to double-sided printing, reducing paper waste through HP Managed Print Services, and improving paper recyclability by developing solutions for de-inking. By collaborating across the paper industry, and with the scientific community and NGOs, we encourage best practices and work to address cross-market issues and drive adoption of forest positive actions. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 31 REINVENTING IMPACT — HUMAN RIGHTS CONTINUING A LONG ENGAGING WITH SUPPLIERS TO HISTORY OF LEADERSHIP SAFEGUARD WORKER RIGHTS We respect and uphold relevant We are committed to ensuring that Respecting human rights in alignment with the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles for Business our products are engineered and manufactured with respect for the people who make them. The best Human Rights and Human Rights, and the UN Global way to protect workers and Compact. Our company-wide Human improve labor standards is through Rights Council has strengthened our transparency and due diligence. Using Across the management of human rights risks. this approach, we continue to work Our customers, partners, investors, closely with our suppliers to build an and other stakeholders rightly expect ethical supply chain, foster opportunity us to operate with the highest levels and equality, eliminate discrimination, Value Chain of integrity, and to continue to demonstrate leadership in this rapidly evolving area through our human rights-related policies and practices. eradicate forced labor, safeguard the rights of workers, and help local communities thrive. PROTECTING, EMPOWERING, PROACTIVELY MANAGING AND Respecting human rights is a core value at HP and embedded in the way we AND FAIRLY REWARDING ADDRESSING ISSUES WHEREVER do business. This is not only a moral imperative, but increasingly a strategic OUR EMPLOYEES WE FIND THEM business requirement. Our stance is clear and uncompromising. We respect the fundamental rights and freedoms to which all people everywhere are entitled. In our own operations, we strive to Based on our latest human rights ensure that our employees have a assessment in 2018, we continue to safe and healthy workplace, where proactively address challenges wherever We are committed to ensuring that harassment and discrimination we uncover them and to communicate are never tolerated. Within HP and progress transparently. HP strives everyone is treated with dignity, respect, across our value chain, we unlock to implement global policies and the potential of all employees by programs that protect and empower and fairness — within our own company championing diversity and inclusion, the most vulnerable populations. This and through collaboration with our wellbeing, and pay equity. We consider privacy an important human right encompasses our initiatives in education, disaster recovery and partners and suppliers. and are committed to protecting our resilience, and opportunities for employees’ and customers’ women and minorities. personal information. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 32 REINVENTING IMPACT — SUPPLY CHAIN GOAL PROGRESS An Ethical Develop skills and improve wellbeing 12,000 of 500,000 factory and Sustainable supplier factory workers participated in 10 programs workers by 2025, in three countries, bringing the total to 255,400 workers Global Supply since the beginning trained since the beginning of 2015. of 2015. Chain GOAL PROGRESS HP has one of the largest and most Help suppliers cut 2 million tonnes 1.16 MILLION of CO2e emissions tonnes of CO2e sophisticated design and engineering emissions avoided between 2010 by suppliers. supply chains in the IT industry — made and 2025. 55 up of hundreds of production suppliers and thousands of nonproduction suppliers. 54 As customer expectations rise, global regulations continue to evolve, and our industry continues to undergo major transformation, managing our supplier relationships and responsibility is increasingly important. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 33 REINVENTING IMPACT — SUPPLY CHAIN BUILDING CAPABILITIES AND SKILLS REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT COLLABORATING TO ADDRESS FORCED LABOR AND EXCESSIVE WORKING HOURS We aim to empower workers so that everyone who With nearly half of our carbon footprint coming helps bring our products to market can thrive. For from our supply chain, we recognize the importance All people are entitled to respect, dignity, and freedom example, in 2018 we launched our Women in Factories of partnering with our suppliers to reduce their from discrimination and harassment, as well as program in China focused on wellness and leaderenvironmental impact in order to create a more fair, safe labor conditions and freely chosen work. ship skills, as part of our ongoing involvement in a resilient supply chain. We collaborate closely with Uncovering and addressing complex supply chain risks BSR initiative in the country. Through peer-to-peer our production and nonproduction suppliers to drive such as forced labor and excessive working hours is coaching plus direct engagement, our program has low-carbon and resource-efficient transformation essential and challenging work. For example, through reached more than 11,600 female workers across three throughout the value chain, and we offer targeted our partnership with the Responsible Labor Initiative, supplier sites. BSR’s final report revealed satisfaction programs to help suppliers gain capabilities and make we are working to certify recruitment agencies and rates of 93.8% among the peer educators and 83% lasting improvements. train them on proper practices that uphold workers’ among workers, while factory management scored the rights. HP also requires its suppliers to reimburse program 9.5 out of 10. workers for fees charged by these agencies. We are investing in policies, programs, and capabilities to create a positive impact, strengthen and transform our supply chain, empower workers, and provide greater transparency and accountability to our stakeholders. $2.5 billion 87.5% in new, retained, and potential revenue in 2018 average supplier score on Sustainability Scorecard took supply chain responsibility into account.56 in 2018, up from 75% in 2016.57 HP is one of the companies receiving the highest score in HP received a top 1% score for all suppliers assessed by commitment and governance for corporate efforts to EcoVadis, leading to a 9th consecutive Gold CSR rating eradicate forced labor from the ICT supply chain HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 34 REINVENTING IMPACT — DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 83% Embracing of HP employees feel they can be themselves at work.58 Ranked 20th overall and 2nd for technology companies on Diversity to Fuel Thomson Reuters 2018 Diversity & Inclusion Index.60 Innovation 88% of HP employees agree that HP values diversity.59 The best innovation springs from teams of individuals, each collaborating and contributing their own perspectives, knowledge, and experiences to advance how the world works and lives. From HP’s earliest days, we’ve demonstrated that capturing and drawing from diverse backgrounds and points of view improves our products and services — and our company overall. HP is reinventing the standard for diversity and inclusion — in how we operate as a business and how we impact society. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 35 REINVENTING IMPACT — DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION HP’s Board of Directors is the most diverse of any U.S. technology company. We are also among the top technology companies for women in executive positions. We work to foster diversity and inclusion at all levels. In addition, our Reinvent Mindsets campaign aims to spark behavioral change and demonstrate action by shining a light on difficult topics such as unconscious bias. BOARD OF DIRECTORS* Minorities Women Underrepresented minorities 55% 45% 27% EXECUTIVES** TOTAL WORKFORCE** 2018 U.S. HIRING Setting the (DIRECTOR AND ABOVE) Women Women Typically standard for diversity underrepresented 31% 36% groups*** 59% BUSINESS IMPACT NETWORKS (BINs) 100 BINs help to drive diversity and and inclusion inclusion at all levels — about 13,000 BIN members participated in events starts at the top across 25 countries in 2018. *As of January 31, 2019. | **As of October 31, 2018. | ***Women, minorities, veterans, and people with disabilities. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 36 REINVENTING IMPACT — DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION EXTENDING OUR COMMITMENT BEYOND Beyond our own business partners and • Through financial and technology SUPPORTING OUR OWN EMPLOYEES suppliers, we also collaborate with support for Black Girls Code, we DIVERSE SUPPLIERS organizations that seek to address invest in the next generation of female $423 In 2016, we challenged our top five marketing underrepresentation in our industry innovators and leaders. In 2018, we agencies to significantly increase the number of and that highlight and promote diverse reached more than 500 girls in 13 MILLION U.S. minorities and women in key creative and voices: cities across the United States. spent with small companies strategic planning roles on HP account teams. in the United States in 2018.61 As of the end of 2018, 36% of U.S.-based agency • In 2018, more than 1,500 volunteers • In March 2018, we launched a account teams were from underrepresented from 41 company sites participated 15-month partnership with groups — up from 24% in 2017. Twenty-eight in Hour of Code, an initiative that aims Women Deliver, providing support and to solve the diversity gap in computer technology to the organization’s Young $219 percent of senior account staff were from underrepresented groups — up from 19% in science, reaching over 25,000 students Leaders program. Women Deliver is a MILLION 2017. Four out of five agencies saw a positive in almost 300 schools and communities leading global advocate that champions worldwide. gender equality and the health and spent with minorityand womenupward trend in underrepresented minority owned businesses in the United States representation for overall account teams. Women rights of girls and women. • Out of 880 entrants to the Girl Rising in 2018.62 increased to 62% of HP’s U.S.-based agency Creative Challenge, we awarded 12 account teams (up from 61% in 2017), and 55% young changemakers with micro-grants of senior account roles (up from 51% in 2017). and HP technology to help make their Our legal team also works to improve diversity communities more gender-equitable. among our U.S. law firm partners and withholds up to 10% of all invoicing of those partners who fail to meet or exceed diverse minimal staffing on work for us. See details. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion extends to how we design and deliver products. We apply industry-leading, universal design principles to meet a broad range of disability and age-related needs and improve our products for everyone. Learn more. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 37 REINVENTING IMPACT — EDUCATION GOAL PROGRESS Enable better 21 MILLION+ Quality learning outcomes for 100 million people students and adult learners have benefited from HP’s education Education for programs and solutions that advance by 2025, since the quality learning and digital literacy, and enable better learning outcomes beginning of 2015. since the beginning of 2015. Every Person Quality education is a fundamental human right. For typically underserved groups, technology can be a great equalizer, helping to bridge the digital divide and connect people and communities to greater opportunity. Through our products and solutions, programs, and partnerships, HP is empowering teachers, improving learning outcomes for millions, and equipping people with the skills to succeed in the future economy. Along with our pioneering work supporting education in schools, HP also announced in 2018 a new commitment to empowering colleges and universities. The Campus of the Future framework constitutes a global effort to make campuses more productive, more inclusive, and more secure. Focusing on student success and learning outcomes, HP is collaborating with institutions to understand the potential impact of new technologies. HP has built two schools and enrolled 100 kids in school, as part of the company’s impact sourcing initiative in Haiti HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 38 REINVENTING IMPACT — EDUCATION PARTNERING TO BRING QUALITY LEARNING AND DIGITAL LITERACY HP LIFE has reached 166,000 people since 2016 TO MILLIONS AROUND THE WORLD and nearly 750,000 since 2012. BUILDING SKILLS FOR HP’s Campus of the Future framework frontier use cases of extended reality 100+ schools have received HP Learning THE FUTURE ECONOMY delivers vibrant, secure environments (XR) technology in teaching, learning, Studios, supporting thousands of To harness the full potential of the for teaching, learning, research, and and research, HP provides technology students in 2018. Fourth Industrial Revolution, we must collaboration, harnessing virtual reality, grants to test the application of blended invest in tomorrow’s workforce and augmented reality, and 3D printing reality in classrooms and research labs. ensure that the future economy is powered by a diversity of thought and an inclusive culture. to improve engagement and learning outcomes. In 2017, we launched a major research program with more than 20 Lifelong learning that supports upskilling, re-skilling, and entrepreneurial 3,500 thinking will be critical to power this Syrian refugee students and higher education institutions, including thousands more of their Lebanese Colleges and universities need to future economy. HP LIFE (Learning Harvard, Massachusetts Institute peers and teachers could be support next-generation learners Initiative for Entrepreneurs), an HP reached through HP’s partnership of Technology (MIT), and Florida and prepare students for the jobs of Foundation program, aims to enroll 1 with the Clooney Foundation for International University. To explore the future, not the jobs of the past. million users between 2016 and 2025. Justice, UNICEF, and Google.org, HP LIFE provides 30 free business and during the 2018-2019 school year. IT skills courses in seven languages, including a module that teaches entrepreneurs how to integrate 3D printing into their business. 3 Talent and ingenuity can exist anywhere, HP Learning Studios have been launched in Jordan, at the Azraq and open innovation and education Refugee Camp and in Amman. We resources are key to inclusive success are planning three more in Lebanon and prosperity. With this in mind, we by 2020, with implementation partner with MIT on the Solve program, beginning in 2019. which focuses on finding lasting solutions to some of the world’s most pressing challenges. HP NATIONAL EDUCATION TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT (NETA) Through NETA, we are helping schools create meaningful outcomes from education technology programs and demonstrate to governments HP World on Wheels (WoW) mobile learning labs a measurable return on investments (WOW) brings self-contained, solar-powered, in education. Internet-enabled mobile learning labs to rural areas of India. WOW supports digital literacy, education, and entrepreneurship, aiming to reach 6,400 Indian villages and impact more than 15 million people by 2022. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 39 REINVENTING IMPACT — LOCAL IMPACT GOAL PROGRESS Vibrant Achieve 1.5 million employee volunteering 284,000 Communities hours by 2025. employee volunteering hours Everywhere cumulative since the beginning of 2016 GOAL PROGRESS At HP, we embrace our role in creating positive, lasting change in the communities where we live, work, and do business. We contribute skills, Reach $100 million in HP Foundation and $23.21 MILLION technology, and investments to strengthen the resilience and vitality of our local communities. We work to: employee community in HP Foundation and employee community giving • Empower underrepresented and marginalized groups • Support eco-stewards and eco-preneurs giving by 2025. 63 • Respond when disasters strike cumulative since the beginning of 2016 We also drive sustainable impact at a global level by reinventing and unlocking educational opportunity through the power of technology. See Global education programs. In alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), our programs help tackle some of the world’s most pressing issues and focus on driving sustainable impact for the planet, people, and communities. CATALYZING SUSTAINABLE IMPACT THROUGH LOCAL PARTNERSHIPS Through HP Foundation funding, corporate philanthropy, employee volunteering, and regional sustainable impact programs, we advance open innovation solutions that meet local needs. Our local partners bring critical perspective, expertise, and connections to ensure that our programs are relevant to the needs of the community. HP partners with Girl Rising to raise awareness and drive progress toward gender equality HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 40 REINVENTING IMPACT — LOCAL IMPACT HP local impact around the globe in 2018 DISASTER RELIEF EDUCATION AND SKILLS HP Connection Spot Digital Schools Bucksport, South Carolina; Ireland, Northern Ireland, and Scotland Chattahoochee and Panama City Beach, Florida, United States We collaborate with the Digital School REFUGEE SUPPORT; EDUCATION AND SKILLS EDUCATION AND SKILLS Awards to address the digital education For those affected by natural disasters, gap and recognize leading schools. The HP LIFE and the World on Wheels the ability to connect with family, friends, and resources is vital. HP Connection Spot Cybersecurity initiative is helping Scottish schools to teach pupils to navigate the Mashrou3i partnership India provides access to computers and Internet digital world safely. Learn more. Tunisia Since the World on Wheels (WOW) rollout of to communities in the aftermath of natural disasters. In 2018, HP Connection Spot was 12 self-contained, Internet-enabled, solarThe Mashrou3i partnership in Tunisia has deployed to areas affected by hurricanes powered mobile learning labs in rural India created 1,400 jobs since it began in 2013, and floods, with 10 HP volunteers staffing the during 2017, we have provided access to WOW with the goal of adding 6,000 more by 2021. centers for 19 days. resources to an estimated 2 million people Learn more. across more than 900 villages (as of May 2019). Learn more. ENVIRONMENT REFUGEE SUPPORT; EDUCATION AND SKILLS Sustainable operations HP School Cloud pilot ENVIRONMENT Guadalajara, Mexico Uganda Make IT Green Employees at our Guadalajara site have Together with Education Cannot Wait (ECW), Singapore helped reduce GHG emissions by more than Learning Equality, UNHCR, and UNICEF, Working with local agencies, we have helped 700 tonnes of CO2e. HP pledged to donate technology and educate more than 63,000 students about resources to improve the learning outcomes e-waste and collected an estimated 200 for refugees. Watch video. ENVIRONMENT tonnes of used IT equipment for recycling. Watch video. Informal sector recycling pilot ENVIRONMENT São Paulo, Brazil Planet Ark HP is working with recycling cooperatives Australia to increase the collectors’ income and help them correctly manage and recycle electronic EDUCATION AND SKILLS 11.8 million HP print cartridges were recycled waste. Watch video. Supporting local schools through 2018 with Cartridges 4 Planet Ark (C4PA), an innovative recycling program we UK and Ireland co-founded in 2003 that provides Australians with a free, easy-to-use, and environmentally We have invested £3.7 million in schools accredited way to recycle printer cartridges as part of our equipment trade-in program and with a zero waste to landfill commitment. worked with corporate and other partners on a purchasing program for parents. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 41 REINVENTING IMPACT — INTEGRITY GOAL Maintain greater than 99% completion rate Winning the of annual Integrity at HP (formerly Standards of Business Conduct) training among active Right Way HP employees and the Board of Directors. PROGRESS 99.69% of employees, including senior Integrity, fairness, transparency, and executives, completed Integrity at HP training, as well as all members accountability are fundamental to an of our Board of Directors. inclusive society and a thriving business. At HP, how we do things is as important as what we do. We work every day to earn the trust of our stakeholders and uphold our reputation for integrity and ethical leadership. As a result, our employees are proud to work at HP, and customers, partners, and suppliers want to do business with us. Beyond our operations, we use our scale and influence to support ethical conduct across our value chain and the broader IT industry. Guided by the Integrity at HP program, we apply strong ethics and anticorruption principles within our operations, across our value chain, and in the communities where we live, work, and do business. We combine strong internal governance with clear communication so that everyone at HP understands our principles and can put them into practice. Through robust policies, protocols, and controls, we secure the privacy of our customers and employees. We promote equality and human rights for all people across our value chain, guided by internal policies as well as external standards such as the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. To increase our impact across the industry and beyond, we advocate for public policies that drive progress and sustainable impact. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 42 OUR CULTURE — THE HP WAY Everyone at HP co-creates our culture every day as we work together to deliver on our vision and We look to the HP Way for guidance mission. It unites us in a shared purpose, while and inspiration, as it reflects who we drawing on the diverse backgrounds, experiences, and views of HP employees worldwide. are today as well as our aspiration for the company we want to become. OUR VISION Create technology that makes life better We imagine for everyone, everywhere the future OUR PROMISE and make it Keep Reinventing happen. OUR MISSION Engineer experiences that amaze What We Value How We Work How We Lead • Enthusiasm, agility, and ownership • We practice a growth mindset Imagine the future Inspire the team Make it happen • Uncompromising integrity • We embrace diversity to fuel innovation • Aim for extraordinary • Connect, coach, • Anticipate, learn, adapt • Trust and respect • We work in ways that are good empower • Make bold moves • Do what matters • Results through teamwork for us and for the world • Find meaning in work • Simplify the complex • Amaze the customer • Meaningful innovation • We solve tough challenges by • Partner to win bringing out the best in each other • Focus on customers, partners, and communities …and we have fun doing it HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 43 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements to products or services; any statements regarding technological trends; the execution and performance that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. current or future macroeconomic trends or events of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers, If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the and the impact of those trends and events on HP clients and partners; the hiring and retention of key assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP Inc. and its financial performance; any statements employees; integration and other risks associated with and its consolidated subsidiaries (“HP”) may differ regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; business combination and investment transactions; materially from those expressed or implied by such any statements of expectation or belief, including the results of the restructuring plans, including forward-looking statements and assumptions. All with respect to the timing and expected benefits of estimates and assumptions related to the cost statements other than statements of historical fact acquisitions and other business combination and (including any possible disruption of HP’s business) are statements that could be deemed forwardinvestment transactions; and any statements of and the anticipated benefits of the restructuring looking statements, including, but not limited to, assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, plans; the impact of changes in tax laws, including any projections of net revenue, margins, expenses, uncertainties and assumptions include the need to uncertainties related to expected regulations of the effective tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per address the many challenges facing HP’s businesses; U.S. Department of the Treasury implementing the share, cash flows, benefit plan funding, deferred the competitive pressures faced by HP’s businesses; Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 on HP’s tax obligations taxes, share repurchases, foreign currency exchange risks associated with executing HP’s strategy; the and effective tax rate; the resolution of pending rates or other financial items; any projections of impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks the amount, timing or impact of cost savings or and events; the need to manage third-party suppliers that are described or updated from time to time restructuring and other charges; any statements of and the distribution of HP’s products and the delivery in HP’s filings with the Securities and Exchange the plans, strategies and objectives of management of HP’s services effectively; the protection of HP’s Commission. HP assumes no obligation and does not for future operations, including, but not limited to, intellectual property assets, including intellectual intend to update these forward-looking statements. our sustainability goals, the execution of restructuring property licensed from third parties; risks associated plans and any resulting cost savings, net revenue with HP’s international operations; the development or profitability improvements; any statements and transition of new products and services and concerning the expected development, performance, the enhancement of existing products and services market share or competitive performance relating to meet customer needs and respond to emerging HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 44 ENDNOTES 1 As of October 31, 2018. 25 Lagarde, Christine. (2016) Asia’s Advancing Role in 36 2018 raw materials savings estimation related to spare 51 UNEP-FAO-WCMC 2009 and FAO 2011. 2 Ibid. the Global Economy, By Christine Lagarde, Managing parts take-back and reuse program, BID take back and 52 International Union of Conservation of Nature. Director, International Monetary Fund. IMF (2016). reuse program, press dismantling program, and press 3 Ibid. reconditioning program. 53 HP's Forest Positive Framework is built on previous 26 Vision 2050 – The new agenda for business. World HP achievements in responsible sourcing of HP brand 4 Ibid. Business Council for Sustainable Development. 37 Comparison versus press without RIO system. paper and paper-based product packaging. The 5 Ibid. 27 Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage of 38 Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage of total Framework includes actions in five areas: maintaining 6 Renewable electricity purchased and generated on-site, total plastic used in all HP personal print cartridges plastic used in all HP personal systems and printer HP’s long-standing commitment to sustainable combined with renewable electricity certificates and shipped during the reporting year. Total volume excludes hardware and printing supplies shipped during the sourcing, engaging in collaborative projects with NGOs guarantees of origin, accounted for 47% of our total brand-licensed products and after-market hardware reporting year. Total volume excludes brand-licensed to support leading forestry science, working with NGOs consumption. accessories. Total RCP includes post-consumer waste products and after-market hardware accessories. Total to restore and protect global forests, leveraging HP’s recycled plastic, closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound RCP includes post-consumer waste recycled plastic, media partnerships to influence positive actions, and 7 This number does not include commercial and industrial plastic used in HP product manufacturing. Personal closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound plastic used in advancing printing technology to help customers use graphics printing solutions, packaging for those solutions, systems plastic is defined by EPEAT® eco-label HP product manufacturing. Personal systems plastic is paper efficiently. To reduce the burden on forests, HP scanners, personal systems accessories sold separately, criteria. Subject to relevant restrictions on the use and defined by EPEAT eco-label criteria. Subject to relevant has also been increasing alternative fiber content in its or documentation for any products. distribution of materials destined for recycling and/or restrictions on the use and distribution of materials packaging. 8 Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. recycled feedstocks. destined for recycling and/or recycled feedstocks. 54 HP uses the terms “production suppliers,” “product This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase 28 HP product use GHG emissions intensity measures per 39 A million bottles a minute: world's plastic binge 'as transportation suppliers,” and “nonproduction the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the unit GHG emissions during anticipated product lifetime dangerous as climate change'. The Guardian (May 2018). suppliers” throughout this report. “Production Internet at the time the grant was processed. use. These values are then weighted by contribution 40 The New Plastics Economy. Ellen MacArthur suppliers” provide materials and components for 9 Data refers to the percentage of HP 2018 Voice Insight of personal systems and printing products to overall our product manufacturing and also assemble HP Foundation. (2016). Action (VIA) employee survey respondents who strongly revenue. These emissions represent more than 99% products “Product transportation suppliers” provide agreed or agreed with each statement. of HP product units shipped each year, including 41 Ibid. services for the shipping and delivery of HP products. 10 Ibid. notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing 42 Does not include toner bottles. “Nonproduction suppliers” provide goods and services devices, workstations, displays, and digital signage; and that do not go into the production of HP products (such 11 As of October 31, 2018. 43 Compared to the majority of in-class color desktop HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, Scitex, and Jet as staffing, telecommunications, and travel). inkjet all-in-ones <$199 USD. HP internal research survey 12 As of March 2019. Fusion 3D printers, and scanners. of printer manufacturers’ published specifications, 55 This continues a goal from before the separation of 13 An industry standard for providing environmental 29 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging sustainability reports and press releases as of 1/1/2019 Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, information about products and product families. In will be derived from certified and recycled sources by and Buyers Laboratory Inc. January 2019 study extending the goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers 2018, HP provided ECO Declarations for product groups 2020, with a preference for virgin fiber from certified commissioned by HP; keypointintelligence.com/ associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation representing 93% of revenue. sources of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). products/samples/hp-envy/. Market share as reported business units. 14 In 2018, we tracked $972 million in new revenue (total Packaging is the box that comes with the product and all by IDC CYQ3 2018 Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker. The 56 In 2018, the value of revenue supported by HP’s contract value) in which sustainability criteria were a paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. HP ENVY 6200, 7100, 7800 all-in-one printers contain Sustainability and Compliance organization included known consideration and were supported actively by 30 Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier more than 10% plastic from recycled printers and other retained, new, and potential revenue, where supply HP’s Sustainability and Compliance organization. This production and product transportation suppliers’ electronics by weight of the plastic. chain responsibility was an area of particular interest for represented an increase of 35% compared to 2017. reported GHG emissions attributable to HP divided 44 As defined by the IEEE 1680.1 2018 EPEAT standard. the customer. 15 Ibid. by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes Data are calendar year 2018. 57 Sustainability Scorecards provide suppliers a score performance based on business productivity. Intensity that encompasses audit performance (60% of total 16 Data refers to the percentage of HP 2018 Voice Insight 45 One income opportunity equals the ability for a person is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease score), environmental reporting (13%), conflict minerals Action (VIA) employee survey respondents who strongly to earn a consistent income for one month. the impact of variance year over year and highlight disclosure (6%), and other social and environmental agreed or agreed with each statement. longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions 46 In addition to HP Multi Jet Fusion, the assessment topics (21%). Suppliers discuss their scorecard with HP 17 Ibid. include Scope 1 and Scope 2. included specific 3D printing systems using the following as part of regular business performance evaluations technologies: digital light synthesis, fused deposition 18 World Population Prospects: The 2015 Revision. 31 This continues a goal from before the separation of that determine ongoing business. Learn more. modeling, and selective laser sintering. United Nations. (2015). Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, 58 Data refers to the percentage of HP 2018 Voice Insight extending the goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers 47 3D Printing: ensuring manufacturing leadership in the 19 68% of the world population projected to live in urban Action (VIA) employee survey respondents who strongly associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation 21st century, page 15. areas by 2050, says UN. UN Department of Economic agreed or agreed with each statement. and Social Affairs. (May 2018). business units. 48 HP Jet Fusion 3D printing solutions using HP 3D 59 Ibid. 32 Progress through 2018 includes 77,800 factory workers in High Reusability PA 12 and HP 3D High Reusability 20 Brookings Data Now: 75 Percent of 2025 Workforce Will 60 The Financial and Risk business of Thomson Reuters is 2015, 45,700 in 2016, 119,900 in 2017, and 12,000 in 2018. PA 11 provide 80% postproduction surplus material Be Millennials. Brookings. (2014). now Refinitiv. reusability, producing functional parts batch after He, Wan and Daniel Goodkind and Paul Kowal. (2016). 33 This data does not include participation in Responsible 21 batch. For testing, material is aged in real printing 61 Data is for the 12 months ending September 30 of the An aging world. International Population Reports. Business Alliance audits. Participation in our supply conditions and tracked by generations (worst case for year noted. Figure is for purchases in the United States chain sustainability programs is quantified by those 22 IHS Markit. The Internet of Things: A Movement, not a reusability). Parts are then made from each generation and Puerto Rico from U.S.-based businesses. programs that go beyond audits to build supplier Market. and tested for mechanical properties and accuracy. capabilities to meet our standards. This includes deep 62 Data is for the 12 months ending September 30 of the year 23 Dobbs, Richard. (2015). 4 ways the global economy is dive assessment, weekly reporting of labor metrics, 49 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging noted. Figure is for purchases in the United States and being transformed. World Economic Forum. procurement engagement through our supplier will be derived from certified and recycled sources by Puerto Rico from U.S.-based businesses. Suppliers are Sustainability Scorecard, and in­depth coaching and 2020, with a preference for virgin fiber from certified categorized as minority-owned or women-owned, not both. 24 Machines Will Do More Tasks Than Humans by 2025 but sources of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). workshops tailored to supplier risks. These categories include all sizes of businesses. Robot Revolution Will Still Create 58 Million Net New Jobs Packaging is the box that comes with the product and all in Next Five Years. World Economic Forum. (Sept. 2018). 34 Includes valuation of employee volunteer hours, employee 63 Includes valuation of employee volunteer hours, employee paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. donations, HP Foundation match, and HP Foundation grants. donations, HP Foundation match, and HP Foundation grants. 50 FAO Global Forest Resource Assessment 2015 and WWF 35 Earth Overshoot Day, Global Footprint Network. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report 45 Living Forests Report: Chapter 5. DETAILED DISCLOSURES DETAILED DISCLOSURES Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Table of contents: Detailed disclosures DETAILED DISCLOSURES 68 Privacy 86 Operations 108 Energy efficiency 68 Approach 108 Materials innovation 87 Our employees 48 Sustainable Impact 69 Privacy and data protection 87 Diversity and inclusion 112 Product responsibility compliance 49 Sustainable Impact strategy 112 Product safety 69 Global standards and 89 Employee engagement 113 Product security and privacy 53 United Nations Sustainable regulatory environment 90 Talent development Development Goals 69 Cybersecurity 90 Compensation and benefits 114 Products and solutions portfolio 54 Recognition 91 Health and safety 115 Personal systems 70 Government relations 91 Wellbeing 116 Printing 55 Stakeholder engagement 70 Policy priorities 120 3D printing 55 Governance 70 Political engagement 92 Our facilities 121 Global education programs 56 Materiality 92 Environmental, health, and safety management 123 Product repair, reuse, and recycling 71 Supply chain 124 Customer take-back programs 93 Greenhouse gas emissions 57 Footprint responsibility 95 Water 125 Product reuse and recycling 58 Carbon and climate impact 72 Approach 96 Waste vendors 59 Water 73 Labor 97 Community giving and 126 Data 60 Data 74 Health and safety volunteerism 75 Responsible minerals sourcing 97 HP Foundation programs 128 Appendix 98 Disaster recovery and resilience 63 Integrity and human 75 Conflict minerals 129 About this report 99 Employee volunteerism rights 76 Other regions and minerals 130 Forward-looking statements 76 Multi-stakeholder initiatives 100 Data 64 Ethics and anti-corruption 131 Policies and standards 64 Ethics 76 Supplier diversity 132 Independent accountants’ 65 Anti-corruption 77 Environmental impact 104 Products and review report 66 Human rights 77 Greenhouse gas emissions solutions 134 Material issues 79 Water 105 Sustainable design 66 Policies and programs 136 United Nations Global Compact 80 Waste 105 Design for Sustainability index 66 Approach 67 Identifying and addressing risk 80 Audit results 107 Life cycle assessment 137 United Nations Sustainable 68 Collaboration 84 Data 107 Product certifications Development Goals index and disclosures 138 Global Reporting Initiative index 144 Endnotes In this report, we , us , our , company , HP , and HP Inc. refer to HP Inc. (formerly Hewlett-Packard Company) and its consolidated subsidiaries. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 47 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Sustainable Impact 49 Sustainable Impact strategy 53 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 54 Recognition 55 Stakeholder engagement 55 Governance 56 Materiality HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 48 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Sustainable Impact strategy Sustainable Impact serves as a guiding principle for Winning the right way how we do business and is critical to achieving our company vision: to create technology that makes life At HP, how we do things is as important as what we do. We work every day to earn the trust of our stakeholders and uphold our reputation for integrity and ethical better for everyone, everywhere. It is fundamental leadership. Our values are deeply rooted in our heritage and are embedded into our to our reinvention journey—fueling our innovation operating model and business strategy. We continue to look for ways to raise the bar, challenge ourselves, and reinvent our company to drive lasting improvements for the and growth, strengthening our business for the planet, people, and communities where we live, work, and do business. long-term, and enabling us to develop and deliver Guided by our code of business conduct, known as Integrity at HP, we apply strong the best solutions to our customers. ethics and anti-corruption principles within our operations, across our value chain, and in our communities. We combine strong internal governance with clear Sustainable Impact is a business imperative Sustainable Impact, we are able to capitalize communication so that everyone at HP understands our principles and can put them and key differentiator, helping us to win over on what we do best, which is to anticipate into practice. Through robust policies, protocols, and controls, we protect the privacy $900 million dollars of new revenue in 2018. 1 and prepare for the next wave of global of our customers and employees. To increase our impact across the industry and challenges and create opportunities through beyond, we advocate for public policies that drive progress and sustainable impact. As we look ahead, we anticipate a future the power of technology. that is more resource constrained, In 2018, 99.69% of employees, including senior executives, and all members of our interconnected, and transparent than ever We are driving Sustainable Impact Board of Directors, completed Integrity at HP training. before. We know that the businesses that across three pillars – Planet, People, and will thrive over the long term are those that Community. This strategy is informed can decouple growth from consumption, by materiality assessment and ongoing deliver innovation powered by a diverse engagement with stakeholders, and reflects and inclusive culture, and offer solutions to integration with our core business. some of the greatest challenges that face business and society. With a keen focus on HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 49 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Planet Sustainable Impact goals Goal Progress in 2018 UN SDGs PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Our mission of products and services so that they can achieve more with less environmental impact. NEW GOAL Use 30% postconsumer recycled content plastic Through the end of 2018, we achieved 12, 14 Our efforts include developing solutions that Transform our entire business to across HP’s personal systems and print product 7% postconsumer recycled content keep materials in use at their highest state of portfolio by 2025. 5 plastic use in HP personal systems and drive a more efficient, circular, print products. Learn more. value for the longest possible time, ensuring and low-carbon economy. NEW GOAL the materials in our products are properly Reduce HP product use GHG emissions intensity Through the end of 2018, we achieved 7, 12, 13 Enable our customers to invent repurposed at end of service, and shifting from by 30% by 2025, compared to 2015. 6 an 11% decrease. Learn more. the future through our most transactional product sales to service models. Recycle 1.2 million tonnes of hardware and Reached 395,200 tonnes recycled 12 sustainable portfolio of products supplies by 2025, since the beginning of 2016. through the end of 2018. Learn more. and services. We see the need to act on climate change as SUPPLY CHAIN our responsibility and vital to the long-term success of our business. As such, we work to Achieve zero deforestation associated with 100% achieved for HP brand paper in 13, 15 HP brand paper and paper-based product 2016 and maintained that performance How we’re reduce our environmental impact across our entire value chain. In support of these efforts, packaging by 2020.7 through 2018. Reached 65% for paperbased product packaging. Learn more. driving progress we are investing in renewable electricity, setting public and science-based greenhouse Reduce first-tier production supplier and product transportation-related GHG emissions Through December 2017 (the most recent year data is available), GHG 13 intensity by 10% by 2025, compared to 2015. 8 emissions intensity increased by 6% In 2011, the global population passed gas (GHG) emissions reduction goals, and compared to 2015. Learn more. 7 billion—and that number continues to transparently reporting on our progress. Help suppliers cut 2 million tonnes of carbon Through 2018, suppliers avoided 13 grow. The world’s population is on pace to Building on our decades-long expertise dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions between 1.16 million tonnes of CO2e emissions. hit 9.8 billion by 2050.2 This growth will put 2010 and 2025. 9 Learn more. in closed-loop recycling, we have sourced tremendous stress on our natural resources. OPERATIONS 716,000 pounds of ocean-bound plastic for use In fact, at our current rate of growth, by NEW GOAL in our supplies and hardware (through March 2050 we’ll need the equivalent of 2.3 Earths Use 60% renewable electricity in global HP’s global operations procured and 2019). We’ve eliminated deforestation from our operations by 2025. generated 275,944 MWh of renewable 7, 13 to support us all.3 At the same time, as the paper supply chain, and are more than halfway electricity and attributes, equivalent population grows, more people will look to NEW GOAL to 47% of our global electricity toward eliminating linkages to deforestation Use 100% renewable electricity in global move up the economic ladder, especially in consumption. Learn more. operations by 2035. related to our paper-based packaging, 4 so that developing and emerging economies. And as our customers can be confident that printing NEW GOAL incomes increase, so will consumption, putting Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions HP’s global operations produced 13 with HP means supporting healthy and thriving additional pressure on our natural resources. from global operations by 60% by 2025, 229,600 tonnes of Scope 1 and Scope 2 forests worldwide. And, we are investing in compared to 2015. CO2e emissions, 41% less than our 2015 disruptive technologies such as 3D printing baseline. Learn more. Our aim is to transform our entire business for a more circular and low-carbon economy and that will help drive a more sustainable Reduce potable water consumption in global Potable water consumption equaled 12, 13, 15 offer customers our most sustainable portfolio Fourth Industrial Revolution. operations by 15% by 2025, compared to 2015. 2,997,000 cubic meters globally, 6% less than in 2015. Learn more. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 50 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix People Our mission and services. Every day, our people help to shape our future and bring our vision to life. Sustainable Impact goals They power our innovation, contributing Goal Progress in 2018 UN SDGs Enable all people who help bring unique perspectives and a growth mindset our products to market to thrive Develop skills and improve wellbeing of 500,000 255,400 supplier factory workers have 8, 10 to create breakthrough technologies and factory workers by 2025, since the beginning of participated in programs since the at work, at home, and in their 2015. beginning of 2015.10 Learn more. transformative solutions. communities. Double factory participation11 in our supply Factory participation decreased by 3% 8, 10 Embed diversity and inclusion in Championing diversity and inclusion and chain sustainability programs by 2025, compared compared to 2015, due in large part to to 2015. changes in the composition of our supply everything we do. respect for human rights are fundamental chain in 2018. Learn more. to the HP Way. Our core values shape how we do business worldwide. HP works to How we’re ensure that our products are engineered and Fostering diversity and inclusion is a manufactured with integrity and respect for business imperative and essential to serving driving progress the people who help make them. our global customers. To this end, we embed diversity and inclusion into everything we We strive to protect and empower all workers do—starting at the top. In fact, our Board We know that better innovation and across our value chain. Our expectations of Directors is the most diverse of any U.S. business growth comes from having diverse, around environmental management, labor technology company. We encourage our empowered people and teams. It’s why management, audit scores, and minerals suppliers and partners to commit to diversity we champion dignity, respect, equality, sourcing are all integrated into our supplier and inclusion goals, and invest in programs and human rights in our own business, Sustainability Scorecard, which is embedded and partnerships that build the pipeline for within our supply chain, and beyond our into each supplier’s overall procurement diverse talent. And we are committed to corporate walls. In the coming decades, score. On top of this, we invest in capability creating inclusive technology that affirms changing demographics, socioeconomic building, skills training and wellness human dignity, promotes independence, and conditions and expectations around the programs to help ensure that the people unleashes creativity. role of corporations will radically change who make our products can thrive at work, at the workforce, customer requirements and home, and in their communities. how we create and deliver our products HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 51 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Community Our mission methods must be lean, flexible, and ready Sustainable Impact goals to pivot in order to prepare students for lifelong learning. Through our products and Goal Progress in 2018 UN SDGs Unlock educational and economic solutions, global programs, and strategic opportunity through the power of Enable better learning outcomes for 100 million More than 21 million students and 4, 5 partnerships, we are helping deliver quality people by 2025, since the beginning of 2015. adult learners have benefited from HP’s technology. education programs and solutions that technology-enabled learning that engages advance quality learning and digital Improve the vitality and resilience students, empowers educators, and literacy, and enable better learning of our local communities. unlocks economic opportunity. Innovation outcomes since the beginning of 2015. Learn more. is accelerating at an incredible pace—the generation now entering the workforce, Enroll 1 million HP LIFE users between 2016 166,000 users have enrolled in HP LIFE 4, 5, 8 How we’re Generation Z, was the first born into a world where Internet and smartphones exist. These and 2025. NEW GOAL courses since 2016. Learn more. driving progress digital natives will make up 36% of the global Contribute 1.5 million employee volunteering hours by 2025 (cumulative since the beginning HP employees have contributed 284,000 volunteer hours to local 11, 17 workforce by 2020,12 and they come with new of 2016). impact projects through 2018. At HP, we know that technology can connect Learn more. expectations and a different style of working. communities to a world of opportunity. But The generation that follows, which some call NEW GOAL for a large portion of society, participating Contribute $100 million in HP Foundation Giving from the HP Foundation and 11, 17 Generation Alpha, will evolve even faster. and employee community giving13 by 2025 employees reached $23.21 million in a rapidly evolving and connected world We support lifelong learning to help prepare (cumulative since the beginning of 2016). through 2018. Learn more. remains out of reach. Ensuring that people people for the future of work, so that people have access to technology, transformational and society can thrive. vibrant, resilient, healthy communities. When learning opportunities, and support to disasters strike, we are there to assist—HP, tackle pressing local issues is essential to HP has a global footprint, with operations our employees, and the HP Foundation14 building an inclusive economy with vibrant in 59 countries, and customers, partners along with our strategic partners provide communities everywhere. and suppliers in nearly every corner of support for affected communities. Our aim is the globe. We embrace the opportunity to support thriving communities with greater We believe that education is a fundamental and responsibility to positively impact the equality, opportunity, and sustainability for human right, and that technology can be communities where we live, work, and do everyone, everywhere. the great equalizer. As technology evolves, business. Our global employees contribute learning and skill-building must evolve their time, resources, and skills to help build in lockstep. Classrooms and learning HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 52 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix United Nations Sustainable Development Goals HP supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and remains committed to driving progress on select goals that are closely aligned to our Sustainable Impact strategy. Goal HP’s contribution Goal HP’s contribution Through contributions from HP, the HP Foundation, and our global employees, HP is building effective and innovative education solutions for millions of people we aim to make a positive local impact on the communities where HP employees, worldwide, including women and girls, and underrepresented and marginalized customers, and suppliers live, work, and do business. We provide financial support groups. Our goal is to enable better learning outcomes for 100 million people by for communities affected by natural disasters and emergencies, and work with 2025, since the beginning of 2015, by deploying breakthrough technology solutions expert partners to speed recovery and reconnect vital networks. HP employees also that support engaging, personalized educational experiences; partnering to develop contribute their talents, passions, and resources to support inclusive, safe, resilient, scalable models for digital inclusion and lifelong learning; and delivering insights that and sustainable communities worldwide. help governments create effective education and human capital development policies and programs. HP is transforming how we design, produce, deliver, and reuse products to drive progress toward a more efficient, circular, and low-carbon economy. We aim to HP’s commitment to gender equality starts at the top, with the most diverse Board develop solutions that keep materials in use at their highest state of value for the of Directors of any U.S. technology company. We work to grow the pipeline of diverse longest possible time, grow the market for recycled content, and offer robust repair, talent and to recruit and develop female and diverse talent across all levels of the reuse, and recycling programs for our products worldwide. And, we are investing in company. We also use our scale to influence our suppliers and partners, encouraging disruptive technologies such as 3D printing that will help drive a more sustainable and them to prioritize diversity and inclusion within their own operations. inclusive Fourth Industrial Revolution. HP is investing in energy efficiency and shifting toward less GHG-intensive energy We are reducing GHG emissions across our value chain in partnership with our supply sources, including onand off-site renewable power, with the goal of reaching 100% chain, through science-based emissions reduction targets for our operations and renewable electricity use in our global operations by 2035. setting a GHG emissions intensity reduction goal for our product portfolio. We continue to support coordinated global action to combat climate change, including through Paris Climate Accord commitments and as a signatory to We Are Still In. We also support investments into renewable electricity in our operations and within our supply chain. HP believes that all workers deserve fair treatment, safe working conditions, and freely chosen employment. We forbid any forced, bonded, or indentured labor, HP is committed to driving positive, local impact in the communities where we live, involuntary prison labor, slavery, or trafficking of persons within our supply chain, and work, and do business. Each community faces different challenges and requires have adopted a broad approach to responsible minerals sourcing to help ensure there different solutions. By working closely with local partners—corporate peers, is no connection between the materials used in HP products and armed violence or nonprofits, local governments and others—we tailor our approach to address the human rights abuses. unique needs and challenges of each community to help them thrive. HP strives to uphold fundamental rights and freedoms of all people. We promote a welcoming, diverse, and inclusive culture and do not tolerate discrimination of any kind. Through leading policies, programs, and partnerships, we aim to promote social and economic inclusion for all people across our supply chain and operations— regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, nationality, ability, military status, religion, generation, sexual orientation, or views. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 53 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Recognition HP is recognized as one of the world’s most sustainable companies. Ranked 4th on the 2018 list of the With 2018 rankings, listed on the HP Brazil recognized for sustainability 100 Most Sustainable U.S. Companies World Index for the 7th time in a row efforts for 6th time Placed 5th in ranking of the world’s Received a Gold rating for the Ranked 7th on Gartner’s annual most responsible organizations—1st 9th consecutive year Supply Chain Top 25 list with a perfect in the Climate Change pillar 10/10 for efforts in corporate social responsibility Rose two spots in the Computer Ranked 2nd in 2018 for Ranked by Profiles in Diversity Journal Industry category to 3rd place commitment to address forced for the 4th consecutive year labor in the supply chain Named for the 3rd year in a row Recognized for continued Ranked 20th overall and 2nd for to Global 100 Most Sustainable commitment to delivering product technology companies on Thomson Corporations in the World list energy efficiency for 2nd year in a row Reuters 2018 Diversity & Inclusion Index15 Named to 2018 CDP Climate Change Named one of Canada’s Greenest Placed among the 31 leading “A” List for the 5th consecutive year; Employers for 12th year in a row participating organizations achieved a spot on 2019 Supplier Engagement Leader Board for the 3rd consecutive year; received a Ranked 5th on the Q1 2019 Named among top Best Large leadership score on CDP’s Forest list, recognizing publicly traded Employers in America in annual ranking evaluation for the 3rd year in a row companies that are leading the way with solutions for the transition to a clean energy future Listed 13th on 2019 Workforce 100 ranking of world’s top companies for human resources HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 54 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Stakeholder engagement Governance The success of our Sustainable Impact and WWF Climate Savers. See Footprint. At all levels of the company, starting with our HP’s VP and Global Head of Sustainability strategy relies on engagement with a range • IT for sustainable development: Working Board of Directors, we embed Sustainable and Product Compliance has her of stakeholders, including employees, with partners such as the UN Women Impact throughout our strategy, policies, performance and compensation directly investors, suppliers, customers, peer Global Innovation Coalition for Change, programs, and value chain. associated with the management of companies, public policy makers, industry Black Girls Code, and Women Deliver, HP Sustainable Impact and the achievement bodies, nongovernmental organizations The HP Board of Directors’ Nominating, of related targets and metrics, both public helps to bridge the gender digital divide. (NGOs), sector experts, and others. These Governance and Social Responsibility (NGSR) and internal, including product energy See Global education programs. interactions build our collective intelligence, Committee oversees the company’s policies efficiency. Other executives have quarterly • Paper and printed material: We work help us prioritize critical issues, and provide and programs relating to global citizenship goals/metrics tied to our Sustainable with WWF Global Forest & Trade Network – insights on emerging opportunities and risks. and the impact of HP’s operations, provides Impact strategy—including GHG emissions North America, Forest Stewardship Council, guidance and recommendations to the reduction goals. Several other HP directors and our suppliers to ensure the fiber we Individual functions across the company Board on legal, regulatory, and compliance and managers have a component of their use is responsibly sourced. See Paper. drive our decentralized approach, engaging matters relating to political, environmental, total compensation (salary and bonus) in ways that are most relevant to their • Privacy: Our privacy and government global citizenship, and public policy trends, based on responsibility for, and effective objectives and operations. These include relations teams work with policymakers and reviews the annual Sustainable Impact implementation of, corporate initiatives to partnerships, sponsorships, collaboration on to support robust and globally Report. The Committee receives regular address climate change. industry initiatives, customer and supplier interoperable privacy and data protection updates on key sustainability metrics and education, supplier capability-building regulations. See Government relations. results. Listen to NGSR Committee members In 2018, all three of our businesses— programs, supplier audits and assessments, • Product energy efficiency: We share our talk about Sustainable Impact at HP. Personal Systems, Print, and 3D Printing— conference participation, employee leading practices across the industry, developed and approved their own surveys, mentoring, and more. We identify including by contributing to standards Our executive leadership team, led by Sustainable Impact strategies. These appropriate stakeholders based on factors development that impact product our CEO, retains overall responsibility for strategies are being managed and driven such as expertise, willingness to collaborate, sustainability. HP serves on the EPEAT® Sustainable Impact as part of our business by a dedicated team that reports to each reputation, location, and sphere of influence. Advisory Council and helped lead the strategy. A team of executives, led by our business group’s executive. working group to revise IEEE 1680.1, Global Head of Sustainability and Product Examples include: the standard used by EPEAT for PCs and Compliance, sets HP’s Sustainable Impact • Circular economy: Through the Ellen displays, which took effect in 2018. strategy and drives progress companyMacArthur Foundation Circular Economy 100, • Supply chain responsibility: As a founding wide. These leaders also provide updates we collaborate to drive progress toward a member of Responsible Business Alliance to the NGSR Committee and other relevant more materials and energy-efficient future. (RBA), we are part of a consortium of executive committees. See Circular economy. companies driving improvements in global • Energy and GHG emissions: To extend supply chains. See External collaboration. our influence, we join leading companies Numerous additional examples are included in goal-setting efforts, including RE100 throughout this report. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 55 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Materiality We periodically conduct materiality assessments to review relevant environmental, social, and governance HP 2017 materiality assessment topics, reconfirm our long-standing areas of focus, High • Waste • Circular economy and clarify and shape our Sustainable Impact strategy, • Water • Energy and GHG emissions investments, and disclosure. This enables us to focus on the areas where we can have the greatest positive • I T for sustainable development impact, determine any gaps, and identify relevant trends and leadership opportunities for our business. We have • Paper and printed material set aggressive goals related to several of our most • Privacy Relative importance to sustainable development material topics, to manage performance and drive long• Product energy efficiency term progress. • Supply chain responsibility Through our external consultant BSR, in 2017 we engaged experts and leaders from across HP as well as • Access to technology • Corporate governance • Data and product security select external topic experts. The process took leading • Freedom of expression • Intellectual property • Diversity and inclusion reporting frameworks into account, including the • Natural disaster relief protection • Ethics and anti-corruption Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting • Packaging • Health and safety Standards and the Sustainability Accounting Standards • Product transportation • Transparency, Board (SASB) Technology and Communications Hardware • Public policy accountability, and Standard. It also used data analytics to assess the reporting importance of non-financial topics to industry peers and regulatory stakeholders. The resulting matrix maps topics by relative importance • Executive compensation • Collaborative economy • Additive manufacturing to sustainable development and to HP’s business success. Items in the four upper-right-hand sections fall • Sale and misuse of IT • Responsible marketing •E  mployee development products and services • Taxes paid and engagement above the materiality threshold for the purpose of this • Workforce reductions • Supply chain resilience report. Topics below the materiality threshold are not covered in as much detail, but remain important to HP. and relocations See details about the results and key themes that the assessment uncovered. Our material issues list includes definitions, corresponding Low GRI Standards Topics, and the boundary of each Topic. Low Relative importance to HP’s business success High HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 56 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Footprint 58 Carbon and climate impact 59 Water 60 Data HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 57 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Carbon and climate The manufacturing, delivery, and use We also provide suppliers incentives to set and of HP products and solutions requires a meet their own goals. In 2018, we updated our substantial amount of natural resources. supplier environmental management criteria As part of our commitment to protecting the planet, HP measures our environmental footprint across the value chain to prioritize to include science-based GHG emissions reduction targets and third-party verification of GHG emissions. To extend our influence impact areas for improvement. We were the first within and beyond our industry, we join We strive to reduce the climate impact of See a full list of our GHG emissions reduction company in the IT industry to publish a leading companies in GHG goalsetting and our supply chain, operations, and products goals and progress. full carbon footprint and one of the first to reduction efforts including RE100, CDP Supply and solutions. HP’s carbon footprint in 2018 disclose a complete water footprint. Our Chain, WWF Climate Savers, and the Step Up See our full carbon footprint data for 2015– equaled 44,699,600 tonnes of CO2e, 9% carbon and water footprints 1 cover our Declaration alliance launched at the 2018 2018 and details about our methodology in more than in 2017. Growth in PC and printer entire global value chain, from suppliers 2 to Global Climate Action Summit. the HP carbon accounting manual. sales increased emissions in the production our operations and millions of customers and product use phases. These factors worldwide. The insights we gain through Learn more about how we reduce GHG offset reductions from design innovation and this process help us to continually improve emissions across our business in Supply chain product portfolio shifts. and create positive and sustainable impact responsibility: Environmental impact, Our on the planet, our people, and communities facilities, and Products and solutions. where we live, work, and do business. We have set ambitious GHG emissions 2018 carbon footprint Climate change risks reduction goals across the value chain to 44,699,600 tonnes C02e and opportunities drive progress. Our first-generation Scope 1 Climate change presents a broad range of and Scope 2 GHG emissions and Scope 3 GHG risks and opportunities for HP. We follow emissions intensity reduction goals were structured processes to identify and assess validated in June 2017 by the Science Based those items and have developed programs Targets initiative (SBTi). Based on progress to address those across our value chain. and re-baselining in 2018, we worked with WWF Climate Savers and other specialists to Our Board of Directors’ Nominating, update our science-based Scope 1 and 2 GHG Governance, and Social Responsibility emission target which we have submitted to (NGSR) committee is responsible for the SBTi in 2019 for validation. overseeing HP’s sustainability initiatives, 46% 53% Supply chain Products and may review, assess, report, and provide and solutions guidance to management and the board regarding HP’s policies and programs 1% Operations relating to sustainability issues, including climate change. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 58 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Business processes for addressing climate-related impacts Water Identification and assessment1 Key risks and opportunities Management Risks Many parts of the world grapple with the availability and quality of water, and HP is Transition risks in technology and markets (e.g. Design for Sustainability program product eco-label certifications to meet customer committed to calculating, disclosing, and Eco-label certifications requirements/preferences) reducing water use across our global value Enterprise risk management chain. In 2018, our water footprint equaled Transition risks in regulations (e.g., impact of current Regulations tracking and assessment or potential product energy efficiency regulations or 254,206,000 cubic meters, 8% more than Policy engagement standards as well as carbon and energy taxes) 2017. Business growth and improved Acute physical risks (e.g., impact of extreme HP Global Resiliency and BCP data (see Energy efficiency) contributed Business continuity planning (BCP) weather-related events on HP and supplier to increased water consumption in the HP supply chain visualization tool operations and transportation infrastructure/ networks) production and product use phases. These factors offset reductions from design Chronic physical risks (e.g., impact of rising sea LEED building standards levels and mean temperatures on HP and supplier innovation and product portfolio shifts. Product standards and Water risk assessments facilities, energy consumption, water availability, regulations tracking/engagement and workforce productivity) Supplier environmental requirements See our full water footprint data for 2015– Opportunities 2018 and a description of our methodology Business resilience (e.g., increase energy efficiency Operations energy use, GHG emissions reduction, and in the HP water accounting manual. and use of renewable energy in HP and supplier sustainability programs/investments Megatrends operations) Learn more about how we reduce water Supplier Strategic Energy Management Program and Energy use across our business in Supply chain Efficiency Program responsibility: Environmental impact, Our Low-carbon/circular product and service innovation Research and development (e.g., service-based business models, closed-loop facilities, and Products and solutions. Design for Sustainability Materiality assessment materials use) Products and solutions portfolio Access to new markets (e.g., manufacturing with 3D Research and development printing; publishing and packaging with digital printing) Products and solutions portfolio HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 59 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Data Carbon footprint (Scopes 1–3)* 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 GHG emissions from operations** [tonnes CO2e] 388,700 328,400 249,200 229,600 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 200 100 400 500 Americas 274,400 174,500 54,700 51,500 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 60,700 60,900 65,700 66,200 Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) 2,900 2,700 4,600 3,700 Asia Pacific and Japan 53,600 93,000 128,800 111,900 Americas 2,900 2,700 4,600 3,700 GHG emissions intensity *** [tonnes CO2e/ 7.6 6.8 4.8 3.9 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 $ million of net revenue] Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 GHG emissions by scope [tonnes CO2e] Nitrous Oxide (N2O)[tonnes CO2e] 0 0 0 0 Scope 1 Americas 0 0 0 0 Scope 1 emissions, by region 66,900 60,700 66,200 65,900 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 Americas 54,800 48,700 52,000 48,800 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 10,600 10,100 13,100 15,300 Methane (CH4) [tonnes CO2e] 0 0 0 0 Asia Pacific and Japan 1,500 1,900 1,100 1,800 Americas 0 0 0 0 Scope 1 emissions, by type Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 Natural gas 28,800 28,100 29,400 29,300 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 Americas 23,300 22,600 23,500 22,200 Scope 2 (market-based method)††† Europe, Middle East, and Africa 4,400 3,900 5,300 5,700 Scope 2 emissions, by region 321,800 267,700 183,000 163,700 Asia Pacific and Japan 1,100 1,600 600 1,400 Americas 219,600 125,800 2,700 2,700 Diesel/gas/oil/LPG**** 800 200 400 100 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 50,100 50,800 52,600 50,900 Americas 700 200 200 100 Asia Pacific and Japan 52,100 91,100 127,700 110,100 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 Scope 2 emissions, by type 321,800 267,700 183,000 163,700 Asia Pacific and Japan 100 0 200 0 Purchased electricity for operations 321,800 267,700 182,100 162,400 Transportation fleet† 32,700 29,600 31,400 32,200 Americas 219,600 125,800 2,700 2,700 Americas 26,400 23,200 23,700 22,700 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 50,100 50,800 52,600 50,900 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 6,000 6,100 7,400 9,100 Asia Pacific and Japan 52,100 91,100 126,800 108,800 Asia Pacific and Japan 300 300 300 400 District cooling and heating 0 0 900 1,300 Refrigerants (hydrofluorocarbons 1,700 100 400 600 (purchased) for operations (HFCs))†† Americas 0 0 0 0 Americas 1,500 0 0 100 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 60 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 900 1,300 Buildings leased to others (category 13) De minimis De minimis De minimis De minimis Scope 2 (location-based method) Franchises (category 14) Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Scope 2 emissions, by region 298,200 221,000 265,100 252,300 Investments (category 15) De minimis De minimis De minimis De minimis Americas 206,400 90,900 80,000 71,600 * To calculate Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 emissions, HP has followed the principles outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Europe, Middle East, and Africa 39,700 39,000 69,300 61,600 Additional details on calculations and methodology can be found in the HP carbon accounting manual. Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years relates to supply chain, operations, Asia Pacific and Japan 52,100 91,100 115,800 119,100 and products and solutions associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. HP selected 2015 as its baseline because it provided a year-over-year comparison for HP Inc. when it first reported as a separate company for 2016 following Scope 2 emissions, by type 298,200 221,000 265,100 252,300 the separation of Hewlett Packard Company in November 2015. 2015 continues to serve as base year for several HP goals as Purchased electricity for operations 298,200 221,000 264,200 251,000 well. This report includes updated data for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from facilities, back to the baseline of 2015, per guidance in the GHG Protocol, to reflect sites that came under HP operational control following the acquisition of Samsung Americas 206,400 90,900 80,000 71,600 Electronics Co., Ltd.’s printer business on November 1, 2017 (see About our operational data). ** Total includes HP’s reported values for Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based method emissions in table. Europe, Middle East, and Africa 39,700 39,000 69,300 61,600 *** Emissions-intensity value was calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Asia Pacific and Japan 52,100 91,100 114,900 117,800 **** HP does not estimate or extrapolate diesel use for nonreporting sites. District cooling and heating 0 0 900 1,300 † CO 2 e emissions associated with CH4 and N2O account for less than 1% of total CO2e emissions in this category. (purchased) for operations †† For 2015 and 2016, we calculated ozone-depleting substances emissions by tracking sites that reported refrigerant replacement due to leakage, and applied an intensity factor (based on those actual quantities) for nonreporting sites. In 2017, Americas 0 0 0 0 HP transitioned to a system that tracks all refrigerant invoices company-wide, directly accounting for facilities’ refrigerant leakage and use and eliminating the need for extrapolation. Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 ††† Data in this section uses the market-based method. Due to the availability and feasibility of acquiring the data, the company Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 900 1,300 only obtained supplier-specific emission rates for its Boise, Idaho, Indianapolis Indiana, and Palo Alto and San Bernardino, California, United States, sites. Scope 3†††† [tonnes CO2e] 36,250,000 35,860,000 40,770,000 44,470,000 †††† The 2017 value has been restated compared to the data reported in the HP 2017 Sustainable Impact Report, due to updates to the product use value (category 11). See ‡‡‡ for detail. Materials extraction through 15,300,000 14,700,000 16,500,000 18,600,000 ^ Scope 2 GHG emissions used to calculate this category were determined using the location-based method. manufacturing (category 1; also see ^^ These figures are based on product life cycle assessment-based estimates. They use a combination of HP-specific and Greenhouse gas emissions on page 77) industry data, and include additional upstream and downstream transport related to our products, as well as retail and storage. This data may differ from data reported by product transportation suppliers that HP contracts to deliver our Capital goods (category 2) 200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 products, as presented on pages 78 and 85. ^^^ Upstream energy production 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 De minimis values are less than 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions. ‡ HP’s global travel agency provides values which take into account the type of aircraft, passenger load, cabin class, and miles (category 3)^ traveled for each ticketed trip. This data also includes rail travel carrier and distance traveled. Although these values fall Transport (categories 4 and 9; also see 1,300,000 1,300,000 1,500,000 1,800,000 below our quantitative reporting threshold of less than 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions and could be reported as de minimis, Product transportation on page 78)^^ we choose to report this category due to our ability to directly track this data, our level of influence over these emissions, and stakeholder expectations in this category. Waste generated in operations De minimis ^^^ De minimis De minimis De minimis ‡‡ All facilities accounted for in Scope 1 and 2. Leased furniture and equipment are included in capital goods (category 2). (category 5) ‡‡‡ In 2016, we added commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, which use large amounts of paper, to our product Business travel (category 6) ‡ 50,000 60,000 70,000 70,000 use footprint calculations. Total GHG emissions from product use in 2017 differs by less than 1% from the value reported on page 126, due to rounding. Total GHG emissions from product use in 2018 differs by less than 1% from the value reported Employee commuting (category 7) 200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 on pages 108 and 126, due to rounding. Data for 2017 and 2018 better reflect average laser printer paper usage. This represented the majority of the increase compared to 2015 and 2016. The 2017 value has been restated compared to the data Upstream leased assets (category 8) ‡‡ De minimis De minimis De minimis De minimis reported in the HP 2017 Sustainable Impact Report, to improve comparability with 2018. Scope 3 emissions from inkjet and LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for sale and service by other original equipment manufacturers is excluded from this Processing of sold products (category De minimis De minimis De minimis De minimis data. In 2018, these printers represented less than 0.7% of HP printers manufactured in the reporting year and consequently, 10) their associated emissions represented less than 0.2% of the product life cycle emissions of all HP manufactured printers. Scope 1 and 2 emissions from the manufacturing of these printers at HP operated facilities is captured in the Scope 1 and 2 Product use (category 11) ‡‡‡ 19,100,000 19,300,000 22,000,000 23,300,000 data reported in this year’s report. ‡‡‡‡ HP changed its calculation methodology beginning in 2017 to avoid netted emissions from product recycling. Product end of service (category 12) ‡‡‡‡ De minimis De minimis 200,000 200,000 HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 61 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Water footprint* 2015 2016 2017 2018 Water consumed by HP suppliers in their 13,900,000 12,600,000 13,400,000 15,000,000 operations** [cubic meters] Water consumption associated with the generation 34,800,000 31,800,000 34,300,000 38,400,000 of electricity used by HP suppliers [cubic meters] Water consumption in HP operations [cubic meters] 3,953,000 3,534,000 3,243,000 3,406,000 Water consumption associated with the generation 3,100,000 2,600,000 2,800,000 2,600,000 of electricity used in HP operations [cubic meters] Water consumption associated with the generation 106,900,000 103,300,000 96,400,000 106,100,000 of electricity used by HP products*** [cubic meters] Water consumption associated with the 46,800,000 52,900,000 84,900,000 88,700,000 manufacturing of paper used by HP customers with HP products **** [cubic meters] * Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years relates to supply chain, operations, and products and solutions associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. Additional details on calculations and methodology can be found in the HP water accounting manual. This report includes updated water and electricity consumption data from operations, back to the baseline of 2015, to reflect sites that came under HP operational control following the acquisition of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.’s printer business on November 1, 2017 (see About our operational data). ** This metric reports the amount of water consumed by HP’s multi-tier supply chain, and not the amount withdrawn by first-tier suppliers as reported in Supply chain responsibility: Environmental impact. Because water withdrawn can also be returned, water consumption is inherently lower. *** Indirect water consumption from inkjet and LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for sale and service by other original equipment manufacturers is excluded from this data. In 2018, these printers represented less than 0.7% of HP printers manufactured in the reporting year and consequently, their associated indirect water consumption during product use represented less than 0.7% of the product life cycle water consumption of all HP manufactured printers. Water consumption from the manufacturing of these printers at HP operated facilities is captured in the direct water consumption data reported in this year’s report. **** In 2016, we added commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, which use large amounts of paper, to our footprint calculations. Data for 2017 and 2018 better reflect average laser printer paper usage. This represented the majority of the increase compared to 2015 and 2016. The 2017 value has been restated compared to the data reported in the HP 2017 Sustainable Impact Report, to improve comparability with 2018. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 62 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Integrity and human rights 64 Ethics and anti-corruption 66 Human rights 68 Privacy 70 Government relations HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 63 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Ethics and anti-corruption We expect everyone at HP to meet the highest Regular engagement through training, ethical standards and to treat others with newsletters, a poster campaign at select Ethics and compliance governance at HP integrity, respect, and fairness. A complete sites, and coffee talks helps to reinforce commitment to our values underpins our Integrity at HP. Integrity Central is a new, Board of Directors* efforts, reinforced by in-depth training and comprehensive library of ready-to-use The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing ethics and compliance at HP. communication, and upheld through targeted collateral on key ethics topics. It includes The board consists of 11 directors and Chip Bergh is the Chairman. policies and strong governance. All members are independent directors excluding Dion Weisler, the tools and resources necessary to help President and Chief Executive Oﬀicer, HP Inc. employees know how to win the right way. HP is committed to complying with all applicable laws and regulations everywhere ethics training goal we operate. We require ethical conduct by Maintain greater than 99% completion our suppliers and partners, and use our scale rate of annual Integrity at HP (formerly Board of Directors Audit Committee Ethics and Compliance Committee and influence to drive progress across the Standards of Business Conduct) training Provides nonexecutive input and guidance Composed of HP executives, provides broader IT industry. See Human rights and among active HP employees and the to the Ethics and Compliance Oﬀice. oversight and guidance on the Board of Directors design and implementation of our Supply chain responsibility. ethics and compliance program. progress in 2018 Ethics 99.69% of employees, including senior Ethics and Compliance Oﬀice (within Global Legal Aﬀairs) Manages ethical issues across our global operations. Training and executives, completed Integrity at HP Specific responsibilities include oversight of Integrity at HP, coordination of training, as well as all members of our communication Board of Directors the company’s Compliance Assessment Program, management of anti-corruption and privacy, and the design and management of processes Our annual Integrity at HP training covers key that prevent, mitigate, and remediate all related business impacts. policies, procedures, and high-risk issues that During 2018, the Ethics Office launched a employees might face, and includes content four-part video series to improve awareness *As of January 31, 2019. on anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, and globally on compliance trends and how to privacy. In 2018, we incorporated scenarios handle ethical dilemmas. The videos, with See Governance for the board’s composition, committees and charters, as well as our company based on actual investigations, and provided subtitles in Korean, Chinese, and Spanish, bylaws and Corporate Governance Guidelines. frontline employees and select partners received more than 3,000 views. During the in higher-risk countries with online and inyear, the Ethics Office also recognized eight person training. During the year, all members “Ethics Champions,” employees who showed of HP’s Board of Directors attended a live outstanding ethical leadership and modeled Integrity at HP training session. HP values. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 64 0 20 40 60 80 100 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix supervisor or more senior managers under concerns outside of formal investigations. reporting tools to develop more efficient Items reported to HP global HP’s Open Door Policy, seek advice from Additionally, our new global case and effective ways to assess and analyze Integrity at HP team or other internal ethics and compliance experts, management tool, which will launch in 2019, corruption risks. compliance functions in 2018 or consult local Integrity at HP teams or will enable us to identify emerging trends Integrity at HP liaisons. HP does not tolerate in ethics violations and determine where HP also conducts regular audits focused on percentage of total retaliation against anyone who raises a additional controls may be needed. potential corruption risks, including audits concern or question in good faith. In 2019, of our own operations. In 2017, we assessed Total number of reported items in 2018: 161 HP will launch a new ethics case reporting corruption-related risks across HP’s global Conflicts of interest 2018 20% and recording system to improve how concerns are managed. Anti-corruption operations, including a detailed review of the company’s global policies and processes applicable to all business units and global Fraud 16% Corruption disrupts fair competition and is functions worldwide. We also conducted Human resources 13% Investigating concerns at odds with HP values. We do not tolerate risk-based reviews of third parties, including Anti-corruption * 11% corrupt behavior of any kind, including Suspected violations of our code of business sales intermediaries or “agents,” suppliers, bribery and kickbacks. Misuse of assets 11% conduct damage the trust of customers lobbyists, and channel partners, focusing on Sales channel violations 7% and other stakeholders. We take all alleged Our Anti-corruption Policy and compliance organizations with high-risk profiles. Confidentiality 6% violations seriously, respond quickly, program require our employees, partners, Theft 6% and take disciplinary or remedial actions and suppliers to comply with all applicable Training and when appropriate. HP uses a wide range national laws and regulations including the Workplace security 5% of disciplinary sanctions when dealing U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK communication Competition 3% with ethical violations. These include Bribery Act. We deliver comprehensive anti-corruption Financial and public reporting 2% additional coaching, written warnings, and content to all employees through annual * Includes allegations of commercial bribery, kickbacks, and Global Business Amenities Policy violations, as well as termination. Risk assessment Integrity at HP training. We also communicate year-round to reinforce policies, controls, alleged corruption related to foreign public officials. Representatives from our legal, and audits and training. In 2018, over 18,000 employees controllership, and human resources teams completed targeted anti-corruption training, We use internal data and Transparency conduct local investigations. Escalated in addition to 17 face-to-face and virtual International’s Corruption Perceptions Index Reporting concerns allegations are passed to a dedicated global to detect high-risk regions, assess risks sessions for select employees. Of this total, We make it easy for our employees and third integrity investigations team. 32% were in the Americas, 39% in Asia related to third-party business partners, parties to ask questions or report ethics and then alert the relevant employees. Pacific and Japan, and 29% in Europe, Middle HP’s investigation process continues to concerns. Reporting avenues include email, We benchmark our approach against peer East, and Africa. These trainings target all evolve, with improved resources and an internal online form, a global 24-hour companies to identify best practices in areas employees who may pose a corruption risk technology to perform investigationtoll-free phone line with translation, mail, including operational procedures, employee to the company, including those that support related functions in-house and deal with or in person. We offer anonymous reporting education, and supplier and partner training HP’s public sector business. concerns promptly. This approach creates options where allowed by law. At any time, and monitoring. In 2018, we adopted new new opportunities for employees to discuss employees can also reach out to their HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 65 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Human ethics and anti-corruption (continued) where we live, work, and do business, we annual public statement about our efforts to More than 3,100 employees (nearly 92% of promote a welcoming, diverse, and inclusive eradicate modern slavery. The Nominating, the relevant employee base) also received culture and do not tolerate unlawful Governance and Social Responsibility training specifically on the requirements of doing business with the U.S. government. rights discrimination or harassment of any kind. HP recognizes the fundamental importance Committee (NGSRC) of the Board of Directors oversees human rights within HP, including reviewing the results of the annual human In 2018, HP managed the integration of of privacy, security, and data protection to rights assessment and approving HP’s HP’s approach to human rights spans our our employees, customers, and partners newly acquired businesses and employees modern slavery statements. value chain and is embedded in all three worldwide. We strive to provide protections into HP’s anti-corruption program, which pillars of our Sustainable Impact strategy. across all our operations that exceed included online anti-corruption training for We champion equal and human rights for legal minimums and to deploy consistent, over 780 new employees. everyone we work with so that business and rigorous policies and procedures, giving We communicate HP’s anti-corruption society can thrive. people confidence when sharing information Policy commitments standards and requirements to 100% of with us and using our products. HP strives to uphold the relevant our business partners, suppliers, and other third parties such as consultants through contractual terms and conditions as well as Policies and Our supply chain responsibility program aims to improve labor conditions within supplier fundamental rights and freedoms of all people across our business, our Partner Code of Conduct and Supplier programs factories, tackle industry-wide challenges such as forced labor and conflict minerals, in line with the United Nations (UN) Universal Declaration of Human Code of Conduct. Generally, all HP partners Through our policies and programs, we insist and build essential skills and capabilities. Rights (UDHR), the UN Guiding and suppliers are required, respectively, to that all workers across our value chain have Principles for Business and Human meet HP’s Partner and Supplier Codes of fair treatment, safe working conditions, and Education is a fundamental human right. Our Rights, and the UN Global Compact. Conduct. Partners determined to represent freely chosen work. global education programs focus on better higher risk receive a training in addition. The HP Sustainable Impact and learning outcomes for millions through Requirements for mitigating anti-corruption Human Rights Policy states our Protecting, empowering, and fairly rewarding technology, including marginalized and risk associated with charitable giving are commitment to embedding our employees is a core priority. We work underserved communities. When disaster communicated to employees through the human rights within our business to keep our employees safe and healthy, so strikes, we work fast to support recovery by HP Global Charitable Contributions Policy, policies and practices, as well as they can flourish and be at their best. Paying connecting our employees and communities and risks are mitigated through the grantprotecting and upholding human HP employees fairly and equitably, regardless to critical services. making process. rights in collaboration with our of their gender, race, or other protected characteristics, is equally fundamental to suppliers and partners. It includes who we are. Approach our commitment to due diligence, workers’ voice and grievance Fostering diversity and inclusion is key to mechanisms, and investigation and Governance: Human rights leadership our approach and essential to delivering remedy of adverse impacts when comes from the highest levels of HP. Our transformational business results. In our these arise. CEO has approved HP’s Sustainable Impact workplace, industry, and the communities and Human Rights Policy and signs our HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 66 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Our company-wide Human Rights Council, Reporting avenues include email, an internal established in 2017, further strengthens online form, a global 24-hour toll-free phone Human rights risks and plans our management of human rights risks line with translation, mail, or in person. We Salient risks Approach to risk mitigation and remediation across the company. It is chaired by the head offer anonymous reporting options where Supply chain (Supply Chain Responsibility, Global Indirect Procurement) of the Human Rights Office and includes allowed by law. Learn more. Rights holders: Workers in supply chain, including vulnerable groups such as senior management from Ethics and foreign migrant, student, and female workers Investigations, Global Indirect Procurement, Reporting: We monitor emerging human • Conduct risk-based due diligence across HP’s supplier base Human Resources, Privacy, Supply Chain rights expectations and best practices • Prioritize suppliers for self-assessment questionnaires, capability building, and Responsibility, and Technical Regulations. The to continue to demonstrate leadership Forced labor onsite audits, and expand those programs Council meets twice a year to coordinate on in this rapidly evolving area. We publish • Provide remedy to victims (more than $1.2 million in repayments to over 1,000 Excessive working hours workers) due diligence and performance improvements information about HP’s programs, including • Participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives that develop and encourage responsible relating to respecting human rights, and to our initiatives to combat forced labor and Unsafe working labor practices human trafficking (see our Modern Slavery conditions approve the annual human rights assessment, See Supply chain responsibility and our Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement. which includes identification of salient risks Act Transparency Statement). and impacts. In 2018, the Human Rights Conflict and forced labor • Conduct due diligence Council approved an initiative to carry out associated with raw • Participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives that develop and promote responsible third-party audits of a number of HP offices Identifying and materials extraction minerals sourcing • Engage with and encourage smelters to participate in responsible minerals sourcing addressing risk to expand our monitoring and validate the assurance programs and drive our suppliers to source from those smelters company’s approach. See Responsible minerals sourcing. Training: All employees and members of In 2018, we evaluated eight corporate HP’s Board of Directors complete annual functions that have a role in respecting HP Human Resources Rights holders: Employees Integrity at HP training, helping to strengthen the human rights of workers against understanding of how we conduct business the appropriate UN UDHR rights. We Harassment and • Advance HP diversity and inclusion training and awareness programs identified salient risks in our Supply Chain discrimination See Diversity and inclusion. at HP including related to human rights 1 issues. HP also provides an annual training Responsibility, Global Indirect Procurement, for relevant procurement staff that covers Human Resources, and Technical Products and solutions (Technical Regulations) Rights holders: Customers the context of forced labor and slavery, Regulations functions. identification of forced labor conditions, Malfunctioning or unsafe • Employ rigorous design standards, product testing, certification programs, and auditing Our due diligence process aims to address products • Continue to evaluate HP products to assure they meet our safety standards company policies and standards to combat actual and potential adverse impacts in our See Product safety. modern slavery, who to contact for help, and operations and supply chain. This process how to report related information. is risk-based and commensurate to the Grievance mechanisms: When violations severity and likelihood of the impact. It of our policies and expectations occur, we focuses on three key aspects: embedding offer multiple channels for our employees responsible business conduct; ceasing, and third parties to ask questions and preventing, or remedying the impact; and report concerns without fear of retaliation. reporting on implementation and results. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 67 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Privacy The risk mitigation examples summarized in • The HP Privacy Accountability enhanced internal policies and procedures to the chart above are intrinsic to our approach. Framework outlines our procedures and address our obligations as a data controller See also Supply chain responsibility for organizational controls for assessing and and processor and to ensure data subject further detail on mechanisms to assess and managing risks associated with collecting rights are respected. address risk, including at key trigger points HP recognizes the fundamental importance and handling personal data. It is based such as onboarding new suppliers. of privacy, security, and data protection to on requirements for accountability as our employees, customers, and partners defined by the EU General Data Protection worldwide. This commitment is a critical Regulation (GDPR) and other instruments Privacy by Design Collaboration pillar of brand trust and increasingly a source of competitive advantage in an around the world. HP’s Privacy by Design approach • Our Data Protection Officer, together requires that HP products, era of accelerated innovation, global data Our global reach provides us the opportunity with HP’s Privacy and Data Protection services, websites, systems, and proliferation, and fast-changing regulatory to drive human rights progress worldwide. team, provides oversight and leadership applications processing personal frameworks. We build privacy and data This includes engaging in public forums and for compliance, working closely with data be designed and implemented protection into the design and development multi-stakeholder partnerships, such as: appointed privacy leads in business teams only after thoughtful consideration of our products, services, and operations. • Chairing the steering committee of the throughout the company. of privacy implications. HP teams We strive to provide protections across all of Responsible Labor Initiative, a cross• HP’s HIPAA Compliance Office oversees developing or making substantial our operations that exceed legal minimums, industry collaboration of the Responsible compliance with Health Insurance changes in these areas must and to deploy consistent, rigorous policies Business Alliance focused on workers Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) have a fully formed development and procedures, to give people confidence vulnerable to forced labor. laws where they are triggered by our plan; fill out a Privacy by Design when sharing information with us and using • Participating in the steering committee commercial services engagements. questionnaire and provide any our products. See our Privacy website for of the Leadership Group for Responsible follow-up documentation; follow additional information. Privacy training is part of our mandatory Recruitment, a group promoting the appropriate documentation Integrity at HP annual refresher course, sustainable hiring through labor agent requirements based on type completed by 99.69% of HP employees in training and certification. • Sitting on the Advisory Board of Social Approach 2018. During the year, we also offered access of personal data involved; consult with HP Cybersecurity on to online courses that provide additional Accountability International, creator of appropriate security measures, as Our rigorous policies, standards, and topic and role-based training opportunities. the TenSquared program that improves required; and develop appropriate approach aim to keep personal data safe and Starting in 2019, employees granted access worker health and safety. notice language with the Privacy respect people’s privacy: to data systems containing high volume Office. Our formal review process We are committed to complying with • Our Privacy Statement describes our or sensitive personal data must take focuses on privacy as a default all relevant sanctions, restrictions, and commitments in this area. mandatory privacy training. setting, incorporating key principles embargoes by national governments or • We maintain internal policies and of data minimization, transparency We continually strengthen privacy international organizations in order to standards based on international data of purpose, and technical and protections to meet the requirements prevent diversion or misuse of our products. protection principles that cover the data organizational safeguards. of changing regulations and evolving life cycle. circumstances. This includes implementing See Product security and privacy. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 68 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix In 2018, we launched a Privacy Central website and made significant updates to how Substantiated complaints When developing and updating our privacy program, we consider global and domestic Cybersecurity we handle data subject rights in order to make regarding breaches of principles and frameworks including: In our industry, hostile attempts to acquire it easier for customers to engage with us customer privacy and losses • Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Privacy personal and financial information are about their data. of customer data at HP* Framework constant. HP works to block these attempts • EU Directive 95/46/EC through robust internal controls and To support compliance with the GDPR, we 2016 2017 2018 • EU General Data Protection Regulation external partnerships. continued to implement new management and Substantiated complaints 5 2 4 record-keeping tools in 2018. During the year, from outside parties • Madrid Resolution on International Privacy (including customers) Our Cybersecurity Organization provides we also continued to strengthen our wellStandards Substantiated complaints 0 2 3 and maintains the guidance, governance, established privacy program by enhancing • Organisation for Economic Co-operation from regulatory or other processes, resources, and vendor overall program governance through official bodies and Development Guidelines on the relationships necessary to identify unwanted conducting internal and third-party assurance, Protection of Privacy and Transborder * Breaches of customer privacy cover any noncompliance access, security threats, and cyberattacks, formalizing privacy by design, and streamlining with existing legal regulations and voluntary standards Flows of Personal Data regarding the protection of customer privacy related to and shield our customer and employee privacy impact assessment processes. data for which HP is the data controller. Substantiated • California Consumer Privacy Act information. HP’s IT partners and vendors complaints are written statements by regulatory or similar official bodies addressed to the organization that identify deliver the technology to protect customer breaches of customer privacy, or complaints lodged with and employee information. Privacy and the organization that have been recognized as legitimate by the organization. We are among fewer than 140 companies Everyone at HP has a role and responsibility in data protection recognized by the EU for the strength of our binding data protection rules information security, and we are committed compliance to working across all business groups and Global standards global functions to ensure that each person HP complies with worldwide privacy and data and regulatory HP relies on lawful mechanisms for data is doing their part. Our information security standards and incident response processes breach notification laws and regulations, tracks the number of substantiated complaints from environment transfer which it uses to drive accountability across the organization. HP remains among and playbooks support security rigor and apply to a range of evolving industry threats. third parties, and maintains an internal incident The secure movement of data is essential to fewer than 140 companies worldwide 1 Our internal Cybersecurity Policy Suite reporting process. Once a potential breach our business, and as legislation continues recognized by EU data protection authorities provides a framework for the organization, of personal data is identified, a core team to evolve, our privacy and government for our binding corporate rules, reflecting governance, and implementation of that includes representatives from privacy, relations teams work with governments our high standard of data protection policies information security across the company. It cybersecurity, legal, and communications, worldwide to develop robust and globally and procedures and enabling global data also informs employees about regulatory is responsible for the management and interoperable privacy regulations. See transfer within our company. HP is also selfrequirements, emerging threats, and new communication of potential data breaches, Government relations for more detail. certified under the EU/US Privacy Shield, and security practices, among other items. including any commercial or legal obligations we comply with the Asia-Pacific Economic to notify customers. HP’s Chief Security Advisor (CSA) Cooperation’s Cross-Border Privacy Rules. collaborates with the company’s security business unit, R&D team, HP Labs, business HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 69 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix units, product teams, global functions, and Security Advisory Board to advance HP’s information security management system (ISMS) achieved ISO 27001 certification. We Policy priorities office using established criteria, such as site representation and issue alignment. We leadership role in security. The CSA also also continue to bring our client services into post detailed lists of HP Employee PAC and Our global Government Relations team leads efforts to educate HP and clients alignment with ISO 27001, expanding our corporate contributions twice annually. HP leads our engagement with policymakers, about security, conduct security risk certification scope more broadly in service does not make political contributions outside regulators, trade associations, and peer assessments, perform analytics to establish offerings such as Managed Print Services and of the United States. We also disclose U.S. companies to advance public policies that security baselines, 2 and create roadmaps to Device as a Service. lobbying expenditures and membership align with HP’s interests and values and continually improve those baselines. in U.S. trade associations that engage in shape a positive climate for technology During 2018, HP did not experience lobbying activity. HP participates in cybersecurity organizations, innovation. Our policy priorities include: any cybersecurity events that required boards, and/or advisory boards, including disclosure. When incidents do occur, the • Data protection and privacy In 2018, HP made $300,000 in corporate IEEE, ISA, ISACA, ISC2, ISSA, NIST, SANS, Cybersecurity Organization responds swiftly • Intellectual property rights contributions to state and local candidates and others. We conduct and participate in and regularly reports related activities to the • Market access and groups. HP spent nearly $1.9 million cybersecurity research to continue to uncover relevant leadership. A cybersecurity event • Public procurement on U.S. federal lobbying, reported quarterly and identify cybersecurity trends and risks, requires external disclosure if compelled by under the Lobbying Disclosure Act. The HP • Security and to drive cybersecurity innovation in our applicable laws or regulations. Employee PAC made $87,000 in contributions • Social responsibility products, devices, services, and solutions. to federal and state candidates, party Learn how HP continually enhances HP • Sustainability and product compliance committees, and PACs supporting diverse In 2018, we continued working to understand products, solutions, and services to address • Taxation and economic incentives candidates. HP did not make any in-kind the techniques used by hostile actors, and product security and privacy. political donations in 2018. further improved existing security controls and measures. During the year, HP’s Political In 2018, we earned a perfect score and tied for first place overall among S&P engagement 500 companies in the CPA-Zicklin Index Government relations We conduct all political engagements, including contributions to candidates, in a of Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability. HP advocates for public policies that enable and redistribute an estimated $4–6 trillion transparent, legal, and ethical manner and in our business to grow and our customers to of the global economy in the next five to accordance with HP’s Political Contributions access our latest innovative technologies. 10 years. 1 The transformative potential of Policy and code of business conduct, We seek to unleash the potential of 3D printing to foster creative industries, Integrity at HP. Our U.S. Public Sector Code of the Fourth Industrial Revolution—in revolutionize manufacturing, and drive a Conduct guides ethical business interactions ways that will create jobs, spur growth, sustainable and inclusive Fourth Industrial with federal, state, and local officials. and promote inclusive innovation and Revolution can be realized through a Through corporate contributions and the sustainable impact. We advance policies policy framework that facilitates adoption, HP Employee Political Action Committee that encourage additive manufacturing with enhances workforce education, and (PAC), we support candidates for elected 3D printing, which is expected to disrupt incentivizes public-private partnerships. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 70 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility 72 Approach 73 Labor 74 Health and safety 75 Responsible minerals sourcing 76 Supplier diversity 77 Environmental impact 80 Audit results 84 Data HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 71 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Approach Driving Sustainable Impact throughout the supply chain 3 HP relies on one of the IT industry’s largest The strength of our supply chain supply chains, made up of hundreds of responsibility program enables us to meet priority priority production suppliers and thousands of and exceed customer expectations, in 2018, Put workers at the center of our Enable suppliers to develop and program by offering worker leadership strengthen their policies, management nonproduction suppliers.1 An ethical, more than $2.5 billion in new, retained, and empowerment programs, as well systems, and mechanisms to take sustainable, and resilient supply chain and potential revenue took supply chain as promoting effective grievance ownership for meeting social and protects our business and brand, responsibility into account. 2 mechanisms and strong two-way environmental compliance requirements strengthens customer relationships, and communication channels and elevate performance creates opportunities to innovate. For an overview of our management approach in this area, including areas such goal goal We insist that all workers receive fair as risk assessment, policies and standards, Develop skills and improve wellbeing of Double factory participation5 in our 500,000 factory workers by 2025, since supply chain sustainability programs by treatment, freely chosen employment, continuous improvement, capability building, the beginning of 2015 2025, compared to 2015 and safe working conditions. To reduce external collaboration, and reporting, see environmental impact, we collaborate with Our approach to a sustainable supply chain. progress progress 12,000 3% suppliers to decrease GHG emissions, water use, and waste. supplier factory workers participated in reduction, compared to 2015 10 programs at 200 supplier sites in three countries, bringing the total to 255,400 Our supply chain is complex, and we work to address workers trained since the beginning of a broad range of social and environmental topics. 2015, 51% of the way to our goal4 We will continue to collaborate with local organizations to strengthen factory workers’ awareness and skills, through programs Supply chain responsibility In 2018, the factory participation rate fell including women’s leadership, peer advice, Improving the lives of the people who make our products slightly compared to our baseline. This reflects and personal protection. This focus has been and strengthening the communities where they live and work changes in the composition of our supply chain integral to our supply chain responsibility in 2018. Shifts in manufacturing led to a program for over a decade. reduction in suppliers previously engaged in our program. We will continue to focus on increasing participation—deepening Labor Health and safety Responsible Supplier diversity Environmental engagement with suppliers who already have minerals sourcing impact strong management systems and coaching smaller spend and sub-tier suppliers to improve the maturity of their sustainability management. Due to activities underway, we anticipate this percentage will increase in 2019. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 72 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Transparency Capability Labor Key relationships include: • CDP Supply Chain program From PCs to printers, HP’s unique products • Clean Electronics Production Network building require a vast network of suppliers spanning • Green Freight Asia We continually deepen our understanding of six continents. Approximately 700 production In collaboration with NGO partners and other • Leadership Group for Responsible the social and economic factors that lead to suppliers make the products we sell and external organizations (including some of Recruitment labor concerns, and then focus on areas of several thousand non-production suppliers those mentioned above), we provide the • National Minority Supplier Development risk where we can have the most influence. support our operations. We disclose the programs listed below at our supplier sites, Council We collaborate with organizations and names and locations of the production depending on the maturity level of their • Responsible Business Alliance government agencies with local expertise suppliers that represent approximately policies and programs. Our objective is to to promote long-term, scalable solutions. 95% of our manufacturing spend. Our • Responsible Labor Initiative help suppliers continually improve along Our primary focus areas are combating products are manufactured in countries and • Responsible Minerals Initiative their sustainability journey and advance from forced labor, protecting workers’ rights, and territories worldwide, but over half of our • Social Accountability International compliant, to advanced, to leadership levels. process chemicals. manufacturing suppliers are based in the • U.S. EPA SmartWay® Asia Pacific region. • WWF Climate Savers In addition to this report, we disclose Combating forced labor information about our supply chain 1 responsibility and human rights performance Leader Examples of trainings and opportunities provided through our annual SEC Conflict Minerals Programs oﬀered to suppliers that • Zero waste to landfill training As part of our commitment to addressing Report, Modern Slavery Act Transparency aim for leadership above and • Women in Factories wellness and leadership modern slavery, we start with our own Statement, Report on Cobalt, and CDP Supply beyond HP’s requirements, and focus training on worker wellbeing. operations and suppliers while striving to Chain disclosures. We also provide tailored collaborate more broadly in ways that drive supply chain information to our customers positive change. Modern slavery, as defined and channel partners to help them achieve Advanced Examples of trainings and opportunities provided in guidance under the UK Modern Slavery their supply chain sustainability goals. • Science-based target trainings (in partnership Programs and trainings aimed at Act, can manifest itself in different ways, strengthening supplier capabilities with CDP) in repeat nonconformance areas, and • GHG and energy management training including through debt bondage, forced preparing suppliers for continuous • Participation in HP EHS summit labor, and human trafficking. 2 External improvement and long-term success. • HP-3M personal protective equipment training HP is uncompromising in our expectations of collaboration ethical behavior by our employees, partners, Baseline conformance Examples of trainings and opportunities provided and suppliers. In our Modern Slavery Act HP takes a leading role through collaborations Programs and trainings intended to bring • EHS awareness training suppliers up to baseline conformance • Foreign migrant worker training Transparency Statement, we discuss our focused on elevating supply chain best • RBA Code of Conduct training with HP Supplier Code of Conduct and efforts to address modern slavery during the practices and tackling shared challenges. related standards. fiscal year ended October 31, 2018. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 73 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Protecting workers’ rights Working with U.S. truckers Health and safety to fight human trafficking HP aspires to a world where our products Green America program, which has a goal To fully address social and environmental Truckers Against Trafficking (TAT) and operations use materials and chemicals to move toward zero exposure of workers issues in our supply chain, we aim to sees individual truckers as vital that cause no harm. We take a scienceto toxic chemicals in the electronics communicate with workers and management eyes and ears in the fight against based approach to assessing the potential manufacturing process. This collaborative to understand their questions, concerns, and human trafficking. TAT helps to human health and environmental impacts of effort is initially prioritizing challenges priorities. We train our procurement teams, combat trafficking in the United substances used in making HP products. related to bonding and cleaning chemicals supplier managers, and other employees to States by educating and mobilizing use in firstand second-tier suppliers in be vigilant and report instances of practices members of the trucking and China and Mexico. that violate our standards. busing industries and coordinating with law enforcement agencies. Process chemicals In 2018, the safe management of chemicals In 2018, we collaborated to help ensure was a key topic in an environmental, health that workers understood and acted on their Suppliers are required to follow the We support innovative and and safety (EHS) summit hosted by HP in rights. For example: manufacturing process chemical use effective initiatives such as TAT to China. Representatives from 68 supplier sites • Through a large-scale program of restrictions outlined in the HP General combat forced labor wherever it attended. HP presented on EHS case studies, coaching, training, and capability building, Specification for the Environment (GSE). exists. Most of HP’s U.S. trucking risk assessment, capability-building programs, a small but critical sub-tier component Additionally, our Supplier Code of Conduct vendors have signed up to the TAT and shared best practices. During the year, we supplier went from having concerning requires suppliers to employ robust initiative, and several are sponsors. also held nine events at supplier sites in China. working conditions to reaching a preferred management systems to catalog and We are one of the few shippers These focused on observed and recurring risks audit score in April 2018. evaluate process chemicals, eliminate that participate directly and are including chemicals management, licenses and or manage hazardous substances, • Improved communication and longer committed to ensuring that all systems, fire safety, and PPE and occupational demonstrate that analyses of safer lead times between HP and one of our carriers moving HP products in the health standards. alternatives were conducted when a final assembly suppliers have led to United States take the training. hazardous chemical is being used, and better scheduling and less volatility, provide workers with essential personal with workers now assigned 8-hour protective equipment (PPE) and training. instead of 12-hour shifts. Training has Where chemical substitutions are required, also been conducted to strengthen we help suppliers identify suitable workers’ awareness of the right to alternatives through our alternative refuse overtime without repercussions. materials assessment program. See Training was held with 450 migrant Materials innovation. workers about their rights. The supplier also transitioned temporary workers to We are a founding member of the Clean direct hire, to improve visibility and avoid Electronics Production Network (CEPN) discrimination and unfair treatment. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 74 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Responsible minerals We promote conflict-free minerals in our If a supplier is non-responsive, we use our supply chain by: procurement leverage to engage the supplier • Encouraging smelters that purchase and and improve performance. Should the issue sourcing process mineral ores to undergo thirdparty sourcing audits. • Requiring our production suppliers of persist, we use our sustainability incident management process to drive cooperation with the non-responsive supplier. goods containing 3TG (“3TG suppliers”) to Any connection between the materials used removed from the smelters that purchase Smelters require their smelters to undergo thirdin HP products and armed violence or human and process the ore into metals. For this To identify and disclose the smelters and party sourcing audits. rights abuses is unacceptable. To ensure reason, HP works with peers across the IT refiners in our supply chain, between January • Supporting multi-stakeholder our products are made responsibly, we industry to collectively engage the entire and December 2018 HP surveyed suppliers collaboration to establish secure, conflicthave adopted industry-leading policies and supply chain in efforts to eradicate minerals which contributed material, components, free sources of 3TG ores from the DRC. monitoring practices and are broadening our that may have directly or indirectly supported or manufacturing for products containing vigilance beyond conflict minerals to a wider armed groups and to promote responsible 3TG. Each smelter or refiner reported was range of minerals and geographies. Through sourcing of minerals regardless of origin. Suppliers identified in at least one of the RMI Conflict collaborative efforts, we aim to expand the HP sets clear expectations of 3TG suppliers Minerals Reporting Templates we received. in our Supply Chain Social and Environmental market for responsibly sourced minerals, Eliminating conflict-related risks Responsibility Policy (which includes including those originating from conflictfrom our supply chain affected and high-risk areas. Promoting best practices by smelters is our Conflict Minerals Policy), General Performance Specification for the Environment, and In 2018, we received acceptable responses the most direct way to address the risk of Supplier Code of Conduct. We assess these to RMI Conflict Minerals Reporting Templates conflict minerals entering our supply chain. Conflict minerals 1 We expect our suppliers to source 3TG for suppliers’ responses to the RMI Conflict Minerals Reporting Template, which gives from suppliers representing about 98% of our 3TG procurement spend, including HP products only from smelters that comply companies a common format for sharing both final assembly and commodity Across our complex, global, multi-actor with the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s (RMI) information about 3TG sources with business suppliers. These responses detailed 311 supply chain, we have the most influence over Responsible Minerals Assurance Process partners and suppliers across the supply 3TG facilities, 89% of which were compliant our direct suppliers. However, in the case of (RMAP), which requires a third-party sourcing chain. We request corrective action from or in process to become compliant with an trace and precious minerals, we recognize audit. Presence on the RMI conformant list suppliers where needed and provide them independent assessment program, and/ that we must work to influence the practices demonstrates a smelter’s conflict-free status. training upon request. If any 3TG supplier or that we reasonably believe exclusively of those much deeper in the supply chain. However, our relatively small use of these reports sourcing from a smelter that triggers source conflict minerals from recycled or metals decreases our influence, so we need one of our potential risk indicators, we Approach all of industry to demand conflict-free 3TG. work with the supplier to establish whether scrap sources or from outside of the Covered Countries (as of March 2019). While conflict minerals are rarely used in We will continue to work with our suppliers unverified material is potentially used in HP large volumes in any one IT product or by and across the industry to drive demand for products. When we identify a risk of this one company, the 3TG metals produced from conflict-free sourcing, regardless of whether occurring, we request the supplier to remove them are found in relatively small amounts the minerals originate in the Democratic the smelter from our supply chain. in virtually all electronic products. However, Republic of Congo (DRC) or elsewhere. we are typically 4–10 supply chain stages HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 75 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix OECD Due Diligence Guidance. Although Through RMI, we help develop and share Status of all supplier-reported Progress toward DRC HP’s operations are not within the scope of trainings, templates, and white papers to 3TG facilities* Conflict-Free, 2018 the EU regulation, we are aligning our policy build the capabilities of the IT industry and 350 and approach to the extent practicable beyond. We also support broader policy Progress Type of Total toward DRC Percentage and preparing to support our customers’ efforts through participation in RMI and its 300 facility Conflict-Free * requirements consistent with the regulation. Due Diligence Practices Team and Smelter 250 Tantalum 40 40 100% Engagement Team. 200 We support RMI’s work to help refiners and Tin 80 73 91% 150 smelters identify conflict-affected and highAdditionally, we collaborate through external Tungsten 42 40 95% risk areas (CAHRAs), including outside of DRC forums, including European Partnership for 100 Gold 149 123 83% and Covered Countries. We also supported Responsible Minerals, Kemet Partnership 50 Total 311 276 89% RMI’s gap assessment work with the OECD, for Social and Economic Sustainability, and 0 * Number of total 3TG facilities in HP Conflict Minerals Report which led to revised protocols for smelters Public-Private Alliance for Responsible 2016 2017 2018 3TG facility list that were either RMAP compliant or in and refiners that responsibly source 3TG Minerals Trade. process to become compliant, and/or that we reasonably believe exclusively source conflict minerals from recycled or from CAHRAs worldwide. Unknown 31 28 35 scrap sources or from outside of the Covered Countries (as of March 2019). B  elieved to source 20 22 19 We have expanded minerals due diligence and reporting to also include cobalt, which Supplier recycled/scrap or from outside the Covered Countries has been linked to human rights risks. We ask battery suppliers to confirm they Compliant or in process** 260 260 257 diversity have policies addressing cobalt, to report * As of March 2019. Other regions to HP the cobalt refiners they use, and to and minerals encourage these refiners to complete an RMI ** Smelters or refiners listed by RMI as currently RMAP compliant (including certification or accreditation by similar independent assessment programs cross-recognized by audit. See our Report on Cobalt. RMAP such as the Responsible Jewellery Council’s (RJC) Chain-of-Custody Certification Program, or the London Learning from our experience combating Diversity and inclusion is part of everything Bullion Market Association’s (LBMA) Responsible Gold we do, and our commitment extends beyond Multi-stakeholder Programme) or in the process of becoming RMAP compliant. conflict minerals in the DRC and surrounding countries, we are expanding our efforts. our own employees to our engagement with suppliers. Through purchasing decisions and This aligns with growing awareness of minerals sourcing issues beyond the DRC initiatives business relationships, we foster greater U.S. Securities and Exchange and surrounding countries covered by opportunity, equality, and representation Sourcing minerals responsibly requires Commission Conflict Minerals the U.S. Dodd–Frank Act. The EU Conflict throughout our supply chain and in the global coordinated efforts across sectors Report Minerals Regulation, which covers EU communities where we live, work, and and industries. We collaborate widely with In May 2019, we filed our Form SD and imports of 3TG minerals from all regions do business. Diverse perspectives and businesses, NGOs, government agencies, Conflict Minerals Report with the U.S. SEC of the world, requires all large EU 3TG experiences drive innovation, fortify our and our production suppliers to advance the disclosing our due diligence efforts and metal importers and smelters to become business, and strengthen local economies. use of responsibly sourced minerals. results. See our SEC Conflict Minerals Report. “responsible importers” consistent with the HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 76 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Environmental impact supplier diversity (continued) ghg emissions reduction goal In 2018, we continued to develop our Global Help suppliers cut 2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) Supplier Diversity program in the United emissions between 2010 and 2025 4 States and South Africa. We also work with Greenhouse gas Our production and nonproduction suppliers the National Minority Supplier Development progress are essential partners as we work to Council and Women’s Business Enterprise Suppliers avoided drive low-carbon and resource-efficient emissions 1.16 National Council. transformation throughout the value chain. We encourage small businesses and ghg emissions intensity To understand and manage our impacts, we companies owned by women, minorities, veterans, service-disabled veterans, LGBTQ+ calculate supply chain GHG emissions and reduction goal Reduce first-tier production supplier million tonnes water consumption in two ways: and product transportation-related of CO2e emissions individuals and aboriginal or indigenous GHG emissions intensity by 10% by individuals to compete for our business. • In this section of the report, we include 2025, compared to 20151 Progress on this goal is the result of new and data reported by our first-tier production ongoing energy efficiency projects, energy To improve the diversity of our suppliers’ progress suppliers, product transportation management programs, and renewable 6% workforces, we run initiatives such as those suppliers, and nonproduction suppliers. energy use motivated by engagement with with our main advertising agencies and U.S. This data reflects the volume of HP’s HP. Combined, these efforts have saved our law firm partners. See Diversity and inclusion business with each organization. Through increase in GHG emissions intensity2 suppliers $98 million in electricity costs alone. for details. engagement with suppliers, we can better understand and influence improvements Although GHG emissions intensity rose In 2018, we spent $423 million with small companies in the United States and $219 million in performance year overyear. between 2015 and 2017 when calculated Production suppliers with minorityand women-owned businesses. • The data included in our carbon and as a three-year rolling average, yearly GHG Approach See additional data. water footprints are based on product emissions intensity values (not calculated Through our Sustainability Scorecard, we set life cycle assessment-based estimates. as a rolling average) decreased by 7% requirements for our production suppliers. This analysis is intended to provide as during that timeframe. To help reach our During the year, the Sustainability Scorecard complete an understanding as possible of goal, we encourage our first-tier production applied to nearly 60% of our production impacts across the multiple levels of our and product transportation suppliers to suppliers, by spend. We periodically raise supply chain, from materials extraction improve energy efficiency, use renewable our expectations to motivate ongoing through manufacturing and product energy, and set science-based targets. This improvement. In 2018, we updated our use, as well as retail and storage. These goal is part of our suite of GHG emissions supplier environmental management calculations use a combination of HPreduction goals that are components of our criteria to include science-based GHG specific and industry methods and data. Science Based Targets initiative-validated emissions reduction targets and third-party science-based target. WWF has publicly verification of GHG emissions, as well as supported this goal, 3 confirming the rigor of transparent reporting of key environmental our goals-setting process. Since 2010, HP information, including GHG emissions, has decreased first-tier production supplier energy consumption, and renewable energy and product transportation-related GHG use. In 2019, we are adding more suppliers emissions intensity by 15%. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 77 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Our Energy Efficiency Program (EEP) in Product transportation Supplier GHG emissions performance China and Southeast Asia, implemented in tonnes CO2e collaboration with NGOs such as BSR, the Approach 3,200,000 World Resources Institute, and WWF, helps To improve efficiency, cut costs, and reduce suppliers to build capabilities, identify ways negative environmental impacts, we 2,400,000 to improve energy efficiency, and explore work to optimize our logistics network by 2,000,000 the use of renewable energy. Since 2010, consolidating shipments, identifying new 1,600,000 participants in these programs have saved routes, and shipping directly to customers or a cumulative $98 million in electricity costs local distribution centers. alone, including $7 million in 2018. 800,000 500,000 We require our product transportation Performance suppliers to use the Global Logistics 0 In 2017, the most recent year that data Emissions Framework, which we helped 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 is available, the suppliers that make HP develop in 2016 with the Global Logistics Production supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions* products generated 2.8 million tonnes Emissions Council, to standardize emission Product transportation calculations. To drive progress across Nonproduction supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions* of Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions attributable to HP, 8% more than in 2016. the industry and beyond, we are working * 2017 is the most recent year data is available. This reflects business growth, and increased with the Clean Cargo Working Group, See additional data and HP’s 2018 carbon footprint. emissions from two of our most significant Green Freight Asia, the International Air suppliers due to expanded boundaries of Transport Association, the United Nations GHG emissions inventory and conservative Climate & Clean Air Coalition, and the U.S. to our scorecard process to extend our in collaboration with Natural Resources accounting in the first year for high GHG Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) engagement further into our supply chain. Defense Council (NRDC), the China National emissions potential substances in newly SmartWay program. Institute of Standardization, local agencies, installed equipment. Year-over-year data is During the year, with the help of CDP, we We continue to use SmartWay partners for and suppliers in Suzhou. Through this also affected by generally improved supplier conducted a webinar to educate suppliers on 100% of our products shipped by truck in initiative, we collaborated with suppliers data management and reporting processes. climate science and science-based targets the United States and Canada. The program to enhance their operations, technology, and our expectations in this area. With several We engaged 98% of our first-tier production improves road transportation efficiency and continuous improvement processes, other technology companies, we also held a suppliers, by spend, to help reduce their reduces GHG emissions. and overall energy management, and day of training to help suppliers understand to establish best practices and national environmental impact. Overall, 94% reported environmental changes to the Responsible guidelines for facility energy management having GHG emissions reduction related Performance Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct, across China’s broader IT sector. Two HP goals. We also encourage suppliers to use Product transportation resulted in 1.3 million including those related to GHG emissions. suppliers in the program reported combined renewable energy. By spend, 77% reported tonnes of CO2e emissions in 2018, up 4% annual savings of greater than 7,000 tonnes doing so in 2017, up from 54% in 2016, with from the prior year, although HP’s revenue In 2018, we completed a three-year pilot of of CO2e emissions, 500,000 cubic meters of 39% reporting renewable energy use goals. increased by about 12% during that period. the Strategic Energy Management Program, water, and more than $1 million. This decrease in GHG emissions intensity HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 78 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix was partly due to an ongoing shift from air to ocean freight. In 2018, we avoided Water Supply chain transparency 30,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions by moving shipments from air to ocean between Approach In 2008, HP was the first major IT company to publish aggregated supply Asia and the Americas, Europe, and other chain GHG emissions data. Through CDP Supply Chain, we engage with our Many of our suppliers operate in regions countries within Asia. Reducing packaging suppliers and promote disclosure of climate and water risks, governance, and where water stress is a growing threat. We size and weight also decreases emissions. performance. Through our Sustainability Scorecard, we require suppliers to provide work with production suppliers to improve See Packaging. environmental data through CDP (including GHG emissions and goals, total and water management in their operations. renewable energy use, and water withdrawal), to make CDP responses publicly Nonproduction To identify supplier sites in water-stressed available, and to publish Global Reporting Initiative-based sustainability reports. In areas, we use water risk assessment these ways, we improve suppliers’ awareness of environmental impacts and their suppliers tools such as World Business Council ability to track and improve performance. Approach for Sustainable Development’s Global Water Tool and the World Resources The Corporate Information Transparency Index, developed by the Institute of Public We source a wide range of goods and Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool. and Environmental Affairs (IPE) and NRDC, evaluates the environmental practices services not related directly to product We also identify sites that manufacture of global brands’ supply chains in China. In 2018, HP ranked #12 of 42 global IT manufacturing, such as staffing, water-intense product types and use companies and #48 overall, of 312 brands assessed. On the IPE Supply Chain telecommunications, and travel. We this information to assess overall water Climate Action Index, HP ranked #8 of 113 brands. collaborate with nonproduction suppliers, based on size and sector, to provide stress risks and opportunities. We ask our To determine whether our suppliers met local air, water pollution, and waste laws, training, improve reporting, and reduce GHG suppliers to report water risk, use, and in 2018 we cross-checked supplier sites representing 95% of our spend against emissions. management information through our IPE’s public database of environmental violations and collaborated with first-tier CDP Supply Chain membership. This drives manufacturing suppliers in China to determine whether sub-tier suppliers complied suppliers’ awareness of water security Performance with local environmental laws. This review of over 500 sub-tier suppliers identified issues and allows us to assess suppliers’ In 2017, the most recent year data is 56 with reported violations. We continue working with the relevant first-tier current water management strategies available, our nonproduction suppliers suppliers and IPE to address and resolve these issues. in the context of local environments and reported 280,000 tonnes of Scope 1 and communities. We work with suppliers Pollutant release and transfer registers (PRTR) involve companies submitting to Scope 2 CO2e emissions attributable to to improve water reporting and, when a public database inventories of substances released. In 2018, HP collaborated HP. During that year, the percentage of appropriate, we also work with suppliers with IPE to engage four final assembly sites in China, representing 69% of our final HP nonproduction strategic suppliers that to enhance water management practices, assembly supplier spend, to submit through IPE’s PRTR system. produced environmental reports increased through use of best practice frameworks. to 75% from 65% in 2016. We believe this To further drive improvements, in 2018 we improvement in disclosure is partly due to our added water stewardship criteria to our engagement with nonproduction suppliers supplier Sustainability Scorecard. Suppliers through the CDP Supply Chain program. are scored for transparently reporting quantitative water use as well as for having HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 79 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix a public company-wide water policy or Performance improvement with our suppliers. Supplier our supplier base. See Our approach to a governance structure for water at the board audits measure conformance with all sustainable supply chain for detail about the of directors or top executive level. During 2017, the most recent year data is provisions of the HP Supplier Code of audit process. available, our suppliers generated 111,000 Conduct in the areas of labor, health tonnes of nonhazardous waste associated In addition to the audit process, we engage Performance with HP, an 8% decrease from 2016, and and safety, environmental, ethics, and with suppliers through coaching, specialized management systems. In 2017, the most recent year data is 46,000 tonnes of hazardous waste, an 11% training, and ongoing data collection and available, production suppliers withdrew decrease compared to the prior year. These In 2019, we will work with our final assembly conversations that help suppliers develop 29 million cubic meters of water associated decreases are due to lower waste intensity suppliers to confirm they are auditing robust management systems to address with HP, 6% less than in 2016. This decrease among many suppliers. By the end of 2017, companies in their own supply chains that root causes. See capability building. We reflects multiple suppliers with improved 59% of our production suppliers, by spend, represent approximately 80% of their summarize supplier performance across water efficiency. Stronger supplier water had set waste-related goals. spend, based on the RBA Code of Conduct. multiple dimensions (including audits) using accounting practices also contributed to We will review summary findings of those our Sustainability Scorecard (see below). year-over-year variations in data. By the end Building on a successful zero waste to audits, which will further strengthen our of 2017, 92% of our suppliers, by spend, had landfill project in Brazil, we launched a understanding of performance deeper in set water management goals. similar pilot project in 2017 at a site of a major supplier in China, with the objective See HP’s 2018 water footprint. of diverting more than 95% of waste from Sustainability Scorecards are one of the key ways we incentivize suppliers and drive improved landfill through reduction, reuse, and performance. This tool provides suppliers a score that encompasses audit performance (60% recycling. This supplier is scheduled to of total score), environmental reporting (13%), conflict minerals disclosure (6%), and other Waste receive third-party zero waste certification in 2019. We plan to expand this program to social and environmental topics (21%). Suppliers discuss their scorecard with HP as part of regular business performance evaluations that determine ongoing business. In 2018, the additional suppliers in China. Approach average score increased by more than 12 percentage points compared to 2016, despite the fact that we periodically expand scorecard criteria and increase rigor to motivate ongoing We work with production suppliers to improve improvement. These improvements demonstrate the impact of embedding social and Audit waste measurement and reporting, reduce environmental metrics in the procurement process and engaging HP and supplier executives. waste volumes, and drive progress toward a circular economy. During 2018, HP participated Average sustainability scorecard results Average Sustainability Scorecard results in the RBA environmental sustainability workgroup to revise the organization’s supplier environmental survey. With this revision, HP results 100% Preferred > 85% Acceptable 65–85% will be able to engage suppliers on waste 80% Concern < 65% Our supplier audit process is an essential management and prevention in greater detail, Commodity component of our risk assessment including landfill diversion. 60% suppliers framework and a key mechanism for F inal assembly identifying opportunities for sustained suppliers 40% 2016 2017 2018 HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 80 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix improve to maintain a consistent audit score. Sustainability audits and other Distribution of scores of initial Distribution of major For example, in 2018 we adopted version 6.0 assessments, 2018* audits and full re-audits nonconformances by of the RBA Code of Conduct, which includes section of HP Supplier requirements related to worker voice and 100% 200 Code of Conduct, 2018* training, pregnant and nursing women, Initial audits 17 percentage of total process chemicals, and water management. (preliminary risk assessments) 80% 11% Follow-up audits 45 150 Management systems (addressing nonconformances identified 60% 1% 35% Labor Detailed analysis in any corrective action plans) % of full audits of audit results Average score 100 Ethics Full re-audits 55 40% (comprehensive re-assessments) A major nonconformance is a significant 50 15% Other assessments 20% Environmental failure in the management system that (focused on specific risks) affects a company’s ability to ensure that Health and safety assessments 3 0% 0 conditions conform to the HP Supplier Code 2016 2017 2018 Onboarding assessments 8 38% of Conduct or General Specification for the Health and safety Vulnerable worker group (student and 12 Environment. A minor nonconformance is >160 foreign worker) assessments * Data is from initial audits and full re-audits of production not a systemic problem, but typically an 100–160 suppliers conducted in 2018. Due to our two-year audit isolated finding. The data in this section KPI validation assessments 9 <100 cycle and changes to HP’s supplier base, data typically Average score does not represent the same supplier sites as the focuses on major nonconformances. Nonproduction supplier assessments 7 previous year. Trucking assessments 4 audits included 12 production supplier audits as * Initial well as five nonproduction supplier audits. The latter focused on the most significant risks in industries such as Performance From 2016 to 2018, the percentage of Immediate production supplier initial audits and full relabor agencies, facilities management, and promotional products. Follow-up audits were all of production suppliers. Full re-audits included 53 production supplier In 2018, we completed 117 audits and audits that scored above 160 increased from priority findings audits as well as two nonproduction supplier audits. 43 other assessments of production, 43% to 48%. The average score during that Onboarding assessments included five production Immediate priority findings1 are the most nonproduction, and product transportation period rose from 125 to 142. Twelve of those suppliers as well as three nonproduction suppliers. serious type of supplier nonconformance Nonproduction supplier assessments covered a broad suppliers. During the year, 86% of production audits were of final assembly supplier sites. range of areas including management systems, ethics, and require immediate action. In 2018, we human rights, and environmental, health, and safety. supplier audits were third-party certified Of these, 42% scored over 160, 42% scored Trucking assessments addressed risks of forced labor identified eight immediate priority findings, RBA VAP audits. between 100–160, and 16% scored under among workers transporting shipping containers between equivalent to 0.12 findings on average the Port of Long Beach, California, United States, and 100. The other 53 audits were of commodity distribution centers in Long Beach and Los Angeles. This We see a wide range of maturity levels in for each initial audit and full re-audit of table does not include audits of 41 reuse and recycling supplier sites. In 2018, 49% of commodity our audits, which are scored on a scale of production suppliers conducted. 2 Four vendor facilities in 20 countries conducted during 2018. suppliers scored over 160, 32% scored See Product repair, reuse, and recycling for detail. 0-200. In the RBA Factory LEAD Certification issues related to charging of recruitment between 100–160, and 19% under 100. Program, suppliers with scores from 160–180 fees, two related to passport and personal are eligible for a Silver certification, and scores We periodically increase our expectations document withholding, and two related above 180 for a Gold certification. of suppliers, so suppliers must continually to fire exits. We required the issues to be HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 81 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix immediately addressed and are working with the suppliers to complete remediation to the Issues with lowest rates of conformance of sites audited, 2016 and 2018* workers and implement corrective actions to Rate of Rate of adjust their management systems. Issue conformance, conformance, HP’s approach 2016** 2018** For audits conducted in 2018, suppliers were Working hours 37% 34% Excessive working hours remains the single largest labor challenge in our supply chain, especially around times of in full conformance (no nonconformances peak production and labor shortages. Workers often voluntarily work long hours to earn more money and suppliers may lack effective management systems in this area. Among suppliers in our KPI program (about 50 at the end of identified) for the following provisions: 2018 representing approximately 74,600 workers), 94% met our requirements related to working hours in 2018, protection of identity and nonretaliation, up from 92% in 2017. HP is supporting suppliers to improve their forecasting ability, track shifts and working hours freedom of association, no improper more accurately, and hire workers directly instead of by contract. Suppliers have also implemented IT systems to advantage, and intellectual property. better manage shifts, and some have dedicated lines for student and juvenile workers to facilitate conformance with overtime or night shift requirements. We provide training to student workers and their managers about our Sixty-five initial audits and full re-audits requirements and their rights. of production suppliers conducted in 2018 Emergency 42% 51% Nonconformances in this area involve items such as blocked exit doors, missing or poorly lit exit signs, lack of fire exit identified 443 major nonconformances, preparedness instructions, and missing or defective emergency equipment. Most of these can be remedied with straightforward equivalent to 6.8 per audit on average. corrective actions. However, sometimes a change takes more time; for instance, replacing all fire exit doors. We supplement our audits with specific health and safety assessments that help us evaluate and improve understanding Six provisions (see table on right) out of our policies and standards. of 45 total represented 60% of all Occupational 55% 55% Major nonconformances related primarily to presence of current safety permits and first aid response reporting. nonconformances identified. We focus on safety Suppliers are required to have a tracking mechanism and keep documentation of remediation and compensation provided to workers involved in an incident. A supplier with a nonconformance must also prove that training has been these and other areas that have the greatest or will be conducted within 180 days. potential for improvement. Wages and 69% 55% In countries without a set minimum wage, the industry prevailing wage applies. The most common issue in wages and benefits benefits is suppliers not paying appropriate social insurance. More broadly, corrective actions in nonconformances HP requires suppliers to provide a detailed related to wages and benefits include documentation of pay stubs, communication to workers, and records of corrective action plan addressing all employer contributions to worker insurance schemes. In 2018, we continued to work directly with suppliers that had identified nonconformances within 30 nonconformances related to social insurance to help them fully understand our requirements and resolve the issues. days of receipt of the site audit report Hazardous 65% 71% Suppliers must properly label and store all hazardous substances in their facilities. Corrective actions may include (except immediate priority findings, which substances development of inventory management systems, a list of approved chemicals, use of auditor-verified vendors, and are addressed expeditiously), and have education on legal restrictions related to material use. During 2018, we continued to work directly with suppliers that had nonconformances in this area to help them fully understand our requirements and resolve the issues. We also processes in place to monitor progress and addressed issues such as process chemicals management through HP and industry capability-building programs, subsequent closure of nonconformances. including an environment, health, and safety summit we hosted in China, as well as our collaboration with the Clean For details, see the RBA VAP Operations Electronics Production Network. See Process chemicals. Manual and Our approach to a sustainable Occupational 62% 71% Most nonconfomances relate to lack of documentation (availability and access to medical records, injury logs, supply chain. injury and illness doctor visits, etc.), and recent certifications required (valid certificates for occupational health must be made available for review to fully correct nonconfomance). During 2018, we continued to work directly with suppliers that had nonconformances in this area, to help them fully understand our requirements and resolve the issues. We also collaborated with 3M to deliver personal protective equipment and training. Suppliers are required to train all employees on a regular basis and report incidents to HP. * Data is from initial audits and full re-audits of production suppliers conducted in 2016 and 2018. Due to our two-year audit cycle and changes to HP’s supplier base, data typically does not represent the same supplier sites as the previous cycle. ** Percentage of sites with no major nonconformances identified. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 82 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Rates of conformance of sites audited, 2016 and 2018* Rate of conformance Rate of conformance Rate of conformance Rate of conformance HP Supplier Code of Conduct section/provision HP Supplier Code of Conduct section/provision of sites audited, 2016** of sites audited, 2018** of sites audited, 2016** of sites audited, 2018** Labor 84% 83% Ethics 94% 99% Freely chosen employment management systems 83% 80% Business integrity 92% 98% Risk of forced labor 95% 82% No improper advantage 97% 100% Young worker protection management systems 97% 92% Disclosure of information 95% 95% Risk of child labor 100% 98% Intellectual property 98% 100% Working hours 37% 34% Fair business, advertising, and competition 89% 98% Wages and benefits 69% 55% Protection of identity and nonretaliation 94% 100% Humane treatment 98% 98% Responsible sourcing of minerals 88% 98% Nondiscrimination management systems 77% 97% Privacy 94% 98% Risk of discriminatory practices 94% 97% Management systems 88% 94% Freedom of association 87% 100% Company commitment 95% 98% Health and safety 72% 76% Management accountability and responsibility 86% 95% Occupational safety 55% 55% Legal and customer requirements 89% 97% Emergency preparedness 42% 51% Risk assessment and risk management 77% 95% Occupational injury and illness 62% 71% Performance objectives with implementation plan and measures 83% 94% Industrial hygiene 74% 80% Training 94% 95% Physically demanding work 88% 89% Communication 92% 97% Machine safeguarding 99% 92% Worker feedback and participation 94% 97% Dormitory and canteen 65% 82% Audits and assessments 83% 94% Health and safety communication 94% 89% Corrective action process 95% 95% Environmental 85% 88% Documentation and records 95% 98% Environmental permits and reporting 86% 83% Supplier responsibility 71% 72% Pollution prevention and resource reduction 98% 89% * Data is from initial audits and full re-audits of production suppliers conducted in 2016 and 2018. Due to our two-year audit cycle and changes to HP’s supplier base, data typically does not represent the same supplier sites as the previous cycle. Hazardous substances 65% 71% ** Percentage of sites with no major nonconformances identified. 2016 data refers to the RBA Code of Conduct Audit Protocol 5.0. Wastewater and solid waste 92% 97% 2018 data refers to the RBA Code of Conduct Audit Protocol 6.0. In several provisions, such as Risk of forced labor, Health and safety communication, Environmental permits and reporting, Pollution prevention and resource reduction, changes to the code contributed Air emissions 91% 89% to decreased levels of conformance. Storm water management 69% 91% Energy consumption and GHG emissions 91% 97% HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 83 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Data Supply chain responsibility* HP’s spend with U.S. diverse suppliers* [$ millions] 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Suppliers publishing sustainability reports using the GRI framework [% of production supplier spend] 86% 82% 88% HP’s spend with U.S. diverse suppliers * [$ million] Capability building Small businesses $1,065 $647 $423 Number of capability-building programs 14 15 10 Minority-owned businesses** $190 $132 $140 Workers reached through capability-building programs** 45,700 119,900 12,000 Women-owned businesses** $159 $98 $79 Workers’ rights Veteran-owned businesses, service disabled $53 $27 $20 veteran-owned businesses, HUBZone Suppliers’ employees working fewer than 60 hours per week on average *** 89% 92% 94% businesses, and others*** Suppliers’ employees receiving at least one day of rest each seven-day workweek*** 96% 98% 98% * Data is for the 12 months ending September 30 of the year noted. Figures for 2016 are for Suppliers in China with student workers representing 20% or less of total employees*** 98% 100% 99% purchases in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Europe, and Asia, from U.S.-based businesses, and include one month of spending from before the separation of HewlettImmediate priority audit findings (immediate action required) related to the ILO Declaration on 2 2 6 Packard Company on November 1, 2015. Figures for 2017 and 2018 are for purchases in the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work: freedom of association; forced, bonded, or indentured United States and Puerto Rico from U.S.-based businesses. ** Suppliers are categorized as minority-owned or women-owned, not both. These categories labor; child labor; or discrimination† include all sizes of businesses. Immediate priority audit findings (immediate action required) related to occupational safety, 2 0 2 *** These categories include all sizes of businesses. emergency preparedness, or industrial hygiene† Workers at sites audited†† [total] 96,400 162,300 244,700 Sustainability audits and other assessments [total] Initial audits 58 47 17 Follow-up audits 67 39 45 Full re-audits 30 30 55 Assessments 29 34 43 Sustainability Scorecard average score – Commodity suppliers 78% 85% 87% Sustainability Scorecard average score – Final assembly suppliers 72% 84% 88% Rates of conformance of sites audited, 2016 and 2018 (see page 83) * Data in this table for 2018 is specific to production suppliers, except the following included in Sustainability audits and other assessments: five initial audits, two full re-audits, three onboarding assessments, and seven supplier assessments of nonproduction suppliers; and four assessments of product transportation suppliers. ** With the exception of train-the-trainer programs, HP only accounts for workers directly reached by our capability-building programs. Number of workers reached each year depends on the programs executed; some programs address issues broadly across suppliers and workers; other programs focus more narrowly on individual supplier sites or specific vulnerable worker groups. *** Based on production-line workers at final assembly and select commodity sites participating in the HP KPI program. We continue to expand the list of suppliers in the KPI program based on business risk, country risk, and identified nonconformances. † See page 81 for detail. †† These totals are the number of workers as of the date of the site visit according to production supplier initial audit and full re-audit reports. HP’s UK Modern Slavery Act (MSA) Transparency Statement for 2017 reported that we had identified 199,432 workers based on audits conducted at many of our suppliers’ sites. HP learned, after finalizing its UK MSA, that the reported data overstated the number of workers by inadvertently including audit reports from 2016 in addition to 2017. In 2017, there were 162,300 workers at the sites for which we are reporting audit performance information in this report. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 84 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Environmental impact# # In some cases, data from prior years are updated to reflect improved data, for example revised supplier information. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 * Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers’ reported GHG emissions First-tier production supplier and product 71.9 75.9 78.8 80.4 attributable to HP divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. transportation-related GHG emissions Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year and highlight intensity *, ** [tonnes CO2e/$ million of HP longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses HP revenue and spend associated with the net revenue] business units that are now a part of HP Inc. The year 2017 is the most recent for which data is available. ** We believe that variation in this data reflects both changes in actual performance and inconsistency in reporting practices. Production supplier GHG emissions*** *** Emissions are calculated based on suppliers’ reported emissions and their dollar volume of HP’s business compared to [tonnes CO2e] their total revenue. Data reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions** 2,900,000 3,100,000 2,600,000 2,800,000 2017 represented 95% of HP production spend. The World Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol. This data differs from the product life cycle assessment-based estimates for materials Scope 3 emissions**, **** 14,600,000 9,800,000 11,500,000 7,800,000 extraction through manufacturing presented on page 61, which are based on a different calculation methodology and use a combination of HP-specific and industry data. Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on Production suppliers with GHG emissions 95% 93% 94% 94% November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses production spend associated with the business units that are now a part of reduction-related goals HP Inc. The majority of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. The year 2017 is the most recent for which data is [% of spend] available. **** Suppliers may not report all Scope 3 categories, although the number of categories reported by many suppliers has Product transportation GHG emissions† 1,260,000 1,280,000 1,200,000 1,250,000 1,300,000 increased over the last few years. [tonnes CO2e] † The figures for product transportation GHG emissions are based on data reported by product transportation suppliers that HP contracted to deliver products (for years prior to 2016, before the split of Hewlett-Packard Company, calculations Road (includes rail) 330,000 330,000 350,000 350,000 410,000 are adjusted to reflect emissions attributable to HP’s current business units). They may differ from the product life cycle assessment-based estimates presented on page 61 which are based on a different calculation methodology, use a Ocean 230,000 200,000 150,000 160,000 180,000 combination of HP-specific and industry data, and include additional upstream and downstream transportation related to the Air 700,000 750,000 700,000 740,000 710,000 company’s products, as well as retail and storage. †† Emissions are estimated based on suppliers’ emissions and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total Nonproduction supplier Scope 1 and 240,000 270,000 280,000 revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. The year 2017 is the most recent for which data Scope 2 emissions**, †† [tonnes CO2e] is available. Data reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of strategic nonproduction suppliers. Data collected for 2017 represented 48% of HP nonproduction spend. Accounting for the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, Production supplier energy use ††† [MWh] 6,400,000 5,500,000 2015, the calculation uses nonproduction spend associated with the business units that are now part of HP Inc. In cases where spend for 2015 cannot be disaggregated, 2016 spend is used as an estimate. Production supplier renewable energy use 15% 22% ††† Total energy includes purchased energy (electricity, etc.) and generated energy (fuel use, etc.). Energy use data is calculated [% of total energy use] based on suppliers’ reported energy use and their dollar volume of HP’s business compared to their total revenue. Data reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for 2017 represented 93% of HP Production suppliers that reported using 10% 47% 54% 77% production spend. renewable energy ** [% of spend] †††† This metric reports the amount of water withdrawn by suppliers, not the amount consumed by our multi-tier supply chain as reported in our water footprint on page 62. Because water withdrawn can also be returned, this footprint is inherently Production supplier water withdrawal for 40,000,000 44,000,000 31,000,000 29,000,000 larger. Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. Withdrawal is estimated based on use **, †††† [cubic meters] suppliers’ reported water withdrawal and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. The year 2017 is the most recent for which data is available. Data Production suppliers with water-related 74% 80% 80% 92% reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for 2017 represented 91% of goals [% of spend] HP production spend, compared to 94% the prior year. Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses production spend associated with the business units that are now a part of Production supplier nonhazardous waste 123,000 121,000 121,000 111,000 HP Inc. generation **, ^ [tonnes] ^ Waste data is estimated based on suppliers’ waste data and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar-year basis. The year 2017 is the most recent for which data Production supplier hazardous waste 45,000 48,000 51,000 46,000 is available. Data reported here reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected for 2017 generation **, ^ [tonnes] represented 66% of HP production spend for nonhazardous waste and 66% for hazardous waste, compared to 65% and 55% the prior year. Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all Production suppliers with waste-related 59% 57% 62% 59% years uses production spend associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. goals [% of spend] HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 85 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Operations 87 Our employees 92 Our facilities 97 Community giving and volunteerism 100 Data HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 86 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Our employees Campaign’s Business Coalition for the functions, and businesses. It helps influence Equality Act related to LGBTQ+ workplace and drive our strategy and hold our leaders rights, and the United Nations Human Rights accountable to action. In 2017, the GDAB Office Standards of Conduct for Business. engaged with stakeholders across business Every day, HP’s approximately 55,0001 relationships with suppliers, partners, and groups and regions to establish strategic employees shape our future and bring our communities worldwide. We aim to remove See employee demographics data. priorities and build teams at the business and vision to life. They power our innovation, bias and barriers, and connect people to local levels to accelerate progress. contributing unique perspectives and a the power of technology by addressing Our commitment growth mindset to create breakthrough accessibility and aging challenges in our Diversity and inclusion is a key part of technologies and transformative solutions. products and services. Respecting human starts at the top leadership discussions, and is a standard We are committed to fostering a diverse and rights is a core value at HP, and we are HP’s Board of Directors is the most diverse item on leadership quarterly business inclusive workplace that attracts and retains uncompromising about the rights, freedom, BOARD of any U.S. technology company. We are reviews. We are committed to increasing exceptional talent. Through ongoing talent and equity to which everyone is entitled. also among the top technology companies TECH ROLES representation of women overall, as development, comprehensive compensation We are proud of our progress and the for women in executive positions. Women well as in leadership and technical roles and benefits, and a focus on health and recognition we have received. represent 31.3% of the company’s full-time globally, and of minorities in the United safety and employee wellbeing, we help our vice president positions, up from 18.3% States. We are also expanding our efforts employees succeed so they can do their best A strong policy framework supports our efforts in 2015, 2 and 30.3% of full-time directors, related to representation of employees with work, every single day. and includes our Global Nondiscrimination compared to 22.7% in 2015. 3 ,4 disabilities, and in 2016 HP committed to Policy, Global Harassment-Free Work 45 women hiring 150 veterans or military spouses 22 women in over Environment Policy, and Open BOARDDoor Our Global Diversity Advisory Board (GDAB) is the course of five years.engineering Through and2018, IT we Diversity Policy. We also support the Human Rights composed of leaders from across our regions, achieved 77% of that amount. and inclusion Innovation at HP springs from people HP demographics* GLOBAL bringing their whole selves to work, 55 minorities BOARD 45 women FUNCTIONS collaborating and contributing their varied Board of Directors Women in TECH ROLES Technical roles Global functions perspectives, knowledge, and experiences. leadership** Diverse teams create transformative solutions that better serve our customers and advance how the world works and lives. 45% 55% 27% 9.0% to 30.7% in 2018, 22% 55% To find and keep the very best people, we from 21.7% in 2015 embrace and celebrate difference, and take a 45women women minorities 55minorities 27 under represented underrepresented 22 women in IT in women and women women in legal,infinance, stand for equity and belonging. minorities engineering and IT Legal, Finance, HR, minorities engineering HR,and marketing, Marketingand Diversity is a fundamental part of who we communications (on average) are and everything we do. Our commitment * Board of Directors data is as of January 31, 2019. Other data is as of October 31, 2018. extends beyond our own employees to our ** Full-time employees only, director level and above. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 87 GLOBAL Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix In 2017, our CEO took a pledge as part of Reinvent Mindsets video series, which shines the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion (the Employee survey results* a light on unconscious bias through the lens Marketing agencies: HP account largest CEO-driven business commitment Diversity and inclusion of women and underrepresented groups. teams diversity progress to advance diversity and inclusion in the In November 2018, we broadened the percentage of total I feel HP values diversity workplace) on behalf of HP. campaign to include veterans. 85% 2017 2018 About 740 employees completed our Embedding unconscious bias training program in 2018, Overall HP account team diversity and 88% including 38 VPs across six countries. This Women 61% 62% Underrepresented minorities 24% 36% inclusion across HP I can be myself at work year, we advanced our unconscious bias Overall HP account senior roles * training materials to move from awareness Our Belong, Innovate, and Grow (BIG) strategy embeds diversity and inclusion 80% to action, focusing on disrupting bias Women 51% 55% across all levels of the organization, and we Underrepresented minorities 19% 28% across all parts of our businesses and continued our efforts to reach all recruiters Non account resources functions, and into talent acquisition and 83% and leaders within HP. For example, before Women 45% 58% development, culture, mentoring, training, opening a job requisition, all hiring managers Underrepresented minorities 33% 36% and events. This year, about 350 employees I feel a sense of belonging at work were required to watch a short video on attended events run by the Belong at HP * Senior roles are defined as: creative directors and above diversity and inclusion. To complement our development and sponsorship program. In 76% (creative department); chief strategy officer, heads of classroom session, we plan to launch a web account planning, group planning directors (planning 2017, we launched business-level diversity department); senior account directors and above (account version of the video to provide employees management); group executive producers and above oversight across the company. 79% worldwide easy access. (production department); department heads and above (all other departments). As of April 2019, we have more than 100 Business Impact Networks (BINs) in 26 2017 Raising standards and practices specific goals, plans, and measurement that countries, open to all employees and 2018 across the marketing industry help increase diverse creative talent across representing the following constituencies: * Data refers to the percentage of HP 2017 and 2018 Voice We encourage our suppliers and partners Insight Action (VIA) employee survey respondents who HP account and senior leadership roles. Black/African American, Disabilities, to prioritize diversity and inclusion within strongly agreed or agreed with each statement. Hispanic/Latino, LGBTQ+, Multicultural, Pan their own operations. In 2016, we challenged See the HP Agency Diversity Scorecard, Asian, Veterans, Women, and Early Career. our top five U.S.-based marketing agencies Business Powered by Diversity. About 13,000 BIN members participated in to significantly increase the number of Week and ALLIES@HP, a workshop for events in 2018. women and U.S. minorities in top creative Promoting diversity with our LGBTQ+ allies that launched as part of our and strategic planning roles on HP account legal partners HP Pride Month initiatives. In addition to leading many community teams. During the year, all five agencies Our legal team is also focused on improving outreach programs, BINs promote diversity reported progress. in pipeline development, local hiring, talent Overcoming unconscious bias diversity among our U.S. law firm partners We want HP to be the employer of choice and withholds up to 10% of all invoicing of programs, and mentoring. They leverage Moving forward, we will continue to challenge among talented women and underrepresented those partners who fail to meet or exceed our global diversity strategy to execute our marketing agency partners to identify groups. We continued expanding the diverse minimal staffing on work for us. campaigns such as International Women’s underrepresented groups in order to set HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 88 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Law firms were asked to staff at least one engineering, and mathematics (STEM) During the year, we continued to drive underrepresented minority or one woman careers, we also grew our participation in the engagement in three focus areas: Employee survey results* partner and one racially/ethnically diverse Hour of Code initiative, and we maintained Sustainable Impact attorney, each performing at least 10% of our partnerships with organizations such as • Improving the way we work: Enhancing the billable hours on HP business. Firms are the AnitaB.org, Black Women in Computing, tools and processes to increase employee HP is socially and environmentally responsible required to track and share data quarterly. Breakline, and the YWCA. productivity and effectiveness. Eighty-eight percent of participating firms • Developing our people: Bolstering 87% met the diversity requirements in 2018, and In 2017, we launched the HBCU (Historically learning and development programs that women represented 44% of team members— Black Colleges and Universities) Business maximize career growth opportunities. 89% up from 23% at the beginning of 2017. Challenge, a business school competition, • Building our future: Driving innovation, with the National HBCU Business Deans agility, and employee alignment with HP’s I see HP values being demonstrated throughout The number of underrepresented minority Roundtable. Eighty-five schools were strategy and direction. my business unit/global function every day partners increased to 25% in 2018, up invited to participate, providing students the from 21% at the beginning of 2017, and the opportunity to develop solutions to real HP We regularly collect feedback to better 73% number of hours billed by diverse attorneys business problems while gaining hands-on understand and improve the employee increased each quarter. industry experience, and a chance to win experience and identify opportunities to continually strengthen our culture. In 2018, 77% prizes including premium technology. In its In our communities inaugural year, we congratulated winning 94% of employees participated in our annual 2017 teams from Delaware State University and Voice Insight Action (VIA) survey. Overall, 2018 We continue to engage with several leading Xavier University of Louisiana, and in 2018, employee engagement was at 73%, up from industry organizations and conferences from the University of the Virgin Islands. This 67% in 2017 and 60% in 2016, reflecting * Data refers to the percentage of HP 2017 and 2018 VIA employee survey respondents who strongly agreed or that promote women, minority, veteran program also served as a means to help build improvements in all regions. agreed with each statement. and LGBTQ+ representation and causes our pipeline. Since 2017, we’ve brought on six in technology, including Professional summer interns from the HBCU challenge, Business Women of California, Grace Greatest improvements in 2018 Voice Insight Action survey* two of whom were offered and accepted fullHopper Celebration (United States and time positions at HP. Percent favorable Improvement in India), the European Women in Technology percentage points 2016 2017 2018 Conference, Out & Equal, and others. Our vs. 2017 people often provide thought leadership by delivering keynotes, leading workshops, Employee We are quick to invest in new ideas that will drive future success 37% 44% 56% +12 and participating on panels. engagement My performance has a significant impact on my total compensation 53% 51% 62% +11 Our Women in Technology website features I receive appropriate recognition (beyond my pay and 53% 54% 61% +7 HP’s culture is fueled by our people. employee stories that illustrate how our benefits) for my contributions and accomplishments We support our employees to develop culture supports and inspires women in My immediate manager encourages me to 69% 73% 81% +8 lasting and fulfilling careers and to make develop innovative solutions that will improve the technical roles throughout their careers meaningful contributions to their teams, the organization’s performance and lives. To inspire more girls and minority company, and their communities. * Data refers to the percentage of HP 2016, 2017, and 2018 VIA employee survey respondents who strongly agreed or agreed with students to consider science, technology, each statement. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 89 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Talent Our corporate culture fosters innovation by creating conditions that support risk-taking annual development plans, and result in ongoing development experiences, stretch Compensation development and failure. We learn from mistakes to drive breakthroughs and we focus as much on projects, and advancement to new roles. and benefits how employees work together as what they With support from human resources, At HP, our ongoing success depends on HP offers a comprehensive Total Rewards accomplish. In our 2018 VIA survey, 78% of leaders provide comprehensive enabling our diverse workforce of skilled package that is both performance based and employees stated that their team shares performance summaries annually and employees and maintaining a strong market competitive. Total Rewards include ideas and learns from failure. allocate differentiated rewards based on leadership pipeline. We encourage a mindset salaries, bonuses, incentive programs, and performance and available funds. of continuous learning and help employees a range of benefits. These are designed We advance employees’ skills through to develop their careers. Employees have In 2018, 97.5% of employees took part to meet our employees’ diverse needs frequent, consistent, and engaging access to a wide range of development in learning and development activities. while enhancing their wellbeing and that conversations between employees and opportunities, including face-to-face and Employees achieved 1.91 million recorded of their families. Valuing and rewarding managers: 79% of employees stated that virtual, social, and collaborative learning, learning sessions, which totaled 1.66 million employees drives higher engagement and their manager is focused on developing self-directed content, mentoring, coaching, hours (up 20% compared to 2017), equivalent better performance and helps us attract employees’ capabilities and supporting and support for external academic programs. to an average of 30 hours per employee. and retain top talent. Compensation and ongoing performance improvement. These benefits are reviewed annually for market interactions are reflected in employees’ During the year, managers provided competitiveness. performance input to 99% of eligible employees. Seventy-eight percent of HP sponsors a global wellness program employees stated that they received valuable designed to enhance physical, financial, and emotional wellbeing for all of our employees Growth mindset organization feedback throughout the year that enabled them to improve their performance. In around the world. Other benefit programs HP is a company of high-performing people, who are well prepared, constantly addition, 81% of employees felt encouraged vary by country to reflect local market learning, and want the business to excel. Through a growth mindset, employees by their manager to develop innovative practice and employee needs. Depending on work on continuous improvement, innovation, and maintaining a workplace that solutions that will improve HP’s performance. location, these may include: drives progress and growth. We make significant investments in the development of • Retirement and savings plans employees, leaders, and top talent, with a specific focus on: • Healthcare benefits • Developing a strong pipeline of innovative and inclusive leaders • Insurance protections (e.g., life and • Delivering programs that support career advancement for employees across all regions disability) • Building a high-performance culture through leadership development at all levels • Time-off programs (vacation, holidays, • Developing an organization that delivers on strategic priorities, inspires team parental leaves, etc.) performance, and enables employees to innovate • Discount programs • Providing employees with cutting-edge and highly collaborative learning environments • Flexible work arrangements • Stock purchase plan • Other benefits HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 90 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix fiscal 2018 was $19,215,534. Our median Our manufacturing facilities continue As of October 2018, 72% of eligible employees employee’s annual total compensation was to represent our most significant health in the United States, and 50% worldwide, had HP is committed $79,719, resulting in a CEO pay ratio of 241:1. and safety risks, due to higher potential joined the Well Beyond program. to pay equity For more detail, see page 62 of the HP 2019 exposure to chemicals and machineryProxy Statement. related hazards. Managing and reducing Highlights from 2018 included: Treating HP employees fairly and risks at these plants remains a focus, and • Physical health: We recorded 25 billion equitably is core to who we are. injury rates continue to be low. employee steps through our Well Beyond It also benefits our business, by helping HP attract and retain Health and See more information about our platform worldwide, equivalent to more than 12 million miles. safety brilliant people in a fiercely environmental, health, and safety competitive market for talent. We • Financial wellness: More than 2,000 management system. believe people should be paid for employees took part in Financial Wellness We strive to keep our employees safe and Month at our U.S. sites. Local seminars what they do and how they do it, See Data. healthy so they can do their best work. delivered information on topics such as regardless of their gender, race, We monitor injury trends regionally and 401(k) savings, emergency funds, debt or other personal characteristics. worldwide, and regularly highlight national Learn more about our approach and performance in 2018. and international health advisories to the Wellbeing reduction, investments, and budgeting. • Life balance: We offered meQuilibrium, a relevant teams. Our environmental, health, The physical health, financial wellbeing, U.S. program that helps employees build and safety (EHS) leadership team uses our and life balance of our people is vital to general resiliency skills, including our global injury and illness reporting system HP’s success. Our Well Beyond employee monthly “Calm-Cast.” to assess trends as a part of quarterly Executive compensation reviews. Supervisors of affected employees wellbeing program is designed to serve the needs of our evolving workforce and culture. The HR and Compensation Committee are required to complete injury and illness discharges the HP Board of Directors investigations for all reportable incidents Year-round employee engagement responsibilities related to the compensation and work with EHS points of contact to emphasizes ongoing actions that can of our executives and directors and provides assess serious or complex cases. help individuals build healthy behaviors general oversight of our compensation into day-to-day life. Employees can track Worldwide, we maintained below-average structure, including our equity compensation progress, challenge peers and spouses/ accident and injury rates in 2018, with plans and benefits programs. See page 31 of domestic partners, and personalize the a lost workday case rate of 0.09 and a the HP 2019 Proxy Statement for detail. program by setting their own goals. recordable incidence rate of 0.23. 5 These Depending on location, U.S. employees and In accordance with U.S. Securities and compared to 2017 average rates of 0.2 spouses/domestic partners can each receive Exchange Commission rules, we recently and 0.6, respectively, in the U.S. Computer incentives of up to $550 a year for activities reported our CEO pay ratio for the first time. and Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing such as completing a wellness assessment Our CEO’s annual total compensation for industry (NAICS Code 33411). or making a tobacco-free pledge. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 91 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Our facilities To drive improvement in health and safety, All HP facilities have assigned technical EHS our EHS management system aligns with the personnel, and our global EHS team provides American National Standards Institute ANSI guidance and oversight. We regularly talk Z10 standard and the International Labour to our employees about relevant policies, At our 177 sites in 59 countries around the years. During 2018, we audited all 16 HP Organization ILO-OSH 2001 guidelines. processes, and regulatory compliance. In world, we are reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) manufacturing sites. We conduct audits 2018, more than 2,600 employees took emissions, energy and water consumption, using our internal EHS management system part in 38 instructor-led courses and nearly and waste generation. While GHG emissions standards. Management reviews the findings HP locations with green 13,000 enrolled in web-based EHS training. associated with HP’s operations represent and we resolve any deficiencies identified. building certifications* just 1% of our carbon footprint, it is the area where we have the greatest control. We pursue environmental management Promoting a culture Modeling sustainable operations also helps certifications at HP owned and leased facilities of environmental worldwide when feasible. As of the end of 2018, us to illustrate the change we wish to see in 18 facilities (including all HP manufacturing responsibility our industry and beyond. sites) were certified to ISO 14001, with 15 as Recognizing the vital contribution employees part of our global ISO 14001 certificate. During make to improving our environmental Environmental, the year, we transitioned completely to the latest version of the ISO 14001 standard. Green Mark for building LEED for building performance, in 2018 we again conducted the following activities: health, and safety SITES for landscaping TRUE for zero waste • On Earth Day and World Environment As appropriate, we also achieve green * A s of May 2019, the Houston, Texas, LEED certification Day, HP employees held events at 50 management building certifications at HP owned and leased facilities. Thirteen sites have is in process. HP owns and leases facilities around the achieved LEED certification (one more is in process), two locations have achieved SITES About our operational data world. Our Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Policy and EHS management system certification, one site has achieved TRUE All environmental data reported in this section refers to HP operations through help limit our environmental impact, improve certification, and one has achieved Green October 31, 2018. At that time, we owned or leased 177 sites in 59 countries. worker safety, meet internal standards, Mark certification.1 All new build-outs target Following the acquisition of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.’s printer business on and comply with all applicable laws and the LEED v4 Gold Standard. In support of November 1, 2017, we recalculated energy use, water consumption, and Scope 1 regulations. We investigate all allegations that these objectives, we have developed the HP and Scope 2 GHG emissions data from operations back to the baseline of 2015, per our facilities failed to comply with applicable Green and Smart Construction Playbook for guidance in the GHG Protocol. This process also included an update of the intensity laws and take corrective action when needed. project managers. This provides guidance on factors used to extrapolate energy use and water consumption data for sites where an integrated design process that covers key direct tracked data was not available. The new intensity factors, along with recently Every year, we perform environmental risk principles ranging from energy use, indoor confirmed square footage data, will more accurately reflect HP’s footprint (see assessment on all operational sites. We air quality, water consumption, and waste HP Carbon Accounting Manual and HP Water Accounting Manual for details). HP conduct internal audits annually at complex recycling, to smart building technology and directly tracked data from invoices and other documents representing 91% of total locations, and the global EHS team audits the user experience. electricity use, 81% of total natural gas use, 90% of total water consumption, 68% high-risk sites at least once every three of total nonhazardous waste, and 100% of total hazardous waste. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 92 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix sites worldwide, focused on decreasing single-use plastics. This included a Greenhouse gas Scope 1 and Scope 2 purchase of renewable energy and energy attribute certificates (RECs/IRECs). “plastic scavenger hunt” on our internal Yammer social site, during which emissions 2 GHG emissions from operations tonnes CO2e Learn more about how we reduce GHG employees proposed ways to reduce emissions across our value chain in Supply Most of our GHG emissions from operations single-use plastics in their own facilities. 400,000 10 chain responsibility: Environmental impact are related to the energy used to power our We are implementing many of the and Products and solutions. facilities. To save money, drive progress toward tonnes CO2e/$ million of net revenue* suggestions at HP sites. 8 our goals, and reduce our climate impacts, we: 300,000 See our full carbon footprint for 2015-2018, • More than 2,000 HP employees from • Aggressively reduce energy consumption 6 HP carbon accounting manual, and CDP 30 sites took part in the Northwest through optimization and efficiency projects 200,000 climate submissions. Earth Institute (NWEI) EcoChallenge—a 4 • Increase on-site generation of renewable competition that invites people to take up a three-week personal sustainability power 100,000 2 Energy efficiency • Procure off-site renewable power, challenge. HP sites in India and Puerto Rico 0 Energy use is a significant operating expense including renewable energy credits (RECs) 0 earned the top two spots for their efforts, 2015 2016 2017 2018 for HP and the main driver of our climate and power purchase agreements (PPAs) out of nearly 850 teams worldwide from impact from operations. Our operations Americas HP and other organizations. consumed 758,898 MWh of energy in 2018, greenhouse gas emissions Europe, Middle East, and Africa • Our team in Guadalajara, Mexico, developed Asia Pacific and Japan 6% less than in 2017. Global electricity use reduction goal GHG emissions intensity (tonnes CO2e/$ million decreased by 8% compared to 2017, due to a model to quantify the environmental Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG of net revenue) * benefits of employee actions taken at the emissions from global operations by the implementation of energy conservation site. Efforts during the year reduced GHG 60% by 2025, compared to 2015 * Historical emissions-intensity values were calculated using projects and real estate consolidation. Energy HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting emissions by more than 700 tonnes of and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. intensity equalled 13.0 MWh per $ million of progress in 2018 CO2e, decreased water consumption by net revenue in 2018, 16% less than in 2017. HP’s global operations produced more than 1,100 cubic meters, and saved 229,600 tonnes of Scope 1 and operations produced 229,600 tonnes of During 2018, our main tactics to reduce nearly $4,000. We are considering using Scope 2 CO2e emissions, Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions during energy use included a multi-site boiler 41% this model at other HP sites. 2018, a 41% decrease compared to 2015, optimization project, chiller optimization, • More than 600 HP volunteers worldwide at making progress toward our scienceretro-commissioning, conversion to LED 12 sites participated in shoreline cleanup based goal of a 60% reduction by 2025. less than our 2015 baseline lighting, and lighting control upgrades. events to support World Environment Day We updated this goal after achieving our Our energy team is collaborating with site and the HP Foundation’s 40 Days of Doing 25% Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions Following the acquisition of Samsung operation teams that are replacing end-ofGood campaign. They collected nearly reduction goal in 2017, also compared to Electronics Co., Ltd.’s printer business on life equipment, to confirm that new high2 tonnes of trash, including discarded 2015. GHG emissions intensity equalled 3.9 November 1, 2017, we recalculated our efficiency equipment is being installed. All plastic, hazardous waste, cigarette ends, tonnes of CO2e per $ million of net revenue in Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions data new construction will comply with the HP tin cans, and even bikes. We plan to 2018, a 19% reduction from 2017. The main from operations back to the baseline of Green and Smart Construction Playbook and continue this initiative annually. drivers for GHG emissions reduction included 2015, per guidance in the GHG Protocol (see the LEED v4 Gold Standard. About our operational data). Our global the implementation of energy conservation projects, real estate consolidation, and the In 2018, we implemented 29 projects at HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 93 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Renewable energy Business travel, Energy use from operations MWh By shifting toward renewable, carbon neutral energy, we can reduce GHG emissions #12 commuting, and auto fleet on Green Power Partnership Top 30 Tech from operations. In 2018, we procured and & Telecom list (as of February 2019) In 2018, employee business travel generated 1,000,000 20 generated 275,944 MWh of renewable 70,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions, 2% more electricity globally, including four new onthan in 2017. Commuting generated 200,000 MWh/$ million of net revenue** 800,000 16 site solar PPAs. Renewables accounted for HP aims to have an impact on the deployment tonnes of CO2e emissions, flat from the 47% of our global electricity consumption. 600,000 12 of new renewable electricity where feasible. prior year. Our company fleet accounted This decrease from 50% achieved in 2017 Through a combination of on-site generation, for 32,200 tonnes of CO2e emissions, an 400,000 8 was due to re-baselining (see About our retail supply options, and project-specific increase of 2% compared to 2017. operational data) and real estate reduction 200,000 4 at sites that used 100% renewable supplier options, we continually search for To support HP’s GHG emissions reduction electricity. Sources of renewable electricity in cost-effective opportunities to source new goal from operations, we plan to reduce GHG 0 0 renewable power that supplies the energy 2018 included RECs and IRECs (77.1%), direct emissions from HP owned or leased auto fleet 2015 2016 2017 2018 purchases (21.7%), and renewable energy markets in which our sites consume the vehicles by 10% by 2025, compared to 2015. generated on-site and on-site PPAs (1.2%). electricity. After achieving our 40% renewable Stationary combustion (natural gas and diesel) Through 2018, we achieved a 2% decrease. Electricity * Through these purchases, we once again electricity goal in 2017, HP has established Energy intensity (MWh/$ million of net revenue) ** achieved our objective to use 100% renewable a new goal of achieving 60% renewable To reduce emissions, we provide low impact * Includes purchased electricity and electricity generated electricity in the United States and helped to electricity in our global operations by 2025 travel choices for our employees through on-site. advance the global market for renewables. and 100% by 2035. collaboration with our travel providers, ** Historical energy-intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting planning tools, and initiatives such as the Zipcar and direct and indirect energy use. We are committed to using 100% renewable renewable electricity goal vehicle share program at our headquarters in electricity to power our operations, and in Use 60% renewable electricity in our Palo Alto, California, United States. operations by 2025 and achieve 100% 2016 joined RE100 led by The Climate Group 12 locations, projected to save 8,500 MWh by 2035 to support these efforts. In 2015, we signed HP is one of 10 founding members of EV100, annually. We retro-commissioned our Kiryat the Corporate Renewable Energy Buyers’ a Climate Group initiative launched in 2017 Gat, Israel, site, saving nearly 2,000 MWh with a progress in 2018 Principles. In 2018, HP became one of the to accelerate technological development of 1.6-year payback. At our San Diego, California, HP’s global operations procured and largest green power users among technology electric vehicles (EVs) worldwide. In support site, we completed a lab fume hood variable generated 275,944 MWh of renewable electricity and attributes, equivalent to and telecommunications partners within the of this effort, we have committed to install EV air volume exhaust conversion project that U.S. EPA’s Green Power Partner Program. 47% included sensors to automatically close the infrastructure at all feasible sites worldwide by In early 2019, we were among the first 2040. In 2018, we offered EV infrastructure at hood sash if researchers are not present. companies to sign the Renewable Thermal 19% of the 88 target sites, including Geneva, For 2019, we have already identified and are of our global electricity consumption Energy Buyers’ Statement. implementing projects with a further 2,100 MWh Switzerland; Barcelona, Spain; Houston, Texas; of potential savings at 14 other sites, with and Palo Alto, California. Wherever feasible, more projects to follow. we require new building constructions and leases to include EV infrastructure. In 2019, we plan to add EVs to HP’s own fleet. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 94 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Water Water consumption* Water consumption Singapore with participants from across HP, external industry water experts, Water consumption associated with our cubic meters by source, 2018* and municipalities to develop creative percentage of total approaches to addressing water challenges operations makes up 2% of our total 4,000,000 80 at the company. As a result, HP added footprint. This is about evenly split between 11.9% 1.7% water efficiency to new RFP requirements direct consumption as described in this Wastewater from Well water*** cubic meters/$ million of net revenue another organization** and educated employees about water section (mainly for use in buildings, cooling, 3,000,000 60 conservation. We plan to install water landscaping, and production of high-purity submeters at the Singapore campus in 2019. water for manufacturing) and indirect 2,000,000 40 municipal water consumption associated with generation of HP plans to host similar sessions throughout the electricity we use in our facilities. 1,000,000 20 2019 at sites with the highest water use and those identified as at risk through a water consumption goal 0 0 World Resources Institute assessment. We Reduce potable water consumption 2015 2016 2017 2018 86.3% also improved water efficiency at our Palo in global operations by 15% by 2025, Municipal water compared to 2015 Alto, California; Boise, Idaho; Rio Rancho, Americas * D irect New Mexico; and Corvallis, Oregon, sites, use of surface water is insignificant and not progress in 2018 Europe, Middle East, and Africa included in data reported. Rain water is about 0.1% of decreasing domestic water use from fixtures Potable water consumption equaled Asia Pacific and Japan total so is not visible on the graph. Water consumption intensity by approximately 30% at those locations. 2,997,000 cubic meters globally, ** N EWater is ultra-purified wastewater used in (cubic meters/$ million of net revenue **) manufacturing operations in Singapore. In Palo Alto, we deployed a smart water 6% *** This category includes groundwater. * H P reports all water withdrawn from municipal sources for management service that we expect to use in its operations as consumed. deliver significant savings. We are pursuing ** H istorical consumption-intensity values were calculated less than in 2015 using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial cubic meters of sewage treatment plant similar projects at other high use sites, and reporting and water consumption. water, for landscaping and indoor plumbing plan to install water meters in Beijing, China; fixtures. This was equivalent to 12.2% of Singapore; and Boise and Corvallis. We work to reduce consumption and use the California; Boise, Idaho; Rio Rancho, New total water consumption. The company World Resource Institute’s Aqueduct Water also captured and used 2,000 cubic meters In 2017, our Boise facility became the Risk Atlas tool to assess the risk of sites Mexico; Corvallis, Oregon; Singapore; and of rain water for cooling towers during the first corporate campus worldwide to be and prioritize water-stressed locations. In Barcelona, Spain. We also installed smart year, and plans to implement rain water certified using the USGBC Sustainable 2018, we consumed 3,406,000 cubic meters water metering and leak detection devices capture systems during 2019 in Barcelona SITES Initiative v2 rating system, the most of water overall, a 5% increase compared across 13 sites in our Europe, Middle East, for irrigation water use. comprehensive program for designing, to 2017, due primarily to business growth. and Africa region. Water consumption developing, and maintaining sustainable Potable water use decreased 6% compared intensity per $ million of net revenue To reduce and recycle water used at landscapes. Building on that success, in 2018 to 2015, the baseline year of our goal, due decreased by 6% between 2017 and 2018. our facilities, we employ smart building we introduced sustainable landscaping at to efficiency projects that reduce indoor practices, sustainable landscaping, HP recycled or reused 415,000 cubic meters our Corvallis campus, which became the first water fixture consumption, process water infrastructure upgrades, and greywater of water3 globally during 2018, including USGBC Sustainable SITES certified campus consumption, and irrigation water usage, reuse. In 2018, we convened a session in 407,000 cubic meters of NEWater and 8,000 in the state of Oregon. We replaced noncompleted at sites including Palo Alto, HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 95 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix water (continued) our company-wide shift toward a circular TRUE Zero Waste certification is a whole indigenous grasses with native varieties economy. HP generated 32,000 tonnes systems approach that aims to change how that demand less water and attract local of nonhazardous waste in 2018, up 8% materials flow through society. In 2017, pollinators. At maturity in 2020, the project compared to 2017, due primarily to increased our Palo Alto headquarters became the is expected to save 12,500 cubic meters of manufacturing. We achieved a 90.9% first technology campus in the state and water annually and reduce water usage from landfill diversion rate globally, and only use the second globally to achieve Gold TRUE irrigation by 25% and landscaping costs by disposal as a last resort. We reuse electronic certification. We are pursuing certification at 30%. In 2019, we plan to launch a similar equipment when possible or recycle it additional campuses worldwide. project at our Barcelona campus. responsibly through the same programs we offer customers. See Product repair, reuse, The main hazardous waste we generate See detailed data for 2015–2018, the HP and recycling. is liquid from ink manufacturing facilities. water accounting manual, and our CDP These manufacturing sites prioritize water submissions. waste management options with low Nonhazardous environmental impacts and only use Wastewater waste composition, 2018* disposal as a last resort. Although ink percentage of total manufacturing is a source of hazardous Wastewater is not a significant waste, HP ink cartridges used by customers environmental aspect of HP’s operations. 3.2% 23.2% and in our offices can be recycled and are Our imaging and printing product Incineration Paper considered nonhazardous in many of our manufacturing facilities generate 9.0% major markets. process effluents that are pre-treated, Landfill strictly monitored, and discharged under We generated 6,910 tonnes of hazardous government-issued permits to municipal d 8 7 .8 % waste in 2018, a 28% increase compared to 13.3% wastewater plants for further treatment. Other the prior year. cy We implement procedures to prevent cle e rr unauthorized discharges of chemicals to Re u s e d o 33.0% See detailed waste data for 2015–2018. 4.0% Pallets our facility wastewater systems and ensure Electronic equipment that these sites do not discharge wastewater 10.6% 3.7% Packaging directly to surface water or to groundwater. Metals materials * HP sites report nonhazardous waste volumes and disposition based on information provided by our waste Waste disposal vendors. For sites unable to directly track nonhazardous waste, we estimate volumes and disposition using intensity factors based on similar operations. Although our facilities do not generate large amounts of waste, we employ a global policy of “reduce, reuse, and recycle” that supports HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 96 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Community giving and volunteerism HP Foundation By leveraging our scope and scale, focus focus areass together with strategic local partnerships, we aim to connect our communities to greater economic and social opportunity Technology-enabled Environmental Inclusion and programs education and stewardship, empowerment for through technology and protect our skills-building resilience, and underrepresented shared environment. We create positive disaster recovery and marginalized HP LIFE: Learning local impact in the communities where people and employment we live, work, and do business, through corporate contributions, the work of the opportunities for HP Foundation, 1 and employee giving and aspiring entrepreneurs volunteerism. See HP’s Global Charitable To bridge the “digital divide” and build skills Contributions Policy. By deploying our for the future, the HP Foundation provides technology to help solve global challenges, core business and IT skills training free of we create shared value for HP, our charge for start-ups, students, and small customers, and society at large. See Global businesses through HP LIFE (Learning education programs. how we support our communities Initiative for Entrepreneurs). The program offers global access to 30 free online courses community giving goal Corporate HP Employee Employee in seven languages, with a focus on providing Contribute $100 million in HP Foundation giving Foundation giving volunteerism highly accessible and usable content. New and employee community giving2 by giving courses added to the portfolio during 2018 2025 (cumulative since the beginning $7.12 million $2.07 million 140,000 hours $4.34 million included a module on 3D printing. of 2016) in 2018 in 2018 contributed by in 2018 6,400 employees progress in 2018 hp life goal in 2018 Enroll 1 million HP LIFE users between Reached 2016 and 2025 $23.21 In addition, we take a shared value approach to business, deploying our technology to help solve global challenges and drive value for HP, our customers, and society at large. progress in 2018 Enrolled million in HP Foundation and employee community giving 166,000 since 2016 HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 97 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix their concept to the judges. The winning HP is committed to enabling better teams targeted science education, food HP LIFE in Tunisia HP Matter to a Million learning outcomes for 100 million scarcity, and living conditions, and are all In Tunisia, HP LIFE is supporting HP’s five-year Matter to a Million people by 2025, since the beginning enrolled in incubators to further their ideas. female learners and small program with Kiva, which concluded of 2015, through application of our business owners. Although women in 2018, has enabled 1.1 million technology, training, R&D, and financial Imagine Grants represent only about 30% of the people to improve their lives. In contributions. We invest in programs and In November 2018, the HP Foundation formal economy in Tunisia, more 2018, HP employees made more provide technology solutions that meet launched the Imagine Grants initiative to than half of HP LIFE users in that than 25,000 loans totaling $639,000 learners where they are and take them support its mission of bringing technologycountry are female—and female to small-scale entrepreneurs in 39 where they want to go. See how our related learning experiences to underserved entrepreneurs founded 56% of the countries, using $25 loan credits products and partnerships are enabling and underrepresented communities. Local 94 start-up businesses enabled from the HP Foundation. better learning outcomes. leaders and HP country managers have through the program between discretion to identify suitable local charitable October 2016 and September 2018. organizations to receive a cash grant. HP The UN and government-backed locations have a budget of approximately We have enrolled nearly 750,000 new HP As part of this commitment, HP opened Mashrou3i program (“my own $25 per full-time employee, and charities LIFE users from 2012 through 2018, including a new tech-enabled HP LIFE Center in business” in Arabic) is a joint are vetted centrally to ensure they align with approximately 57,000 during the most recent Johannesburg, South Africa. program by HP Foundation, UNIDO, the HP Foundation mission. year. The greatest uptake occurred in Brazil, USAID, and AICS, designed to foster youth entrepreneurship in Egypt, India, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, BeChangeMaker Disaster recovery and the United States. Tunisia and support the creation (BCM): Empowering and growth of enterprises social entrepreneurs and resilience The United Nations Industrial Development using HP LIFE. The program Organization (UNIDO), HP, and the HP has generated 1,400 jobs and HP LIFE hosts an annual BCM program, in Foundation signed a memorandum of supported more than 230 startpartnership with WorldSkills International, HP, our employees, and the HP Foundation understanding in 2017 renewing our up businesses since its launch in which inspires young people aged 18 to 30 together provide financial support for partnership to further foster entrepreneurship 2013. Mashrou3i was extended to tackle social issues and increases their communities affected by natural disasters and employment opportunities in developing in 2017 with the goal of creating awareness of social entrepreneurship as and emergencies. We work with expert economies, including expanding our work into more than 6,000 jobs for young a career option. In 2017, more than 160 partners, including the American Red Cross, Africa. This was followed by the launch of HP people in Tunisia by 2021. Since teams entered from 31 countries. A group the International Federation of Red Cross and LIFE in Nigeria, where more than 5,000 new 2016, more than 22,000 learners of HP employees served as team mentors Red Crescent Societies, Save the Children users joined the program in 2018. have enrolled and completed while other HP employees joined the judging and the Information Technology Disaster nearly 238,000 courses. In 2018, HP announced a new commitment panel. Teams used HP LIFE courses and Resource Center (ITDRC) to speed recovery to reach 100,000 learners across Africa webinars to generate social venture ideas, and reconnect vital networks. See HP LIFE success stories. over the next three years through HP LIFE. create a viable business model, and pitch HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 98 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix HP Connection Spot: employee volunteering goal nominated by our employees. In addition Contribute 1.5 million employee to their time, employees also donated Mobile disaster relief volunteering hours by 2025 (cumulative $2.07 million in cash to qualifying since the beginning The HP Connection Spot provides organizations during 2018 through our of 2016) emergency connectivity to people in the HP Inspires Giving program. The HP contiguous United States who are unable progress in 2018 Foundation contributed $1.89 million in to communicate due to a natural disaster. Reached matching funds. 284,000 The custom-built trailer is equipped with HP laptops, chromebooks, printers, and an See Data for detailed figures. Internet hot spot. Staffed by HP volunteers, employee volunteering hours the HP Connection Spot is also available for first responders and nonprofit personnel Hour of Code involved in disaster relief efforts. In 2018, 6,400 employees contributed about 140,000 hours to local volunteer efforts in HP employees volunteer to teach The Connection Spot visited Bucksport, 48 countries, with a value of $4.3 million. 3 coding in schools and community South Carolina, and Chattahoochee and HP employees are granted four hours paid organizations around the world, Panama City Beach, Florida, in October 2018, volunteer time per month. In addition, HP’s with a goal to reach underserved to assist with efforts related to Hurricane Time Off Community Support Grant allows student communities, particularly Florence and Hurricane Michael. Ten HP employees to apply for a week of paid ethnic minorities and young employees staffed it during its 19-day volunteer time to support more intensive women. These Hour of Code deployment. The team offered practical engagements and travel service projects. sessions focus on introducing help to victims and service people, such as students to valuable skills, printing maps and documents, and acted as During our 40 Days of Doing Good campaign, increasing interest in computing a focal point for communities. HP employees volunteered more than 7,000 and technology, and building the hours at nearly 150 events. Among the future pipeline of diverse talent many activities were coding workshops for for HP. In 2018, more than 1,500 Employee disadvantaged youth, coaching for veterans transitioning to new careers, sessions to HP volunteers from 41 company volunteerism sites participated in Hour of encourage young girls to pursue STEM Code in almost 300 schools and careers, and time dedicated to shoreline and communities worldwide, reaching HP taps into the talents, passions, and park cleanups, audio book recording, and over 25,000 students. entrepreneurial spirit of employees to health and nutrition awareness. make a difference in our communities. Volunteerism in 2018 was 62% higher than The HP Foundation complemented these in 2017—which had increased a similar efforts with grants totalling $412,000 amount compared to 2016. to support the work of 64 education and technology-related learning charities HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 99 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Data Our employees 2018 2018 Employees (regular full World workforce by age group, % of total time and part time) by Men Women Total 2018 Women employees [% of total] U.S. new hires, by race ** [% of total] region and gender, 2018* 30 and under 19.7% Americas 34.1% White 59.5% Americas 12,844 6,651 19,495 31–50 62.7% Asia Pacific and Japan 36.9% All minorities 32.4% Asia Pacific and Japan 14,301 8,366 22,667 51 and over 17.6% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 38.1% Black 5.2% Europe, Middle East, and Worldwide 36.1% Hispanic 10.6% Africa 6,908 4,351 11,259 Women managers* [% of total] Asian 12.1% Total 34,053 19,368 53,421 * This table does not include 222 employees who did not disclose Americas 31.0% Native American 0.9% their self-identity. Further, the data was not available for 1,743 Asia Pacific and Japan 23.2% Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.1% employees of a certain majority-owned, consolidated subsidiary. Europe, Middle East, and Africa 28.9% Two or more races 3.5% Worldwide 27.9% Global new hires, by gender *** [% of total] Employees (regular full time and part time) Women % Men % Total by employment type and gender, 2018* U.S. employees, by race ** [% of total] Women 32.4% Full time White 65.1% Men 65.8% Executives 98 31.3% 214 68.4% 312 All minorities 26.3% * Includes all management categories (supervisors, managers, directors, and executives). Directors 314 30.3% 720 69.5% 1,034 Black 3.9% ** Sum of “White” and “All minorities” does not equal 100% because not all employees disclose their self-identity. Managers 1,241 27.1% 3,333 72.8% 4,574 Hispanic 8.3% *** Sum of “Women” and “Men” does not equal 100% because not all employees disclose their self-identity. Professionals 12,586 34.9% 23,263 64.6% 35,849 Asian 11.7% Other 4,755 42.3% 6,457 57.4% 11,212 Native American 0.5% Subtotal 18,994 33,987 52,981 Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.1% Part time Two or more races 1.8% Executives 0 0% 0 0% 0 Directors 3 100% 0 0% 3 Managers 10 90.9% 1 9.1% 11 Professionals 327 84.3% 61 15.7% 388 Other 34 89.5% 4 10.5% 38 Subtotal 374 66 440 Total 19,368 34,053 53,421 * This table does not include 222 employees who did not disclose their self-identity. Further, the data was not available for 1,743 employees of a certain majority-owned, consolidated subsidiary. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 100 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Lost workday case rate * Recordable incidence rate ** Global 0.16 0.08 0.09 Global 0.22 0.17 0.23 Americas 0.12 0.11 0.16 Americas 0.23 0.30 0.33 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.36 0.13 0.12 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.43 0.18 0.52 Asia Pacific and Japan 0.06 0.03 0.02 Asia Pacific and Japan 0.07 0.06 0.03 Leading causes of lost workdays [% of total] Leading causes of recordable incidents (with and without lost time) [% of total] Slips, trips, and falls 34% 32% 24% Struck by/against/cut by 35% 33% 26% Automobile accidents 26% 10% 20% Slips, trips, and falls 27% 33% 27% Struck by/against/cut by 22% 22% 25% Automobile accidents 13% 7% 13% Ergonomics—materials handling 11% 21% 14% Ergonomics—materials handling 11% 12% 17% Overexertion—not materials handling 3% 11% 2% Ergonomics—office environment 6% 3% 2% Other 4% 4% 15% Other 8% 12% 15% * Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result in time away from work per 100 employees and ** Recordable incidence rate is the number of all work-related lost-time and no-lost-time cases requiring more than first aid contractors that HP manages working a full year. Rates are calculated using Occupational Safety and Health Administration per 100 employees and contractors that HP manages working a full year. Rates are calculated using OSHA definitions for (OSHA) definitions for recordability around the world and using OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on recordability around the world and using OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on employees working an employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2017 for the Computer and Peripheral average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2017 for the Computer and Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing Equipment Manufacturing industry (NAICS #3341) was 0.2. Americas includes Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, industry (NAICS #3341) was 0.6. Americas includes Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Mexico, Peru, Puerto Costa Rica, Mexico, Peru, Puerto Rico, and the United States. Asia Pacific and Japan includes Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Rico, and the United States. Asia Pacific and Japan includes Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. Europe, Middle Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes Austria, East, and Africa includes Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Poland, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the Russian Federation, and the United Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the Russian Federation, and the United Kingdom. Data for 2016 are fiscal year. Kingdom. Data for 2016 are fiscal year. Data for 2017 and 2018 are calendar year. Data for 2017 and 2018 are calendar year. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 101 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Our facilities (also see GHG emissions data)* 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Energy use [MWh] 859,620 739,682 807,122 758,898 Water consumption, by source †† [cubic meters] 3,953,000 3,534,000 3,243,000 3,406,000 Energy intensity ** [MWh/$ million of net revenue] 16.7 15.3 15.5 13.0 Municipal water 3,205,000 2,751,000 2,627,000 2,938,000 Direct energy use in operations (corresponds to 162,620 155,682 165,138 164,075 Wastewater from another organization††† 746,000 725,000 533,000 407,000 Scope 1 emissions) *** [MWh] (NEWater) Natural gas 159,273 154,822 162,716 161,653 Tanker water†††† 2,000 0 0 0 Americas 128,691 124,601 129,715 122,564 Rain water 0 0 1,000 2,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 24,426 21,596 29,448 31,262 Well water 0 58,000 82,000 59,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 6,156 8,625 3,553 7,828 Reused treated sewage treatment plant water‡ 25,000 1,000 15,000 8,000 [cubic meters] Renewable (generated on-site) 232 134 960 1,731 Recycled or reused water‡‡ 25.5% 17.1% 12.2% Diesel/gas/oil/LPG **** 3,116 726 1,462 691 [% of total water consumption] Indirect energy use (corresponds to Scope 2 697,000 584,000 641,983 594,823 Nonhazardous waste [tonnes] 28,100 27,800 29,500 32,000 emissions) [MWh] Americas 16,000 15,900 15,800 13,100 Electricity (purchased) 697,000 584,000 638,023 589,217 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 7,400 8,000 8,500 5,900 Americas 472,000 301,000 260,392 229,653 Asia Pacific and Japan 4,700 3,900 5,200 13,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 131,000 93,000 149,301 132,578 Nonhazardous waste by type [tonnes] 0 0 29,500 32,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 94,000 190,000 228,330 226,986 Recycled 0 0 24,500 28,100 Voluntary purchases of renewable energy † 7,000 4,000 231,526 255,797 Landfilled 0 0 2,700 2,900 Voluntary purchases of no/low-carbon 0 0 0 0 energy Incinerated 0 0 2,300 1,000 Supplier-specific renewable energy 24,000 18,000 78,182 18,416 Nonhazardous waste landfill diversion rate [% of total produced] District cooling and heating (purchased) 0 0 3,960 5,606 Global 90.9% 90.1% 90.9% 90.9% Americas 0 0 0 0 Americas 91.6% 91.2% 91.6% 91.6% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 85.5% 85.4% 87.4% 87.4% Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 3,960 5,606 Asia Pacific and Japan 97.2% 95.1% 94.6% 94.6% Water consumption, by region [cubic meters] 3,952,000 3,535,000 3,243,000 3,406,000 Hazardous waste ‡‡‡ [tonnes] 5,560 5,410 6,910 Americas 2,121,000 1,670,000 1,476,000 1,648,000 Americas 1,600 1,750 280 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 520,000 297,000 319,000 307,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 2,370 2,280 1,090 Asia Pacific and Japan 1,311,000 1,568,000 1,448,000 1,451,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 1,590 1,380 5,540 HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 102 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Community giving and volunteerism 2015 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Ozone depletion potential of estimated 52 24 10 5 Social investment * [$ million] $6.31** $7.60 ** $15.76 emissions ‡‡‡‡ Company cash contributions $1.06** $0.55** $2.15 [kg of CFC-11 equivalent] HP Foundation cash contributions $1.93** $2.82** $4.34 Americas 34 5 0 2 Products*** $1.91 $0.73 $4.97 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1 18 10 4 Services**** $1.41 $3.50 $4.30 Asia Pacific and Japan 17 0 0 0 Social investment [% of net earnings] 0.3%** 0.3% 0.3% Number of violations of legal obligations/ 0 0 0 4 regulations‡‡‡‡‡ Contributions to Cash Matching Program [$ million] Fines/penalties related to the above [$] $0 $0 $0 $0 U.S. employee contributions to Cash Matching Program $1.13 $1.70 $2.07 * Following HP Foundation contributions to Cash Matching Program $0.99 ** $1.66 $1.89 the acquisition of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.’s printer business on November 1, 2017, we recalculated energy use, water consumption, and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions data from operations back to the baseline of 2015, per Employee volunteer hours 54,800 89,500 140,000 guidance in the GHG Protocol. This process also included an update of the intensity factors used to extrapolate energy use and water consumption data for sites where direct tracked data was not available. The new intensity factors, along with * Social investments include all grants made to nonprofit organizations from HP, plus the valuation of employee volunteer recently confirmed square footage data, will more accurately reflect HP’s footprint (see HP Carbon Accounting Manual and HP hours. Data excludes contributions to the HP Foundation and employee donations but includes HP’s matching contributions Water Accounting Manual for details). HP directly tracked data from invoices and other documents representing 91% of total and contributions from the HP Foundation to other organizations. electricity use, 81% of total natural gas use, 90% of total water consumption, 68% of total nonhazardous waste, and 100% of ** Total cash is updated from information reported in past years to reflect more complete data. total hazardous waste. *** Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment ** Historical energy intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and direct through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. and indirect energy use. **** “Services” includes the valuation of HP employee volunteer hours. Valuation rates are based on CECP standards. *** Fuel consumption from HP’s transportation fleet is not included in the Direct energy use in operations figures. **** Diesel is mostly used at HP for testing generators. In limited cases, diesel is also used for long-term on-site energy generation. † Renewable HP education programs and solutions 2015 2016 2017 2018 energy and renewable energy credits, excluding renewable energy provided by default in the power grid. †† “Water consumption” includes municipal water, wastewater from another organization, tanker water, rain water (beginning in Students and adult learners benefiting from 4,629,000 4,970,000 5,238,000 6,543,000 2017), and well water. Direct use of surface water is insignificant and not included in data reported. Water consumption does HP’s education programs and solutions not include reused treated sewage treatment plant water. ††† NEWater is ultra-purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore. HP LIFE users enrolled * n/a 53,000 56,000 57,000 †††† Tanker water is well water that is delivered to the site by tanker truck. * HP LIFE users are also included in the overall students and adult learners data above. 2015 HP LIFE data was tracked using a ‡ This water is used for landscaping and toilets. different system and are not included due to lack of comparability. ‡‡ This includes NEWater (ultra-purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore) as well as recycled or reused water reported by sites globally. Grey water is included, rain water is not. ‡‡‡ Accounting for the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, it was not feasible to include hazardous waste data specific to HP Inc. for 2015. ‡‡‡‡ For 2015 and 2016, we calculated ozone-depleting substances emissions by tracking sites that reported refrigerant replacement due to leakage, and applied an intensity factor (based on those actual quantities) for nonreporting sites. For 2017, HP transitioned to a system that tracks all refrigerant work orders company-wide, directly accounting for facilities’ refrigerant leakage and use and eliminating the need for extrapolation. ‡‡‡‡‡This data represents safety or environmental violations from a federal or state agency. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 103 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Products and solutions 105 Sustainable design 112 Product responsibility 114 Products and solutions portfolio 123 Product repair, reuse, and recycling 126 Data HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 104 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Sustainable design Inclusive design At HP, we believe that creating inclusive technology affirms human dignity, promotes Sustainable Impact inspires us to reinvent everything we do—including how we Design for independence, and unleashes creativity. Every person’s access needs are diverse and individual, and can be situational, acquired, temporary, or lifelong. HP teams consider design, deliver, and recover our products and solutions. Across our Personal Systems, Sustainability accessibility early in product development, conduct user testing with individuals who have disabilities, and incorporate feedback from the global disability community. Print, and 3D Printing businesses, we are HP product materials, manufacturing, committed to creating our most sustainable transport, and use account for 98% of our For example, we are incorporating easy-to-use voice technology across our webportfolio. By reducing the amount of value chain carbon footprint. Applying enabled consumer printers and offering the HP Accessibility Assistant—our secure materials in our products, increasing our use sustainable design principles across our voice and screen reader accessory—in a wide range of office printers. of recycled content, designing for energy portfolio is key to reducing our footprint, HP also participates in industry and government efforts to advance worldwide efficiency, and offering convenient and more while delivering better performance for our standards and policies that improve the accessibility of information and technology. sustainable services, we are enabling our customers and benefiting the planet, our customers to achieve more, with less impact. people, and communities worldwide. Customer requirements for easy-to-use, accessible products continue to explode, When our products reach end of service, our especially to support the rapidly aging global population, and HP is committed to repair, reuse, and recycling options help to In 1992, we developed our Design ensuring that the benefits of our innovative technology empower everyone, everywhere. ensure products are properly handled. for Sustainability program (originally Design for the Environment) to formally For more information on our accessibility program, please visit the HP Office of Aging From transforming education and ensuring consider factors impacting sustainability and Accessibility. customer privacy and security to advancing performance throughout the product design healthcare, our products enhance the lives and development phases. Using a scienceof millions of people worldwide. We prioritize based approach, we evaluate our products the health and safety of those who help to identify and prioritize improvement bring our products to market, as well as our Design for Sustainability supports our circular Product design and development operations opportunities and set goals. The program, customers and end-users. Through a focus economy strategy and is an important driver for our HP LaserJet Enterprise Solutions, HP which is integrated into HP’s product on inclusive and universal design, we work of business value. In 2018, we tracked roughly Inkjet Printing Systems, and Personal Systems development process, encompasses to ensure that the benefits of our innovative $10 billion in new and potential revenue product groups are ISO 14001 certified. management systems, processes, tools, technology empower everyone, everywhere. associated with deals in which we met We conduct internal compliance audits and and company-wide collaboration to customer requirements for registered product benchmark against industry best practices on support our teams in several key areas. As we look ahead, we anticipate a future eco-labels, including ENERGY STAR®, EPEAT®, an ongoing basis. Relevant products undergo Our approach has continually evolved in that is more resource constrained, Blue Angel, TCO, and others. a range of external certifications. response to technological and scientific interconnected, and transparent than ever developments, changes to our supply chain, before. We know that technology is critical and customer demand. to address these challenges, and to driving a more circular and low-carbon future. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 105 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix HP Design for Sustainability addresses a broad range of issues across the product life cycle. Advance materials innovation to improve environmental and human health impacts Progress toward a circular economy requires keeping materials in Improve energy efficiency to use for as long as possible and ensuring they can be easily reused enable a low-carbon economy or recycled. We continually work to eliminate materials of concern, increase materials efficiency, and circulate materials through use of Energy consumption during product use is one of the largest recycled content. See Materials innovation. contributors to our carbon and water footprints, so continually improving product energy efficiency is central to our sustainable design strategy. See Energy efficiency. Drive customer and environmental value with product-as-a-service Deliver positive social impact HP Service-based models deliver better value to customers with reduced environmental impact and capital costs. Customers can access the Through innovative partnerships and materials sourcing, we Design for latest technology, while HP manages the fleet. An ongoing relationship improve livelihoods. Through our supply chain engagements, we increase the availability of recycled materials while supporting Sustainability strengthens engagement and provides valuable insights on customer behavior and needs. Service-based offerings support the transition to safe workplaces, healthy lifestyles, and skills development. To a circular economy. Regular maintenance increases product longevity meet our customers’ needs, we follow security and privacy as and decreases waste. Fewer individual product shipments and well as inclusive design principles, and our products enable better customer store visits decrease GHG emissions. Value is recaptured at learning outcomes for millions of people around the world. end of service through product repair, reuse, and recycling. Learn more in Products and solutions portfolio. Repair, reuse, and recycle products at end of service Extend product life through Rapid innovation is increasing the urgency to move toward circular durability and repairability models where products stay in use as long as possible and materials are responsibly recycled and repurposed at product end of service. As part We provide free service documentation for most products, supplemented of designing for end of service, we consider factors such as availability of with service options and warranties, including through HP Care Pack spare parts, ease of disassembly, materials identification, and ability to Central. The HP Customer Self Repair Services Media Library provides separate materials. Our repair, reuse, and recycling programs help keep tutorials and instructions, and the HP Parts Store sells PC and printer products in use, and at end of service, support responsible collection and parts. Learn more in Products and solutions portfolio. processing to recover and reuse as much material as possible. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 106 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Life cycle Report 62921, a streamlined methodology for assessing the carbon footprint of • Conducted 50 PCFs of all new business HP desktops, notebooks, tablets, extensive product safety and environmental information online and contribute to the assessment computer and display products. We continually update our LCA and PCF tools workstations, thin clients, all-in-one computers, digital signage, and displays development of new standards. Between 2014 and 2018, HP participated in the HP is an industry leader in life cycle to ensure that they provide current and to better understand performance and standard development process of IEEE assessment (LCA) and product carbon accurate information. inform ongoing design improvements. 1680.1-2018, which is used to register PCs footprinting (PCF). We use these tools to 1 and displays to EPEAT®. When the registry We completed a preliminary LCA in 2019 To promote LCA within and beyond the quantify the environmental characteristics went live in 2019, HP achieved several comparing HP’s Device as a Service (DaaS) industry, HP has a seat on the Board of and impacts of our products and solutions industry firsts. offering for commercial PCs with traditional Directors of the American Center for Life and help bring a science-based perspective transactional sales offerings. Learn more. Cycle Assessment. See also: to our continuous improvement efforts and In 2018, we: • Eco-labels goals. Through these efforts, we identify • Completed an ISO-compliant, peer• ECO Declarations In 2018, HP provided Product the processes, components, and materials with the largest environmental impacts, reviewed LCA of an HP Pro x2 612 G2 ECO Declarations for product groups certifications compare them with possible alternatives, Tablet, which determined that the most representing 93% of revenue and target product performance significant environmental impacts occur • HP Carbon Footprint Calculator improvements that deliver value to our customers and our business. Increasingly, in manufacturing, due largely to the production of displays and motherboards. and disclosures • Safety Data Sheets • Product compliance declarations and we are also applying LCA to service-based • Completed or updated 24 LCAs of HP Product certifications help drive certifications models to understand the benefits. desktop, DesignJet, and enterprise sustainability performance across the • Disassembly instructions printers, as well as a peer-reviewed LCA industry by providing comprehensive We follow LCA standards ISO 14040/14044. of HP Original compared to imitation information that enables customers to make For PCFs, we use International toner cartridges. more sustainable product choices. We share Electrotechnical Commission Technical Eco-labels across our portfolio % models, for products shipped in 2018* Products EPEAT identifies high-performance, environmentally preferable products ENERGY STAR® China SEPA TCO Blue Angel recognizes products with recognizes energy-saving recognizes various ergonomic recognizes criteria in product superior energy efficiency and environmentally and environmental features design, energy consumption, chemical EPEAT (all EPEAT Gold EPEAT Silver EPEAT Bronze preferable models related to visual displays emissions, noise, recyclable design, categories) registered registered registered and take-back programs Personal systems 94% 62% 31% 0% 94% 55% 34% NA Printers 71% 7% 58% 6% 98% 98% NA 64% * EPEAT data for personal systems is for models registered worldwide and for printers is for models registered in the United States. ENERGY STAR data (7.0 or 6.1 for personal systems and 2.0 for printers) is worldwide. China SEPA data applies only to products registered in China. TCO data is for commercial desktops, notebooks, all-in-ones, and displays shipped in Europe. Blue Angel applies only to products registered in Germany. All data is for models shipped anytime during fiscal year 2018. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 107 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Energy efficiency inkjet power usage data, shifts in the inkjet printer portfolio mix toward more efficient generation as well as water use related to paper production. Water consumption HP is a signatory to the Ellen MacArthur Foundation New Plastics Economy Global models, and shipping more PageWide web related to product use equaled 195,000,000 Commitment to eliminate plastic pollution The energy consumed by our products presses, which have high duplexing rates. million cubic meters, 7% higher than the at its source. The three key principles of during use is one of the largest contributors prior year, due to the same factors that its framework—eliminate, innovate, and to our carbon and water footprints. We use product use ghg emissions increased GHG emissions (see above). circulate—underpin our approach to product multiple metrics to assess progress and intensity reduction goal materials use, paper, and packaging. drive improvement. See product use carbon and water footprint Reduce HP product use GHG emissions data. Product energy intensity by 30% by 2025, compared to 2015 5 Restrict materials efficiency of concern progress through 2018 Materials 11% We aspire to a world where our products and Since 2010, the energy consumption of our innovation operations use materials and chemicals that personal systems products dropped by 44%, cause no harm. For more than two decades, on average, despite the general increase in decrease achieved we have worked to move the electronics software power demands during that period. Following the HP materials strategy, we industry toward safer alternatives to This included average reductions in energy are pushing toward a circular model of consumption of 47% in desktops, 34% Product use carbon and production and consumption, using materials chemicals of concern. See key milestones in our Green Chemistry Timeline. in notebooks, and 30% in workstations. 2 water footprints efficiently and responsibly, keeping them in During that timeframe, we have also use for as long as possible, and recycling and In 2018, 52% of our overall carbon footprint reduced energy consumption of our HP reusing products at end of service. resulted from the energy, paper, and ink, LaserJet portfolio by 56%, on average, 3 and toner, and resin supplies consumed during the energy consumption of our HP inkjet product use, 51% of which was due to portfolio by 20%, on average. 4 • Restrict chemicals of concern for products, packaging, electricity consumption. and manufacturing processes Key drivers in 2018 included: Eliminate • Eliminate unnecessary packaging materials and space Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from product • Eliminate hard-to-recycle plastic for packaging • Personal systems: Ongoing design use equaled 23,400,000 tonnes of CO2e improvements, including more efficient in 2018, up 6% compared to 2017. 6 This CPUs and power supplies and a shift • Increase materials eﬀiciency increase was due primarily to higher PC sales, toward small form factor desktops, • Require sustainable fiber (certified or recycled) for which more than offset improved energy contributed to continued reductions efficiency on average. Printer GHG emissions Innovate packaging and paper • Increase recycled or ocean-bound plastics for products in typical energy consumption of our related to product energy use decreased by and solutions desktops, notebooks, and workstations. 17%, despite increased shipments year over See Personal systems. year (see key drivers in 2018 at left). • Printing: We continue to improve energy • Generate demand for recycled content • Choose materials with higher recycling rates worldwide efficiency in our LaserJet products. See Product use represented 77% of our water Circulate • Enable circularity by incorporating safer chemical Home and office printing. Other factors footprint, due to the considerable amounts alternatives into produtcs, packaging, and paper in 2018 included improved LaserJet and of cooling water required during electricity HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 108 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix The HP Materials and Chemical Management Highlights from 2018 include: 390,000 tonnes (39%) were renewable. Policy guides how we specify materials and • 75% of HP personal systems product See how HP Multi Jet Fusion technology Materials use intensity (tonnes/$ millions chemicals for use in products, packaging, series are low halogen of net revenue) rose by 5% for personal 8 and processes support a cleaner, safer and manufacturing processes. This policy systems, compared to 2017, due partly to • 100% of HP desktop PC external power workplace in 3D printing. applies to all HP employees and businesses an increase in the average size of displays. supplies are low halogen 9 worldwide and extends to our suppliers. Our Despite that change, materials use intensity • Beryllium has been restricted for all HP approach includes: in 2018 was 14% lower than in 2016, due to • Proactively identifying and evaluating personal systems products that will ship Increase materials a shift toward thinner and lighter notebooks in 2019 and beyond materials used in our products and efficiency as well as a move toward ultra small form throughout our supply chain, and publicly For more information on our progress factors for desktops and workstations. We work to continually reduce the volume of providing information on the material toward safer alternatives, see our Green Materials use intensity in printers fell by materials in new products to lower impacts content of typical HP personal systems Chemistry Timeline. 12% between 2017 and 2018. The main associated with raw materials extraction and printers. factor was a continued shift toward smaller and manufacturing. In 2018, we used As part of our full materials disclosure LaserJet and inkjet printers. See examples • Prioritizing materials for restriction by approximately 1 million tonnes10 of materials program, we require suppliers to report in Home and office printing solutions. See assessing published lists of substances in our products and packaging, of which an ingredients list and the amount of each materials use intensity data. of concern, customer preferences, new material used, with provisions to protect or upcoming legal requirements, and confidential business information. During sound scientific analysis that reveals a potential impact on human health 2018, we collected an inventory of more Estimated materials use intensity for or the environment. See HP’s General than 90% of substances by product weight HP high-volume personal systems and printers* for EPEAT® 2019registered personal (tonnes/$ millions of net revenue) Specification for the Environment (GSE). systems products. • Working with and guiding our suppliers Personal systems Printers on replacing substances of concern HP contributes to standards, legislation, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 with environmentally preferable and improved approaches to materials use Metal 4.5 3.6 3.0 2.6 2.8 14.7 15.4 17.6 17.0 14.8 alternatives. As of 2018, 98.5% of the in the IT sector. We participate in Green Plastic 1.9 1.5 1.6 1.4 1.5 28.0 30.9 33.8 31.6 28.0 total mass of HP products consists America’s Clean Electronics Production Wires/cables 0.8 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.4 of chemicals and materials that are Network (CEPN), and during 2018 worked PCAs 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 1.7 1.7 2.0 2.3 2.0 considered safer alternatives. 7 with CEPN to streamline and refine our ** ** ** ** ** alternative materials assessment guide, LCDs 1.4 1.2 1.8 1.3 1.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 When exploring safer alternatives to materials ** ** ** ** ** ** ** which we are donating to the industry. We Batteries 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 currently in use, we follow a precautionary are also involved in several projects under Total 9.4 7.7 7.7 6.3 *** 6.6 44.8 48.4 53.9 51.3 45.2 approach. We follow the National Academies Clean Production Action, including the of Science publication A Framework to * Personal systems and printer values are based on individual product data. Estimates for printer volumes do not include Business-NGO Working Group (BizNGO) and graphic arts, industrial, web press printers, scanners, or ink or toner cartridges. Product data for personal systems is based on Guide Selection of Chemical Alternatives and calendar year for 2014–2015 and 2018, and fiscal year for 2016–2017. Product data for printers is based on calendar year for the Chemical Footprint Project (CFP). 2014–2015 and fiscal year for 2016–2018. Net revenue data is based on HP’s fiscal year. In some cases, segments do not add incorporate the GreenScreen® for Safer up to total due to rounding. Chemicals methodology. ** This value is stated as 0.0 due to rounding. ***This total was updated to correct a calculation error stated in the HP 2017 Sustainable Impact Report. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 109 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Increase recycled content Ink and toner cartridges Through 2018, the program: fiber where available. Programme for the We use a variety of plastics recycled from • Recovered 694 tonnes of recycled plastic Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) We are both a supplier and user of recovered certification or relevant national certification the HP Planet Partners recycling program to resin from recycled electronics for use in materials, incorporating increasing amounts schemes can also be used if they comply manufacture new HP ink and toner cartridges. our printers (in addition to 2,276 tonnes of recycled and recyclable content into with our paper policy. We work with WWF See how HP ink cartridges get recycled. recovered from other strategic recycling new HP products. This helps to accelerate Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN) – partners) the development of recovered materials Through 2018, we manufactured over North America, FSC, and our suppliers to • Supported increased printer sales at markets around the world, which supports 4.2 billion HP ink and toner cartridges determine the source of virgin fiber and to participating Best Buy stores progress toward a circular economy. using more than a cumulative 107,000 increase the amount of certified fiber. HP • Reduced supply chain costs tonnes of recycled plastic. This has kept reports progress annually to the WWF GFTN Since 2016, we have also helped to reduce 830 million HP cartridges and an estimated In 2018, we worked to further expand and and CDP forests program. ocean-bound plastic while benefiting local 101 million apparel hangers and 4.37 billion refine our RCP supply chain to support communities through our sourcing initiative The paper used by our customers in HP postconsumer plastic bottles out of increased RCP use in HP products in 2019 in Haiti. products represents about 21% of our landfills, instead upcycling these materials and beyond. postconsumer recycled for continued use. More than 80% of our carbon footprint and 35% of our water content plastic goal Original HP ink cartridges contain 45–70% Learn how we gain more value from footprint. We help customers print more Use 30% postconsumer recycled content postconsumer recycled content, and 100% materials through our product repair, reuse, responsibly by designing printers and plastic across HP’s personal systems and and recycling programs. software to optimize paper use, defaulting of Original HP toner cartridges12 contain print product portfolio by 2025.11 many print fleets to double-sided printing, 5–45% post-consumer or postindustrial reducing paper waste through HP Managed progress through 2018 recycled content. Paper 7% Print Services, and improving the recyclability We help customers print more sustainably of paper by developing solutions for paper Hardware by responsibly sourcing the paper we sell, de-inking. See Zero deforestation. We continue to use recycled content plastic achieved facilitating more efficient paper use, and (RCP) in our personal systems and printers— collaborating across the paper industry to HP brand paper represents 61% of HP fiber 13,150 tonnes total in 2018. encourage best practices. In our operations, tonnage. Since 2016, we have met our zero Recycled plastic used we apply these principles through our deforestation goal for HP brand paper, as it Through our closed-loop recycling program in HP products Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy, is derived entirely from certified and recycled for hardware, customers can return used tonnes the first forestry policy published by an sources.13 In 2018, the amount of FSC electronic products to any one of about IT company. We require our suppliers and certified fiber in HP brand paper continued Product group 2017 2018 1,000 Best Buy stores in the United States. licensees to follow this policy for the paper to exceed 55%, by weight. Personal systems 8,080 8,360 Customers who return printers receive a 15% discount off a new HP inkjet printer. Best Buy and packaging they provide. Printers 1,260 4,790 Paper-based product packaging represents recyclers process returned hardware and HP ink cartridges 5,901 5,354 To achieve our zero deforestation goal, all 39% of HP fiber tonnage. In 2018, we: recover postconsumer recycled plastic resin HP toner cartridges 2,921 2,746 HP brand paper and paper-based packaging • Expanded our program to include sub-tier for HP to use in new HP ENVY Photo 6200, Total 18,160 * 21,250 must be derived from recycled and certified packaging suppliers. 7100, and 7800 Printers. sources. We continue to give preference to • Held about 15 meetings and training * Total does not equal sum of segments due to rounding. Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®)-certified sessions with sub-tier suppliers, contract HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 110 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix manufacturers, and original design documents in HP Chromebooks by removing manufacturers, to support suppliers in HP paper impacts, 2018 HP brand paper and packaging and streamlining regulatory guides and meeting our requirements. HP paper impacts, 2017 tonnes fiber sourcing, 2018 warranty cards where not legally required. • Completed assessment of the status for 152,900 2% 12% During the year, we developed innovations 100% of HP’s first-tier packaging suppliers 236,800 Paper-based packaging Non-certified Limited knowledge HP printer and use for HP products* fiber to reduce our use of virgin plastic bags. of source and 55% of contract manufacturers and copier paper sold We replaced the traditional bag on the original design manufacturers who source Envy 7800 printer with thin shrink film, packaging from sub-tier suppliers. avoiding 79 tonnes of plastic bags. HP zero deforestation goal also introduced an innovative double layer Achieve zero deforestation associated plastic bag for the Envy 5055 printer. The with HP brand paper and paper-based solution bonds two bags (virgin plastic product packaging by 202014 on the inside and RCP on the outside) to 14% 72% 5,000,000 Recycled fiber Certifed fiber increase RCP use while maintaining the progress through 2018 Paper use in HP printers smooth surface of the virgin material that 100% achieved for HP brand paper in 2016 and * Does not include packaging for commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, or documentation for any products. touches the product, to avoid scratching. Our efforts extend beyond the package. maintained that performance through During the year, HP used 88,000 pallets 2018. Reached 65% for paper-based made from over 3,500 tonnes of straw product packaging that would otherwise have been burned as Packaging Omen Notebooks and more than 600,000 agricultural waste. Further, sourcing recycled • Identified corrective actions to address by desktop personal systems during 2018, Our environmental packaging strategy pallets in North America enabled HP to avoid the end of 2019. and plan to extend this approach to the focuses on elimination, innovation, and 571,000 new pallets in 2018. majority of our commercial desktops and We analyze our supply chain to understand circulation, to enhance customer experience notebooks. This eliminates most of the During 2019, we plan to further increase areas of specific risk (due to weak while driving progress toward the circular plastic foam from the package, and during our emphasis on recyclability and recycled regulation or biodiversity risks) and create economy. We are making progress toward the year avoided 115 tonnes of plastic while content, reduce use of plastic foam specific strategies as needed. To further our goal to produce 100% of paper-based increasing recycled fiber use by nearly cushioning and smaller plastic packaging support our goal related to packaging, product packaging from certified and 240 tonnes. We expect to make similar components, and increase use of certified we are working with WWF to develop a recycled sources by 2020 (see Paper for improvements to printer and displays fiber-based packaging. conformance assurance program. This will progress). We offer packaging take-back packaging in the coming years. complement fiber certification and enhance services, and regularly update our Recycle due diligence by identifying high-level your HP packaging guide to help consumers By using ultra lightweight Semi-Chem country risks including deforestation, forest avoid landfill. paper for cartons, we saved more than loss, corruption, and illegal harvesting or 1,200 tonnes of corrugated notebook and To reduce our use of plastic, foam, and desktop packaging in 2018. We also focus on trading of timber. hard-to-recycle materials, we implemented documentation included in the box. During molded fiber cushions on about 500,000 the year, we eliminated up to 65% of printed HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 111 Executive summary Sustainable Impact CO2 Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Packaging innovation in 2018 Product responsibility IN OV N AT IO N RE LI AB IL IT Y 30 2,000 We are committed to the safety, security, and privacy of our customers when they use Regardless of where they are sold, all HP branded products conform to tonnes BILI innovative projects HP products. The company maintains high international electrical safety and CO TY ST reducing environmental SU ST AINA impact of material reduced standards in these areas, and continues to electromagnetic compatibility standards. innovate across our portfolio. View Declarations of Conformity for European Union requirements. Contact 6,500 $9.3 HP’s product compliance customer support $ Product safety at techregshelp@hp.com regarding declarations for other countries. CO2 tonnes CO2e avoided million saved HP products are designed to operate safely. All HP branded electrical products undergo In 2018, focus areas included: • Materials of concern: We take a scienceevaluations and testing to ensure that they meet our safety standards and the external based approach to evaluating and 15,500 standard IEC 62368-1. We work to identify restricting chemicals and materials in HP’s opportunities for ongoing improvement in products and supply chain. See Materials this area. We share extensive product safety innovation. tonnes information online to support our customers’ informed purchasing decisions. • Battery safety: Our cross-functional team works to assess and continually of recycled content material used improve rechargeable battery safety. Safety Data Sheets are available for HP formulated products, including inks, toners, and 3D powders and bonding agents, and provide information such as physical, chemical, and toxicological properties, regulatory details, and recommendations to ensure safe handling. Many HP products also $ qualify for eco-labels and other certifications that cover health and safety as well as environmental aspects. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 112 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Product security members have first-hand expertise in the world of hacking and the latest developments Personal systems To help HP Device as a Service (DaaS) customers better protect against, understand, and privacy in security technology and strategies. HP produces the world’s most secure and manageable PCs and workstations.1 and respond to threats, we offer HP DaaS Proactive Security. 8 This service delivers We continually conduct threat analysis on Our commercial PCs with HP Sure Start enhanced security through real-time threat Cybersecurity is an increasing concern of emerging attack vectors, which in turn helps meet and exceed the National Institute of isolation technology, protecting against our customers worldwide. We continually guide product security development efforts. Standards and Technology’s (NIST) Platform malware introduced through email, browsers, enhance HP products, solutions, and We employ cybersecurity specialists and Firmware Resiliency Guidelines. and files, and extends the insights and reports services to offer industry-leading resiliency conduct cybersecurity architecture reviews, provided by HP TechPulse analytics. capabilities that anticipate an ever-evolving The HP Endpoint Security Controller (ESC) penetration testing, code reviews, and attack and threat landscape. is our foundation and has been certified by automated code scanning using industryHP offers manageability solutions for both leading tools. When issues arise, we take a third-party lab. It establishes a Hardware enterprises and small businesses. We follow security and privacy by design appropriate actions to remediate reported Root of Trust and is physically isolated from principles for all our products, from design security vulnerabilities. the machine’s CPU and operating system Learn more. through customer use, refurbishment, and (OS), providing resiliency to the device BIOS, recycling. We build protection, detection, and recovery into the device, not just In 2018, we adopted the industry best OS, and critical OS applications. HP also Printers practice Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure uses an industry standards-based discrete the software, providing customers with HP’s printers and multifunction printers offer approach, which describes how we work Trusted Platform Module, certified to separate, auditable mechanisms for the industry’s strongest security features, 9 with partners, industry, and the security Common Criteria EAL4+. managing security risks. To protect against and our FutureSmart printers meet and community to address vulnerabilities. When the malware of the future, PCs and printers HP Sure Start 2 automatically recovers exceed the NIST Platform Firmware notified about a suspected vulnerability, we must have hardware-level security that firmware to a known good state, and HP Sure Resiliency Guidelines. investigate thoroughly and, if confirmed, integrates seamlessly with the customers’ Recover3 provides automatic, fast recovery work with the submitter on remediation and broader IT network security infrastructure. against destructive attacks. To ensure critical HP FutureSmart printers automatically selfa coordinated public release of information. This is the foundation of our strategy. security features cannot be accidentally or heal and recover from attacks, following four The HP supply chain security group works to maliciously disabled, HP Sure Run 4 delivers unique and automated steps: HP’s Security Management Review ensure that our products can resist attacks cryptographically verified persistence. • HP Sure Start validates the BIOS and, Committee oversees our portfolio-wide throughout the supply chain life cycle, from if compromised, self-heals with a safe approach to security and provides the HP Sure Click 5 provides hardware-based component sourcing and manufacturing “golden copy.” resources needed to support HP’s continued isolation for malware delivered through to transportation, service, and take-back. • Whitelisting authenticates that the leadership. An external Security Advisory websites or common attachments. Our HP Product Cybersecurity Standard firmware is authentic and has not been Board, consisting of three members with Harnessing Deep Learning technology, HP for Suppliers, enforced through periodic tampered with before running it. broad background in offensive and defensive Sure Sense6 delivers real-time prevention audits, contractually holds all suppliers • Run-time intrusion detection continually security, advises us of the ever-changing against never-before-seen malware. to requirements that mitigate the risks of monitors memory activity to detect and threat landscape, augmenting our own work To address visual hacking of onscreen counterfeits, malware, and tampering. stop attacks, and then recover the device and research through HP Labs. All three confidential data, HP Sure View7 is offered to a secure state. across many notebook PCs, AiO desktops, and displays. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 113 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Products and solutions portfolio • HP Connection Inspector analyzes outgoing network connections to stop suspicious traffic, and if necessary, recover the device to a secure state. HP aims to deliver technology that Our bug bounty program for printing devices, improves lives and enables our customers Investing in R&D launched in 2018, offers rewards for bug and consumers to achieve more, safely, and bounty researchers who expose flaws in our with less environmental impact. Through HP is reinventing the future through At HP Labs, we focus on new print technology. This initiative integrates our portfolio of products and services, we transformative technologies that will technologies that will either result in and leverages highly trained, geographically create shared value for planet, people, and disrupt industries and economies new business creation, fundamental diverse ethical hackers with deep, hardthe communities where we live, work, and around the world. breakthroughs in science, or new to-find technical skills and unleashes them do business. product categories. Key areas of to find obscure, previously unidentified • From laptops and workstations to gaming In 2018, HP spent $1.4 billion on ongoing research include: vulnerabilities in our devices before they are and VR devices, we design our personal product development and creating • Artificial Intelligence and emerging released to market. systems products and services to provide the transformative and disruptive compute customers the security, durability, and technologies of the future. We invest in HP JetAdvantage Security Manager is the • Print adjacencies and microfluidics energy and materials efficiency they areas where we can make the greatest industry’s only comprehensive policyimpact, and we integrate sustainability • Security expect and depend on. based printer security compliance tool that into our research agenda. Read more at • 3D printing assesses and remediates HP printer fleets. • As the global leader in home and office hpmegatrends.com. • Digital manufacturing For security administrators in 2018, HP printing solutions, we continue to redefine strengthened our position as the easiest the marketplace, delivering sustainable The vast majority of our R&D spending is As of October 31, 2018, HP’s worldwide print fleet to secure and manage with new next generation solutions and servicefocused on inventions and development patent portfolio included over 26,000 integrations including Microsoft System based models to meet the needs of our for products that will be released in the patents. Center Configuration Manager and McAfee Δ customers globally. next one to two years. The remaining See Personal systems, Home and office SIEM, which complement our existing • Our commercial and industrial graphics amount is roughly split in two areas. The printing solutions, Commercial and certified integrations with Splunk, ArcSight, printing solutions are driving the analogfirst part is dedicated to new business industrial graphics printing solutions, and and SIEMonster tools. to-digital revolution, transforming our creation (including 3D printing and 3D printing for examples of innovation in customers’ supply chains and better microfluidics). The rest is spread across HP Print Security Services—combined with each of our product groups. matching supply with demand across the HP Labs and the business units for innovative device, data, and document 2D printing and publishing industries, as developing technologies that will mature security—helps customers protect their well as other commercial and industrial over the following three to seven years. fleets, address compliance requirements, sectors such as packaging and labeling. and proactively identify gaps in defenses. Our • HP 3D printing technology is driving Credentialed Security Experts and trained print transformation across sectors, changing specialists work with customers to assess their how whole industries design, make, and printing environment, develop and implement distribute products for a more sustainable a plan, and provide ongoing management. Fourth Industrial Revolution. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 114 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Personal systems Driven by HP’s Design for Sustainability program and the pursuit of EPEAT 2019 Energy efficiency Dematerialization Gold, HP’s engineers designed several The ongoing transition to smaller personal and recycled content From our commercial and consumer systems products continues to reduce improvements into the HP EliteBook x360 We have continued working to shift our desktop and notebook personal computers energy use and associated GHG emissions. 1030 G3, HP Elite x2 1030 G3 Tablet and portfolio toward more materials-efficient to workstations, thin clients, displays, Since 2010, the energy consumption of HP HP EliteDesk 800 G4 65W Desktop Mini products. For example, we reduced the and other products, HP Personal Systems personal systems products dropped by PC. These improvements include using weight of our HP 800 G5 notebooks compared continues to deliver the breakthrough 44%, on average.1 Between 2011 and 2018, high-efficiency external power supplies with the prior G4 series and moved from a innovations in productivity, security, we reduced the annual energy consumption and replacing specific chemicals of concern magnesium/aluminum/plastic chassis to a durability, upgradeability, and environmental of HP EliteBook 840 or equivalent by 26% with safer alternatives. HP looked beyond primarily aluminum chassis—to facilitate performance that our commercial and and HP EliteDesk 800 small form factor the products to reduce the environmental materials recycling and reuse, and to lower the home users demand. Through growth in desktops by 42%. In 2018, 10 Elite Displays footprint of our own operations and those product carbon footprint. Although materials key industry verticals, including education made the ENERGY STAR® most efficient of our suppliers, actions that also achieved use intensity in personal systems increased by and healthcare, and through emerging list, and we successfully completed the optional EPEAT criteria. For example, HP 5% in 2018 compared to the prior year, it has product categories, such as blended and transition to ENERGY STAR 7.1. This standard worked with our top display panel and decreased 14% versus 2016. virtual reality and gaming, we are expanding tightens the requirements for all notebooks, integrated circuit suppliers to reduce their opportunities for end users to create, yet we were able to maintain ENERGY STAR We are also working to increase the use of GHG emissions. HP also achieved 95% innovate, and inspire. certification for the majority of our portfolio. postconsumer recycled (PCR) plastic in our renewable electricity use for seven key HP Personal Systems sites. During the year, 100% of HP business personal systems portfolio. As one example, Sustainable standards desktops used high-efficiency (ECOVA 80+) our HP 400 G5/G6 ProBook series, launched and certifications See the complete and growing list of HP internal power supplies. in November 2018, has more than 10% PCR products registered under the updated plastic compared with no recycled plastic HP is fully committed to product development content in the prior generation. HP Elite EPEAT 2019 eco-label criteria at the gold and in line with a range of exacting, third-party silver tiers. Reduction in energy displays, which meet criteria for TCO Edge eco-label requirements. We share our leading consumption of HP personal certification, contain around 85% PCR plastic practices across the industry, including Leading on TCO certification systems products content. 2 During 2018, more than 15% of the contributing to standards development. From % decrease since 2010 We also became the first company with TCOtotal plastic that HP shipped in its personal 2014–2018, HP helped revise IEEE 1680.1, the systems products was postconsumer certified products across all our platforms, standard used for EPEAT® in PCs and displays. 2010 2015 2016 2017 2018 and we supported the development of the recycled content, equivalent to 8,360 tonnes. Desktops n/a 49% 47% new TCO-certified for business notebooks Our business PCs and displays include 24% World’s first Gold and Silver and business desktops. Launched in Notebooks n/a 32% 34% recycled plastic content, on average. 3 EPEAT 2019 personal systems December 2018, we were one of only four Workstations n/a 36% 34% products In February 2019, HP achieved an important companies with products certified for this Overall n/a 25% 34% 43% 44% Durability and eighth-generation standard. See Product milestone by becoming the world’s first certifications and disclosures. repairability manufacturer to register EPEAT 2019 Gold We design our products to be highly and Silver Desktops, Notebooks, All in ones, durable and easy to repair, and we extend Workstations, and Thin Clients. the life of our personal systems through HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 115 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix refurbishment programs. This benefits models, while avoiding the up-front costs to customer policies for device end-ofprint experiences of tomorrow. Sustainable customers while capturing more value of purchasing. In 2019, we completed a use management and supporting social Impact is at the heart of our innovation, from natural resources and reducing preliminary LCA comparing HP’s DaaS initiatives and environmental directives. creating new possibilities for our customers environmental footprint. We test the quality offering for commercial PCs with traditional • HP Sanitization Services: Ensuring and supporting the drive toward greater and durability of our Pro and Elite business transactional sales offerings. Learn more. confidential data is secured and erased, energy efficiency, lower carbon footprint, notebooks, Elite business desktops and or the storage media is destroyed, before and reduced waste. all-in-ones, and select thin clients using Life cycle management removing or recycling customers’ old devices. the rigorous MIL-STD-810G standard. For Through our closed-loop recycling program When HP products reach end of use, we offer further details, see our technical white for hardware, customers can return used Vision for a forest positive future paper, Testing the business ruggedness and a range of options for enterprise customers electronic products to any one of about In March 2019, HP announced its bold vision reliability of HP Business PCs. and consumers to properly return, renew, 1,000 Best Buy stores in the United States. for print sustainability—pledging to make refurbish, or recycle products and materials. Learn more. printing with HP forest positive, carbon Several HP products have received high Through these activities, we are helping scores from the iFixit product repair site, to grow the supply chain and market for neutral, and part of a circular economy. See additional examples of Eco Solutions including the following: recycled materials and make progress Our Forest Positive Framework 5 will initially personal systems products. toward a circular economy business model. focus on consumer printing. In addition, our • In 2018, we launched the HP Elite x2 1013 Print business is concentrating its current G3, an EPEAT® Gold tablet with an iFixit HP’s Recover and Renew Services are a key circular economy efforts on increasing the repairability rating of 9 out of 10. HP education products support our goal element of life cycle management, providing use of recycled content, in line with our goal • In early 2018, the EliteBook 800 G5 to deliver better learning outcomes for comprehensive solutions to securely to use 30% postconsumer recycled content Business Notebook series received a 10 students, schools, and communities recover, repurpose, or recycle our business plastic across HP’s personal systems out of 10 iFixit repairability score. worldwide. Our HP Education Edition customers’ HP or non-HP devices when they and print product portfolio by 2025. 6 We devices are built for the classroom, Following our HP EliteOne 1000 G1 in 2017— reach end of use. are also accelerating the transition to endure rigorous durability testing, and our most serviceable AiO —our HP EliteOne 4 more sustainable fiber-based packaging, • HP Device Recovery Services: Securely meet strict battery life requirements. See already deployed in several of our products 1000 G2 Base Desktop PC is our first desktop retiring, collecting, and responsibly Global education programs. with an upgradeable PC base and display. including HP Tango printers. processing end-of-use devices enables This enables customers to upgrade and recovery and reuse of as much material as reconfigure flexibly by keeping their display from the G1 series. possible, giving the device a new purpose, extending its lifespan, and reducing Printing Home and office negative environmental impact. Customers Building on the industry’s most complete printing solutions Device as a Service receive residual value, a certificate of portfolio of innovative printing solutions, HP As the global leader in home and office Our expanding personal systems Device data sanitization, a report detailing the is capitalizing on digital trends that will make printing, we continue to redefine the as a Service (DaaS) offering provides environmental benefits, and peace of mind print even more sustainable, accessible, marketplace, delivering next generation customers the latest HP technology while that relevant requirements and regulations relevant, and personal. From home and solutions and service-based models that improving cost predictability and enhancing governing disposal have been met. office to commercial and industrial graphics meet and anticipate customers’ needs. productivity. Business customers can upgrade • HP Recycling Services: Enabling a smooth printing, HP is creating the products, For the home and office user, HP offers a their products to the latest and most efficient transition to new devices while adhering services, and solutions that will define the powerful range of home and office printing HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 116 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix products and solutions. Across our portfolio, 20–30% by weight. We also increased the A3 PageWide products are EPEAT Gold keep printing equipment in use for longer. we continue to deliver innovations to improve amount of recycled plastic in HP Envy 6255 registered and all contain at least 6% and up Preparation for remarketing includes testing performance while reducing use of plastic, Photo Printer sold at Best Buy to more than to 10% recycled plastic content. In 2018, HP and secure data cleansing, while nonother materials, and energy. We responsibly 30% by weight. introduced additional A3 printers, bringing functional equipment is recycled responsibly source the paper we sell and design printing these benefits to a broader set of customers. in accordance with HP policies. and software to optimize paper use, including HP Tango: A smart, more sustainable home printer We design our products to be sensitive to our through duplexing technologies. HP print cartridges In 2018, we launched the HP Tango, an customers’ working environments. To satisfy HP designs its products and services to help We are making significant investments interconnected and interoperable voice demanding particle requirements that our customers reduce materials use. Our focus to increase recycled plastic resin in our activated printer. Designed with recyclability customers might have, we commissioned on larger supplies yield, our continuous ink products and used 4,790 tonnes in our home in mind, we have minimized the number additional, independent cleanroom testing supply system (CISS), and HP Instant Ink all and office printer fleet in 2018, about 3.8 of materials and made it easy to separate based on the ISO 14644-14:2016 standard. decrease the amount of printer cartridge times the amount the prior year. Between dissimilar substances. High-priority parts are The testing was designed to determine material used per page printed and help 2017 and 2018, we reduced materials simple to disassemble and repair. The printer whether the printer contributes to particle customers be productive with a lower use intensity in our printers by 12%. See is made with more than 30% closed-loop contamination in environments with rigorous environmental footprint. Materials innovation. recycled plastic by weight using plastic from cleanliness standards. HP A3 PageWide recycled printers and other electronics, and printers meet at least the standard for ISO HP’s groundbreaking closed-loop recycling HP is a leader in eco-label-certified home Class 7.0 cleanrooms, when operated with its Original HP cartridges include 48–73% program uses plastic from recycled Original HP and office printing products. See product Original HP cartridges. recycled plastic. HP Tango is ENERGY STAR® cartridges (plus recycled bottles and hangers certifications and disclosures. and EPEAT® Gold certified. HP Tango uses for ink cartridges) to create new Original HP See additional examples of Eco Solutions In 2018, we completed or updated 22 recycled molded pulp packaging cushions cartridges.11 See Closing the loop on plastics. printing products. life cycle assessments of HP desktop and high recycled-content corrugated cartons, reducing plastic foam use by an Innovation in product delivery also improves and enterprise printers. These help us to estimated 22 tonnes in 2018–2019. This Product-as-a-service environmental performance. HP Instant Ink understand the environmental impacts of demonstrates our ongoing shift toward Our product-as-a-service printing solutions helps home users and microbusinesses in our products and solutions and inform our more sustainable fiber-based packaging in provide customers with the up-to-date 18 countries remain productive by ensuring sustainable design decisions. HP personal systems and print products. technology they need, when they need it. At they never run out of ink.12 The service the same time, this business model helps anticipates when ink is running low and Product innovation keep products, components, and materials sends replenishments and new recycling HP A3 PageWide: Best-in-class energy HP ENVY photo printers: The world’s first performance operating at a high level for as long as possible. envelopes straight to our customers’ doors. in-class printers made with closed-loop In addition to the benefit of convenience, our HP A3 PageWide printers and multifunction recycled plastic HP Managed Print Services (MPS) helps printers use up to 70% less energy than 8 customers also save money—up to 50% on HP ENVY 6200, 7100, and 7800 are the clients manage and optimize their printer ink 13 —while decreasing the carbon footprint comparable laser printers and reduce world’s first in-class printers made from fleets and digital workflows, by combining of ink purchase and disposal by 84%, carbon footprint by up to 45%.9 By using recycled printers and other electronics – hardware, supplies, software, and consulting reducing energy use by 86%, and lowering HP Original PageWide cartridges, they also more than 10% by weight.7 In 2018, we and management services. By servicing and water usage by 89%.14 use up to 77% less materials from supplies increased the recycled content plastic in maintaining printer fleets, and refurbishing and packaging per printed page.10 Many some HP ENVY photo printer models to and redeploying units as feasible, we HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 117 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Commercial and Imitation cartridges failed relevant indoor air quality (IAQ) tests and may Circular economy contribute to poor indoor air quality* and potential negative effects** industrial graphics leadership printing solutions HP has been recognized by the For commercial and industrial customers, Sustainable Purchasing Leadership up to up to up to HP’s printing technology is designed for Council for an initiative to facilitate circular economy principles in EU Imitation 53% 60% 130% sustainability, quality, workplace safety, and cost. The shift from analog to digital over allowed over allowed over allowed public sector procurement. cartridges emit* limits* of styrene limits* of particles limits* of VOCs production in the printing, publishing, HP developed easy-to-use key packaging, and labeling sectors presents procurement criteria that create a HP cartridges produce opportunities to reduce waste due to the results below indoor air level playing field for all legal printer elimination of printing plates, make-readies, quality limits* cartridges and that are verifiable Volatile organic and intensive cleaning cycles associated Styrene Particles compounds (VOCs) using international standards and with analog printing. Additionally, more eco-labels. The recommended * Dec 2017 WKI Blue Angel Indoor Air Quality compliance study, commissioned by HP. The study tested New Build Compatible agile and on-demand printing, with costcriteria cover compliance; toner cartridge brands sold as substitutes for HP LaserJet Pro MFP M425dn with cartridge 280A. The tests were carried out efficient short runs, also reduces inventory in compliance with Blue Angel labeling of office equipment in accordance with RAL-UZ-205P. For details, see http://h20195. environmental, health, and safety; www2.hp.com/v2/getpdf.aspx/4AA7-1981ENW.pdf. waste, which enables companies to engage ** https://echa.europa.eu/substance-information/-/substanceinfo/100.002.592, https://www.eea.europa.eu/signals/ and quality and reliability. with consumers in new and exciting ways, signals-2013/articles/indoor-air-quality, https://www.epa.gov/indoor-air-quality-iaq/introduction-indoor-air-quality including through customized and quicker-tomarket printed products. Throughout the last two decades, HP has continually extended the benefits of this transformation into new Original HP toner cartridges: A more transparent sustainability program, whereas impact than Original HP toner cartridges industries and applications (see graphic on responsible choice than imitation cartridges manufacturers of imitation cartridges don’t in all study areas over their lifetime, next page). Original HP toner cartridges provide offer convenient recycling programs. including 40% more energy usage, 54% environmental advantages over imitation more fossil fuels consumed, and a 55% We offer one of the most complete portfolios Three independent studies we commissioned larger carbon footprint. 20 cartridges. They meet relevant EPEAT® 15 of commercial and industrial print and were published in December 2017 (the first and Blue Angel guidelines on air emissions, • The third study concluded that up to imaging technologies, supported by the bullet) and 2018 (the other two bullets): and help protect indoor air quality as part of 97% of all imitation cartridges will go industry’s best security, workflow, mobility, a certified printing system, requiring fewer to municipal waste rather than being and fleet management solutions. Our • One study outlined indoor air quality reprints16 and service calls,17 and producing recycled, due to a lack of manufacturer service-based offerings and comprehensive advantages of Original HP toner lower GHG emissions.18 In addition, HP recycling and remanufacturing processes.21 repair, reuse, recycling, and end-of-service cartridges compared to imitation cartridges can be recycled responsibly solutions enable customers to deliver more cartridges (see graphic). 19 through the HP Planet Partners program sustainable results and drive progress • The second study found that imitation and are backed by HP’s rigorous and toward a circular economy. cartridges had a larger environmental HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 118 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix During 2018, we also launched the EH&S leadership for print Driving the analog-to-digital shift in commercial printing and new generation of HP Latex inks, which service providers and brands the transformation to water-based inks extends the benefits of water-based Our printing presses offer significant inks to rigid applications. This market, benefits to print service providers and their traditionally dominated by UV ink, now has workers. Based on a recent internal study, Food contact materials Latex Textiles a better alternative not reliant on reactive (packaging, HP’s digital water-based presses showed (signage) product identification) chemistries. significant reductions in waste, water use, and air emissions when compared to analog Clean colorant technology printing presses (including flexographic, ...and creating benefits across the printing value chain For more than 20 years and as part of HP’s lithographic, and rotogravure technologies). • Employee/operator safety long-standing Design for Sustainability Our low emission, water-based ink Printing service providers • Less waste and air emissions program, HP has gone beyond legal chemistries decrease the chance for worker requirements to define and apply our own exposure to potentially harmful substances. • Safe uses: HP expertise strict safety criteria to ink formulations. Automated color calibrations, minimal Brands • Sustainability and regulatory support, e.g, eco-labels One priority area is ongoing research and mechanical interaction, and minimal • Supply chain safety and transparency development on colorants. This is an increasing cleaning can also contribute to improved focus among eco-labels and brands, due to worker health and safety. • Safety Customers associated health and safety considerations. • Sustainable printing and packaging In 2018, we tested the HP T1100 Web Press Safety compliance in sensitive applications to EPA Method 25A for total volatile organic Design for Sustainability areas that have traditionally required more As a leader in printing solutions and inks, we compound (VOC) air emissions. The test hazardous materials. In April 2019, we enable customers that use our PageWide confirmed low VOC emissions from our waterWater-based inks announced our HP Stitch textile printer series, Industrial and Indigo Presses and Specialty based inks and demonstrated compliance Water-based inks offer a range of benefits, with California Best Available Control our water-based digital textiles solution. Printing Systems products to deliver robust particularly when designed with Technology requirements. safety compliance and transparency sustainability in mind. Positive features In 2017 and 2018, we introduced PageWide in sensitive applications such as food include low odor, easy handling and cleanup, true water-based inks for corrugated packaging, signage, and decoration. Across Compostable, recyclable use of prioritized, lower hazard materials, packaging applications, in compliance with our graphics printing solutions business, we printing solutions and, for specific inks, suitability for sensitive leading food safety standards. In addition provide HP customers with summaries of Most inks are not biodegradable or applications such as food packaging, signage to primary and secondary food packaging, regulatory compliance and environmental compostable, but this is increasingly in restaurants or schools, and children’s these inks are also used for other types of attributes. These cover dimensions such important in order to meet growing demand books. Developing new inks with lower product packaging, including cosmetics and as chemical inventory status, regulated for compostable packaging. As part of HP’s hazard components provides a better personal care, infant care, and toys. materials, emissions, human and ecological testing and certification program, HP Indigo solution for printer operators, end customers, health, transportation, waste, de-inkability, ElectroInk underwent chemical analysis and and the environment. We continue to invest suitability for special applications (such as plant toxicity tests and has been independently in water-based technologies to extend the food packaging), and recyclability. certified as compostable in conformance range of printing applications, including in with the EN 13432 standard. In 2018, HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 119 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Papiertechnische Stiftung (PTS) of Germany reuse products. This transformation will early customers to develop and prove impacts of manufacturing a plastic auto part verified that corrugated packaging printed with drive progress toward a more sustainable the capability to economically recover using HP Jet Fusion 3D printing compared to our PageWide true water-based inks is easily and inclusive Fourth Industrial Revolution, and recycle scrap 3D printed parts from injection molding. The study found that Jet recyclable using standard industry technology. in which people can turn ideas into finished customers into materials for injection Fusion reduces GHG emissions and resource products in a more efficient, economical, and molding. This complements our HP Planet consumption per unit at volumes up to 1,500 Product certifications and environmentally responsible way. Partners program which offers free recycling parts for one type of plastic and up to 5,200 brand guidance of 3D print cartridges. 25 parts for another. This is due to avoiding the In 2018, HP launched the Multi Jet Fusion 3D need to produce molds as well as the ability To demonstrate strong health, safety, and 500/300 series, its newest generation of 3D One of our newest 3D printing materials to create more materials-efficient designs, environmental performance, we design our printers. These integrate material mixing and (PA11), launched in 2018, is a 100% biosuch as honeycomb structures, which can presses and inks to qualify for a range of ecoloading, printing, and reclaiming material based content polymer derived from nononly be realized with additive manufacturing. labels. UL ECOLOGO®, which covers a broad in one machine, which makes it ideal for GMO castor bean oil. A 2017 ISO14040/44These parts also demonstrate the potential range of dimensions, relates to water-based small/medium-sized product development compliant LCA demonstrated that parts value of reducing GHG emissions over a car’s inks. GREENGUARD GOLD relates to Latex inks teams, design firms, and universities. These made with PA11 had a 28% lower carbon lifetime through light weighting. and specific applications such as wallpaper. products complement the company’s footprint compared with other polymers. Oeko-Tex certifies strong performance in industrial-scale printers, which are used for textiles printing. Relevant HP products qualify More comfortable for each of these certifications. prototyping and final part production. Reducing GHG workplace HP product stewards work directly with HP is also collaborating with production emissions and waste In a recent HP assessment, our Multi Jet service partners to provide customers with Compared to traditional manufacturing, our commercial customers in sectors such Fusion technology performed in the top level 3D printed stainless steel parts, using the HP 3D printing can drive lower GHG emissions as apparel, food, and consumer products, in eight of nine health and environmental Metal Jet printer. The technology, announced and waste throughout the product life to understand and meet the demands dimensions and better overall than specific in 2018, provides up to 50 times more cycle. HP commissioned an independent, of their industries and help improve the 3D printing systems in the other 3D printing productivity22 at a significantly lower cost 23 ISO-compliant, peer-reviewed life cycle sustainability performance of their brands. technologies assessed. 26 than other 3D printing methods. The Metal assessment in 2017 that compared the For example, our new textiles ink has been Jet Production Service will begin fulfilling tested to and proven compliant with the Nike production-grade orders in 2019. Restricted Substances List for health and environment and our food contact materials Healthcare innovation comply with the Nestlé guidelines. Materials innovation Production volumes for items such as medical devices and prosthetics are low, HP Jet Fusion 3D printers enable industrymaking them expensive to manufacture in traditional ways. 3D printing makes it leading surplus material reusability of up to 3D printing economically viable to create highly personalized parts in small quantities. 80%. 24 The thermoplastic materials used in our printers also offer potential for recycling iOrthotics, based in Australia, was the first orthotics manufacturer to completely HP’s 3D printing (also known as “additive of printed parts as the technology scales. transition from polypropylene milling to 3D printing. This faster method for making manufacturing”) technology has the customized orthotic devices that are significantly stronger reduces waste per unit by potential to transform how entire industries Supporting progress toward closedabout 90% compared to the previous process. design, make, distribute, use, repair, and loop systems, we are working with HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 120 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix HP Multi Jet Fusion technology supports a Investments in educational and job-skilling our goal during the year included: more comfortable workplace through an programs will be essential to prepare for Enable better learning outcomes • Harvard University: Using AR headsets enclosed printing system and automatic the radical shift in job requirements in this for 100 million people by 2025, provided by HP, faculty reinvented how since the beginning of 2015 materials management. 27 new digital industrial economy. In 2018, HP they teach students about magnetic fields launched the HP-NTU Digital Manufacturing progress through 2018 and electricity, creating an immersive HP is a leader in air emissions testing and 21 Corporate Lab in Singapore in partnership experience that enables students to exposure assessments for 3D printing with Nanyang Technological University, see segments of the electromagnetic systems, which we design to meet stringent Singapore (NTU Singapore), and the National spectrum outside the visible range. indoor and outdoor air quality standards. For example: Research Foundation (NRF) in Singapore. The Lab aims to drive innovation, technology, million+ • Case Western University: Professors used students and adult learners have benefited AR/VR technologies to augment traditional • HP Jet Fusion printers complete thirdskills, and economic development critical for from HP’s education programs and anatomy teaching. Students who used 3D party air emissions testing; results have the advancement of the Fourth Industrial solutions that advance quality learning and simulations learned the course material in shown that VOCs, aldehydes, and coarse, Revolution. In 2018, HP LIFE also launched digital literacy, and enable better learning 60% of the time compared with students fine, and ultrafine particles were well a 3D printing course module, to help outcomes since the beginning of 2015 who used cadavers. below occupational exposure limits (OELs). empower entrepreneurs to build businesses • Yale University: HP technology powered and pursue careers related to this new HP is creating conditions for better learning • All materials considered for use in the the university-wide Yale Blended technology. outcomes for all people, to advance printing process are pre-screened to Reality program, helping to transform inclusion, foster equity and equality, and identify formulation components that a diverse range of disciplines, from accelerate economic opportunity. Our may be substances of concern regarding Global education comparative literature to physics. programs and initiatives are either funded by airborne exposure. Professors and students leveraged new our business groups or the HP Foundation. • Individual VOC emissions levels measured during printing are typically one to two programs capabilities afforded by HP technology to remove barriers to learning, open orders of magnitude lower than the Access to a quality education is a fundamental Campus of the Future creative possibilities, improve student relevant OELs. HP’s Campus of the Future framework engagement, and reduce costs. See the human right. This belief is at the core of our creates vibrant, secure environments Blended Reality report. global education programs and solutions, Inclusive and which emphasize access for all and deliver for teaching, learning, research, and • Rice University: Through OpenStax, a nonprofit educational initiative based at sustainable Fourth educational opportunities to girls, women, collaboration. As part of this initiative, the university, we have announced plans to and some of the world’s most vulnerable and announced in 2018, HP is working with Industrial Revolution marginalized communities. Whether learning more than 20 elite colleges and universities, create an open source textbook on additive A distributed manufacturing model will takes place in school, on campus, outside providing cutting-edge technologies manufacturing to help prepare workers for enable economically viable production at of the classroom, or at work, technology is alongside financial and technical support. the Fourth Industrial Revolution. a smaller scale, lowering barriers to entry essential to providing equitable access to These collaborations are exploring the For more information, see Learning in Three and encouraging new business growth. 3D education and preparing people with critical types and uses of 3D printing (additive Dimensions: Report on the EDUCAUSE/HP printing also enables other innovations and skills needed for the future. manufacturing), virtual reality (VR), and Campus of the Future Project. applications such as critical infrastructure augmented reality (AR) to identify those repair. See our white paper on the technologies with the greatest potential for transformative potential of 3D printing. teaching, learning, and research. Innovations HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 121 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Classroom of the Future HP School Cloud Technology-enabled HP World on Wheels An estimated 65% of students in today’s HP School Cloud is a hybrid cloud appliance education for refugees mobile learning labs primary schools will work in jobs that don’t enabling students and teachers in rural, and displaced In India, HP is bringing self-contained, yet exist. We are reinventing the classroom poor, and marginalized communities to in ways that engage students and empower access free, high-quality open source populations Internet-enabled, solar-powered mobile learning labs to rural areas of the country. educators to prepare for the future. educational resources—even without an For people who have been uprooted and HP World on Wheels (WOW) supports digital Internet connection. Featuring the HP Open their educations and careers put on hold, literacy, education, entrepreneurship, and This includes driving innovative, experiential Learning Platform and in partnership with learning provides vital continuity and citizen services, aiming to provide access to learning with HP Learning Studios at more OpenStax, HP School Cloud provides access opportunity. Working with the United Nations more than 15 million people across 6,400 than 100 schools in 2018 across North to millions of e-textbooks and thousands of High Commissioner for Refugees and other Indian villages by 2022. Each 20-seat WOW America, Europe, the Middle East, Australia, lessons on reading, science, mathematics, partners, we have established three new vehicle is equipped with HP computing and and New Zealand. We are also working with and more. Resources are intended to align HP Learning Studios in the Middle East printing equipment, as well as software schools on AR and VR, opening the door with international curricular and instructional focused on enabling refugee youths to learn and e-learning tools. Since the rollout of 12 to immersive, project-based learning that standards from UNESCO, OECD, and others. HP in-demand skills to enhance employment WOW vehicles in rural India during 2017, we enables students to use essential tools of aims to reach 1 million learners by 2025. opportunities. We are planning to create have provided access to WOW resources to the future. three more HP Learning Studios in the region an estimated 2 million people across more HP also collaborates with Learning by 2020. See Local impact. We also offer tools and technologies that than 900 villages. 28 HP WOW complements Equality to create affordable and accessible boost teachers’ vital contributions. Every other HP initiatives—including HP LIFE educational solutions for schools that Windows 10-based HP Education Edition PC combine hardware and a learning HP LIFE and HP Future Classroom—to apply our ships pre-loaded with HP Classroom Manager. HP LIFE (Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs), technology to overcome power, space, management system based on free and Through one console, teachers can cultivate a a program of the HP Foundation, provides infrastructure, and equipment challenges in open source applications. collaborative learning environment, monitor free, anytime access to quality skills training rural communities. student activities, and evaluate progress in to start or grow a business. HP LIFE offers 30 real time. With co-molded industrial rubber, HP National Education online courses in seven languages and has pick-proof keys, and other rugged features, Technology Assessment reached nearly 750,000 people since 2012. Discover more about HP technologies to these PCs are built to last in the classroom (NETA) See Community giving and volunteerism. advance learning. and tested in a laboratory environment that Through NETA, HP Education helps simulates a school setting. ensure that schools teach the skills that HP shipped more than 5 million PCs to employers need. Using a combination schools in 2018, reaching a cumulative total of macroeconomic analysis, hyper-local of about 20 million. insights, and predictive analytics, HP supports governments and policymakers around the world to create education technology programs that generate meaningful outcomes. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 122 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Product repair, reuse, and recycling When HP products reach end of service, our robust product repair, reuse, and recycling Closing the loop on plastics programs help to ensure that products and materials are repurposed, to keep materials Through our industry-leading closed-loop plastic recycling at their highest value state for the longest program, HP is able to create new products from old ones. possible time. These efforts are part of our wider ambitions to transform the business Through 2018, we manufactured over 4.2 billion HP ink and toward an ever more materials-efficient toner cartridges using more than a cumulative 107,000 tonnes circular model. of recycled plastic. This has kept 830 million HP cartridges and an estimated 101 million apparel hangers and 4.37 billion product recycling goal postconsumer plastic bottles out of landfill instead upcycling Recycle 1.2 million tonnes of hardware these materials for continued use. More than 80% of our Original and supplies by 2025, since the HP ink cartridges contain 45–70% postconsumer recycled beginning of 2016 content, and 100% of Original HP toner cartridges1 contain progress through 2018 5– 45% postconsumer or post-industrial recycled content. Recycled In 2016, we expanded our closed-loop recycling program to 395,200 include hardware. During 2017, we launched the HP ENVY 6200, 7100, and 7800 Photo Printers, the world’s first in-class printers tonnes made from recycled printers and other electronics—more than 10% by weight. 2 In 2018, we increased the recycled content plastic in some HP ENVY photo printer models to 20–30% by weight. Launched in 2018, the HP Tango printer is made with more than 30% closed-loop recycled plastic by weight using plastic from recycled printers and other electronics, and its Original HP cartridges include 48–73% recycled plastic. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 123 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Customer take-back programs HP provides take-back programs in 74 countries and territories worldwide3 through a global network of reuse and recycling vendors. These offerings vary by location. HP global take-back programs for customers* Program Description Progress in 2018 Hardware Repair, Our remanufacturing programs help to extend hardware lifespan, reducing environmental Our Hardware Reuse Standard outlines our 4.34 million 1.25 million impacts from disposal. requirements for vendors and subvendors who remarketing, provide reuse, refurbishment, or remarketing units of hardware repaired units of hardware We provide customers guidance about how to repair their own HP product. (20,900 tonnes) remarketed/reused and reuse See Durability and repairability. services on behalf of HP. (6,400 tonnes) HP Recover and Renew Services provide customers data sanitization, remarketing, and recycling for used personal systems products. Recycling HP recycles hardware that cannot be economically repaired or reused. HP Recycling Services offers custom recycling 117,100 tonnes 2,970 programs for commercial and enterprise Available in 64 We belong to compliance systems to comply with producer responsibility requirements of customers. of hardware recycled tonnes the WEEE Directive and end-of-life legal obligations in countries across our Americas, Asia countries and Pacific and Japan, and Europe, Middle East, and Africa regions. Watch our video showing the recycling process. 17% of plastic recovered for use in other HP products territories overall recycling rate of relevant Consumers, home office, and commercial users have various recycling options for used Recycling vendors must comply with the HP hardware sales worldwide** equipment, including HP recycling vendors that provide take-back and recycling services or Hardware Recycling Standard. free drop-off for our products in many countries. 92% of total volume of products and In the United States, customers can drop off hardware at Best Buy stores through our materials taken back in 2018 closed-loop recycling program as well as Staples locations. U.S. customers can also use the that were reused or recycled HP Consumer Buyback Program to exchange equipment for money or purchase credits. by HP, or by a third party Print cartridges, supplies, batteries, and packaging Ink and toner HP provides free and convenient ways to recycle used HP ink and toner cartridges and HP’s groundbreaking closed-loop recycling 15,300 tonnes 1,400 tonnes Samsung toner cartridges.*** program uses plastic from recycled Original HP cartridge cartridges plus recycled bottles and hangers to of HP LaserJet toner of HP ink cartridges recycling Home and commercial customers can return HP ink and toner cartridges for free to almost 18,000 authorized sites worldwide. Free pickup and mail-back options are available in most create new Original HP cartridges. cartridges recycled recycled Available in 64 countries. See how we recycle ink cartridges. 82% 75% of materials recovered of materials recovered countries and Recycling vendors must comply with the used in other products, used in other products, territories HP Printing Supplies Recycling Policy. and 0% went to landfill and 0% went to landfill We also offer responsible processing for batteries and recycling for large-format media/supplies, 3D printing supplies, and packaging. * Descriptions of offerings in this table are as of report publication. Performance data is as of October 31, 2018. Availability of oﬀerings varies by location. View full list of reuse and recycling programs by country. ** The recycling rate is based on the weight of hardware products returned for recycling compared to the weight of our product sales from seven years ago (the estimated average lifespan of our products). It is impractical for HP to report the recycling rate by product category, as materials are not typically sorted at collection points. This rate also does not include packaging recycling due to limited data available from recyclers. *** On November 1, 2017, HP Inc. announced the completion of its acquisition of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.’s printer business. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 124 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Product reuse (ERM) to audit vendors for conformance with the following policies and vendor standards: Reuse and recycling and recycling • Export of Electronic Waste to Developing Countries Policy vendor audits vendors 2017 2018 • HP Supplier Code of Conduct Initial audits 9 13 • Reuse and Recycling Standards Repeat audits 23 28 We work with a global network of vendors to Countries 15 20 provide product reuse and recycling services Audits assess vendors’ environmental, Major nonconformances identified 45 55 to customers around the world. health, and safety practices and performance, Major nonconformances resolved * 100% 100% and ensure there is no “leakage” of During 2017, to promote transparency and materials to facilities outside our approved * As of April 2019. drive social and environmental standards vendor network. Vendors with identified in the electronics industry supply chain, we published a detailed list of our global recycling nonconformances must submit corrective Categories of major vendor sites, an IT industry first. This reflects action plans within 30 days and address nonconformance, 2018 those items within 90 days. In extreme percentage of total our confidence in HP’s vendor network cases, we will cease business with vendors and addresses customer and stakeholder that lack suﬀicient transparency or are 16% 36% expectations about disclosure. We hope that Other* Health and safety unwilling to make the changes we require. our leadership in this area will encourage other IT companies to do the same. Through ERM, HP audited 41 vendor 8% Subvendor use facilities in 20 countries during 2018. and audits Vendor audits This included repeat audits of 28 vendor facilities to evaluate their efforts to 11% Our specialist reuse and recycling vendors Insurance improve performance. Because 49% of are required to follow environmentally major nonconformances occurred at sites responsible processing techniques and 11% audited for the first time, HP’s engagement Hazardous substance/ 18% comply fully with relevant regulations. In emergency response Environment brought best practices, enabling immediate general, vendors must also attain thirdperformance improvements. HP has party certification (R2, e-Stewards, or * I ncludes site security and controls, data destruction, and closed investigations of 100% of the major approved dispositions of processed materials. Findings WEEELABEX). If a vendor is not certified, HP related to data destruction were limited gaps in processes, nonconformances identified in 2018, and we not breaches of data security. audits them directly. We also commission will continue to work closely with vendors to third-party audits to monitor vendor resolve the others as swiftly as possible. All conformance with our high standards Read a statement from ERM. sites with major nonconformances must be and ensure that returned items are re-audited the following year to determine processed appropriately. We contract with whether improvements are sustained. Environmental Resources Management HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 125 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Data Product and solutions 2015 2016* 2017 2018* 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Product use GHG emissions intensity ** Not applicable 2% 11% 11% Estimated materials use intensity for HP high-volume personal systems and printers ^^^^ [% reduction since 2015] [tonnes/$ millions of net revenue] GHG emissions from product use 19,100,000 19,300,000 22,100,000*** 23,400,000*** Personal systems [tonnes CO2e] Metal 4.5 3.6 3.0 2.6 2.8 Personal systems 9,100,000 8,200,000 8,300,000 9,400,000 Plastic 1.9 1.5 1.6 1.4 1.5 Desktop and enterprise printers 3,600,000 3,600,000 2,400,000 2,000,000 (energy) **** Wires/cables 0.8 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 Commercial and industrial graphics Not available 250,000 350,000 270,000 PCAs 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 printing solutions (energy) LCDs 1.4 1.2 1.8 1.3 1.4 3D printing solutions (energy) Not applicable Not applicable 180,000 180,000 Batteries 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.0^^^^^ 0.0^^^^^ Printing consumables for desktop 6,400,000 6,500,000 9,400,000 9,900,000 and enterprise printers (paper and Total 9.4 7.7 7.7 6.3† 6.6 ink/toner cartridges) ***** Printing consumables for Not available 790,000 1,300,000 1,500,000 Printers commercial and industrial graphics Metal 14.7 15.4 17.6 17.0 14.8 printing solutions (paper and other supplies) Plastic 28.0 30.9 33.8 31.6 28.0 Printing consumables for 3D Not applicable Not applicable 170,000 170,000 Wires/cables 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.4 printing solutions (resins) Water consumption related to product 153,700,000 156,300,000 ^ 180,600,000 ^ 195,000,000 ^ PCAs 1.7 1.7 2.0 2.3 2.0 use [cubic meters] ^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ LCDs 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Personal systems 76,400,000 70,000,000 71,000,000 84,000,000 ^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ Batteries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Desktop and enterprise printers 30,500,000 31,100,000 20,000,000 18,000,000 Total 44.8 48.4 53.9 51.3 45.2 (energy)^^ Commercial and industrial graphics Not available 2,200,000 3,000,000 2,400,000 Recycled plastic used in HP products [tonnes] 18,160†† 21,250 printing solutions (energy) Personal systems Not available Not available Not available 8,080 8,360 3D printing solutions (energy) Not applicable Not applicable 1,600,000 1,600,000 Printers Not available Not available Not available 1,260 4,790 Printing consumables for desktop 46,800,000 45,800,000 73,000,000 75,000,000 and enterprise printers (paper)^^^ HP ink cartridges 6,286 6,282 5,517 5,901 5,354 Printing consumables for Not available 7,200,000 12,000,000 14,000,000 HP toner cartridges 3,300 2,437 3,493 2,921 2,746 commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions (paper) HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 126 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix * In some cases, segments do not add up to total due to rounding. ^^ Beginning  in 2017, our LaserJet power usage data more accurately reflects typical idle and print energy. These changes ** H P product GHG emissions intensity measures per unit GHG emissions during anticipated product lifetime use. These values were not applied retroactively. Indirect water consumption from inkjet and LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for sale are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing products to overall revenue in the current year. These and service by other original equipment manufacturers is excluded from this data. In 2018, these printers represented less emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units shipped each year, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile than 0.7% of HP printers manufactured in the reporting year and consequently, their associated indirect water consumption computing devices, workstations, displays, and digital signage; HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, Scitex, and Jet Fusion during product use represented less than 0.7% of the product life cycle water consumption of all HP manufactured printers. 3D printers; and scanners. Water consumption from the manufacturing of these printers at HP operated facilities is captured in the direct water *** G reenhouse gas emissions from product use differ by less than 1% from the value reported on page 61, due to rounding. consumption data reported in this year’s report. ^^^ Data  for 2017 and 2018 better reflect average laser printer paper usage. This represented the majority of the increase **** Beginning in 2017, our LaserJet power usage data more accurately reflects typical idle and print energy. These changes were not applied retroactively. Scope 3 emissions from inkjet and LaserJet printers that HP manufactures for sale and service by compared to 2015 and 2016. The 2017 value has been restated compared to the data reported in the HP 2017 Sustainable other original equipment manufacturers is excluded from this data. In 2018, these printers represented less than 0.7% of Impact Report, to improve comparability with 2018. ^^^^Personal systems and printer values are based on individual product data. Estimates for printer volumes do not include HP printers manufactured in the reporting year and consequently, their associated emissions represented less than 0.2% of the product life cycle emissions of all HP manufactured printers. Scope 1 and 2 emissions from the manufacturing of these graphic arts, industrial, web press printers, scanners, or ink or toner cartridges. Product data for personal systems is based printers at HP operated facilities is captured in the Scope 1 and 2 data reported in this year’s report. on calendar year for 2014-2015 and 2018, and fiscal year for 2016-2017. Product data for printers is based on calendar year ***** Data for 2017 and 2018 better reflect average laser printer paper usage. This represented the majority of the increase for 2014-2015 and fiscal year for 2016-2018. Net revenue data is based on HP’s fiscal year. In some cases, segments do not compared to 2015 and 2016. The 2017 value has been restated compared to the data reported in the HP 2017 Sustainable add up to total due to rounding. ^^^^^This value is stated as 0.0 due to rounding. Impact Report, to improve comparability with 2018. ^ Total water consumption related to product use differs by less than 1% from the value reported on page 62, due to rounding. † This total was updated to correct a calculation error stated in the HP 2017 Sustainable Impact Report. †† Total does not equal sum of segments due to rounding. Product repair, reuse, and recycling* 2016 2017** 2018 2016 2017** 2018 Total recycling of hardware and supplies [tonnes, approximate] 119,900 141,500 133,800 Material in storage—pending processing 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Electronic equipment repaired [units] 5,050,000 4,600,000 4,340,000 Incineration 0.0% 0.0% 0.3% Electronic equipment returned before use and remarketed 1,250,000 1,270,000 1,250,000 Landfill 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% [units] HP ink cartridge recycling Number of countries and territories with HP return and recycling HP ink market covered by program [%] 91% 87% 89% programs 73 74 74 Composition [%] Total recycling, by region [tonnes] Materials recovered for recycling 77.9% 73.9% 74.6% Americas 48,800 61,100 55,200 Materials used for energy recovery 21.6% 23.7% 23.7% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 59,200 64,100 62,900 Reuse of components 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Asia Pacific and Japan 11,900 16,300 15,700 Material in storage—pending processing 0.4% 0.5% 0.7% Total recycling, by type [tonnes] Incineration 0.0% 1.8% 1.0% Hardware 102,800 125,200 117,100 Landfill 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% HP toner cartridges*** 15,400 14,800 15,300 * Totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing, with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy HP ink cartridges*** 1,700 1,500 1,400 recovery, and, where no suitable alternatives exist, responsible disposal. HP LaserJet toner and ink cartridge recycling HP toner cartridge recycling data is for calendar year. The remaining data is based on the HP fiscal year. Although for HP print cartridges we report the composition of recovered materials, we cannot provide this data for hardware because we do not have operational control HP LaserJet market covered by program [%] 92% 92% 91% over all recycling processes and so do not have access to this information. In some cases, segments do not add up to total due to rounding. Although we do not include data prior to 2016 in the Product repair, reuse, and recycling section, the vast majority Composition [%] of product hardware recycling data, and all toner and ink cartridge recycling data, reported in past years was associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. Through 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company reported 1,497,500 tonnes of Materials recycled into new products 80.9% 83.9% 82.1% cumulative computer hardware and supplies recycling combined. ** Hardware recycling data for 2017 and related totals have been updated to correct an overstatement in the HP 2017 Materials used for energy recovery 16.8% 13.2% 14.7% Sustainable Impact Report. *** Includes cartridges returned by customers only. Reuse of components 2.3% 2.9% 2.9% HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 127 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Appendix 129 About this report 131 Policies and standards 132 Independent accountants’ review report 134 Material issues 136 United Nations Global Compact index 137 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals index 138 Global Reporting Initiative index 143 Endnotes HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 128 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix About this report and metrics. Data is rounded to reflect the In 2018, HP engaged Ernst & Young LLP appropriate level of certainty. (EY) to perform an independent review of selected key performance indicators in Reporting performance beyond our our HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report. HP has reported yearly on its social and includes HP’s performance data through immediate operations is also challenging. We This process was conducted in accordance environmental progress since 2001. FY2018 (which ended October 31, 2018), must make assumptions when estimating with attestation standards established by We provide in-depth information to unless stated otherwise. Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the American Institute of Certified Public stakeholders, including customers, industry • The information in this report is current product energy consumption and resulting Accountants. analysts, socially responsible investors, as of the date of its initial publication. The GHG emissions, the percentage of HP nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), report has not been updated to reflect products that are recycled, and other metrics. For a full listing of the indicators within employees, sustainability specialists, any changes since that date, including Where appropriate, we provide context for the scope of EY’s review, please see the governments, and others. any changes to HP’s business or strategy. data to help readers understand limitations Independent accountants’ review report. HP assumes no obligation and does not and draw appropriate conclusions. To determine report contents, we consider: In addition, the following data received intend to update this report to reflect any • Our materiality assessment Forward-looking content reflects approaches, external assurance this year: such changes. goals, and priorities established by the HP • Product repair, reuse, and recycling: • Input from executives and content • The performance data in this report teams responsible for implementing them. Through ERM, HP audited 41 vendor experts across HP covers 100% of HP’s global business These were set in consultation with internal, facilities in 20 countries during 2018. • Input from external stakeholders operations and/or revenue, as of HP’s and in some cases external, stakeholders and This included repeat audits of 28 vendor • The broader sustainability context and trends most recently completed fiscal year, consider leading corporate practices. facilities to evaluate their efforts to • External standards and frameworks such unless stated otherwise. improve performance. Learn more in as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) • All references to years are to HP’s fiscal Product reuse and recycling vendors. Sustainability Reporting Standards, the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, and year, which ends October 31, 2018, unless stated otherwise. Feedback • Supply chain: HP participates in the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) the UN Sustainable Development Goals • All references to dollars are to U.S. dollars. Your comments and suggestions are Validated Audit Program (VAP), which uses • Global reporting trends and best practices • “Tonnes” refers to metric tons. important to us. Please provide any independent external auditors to audit feedback on this report, our performance, or our suppliers’ social and environmental In addition to our Sustainable Impact Report, our website using our online form. responsibility performance against HP we report on our programs and progress on our Sustainable Impact website on an ongoing Metrics and goals Supplier Code of Conduct requirements. basis. Our past reports are available online. Learn more in Supply chain responsibility. The metrics in this report are HP data, unless stated otherwise. Collecting data External Reporting scope from hundreds of global sites is complex, verification and the process can vary by issue, business and measures unit, function, and geography. As a result, Assurance demonstrates that information company-wide metrics can be difficult in this report describes our performance to define and implement. We continue to accurately and completely. • This report describes HP’s Sustainable standardize our measurement systems Impact policies, programs, and goals. It HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 129 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Forward-looking statements This report contains forward-looking statements that performance relating to products or services; any services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks statements regarding current or future macroeconomic technological trends; the execution and performance or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions trends or events and the impact of those trends and events of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers, clients prove incorrect, the results of HP Inc. and its consolidated on HP and its financial performance; any statements and partners; the hiring and retention of key employees; subsidiaries (“HP”) may differ materially from those regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any integration and other risks associated with business expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements statements of expectation or belief, including with respect combination and investment transactions; the results of the and assumptions. All statements other than statements to the timing and expected benefits of acquisitions and restructuring plans, including estimates and assumptions of historical fact are statements that could be deemed other business combination and investment transactions; related to the cost (including any possible disruption of HP’s forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the business) and the anticipated benefits of the restructuring any projections of net revenue, margins, expenses, effective foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include plans; the impact of changes in tax laws, including tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, the need to address the many challenges facing HP’s uncertainties related to expected regulations of the U.S. benefit plan funding, deferred taxes, share repurchases, businesses; the competitive pressures faced by HP’s Department of the Treasury implementing the Tax Cuts and foreign currency exchange rates or other financial items; businesses; risks associated with executing HP’s strategy; Jobs Act of 2017 on HP’s tax obligations and effective tax any projections of the amount, timing or impact of cost the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends rate; the resolution of pending investigations, claims and savings or restructuring and other charges; any statements and events; the need to manage third-party suppliers and disputes; and other risks that are described or updated from of the plans, strategies and objectives of management the distribution of HP’s products and the delivery of HP’s time to time in HP’s filings with the Securities and Exchange for future operations, including, but not limited to, our services effectively; the protection of HP’s intellectual Commission. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend sustainability goals, the execution of restructuring plans property assets, including intellectual property licensed to update these forward-looking statements. and any resulting cost savings, net revenue or profitability from third parties; risks associated with HP’s international improvements; any statements concerning the expected operations; the development and transition of new products development, performance, market share or competitive and services and the enhancement of existing products and HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 130 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Policies and standards Sustainable Impact Ethics and anti-corruption • HP Sustainable Impact and Human • Anti-corruption Policy Rights Policy • Contingent Worker Code of Conduct • Corporate Governance Guidelines Employees • Global Business Amenities Policy • Global Harassment-Free Work • Integrity at HP Environment Policy • Partner Code of Conduct • Global Nondiscrimination Policy • U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct • Open Door Policy Privacy Environment • Privacy Statement • Climate Action Policy Position • Environmental, Health, and Safety Supply chain responsibility (EHS) Policy • Student and Dispatch Worker Standard for • Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy Supplier Facilities in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) • Export of Electronic Waste to Developing Countries Policy • Supplier Code of Conduct • Supply Chain Foreign Migrant Worker • General Specification for the Environment Standard (GSE) • Supply Chain Social and Environmental • Hardware Recycling Standard Responsibility Policy • Hardware Reuse Standard • Materials and Chemical Management Policy HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 131 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Independent accountants’ review report To the Stockholders and the any material modifications should be made As described in Note A, the Subject Matter Board of Directors of HP Inc. to the Subject Matter in order for it to be is subject to measurement uncertainties in accordance with the Criteria. A review resulting from limitations inherent in We have reviewed the Schedule of Select consists principally of applying analytical the nature and the methods used for Sustainability Metrics (the “Subject Matter”) procedures, making inquiries of persons determining such data. The selection of included in Appendix A and as presented in responsible for the Subject Matter, obtaining different but acceptable measurement the HP Inc. (“HP”) 2018 Sustainable Impact an understanding of the data management techniques can result in materially different Report (the “Report”) for the year ended systems and processes used to generate, measurements. The precision of different Ernst & Young LLP October 31,2018, unless otherwise stated, aggregate and report the Subject Matter and measurement techniques may also vary. 303 Almaden Blvd San Jose, CA 95110 in accordance with HP’s criteria set forth in performing such other procedures as we United States of America considered necessary in the circumstances. Based on our review, we are not aware of Tel: +1 (408) 947-5500 Appendix A (the “Criteria”). We did not review ey.com A review is substantially less in scope than any material modifications that should be all information included in the Report. We an examination, the objective of which is to made to the Schedule of Select Sustainability did not review the narrative sections of the obtain reasonable assurance about whether Metrics included in Appendix A for the year Report, except where they incorporated the Subject Matter is in accordance with the ended October 31,2018, unless otherwise the Subject Matter. HP’s management is Criteria, in all material respects, in order stated, in order for it to be in accordance with responsible for the Subject Matter included to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do the relevant Criteria. in Appendix A and as also presented in the Report, in accordance with the Criteria. Our not express such an opinion. A review also responsibility is to express a conclusion on does not provide assurance that we became the Subject Matter based on our review. aware of all significant matters that would be disclosed in an examination. We believe Our review was conducted in accordance that our review provides a reasonable basis with attestation standards established for our conclusion. May 23, 2019 by the American Institute of Certified San Jose, CA Public Accountants ((AICPA) AT-C section In performing our review, we have also 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation complied with the independence and other Engagements and AT-C section 210, Review ethical requirements set forth in the Code Engagements). Those standards require of Professional Conduct and applied the that we plan and perform our review to Statements on Quality Control Standards obtain limited assurance about whether established by the AICPA. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 132 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Appendix A – HP Inc. (HP) Schedule of Select Sustainability Metrics Indicator name Scope Unit Reported value1 Criteria Scope 1 greenhouse gas Global Tonnes of carbon dioxide 65,900 (“GHG”) emissions2 equivalents (tCO2e) World Resources Institute (“WRI”) / World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s (“WBCSD”) The Greenhouse Gas Scope 2 GHG emissions Global tCO2e 252,300 Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, (location-based method) Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Standard 305 and HP’s Scope 2 GHG emissions Global tCO2e 163,700 Carbon Accounting Manual 3 (market-based method) Scope 3 GHG emissions Global tCO2e 44,470,000 WRl/WBCSD’s The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, GRI Standard 305 and HP’s Carbon Accounting Manual 3 Direct energy use in operations Global MWh 164,075 GRI Standard 302 and HP management definitions disclosed in (corresponds to Scope 1 emissions)4 the 2018 Sustainable Impact Report Indirect energy use (corresponds to Global MWh 594,823 GRI Standard 302 and HP management definitions disclosed Scope 2 emissions)5 in the 2018 Sustainable Impact Report Voluntary purchases of Global MWh 255,797 GRI Standard 302 and HP management definitions disclosed renewable energy in the 2018 Sustainable Impact Report Direct water consumption 6 Global Cubic meters 3,406,000 GRI Standard 303 and HP management definitions disclosed in the 2018 Sustainable Impact Report7 Conflict minerals disclosure 8 Global N/A Qualitative assertion To identify and disclose the smelters and refiners 9 in our HP management definitions disclosed in the 2018 supply chain, between January and December 2018 HP Sustainable Impact Report surveyed suppliers which contributed material, components, or manufacturing for products containing 3TG. Each smelter or refiner reported was identified in at least one of the RMI Conflict Minerals Reporting Templates we received. Note A: Non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. 1 All indicators are reported for the year ended October 31, 2018, except as otherwise indicated. 2 To calculate GHG emissions, for all indicators we use the Global Warming Potentials (GWP) from the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) except for perfluorinated compounds (PFC), where we use the GWP from the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). 3 Carbon Accounting Manual is available at http://h20195.www2.hp.com/V2/getpdf.aspx/c05179524.pdf. 4 Direct energy use refers to direct energy consumption in HP’s operations including natural gas, renewable energy generated on-site and diesel/oiI/gas/LPG, similar to the Scope 1 emissions boundary. Transportation fleet, refrigerants and perfluorinated compounds are excluded from direct energy use, although they are included in the Scope 1 GHG emissions boundary. 5 Indirect energy includes purchased electricity and steam and does not include renewable energy purchases. 6 Direct water consumption for HP operations. 7 Note that sewage treatment plant (STP) water is not included within the scope of water consumption. 8 As noted in the disclosure, this indicator pertains to the calendar year 2018. 9 The list of smelters and refiners is available at http://www8.hp.com/us/en/pdf/sustainability/conflictminerals.pdf#page=12. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 133 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Material issues The following table summarizes issues determined to meet the materiality threshold for this report. Issue Description GRI Standards topic(s) Topic boundary Location in report High importance to sustainable development, high importance to HP’s business success Circular economy Managing product life cycles through design criteria and business models Materials Supply chain Circular economy that promote product serviceability and longevity; enable usage as a service; HP operations Sustainable design increase recovery, reuse, recycling, recycled content, and closed material Products and solutions Products and solutions portfolio loops; and dematerialize processes and activities through digitization. Product repair, reuse, and recycling Energy and GHG emissions Improving energy efficiency, using renewable energy, and reducing the GHG Emissions Supply chain (firstand second-tier Footprint emissions of HP’s owned/leased operations and of its supply chain, related to Energy suppliers, Scope 3 emissions) Supply chain responsibility: Environmental facilities, transportation fleets, and product transportation and logistics. HP operations impact: Greenhouse gas emissions Our facilities: Greenhouse gas emissions IT for sustainable Designing and delivering IT solutions that advance progress toward the United No GRI-specific Topics Products and solutions Community giving and volunteerism development Nations Sustainable Development Goals, related to health, education, decent Sustainable design work, the environment, and more inclusive, just, and sustainable outcomes for Products and solutions portfolio underserved and underrepresented individuals and communities everywhere. Global education programs Paper and printed material Enabling more sustainable printing through the sourcing, use, and recycling of Materials Supply chain Paper paper and other printed materials by HP and its customers. Products and solutions Privacy Collecting, analyzing, using, storing, transferring, and sharing information Customer Privacy HP operations (employees) Privacy in ways that uphold the right to privacy and personal data protection Products and solutions (customers and in commercial, government, and law enforcement relationships, and in partners) compliance with laws and standards. Product energy efficiency Increasing the energy efficiency of HP products and services, and enabling Energy Products and solutions Sustainable design: Energy efficiency customers to reduce their energy use. Products and solutions portfolio Supply chain responsibility Monitoring and strengthening social conditions throughout HP's supply chain Nondiscrimination Supply chain (firstand second-tier Supply chain responsibility (including working hours and conditions, wages and benefits, health and Freedom of Association and suppliers; sub-tier suppliers in high-risk Human rights safety, humane treatment of workers, avoiding slavery and forced labor, and Collective Bargaining areas such as the Democratic Republic of responsible minerals sourcing) through codes and standards, supplier and Child Labor the Congo; there are multiple tiers between worker engagement, and transparency. HP and smelters that trade with exporters). Forced or Compulsory Labor We ask that first-tier suppliers Human Rights Assessment communicate our HP Supplier Code Supplier Environmental of Conduct to their suppliers, thereby Assessment propagating the requirements to our Supplier Social Assessment sub-tier suppliers. Medium importance to sustainable development, high importance to HP’s business success Data and product security Designing products and processes that protect the collection, analysis, No GRI-specific Topics Supply chain Cybersecurity use, storage, transfer, and sharing of information from unwanted parties, HP operations Product security and privacy unauthorized access, and security threats, including cyberattacks. Products and solutions HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 134 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Diversity and inclusion Fostering diversity and inclusion within our workforce, supply chain, and Diversity and Equal Opportunity Supply chain Supplier diversity communities worldwide. HP operations Diversity and inclusion Products and solutions Ethics and anti-corruption Promoting high ethical standards and combating corruption in all of HP's Anti-corruption Supply chain (interactions with suppliers, Ethics and anti-corruption business interactions, including in joint ventures and with business partners, business partners, and contractors) suppliers, and distributors. HP operations Products and solutions (interactions with business partners and customers) Health and safety Working to create a healthy, safe, and secure working environment in our Occupational Health and Safety Supply chain Supply chain responsibility: Health and safety supply chain, operations, and for our customers, including managing the Customer Health and Safety HP operations Our employees: Health and safety use of materials and substances of concern in the manufacturing and use Products and solutions Product safety of our products. Transparency, Providing clear, comparable, and accessible business and sustainability Overall report Supply chain GRI index accountability, and reporting information. HP operations Products and solutions High importance to sustainable development, medium importance to HP’s business success Waste Responsibly managing and disposing of nonhazardous and hazardous waste Effluents and Waste Supply chain (first-tier suppliers) Supply chain responsibility: Environmental in HP’s supply chain and owned/leased operations. impact: Waste HP operations Our facilities: Waste Water Conserving water in HP’s supply chain and owned/leased operations. Water Supply chain (first-tier suppliers) Footprint HP operations Supply chain responsibility: Environmental impact: Water Our facilities: Water Medium importance to sustainable development, medium importance to HP’s business success Corporate governance Maintaining the standards, structures, and processes to ensure the diversity No GRI-specific Topics HP operations Sustainable Impact: Governance and independence of the Board of Directors, and the effective governance of Ethics and anti-corruption HP, including the company's Sustainable Impact strategy and programs. Governance HP 2019 Proxy Statement Intellectual property Ensuring appropriate protection of HP’s intellectual property. No GRI-specific Topics Supply chain Government relations protection HP operations Investing in R&D Products and solutions Packaging Decreasing the environmental impact of HP packaging. Materials Supply chain Packaging Products and solutions Product transportation Decreasing the environmental impact of HP product transportation and Emissions Supply chain Footprint logistics. Product transportation Public policy Influencing public policy development through direct engagement, involvement Public Policy HP operations Government relations in multi-stakeholder associations or initiatives, and political contributions. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 135 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix United Nations Global Compact index HP is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a set of voluntary commitments for companies to improve human rights, labor conditions, the environment, and anti-corruption controls. This table links to the sections of this report that address the Global Compact’s 10 principles. Principle Information in report Principle Information in report Human rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human rights Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Sustainable design internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Privacy Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Footprint Supply chain responsibility responsibility; and Supply chain responsibility: Our employees Environmental impact Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights Our facilities Supply chain responsibility Sustainable design Labor standards Products and solutions portfolio Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Human rights Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Supply chain responsibility: effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; friendly technologies. Environmental impact Supply chain responsibility Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Human rights Our facilities Supply chain responsibility Sustainable design Products and solutions portfolio Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Human rights Supply chain responsibility Anti-corruption Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and Human rights Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including Ethics and anti-corruption occupation. extortion and bribery. Supply chain responsibility Supply chain responsibility Diversity and inclusion “To promote higher standards across the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption, we endorse the United Nations Global Compact as a practical framework for the development, implementation, and disclosure of sustainability policies and practices.” Dion Weisler, President and Chief Executive Officer, HP Inc. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 136 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix United Nations Sustainable Development Goals index HP supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We have existing programs that contribute to progress against 16 of the 17 goals and will continue to drive innovations that help achieve them. This table references sections of this report that relate to each goal. Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food security Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and quality everywhere and improved nutrition and promote well-being for all at all ages education for all and promote lifelong sustainable agriculture learning HP’s actions Community giving and HP’s actions Supply chain responsibility: volunteerism HP’s actions No major programs at this Health and safety, Our employees: HP’s actions Global education programs, time Health and safety, Wellbeing Community giving and volunteerism Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and Goal 6 Ensure access to water and Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable, Goal 8 Promote inclusive and sustainable empower all women and girls sanitation for all reliable, sustainable and modern energy economic growth, employment and for all decent work for all HP’s actions Supply chain responsibility, HP’s actions Our facilities: Water, Supply Diversity and inclusion chain responsibility: Environmental HP’s actions Renewable energy, HP’s actions Fourth Industrial impact: Water Products and solutions: Energy efficiency Revolution, Supply chain responsibility, Community giving and volunteerism Goal 9 Build resilient infrastructure, Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and Goal 11 Make cities inclusive, safe, Goal 12 Ensure sustainable consumption promote sustainable industrialization among countries resilient and sustainable and production patterns and foster innovation HP’s actions Supplier diversity, HP’s actions Community giving and HP’s actions Circular economy, Products HP’s actions Circular economy, Fourth Community giving and volunteerism, volunteerism and solutions portfolio Industrial Revolution, Products and Global education programs solutions portfolio Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat Goal 14 Conserve and sustainably use Goal 15 Sustainably manage forests, Goal 16 Promote just, peaceful and climate change and its impacts the oceans, seas and marine resource combat desertification, halt and reverse inclusive societies land degradation, halt biodiversity loss HP’s actions Footprint, Supply chain HP’s actions Closing the loop on plastics HP’s actions Ethics and anti-corruption, responsibility: Environmental impact: HP’s actions Zero deforestation, Paper Human rights, Supply chain GHG emissions, Our facilities: GHG responsibility emissions Goal 17 Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development HP’s actions HP supports the UN SDGs, the UN Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative, and other global efforts to advance sustainable development. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 137 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Global Reporting Initiative index HP considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2016 Sustainability Reporting Standards in the development of this report. This index includes links to information about relevant Disclosures. Disclosure Location Disclosure Location GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 64 Organizational profile Governance 102-1 Name of the organization 8 102-18 Governance structure 55, Governance 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8, 68, HP 2018 10-K 102-19 Delegating authority 55 102-3 Location of headquarters 8 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 55 HP 2018 10-K, Map of HP 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Governance 102-4 Location of operations supplier sites 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Governance 102-5 Ownership and legal form 8, HP 2018 10-K Corporate governance 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 102-6 Markets served HP 2018 10-K guidelines 8, 9, 10, 92, Corporate governance 102-7 Scale of the organization 102-25 Conflicts of interest HP 2018 10-K guidelines 100 55, Nominating, 102-8 Information on employees A portion of the organization’s work is performed by individuals other Governance and Social 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy and other workers than HP employees or other workers supervised by HP, including workers Responsibility Committee employed or supervised by contractors. charter 102-9 Supply chain 71 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 55 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 92, HP 2018 10-K 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Contacting the board 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 108 102-35 Remuneration policies HP 2019 Proxy Statement 57, 68, 70, 72, 102-36 Process for determining remuneration HP 2019 Proxy Statement 102-12 External initiatives 105, 136, 137 Stakeholder engagement Affiliations and 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 55 102-13 Membership of associations memberships The percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Strategy 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) is managed at a local level. As of October 31, 2018, 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 agreements approximately 27% of employees companywide were covered by a union or CBA. 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 9, 13, 49, 134 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 55 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 131 HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 138 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Disclosure Location Disclosure Location 55 Material Topics Some forms of stakeholder engagement follow a set frequency, such as our GRI 200 Economic Standards Series annual employee Voice Insight Action survey, yearly responses to rating/ ranking questionnaires, and supplier audits. Other forms of engagement, GRI 205: Anti-corruption 102-43 Approach to stakeholder such as responses to customer requests for information about our GRI 103: Management Approach engagement Sustainable Impact performance, collaboration with NGOs and industry peers on specific issues, and discussion with policy makers, occur on an 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 64, 134 ad hoc basis. Examples are included throughout this report. We consider 103-2 The management approach and its components 64 input from customers, NGOs, employees, investors, and others in the preparation of our annual Sustainable Impact Report. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 64 55 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 65 Our materiality assessment reflects the key topics and concerns that 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 65 have been raised through stakeholder engagement and various analysis. This report describes how HP addresses those issues, including in some GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series cases through engagement with the relevant stakeholder groups. GRI 301: Materials Reporting practice GRI 103: Management Approach 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements HP 2018 10-K 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 108, 134 56, 129, 134 103-2 The management approach and its components 108 HP determined the boundary for each material issue in this report 102-46 Defining report content and based on input and review from executives and content experts. These 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 108, 126 topic Boundaries assessments considered the value chain phases in which the most 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 108 relevant impacts and opportunities occur. 301-2 Recycled input materials used 108 102-47 List of material topics 56, 129, 134 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 123 102-48 Restatements of information Noted in sections as appropriate GRI 302: Energy The Executive summary section of this report provides a high-level overview of our Sustainable Impact strategy and progress, and vision GRI 103: Management Approach 102-49 Changes in reporting for the future. The Detailed disclosures section includes more in-depth information on our approach and performance across the broad range 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 93, 108, 134 of environmental, social, and governance issues. 103-2 The management approach and its components 92, 93, 108 102-50 Reporting period 129 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102, 108, 114 102-51 Date of most recent report June 2018 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 102 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 302-3 Energy intensity 102 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Feedback 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 93 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 108, 114 with the GRI Standards Core option. GRI 303: Water 102-55 GRI content index 138 GRI 103: Management Approach 102-56 External assurance 132 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 59, 135 79, 92, 95, HP water 103-2 The management approach and its components accounting manual HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 139 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Disclosure Location Disclosure Location 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 62, 85, 102 85 We determined that 96% of HP first-tier production suppliers, by spend, 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 62, 85, 102 had environmental management system (EMS) certification (e.g., ISO 303-3 Water recycled and reused 102 103-3 Evaluation of the 14001) for manufacturing sites during 2018. Data represented review management approach of 94% of HP production spend, extrapolated to 100%. The HP Supplier GRI 305: Emissions Code of Conduct requires our suppliers to have an effective EMS for GRI 103: Management Approach manufacturing sites, regardless of third-party certification. We audit suppliers to this standard. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 58, 134 More than 95% of HP production suppliers, by spend, have been screened 77, 92, 93, HP 308-1 New suppliers that were screened 103-2 The management approach and its components using environmental criteria. This includes new suppliers that were carbon accounting manual using environmental criteria onboarded during 2018. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 60, 85, 102 GRI 400 Social Standards Series 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 60 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 60 GRI 103: Management Approach 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 61, 85, 126 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 91, 135 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 60 103-2 The management approach and its components 91, 92 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 93 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 101 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 103 101 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste The types of injury HP recorded in calendar year 2018 included head/ neck (29% of the total), hands/wrists (20%), lower extremities (18%), GRI 103: Management Approach 403-2 Types of injury and rates of arms/shoulders (13%), back (11%), and other (9%). It is not practical to 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80, 96, 135 injury, occupational diseases, lost days, break down the injury data that HP reports by employment contract and absenteeism; and number of work(employees and contractors that HP manages) or by gender. The 103-2 The management approach and its components 80, 92, 96 related fatalities occupational disease rate at HP in calendar year 2018 was essentially 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 85, 96, 102 zero. HP experienced zero fatalities for the years reported (fiscal year 2016 and calendar years 2017 and 2018). HP does not report absentee 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 85, 96, 102 rate. We apply the risk-prevention and management procedures of our GRI 404: Training and Education * environmental, health, and safety management system to help prevent 306-3 Significant spills GRI 103: Management Approach unplanned releases at our facilities. In 2018, we experienced no significant unplanned releases. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 90 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-2 The management approach and its components 90 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 90 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 77, 134 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 90 72, 77, Our approach 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 90 103-2 The management approach and its components to a sustainable supply chain 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 90 development reviews * A lthough this GRI Standards Topic was not determined to be material in HP’s materiality assessment, we recognize that it is relevant to some stakeholders and we provide information about HP’s programs and performance in this area. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 140 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Disclosure Location Disclosure Location GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 408: Child Labor GRI 103: Management Approach GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 87, 135 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 72, 73, 134 103-2 The management approach and its components 87 66, 72, Our approach 103-2 The management approach and its components to a sustainable supply 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 87, 100 chain 87, 100, HP board of 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees directors, HP 2019 Proxy Statement 83 HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites audited, HP’s approach to fair and 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate number of equitable pay nonconformances. To support rights in this area, HP has controls to meet 408-1 Operations and suppliers at GRI 406: Non-discrimination student and young worker requirements. In China, no more than 20% of the significant risk for incidents of child labor direct labor supporting the manufacturing of HP products, packaging, parts, GRI 103: Management Approach components, subassemblies, and materials at any given facility should 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 72, 73, 134 consist of student workers at any point in time. We track performance in this area through our KPI program. 66, 72, Our approach 103-2 The management approach and its components to a sustainable supply GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor chain GRI 103: Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 72, 73, 134 83 66, 72, Our approach HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites 406-1 Incidents of discrimination 103-2 The management approach and its components to a sustainable supply audited, as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate number and corrective actions taken chain of nonconformances. Due to confidentiality, HP does not report details regarding specific incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 83 409-1 Operations and suppliers at HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites audited, GRI 103: Management Approach significant risk for incidents of forced or as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate number of 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 72, 73, 134 compulsory labor nonconformances. See Combating forced labor for more detail about our approach in this area. 66, 72, Our approach 103-2 The management approach and its components to a sustainable supply GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment chain GRI 103: Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 66, 134 83 103-2 The management approach and its components 66 HP discloses the rates of conformance in production supplier sites 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which audited, as well as the data needed to calculate the approximate 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 66 the right to freedom of association and number of nonconformances. We require suppliers to train workers to collective bargaining may be at risk 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 66 understand their rights concerning collective bargaining, and to allow assessments workers to associate freely without fear of discrimination, reprisal, intimidation, or harassment. GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 141 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Disclosure Location Disclosure Location 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 73, 74, 134 Other material issues** 72, Our approach to a Corporate governance 103-2 The management approach and its components sustainable supply chain GRI 103: Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 84 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 135 More than 95% of HP production suppliers, by spend, have been screened 414-1 New suppliers that were 55, 64, Governance, using social criteria. This includes new suppliers that were onboarded 103-2 The management approach and its components screened using social criteria HP 2019 Proxy Statement during 2018. Governance, HP 2019 Proxy GRI 415: Public Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Statement GRI 103: Management Approach Data and product security 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 70, 135 GRI 103: Management Approach 70, HP Political 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 69, 113, 134 Contributions Policy 103-2 The management approach and its components 69, 113 HP 2018 Corporate Political Contributions, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 69, 113 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach HP 2018 Employee PAC Contributions, U.S. lobbying Intellectual property protection expenditures GRI 103: Management Approach HP 2018 Corporate 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 135 Political Contributions, 415-1 Political contributions HP 2018 Employee PAC 103-2 The management approach and its components 70, 114 Contributions, U.S. lobbying 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 70, 114 expenditures IT for sustainable development GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 134 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 112, 135 103-2 The management approach and its components 97, 105, 114, 121 103-2 The management approach and its components 112 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103, 126 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 112 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 112 ** T his includes issues determined to meet the materiality threshold for this report that are not already addressed by the GRI Standards Topics in the index above. GRI 418: Customer Privacy GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 68, 134 103-2 The management approach and its components 68 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 68 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses 68, 70 of customer data HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 142 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Endnotes Additional information about the data presented in this report is available upon request. Sustainable Impact Footprint 1 This report includes updated data for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, and energy use, and water consumption Sustainable Impact strategy from operations, back to the baseline of 2015, per guidance in the GHG Protocol, to reflect sites that came under HP 1 In 2018, we tracked $972 million in new revenue in which sustainability criteria were a known consideration and operational control following the acquisition of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.’s printer business on November 1, 2017 were supported actively by HP’s Sustainability and Compliance organization. This represented an increase of 35% (see About our operational data). Data for 2017 and 2018 include improved data that better reflects average laser compared to 2017. printer paper usage, compared to 2017 data for product use stated in the HP 2017 Sustainable Impact Report. 2 According to a UN report. 2 Carbon and water footprint data presented in this section related to our suppliers is calculated using product life cycle 3 According to the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. assessment-based estimates for materials extraction through manufacturing and product transportation. Supply chain GHG emissions and water withdrawal data presented on page 85 is based on a different methodology. 4 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging will be derived from certified and recycled sources by 2020, with a preference for virgin fiber from certified sources of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Packaging is the box that comes with the product and all paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. Carbon and climate impact 5 Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage of total plastic used in all HP personal systems, printer hardware, and 1 This table includes selected examples of identification and assessment processes, risks and opportunities, and print cartridges shipped during the reporting year. Total volume excludes brand-licensed products and after-market management steps. It is not intended to be comprehensive. This table does not intend to convey that the risks and hardware accessories. Total RCP includes postconsumer recycled plastic, closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound plastic opportunities included are material from a financial perspective. Rather, they illustrate the scope and manner of how used in HP products. Personal systems plastic is defined by EPEAT® eco-label criteria. Subject to relevant restrictions on we assess and address risks and opportunities in this area. the use and distribution of materials destined for recycling and/or recycled feedstocks. HP product use GHG emissions intensity measures per unit GHG emissions during anticipated product lifetime use. Integrity and human rights 6 These values are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing products to overall revenue. These emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units shipped each year, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices, workstations, displays, and digital signage; HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, Scitex, Human rights and Jet Fusion 3D printers; and scanners. 1 Salient risks are those that are severe in potential impact, reasonably likely to occur, and difficult to remediate. 7 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging will be derived from certified and recycled sources by 2020, with a preference for virgin fiber from certified sources of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Packaging is the box Privacy that comes with the product and all paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. 1 As of January 2019. https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=613841 8 Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers’ reported GHG 2 HP cybersecurity baselines align with industry best practices recognized by ISACA, ISC2, ISSA, NIST, SANS, and others. emissions attributable to HP divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year and highlight longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. Government relations 9 This continues a goal from before the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, extending the 1 3D Printing: ensuring manufacturing leadership in the 21st century, page 15. goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation business units. 10 Progress through 2018 includes 77,800 factory workers in 2015, 45,700 in 2016, 119,900 in 2017, and 12,000 in 2018. 11 This data does not include participation in Responsible Business Alliance audits. “Participation in our supply chain sustainability programs” is quantified by those programs that go beyond audits to build supplier capabilities to meet our standards. This includes deep dive assessment, weekly reporting of labor metrics, procurement engagement through our supplier Sustainability Scorecard, and in-depth coaching and workshops tailored to supplier risks. 12 Source: Department of Labor. https://www.shrm.org/foundation/ourwork/initiatives/preparing-for-future-hr-trends/ Documents/10-15%20Randstad%20Presentation.pdf 13 Includes valuation of employee volunteer hours, employee donations, HP Foundation match, and HP Foundation grants. 14 The HP Foundation is a nonprofit, 501(c)3 organization. 15 The Financial and Risk business of Thomson Reuters is now Refinitiv. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 143 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Supply chain responsibility Audit results 1 These include child labor, forced labor, severe forms of discrimination, health and safety issues posing immediate Approach danger to life or risk of serious injury, and perceived violation of environmental laws posing serious and immediate harm to the community. We take such findings very seriously, and require suppliers to cease all related practices and 1 HP uses the terms “production suppliers,” “product transportation suppliers,” and “nonproduction suppliers” report corrective actions taken within 30 days of the original audit. Recruitment fees must be reimbursed within 90 throughout this report. “Production suppliers” provide materials and components for our product manufacturing days from discovery and are verified by an on-site inspection within 180 days from discovery. We follow up closely and also assemble HP products, and are the primary focus of our HP Supplier Code of Conduct audits, assessments, to ensure that all required corrective actions are completed, and visit sites to confirm resolution. Immediate priority KPI program, Sustainability Scorecard, and capability-building initiatives. “Product transportation suppliers” provide findings do not necessarily involve termination of the supplier; we work with suppliers as appropriate to improve their services for the shipping and delivery of HP products. Learn more in Supply chain responsibility: Environmental performance and worker conditions in these areas. impact. “Nonproduction suppliers” provide goods and services that do not go into the production of HP products (such as staffing, telecommunications, and travel). These suppliers are a significant focus of our supplier diversity efforts. 2 Two of these immediate priority findings were external allegations confirmed by HP. 2 In 2018, the value of revenue supported by HP’s Sustainability and Compliance organization included retained, new, and potential revenue, where supply chain responsibility was an area of particular interest for the customer. 3 The information in this section does not reflect suppliers added to our supply chain following the acquisition Operations of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.’s printer business on November 1, 2017. We plan to include those suppliers as appropriate beginning in the HP 2019 Sustainable Impact Report. As of April 2019, we have carried out risk Our employees assessments on more than 25 suppliers related to the acquisition and added high-risk supplier sites to our program. 1 As of October 31, 2018. We will follow up to ensure corrective actions have been implemented to address issues identified and will complete 2 Prior to the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company. regular assessments. 3 Ibid. 4 Progress through 2018 includes 77,800 factory workers in 2015, 45,700 in 2016, 119,900 in 2017, and 12,000 in 2018. 4 As of October 31, 2018. 5 This data does not include participation in RBA audits. “Participation in our supply chain sustainability programs” is quantified by those programs that go beyond audits to build supplier capabilities to meet our standards. This 5 During calendar year 2018, HP documented 135 recordable incidents, 51 lost workday cases, and 1,125 lost workdays. includes deep dive assessment, weekly reporting of labor metrics, procurement engagement through our supplier Sustainability Scorecard, and in-depth coaching and workshops tailored to supplier risks. Our facilities 1 As of May 2019. Labor 2 About GHG emissions data: 1 The term “forced labor” refers to situations in which people are coerced to work against their will, either overtly This report includes Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions data from HP’s operations, transportation fleet, and employee through violence or intimidation, or by more subtle means such as accumulated debt, retention of identity papers, business travel, calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Business Council for Sustainable and threats of denunciation. HP forbids any forced, bonded, or indentured labor, involuntary prison labor, slavery, or Development (WBCSD) and World Resources Institute (WRI). See the HP 2018 carbon footprint for more details and an trafficking of persons within its supply chain. overview of emissions across the value chain. 2 We use these terms interchangeably when describing HP’s existing programs and policies. • Scope 1 emissions include those from the direct use of natural gas, diesel fuel, refrigerants, and PFCs in operations and from fuel used by HP’s transportation fleet. Responsible minerals sourcing • Scope 2 emissions are primarily from purchased electricity used in HP’s operational real estate. • Scope 3 emissions reported in this section result from employee business travel by commercial airlines and from 1 “Conflict minerals” refers to the mineral precursors of the metals tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold (3TG) as defined in commuting. the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rule requiring a conflict minerals disclosure. Revenue from mining these minerals in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries has been widely linked to funding Data in this section for 2015–2018 uses the market-based method. In the data summary, we also include 2015–2018 for groups engaged in extreme violence and human rights atrocities. data using the location-based method. 3 This includes NEWater (ultra-purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore) as well as recycled Environmental impact or reused water reported by sites globally. Grey water is included, rain water is not. 1 Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers’ reported GHG emissions attributable to HP divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business Community giving and volunteerism productivity. Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year 1 The HP Foundation is a nonprofit, 501(c)3 organization. and highlight longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. 2 Includes valuation of employee volunteer hours, employee donations, HP Foundation match, and HP Foundation grants. 2 Calculated as a three-year rolling average, through December 2017 (the most recent year data is available). 3 Hourly rate based on type of volunteering: $150/hour for board, service corp, pro bono, and skills based; $24.69/hour 3 See HP Announces Supply Chain Goals to Enhance Environmental and Social Impact. for hands-on and undetermined, adjusted using World Bank data for purchasing power differences across countries. 4 This continues a goal from before the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, extending the goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation business units. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 144 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Products and solutions Product responsibility 1 “World’s most secure and manageable PC” claim is based on HP’s unique and comprehensive security capabilities at Sustainable design no additional cost and HP’s Manageability Integration Kit’s management of every aspect of a PC including hardware, BIOS and software management using Microsoft System Center Configuration ManagerΔ among vendors with 1M 1 We conduct product carbon footprints (PCFs), a subset of life cycle assessment, of all business HP desktops, annual unit sales as of November 2016 on HP Elite PCs with 7th generation and higher Intel® Processors, Intel® notebooks, tablets, workstations, thin clients, all-in-one computers, digital signage, and displays to better integrated graphics, and Intel® WLAN. understand performance of individual products and our overall portfolio. These estimate total GHG emissions associated with a product over its lifetime and include emissions from materials extraction, manufacturing, 2 HP Sure Start Gen5 is available on select HP PCs with Intel processors. See product specifications for availability. distribution, use, and end-of-life management. To assess and report our complete personal systems product carbon 3 HP Sure Recover Gen2: See product specifications for availability. Requires an open, wired network connection. footprint, we extrapolate these results to cover 99% of overall personal systems product sales (by unit and by Not available on platforms with multiple internal storage drives. Users must back up important files, data, photos, revenue) during the reporting year. videos, etc. before using HP Sure Recover to avoid loss of data. HP Sure Recover (Gen1) does not support platforms 2 The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2018 using high-volume with Intel® Optane™. product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume personal systems product lines 4 HP Sure Run Gen2: See product specifications for availability. include notebook and desktop computers, tablets, all-in-ones, workstations, thin clients, and displays. 5 HP Sure Click is available on most HP PCs and supports Microsoft® Internet ExplorerΔ, Google Chrome, and 3 The average energy consumption (based on ENERGY STAR® program’s Typical Electricity Consumption (TEC)) of HP Chromium™. Supported attachments include Microsoft Office Δ (Word Δ, Excel Δ, PowerPoint Δ) and PDF files in read only products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2018 using high-volume product lines representative of the mode, when Microsoft Office or Adobe Acrobat are installed. overall shipped product volume. 6 HP Sure Sense requires Windows 10. See product specifications for availability. Introduced in March 2019. 4 The average energy consumption (based on sleep mode power) of newly introduced HP products was estimated 7 HP Sure View integrated privacy screen is an optional feature that must be configured at purchase and is designed to annually between 2010 and 2018 using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product function in landscape orientation. volume. The high-volume product lines include HP inkjet printers and exclude PageWide inkjet printers and largeformat printers. 8 Introduced in March 2019. 5 Product use GHG emissions intensity describes the performance of our portfolio, taking into account changes to 9 HP’s most advanced embedded security features are available on HP Enterprise-class devices with FutureSmart product mix and business growth. HP Product use GHG emissions intensity measures per unit GHG emissions during firmware 4.5 or above and are based on HP review of 2016–2017 published embedded security features of anticipated product lifetime use. These values are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing competitive in-class printers. Only HP offers a combination of security features for integrity checking down to the products to overall revenue. These emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units shipped each year, BIOS with self-healing capabilities. For a list of compatible products, visit: hp.com/go/PrintersThatProtect. For more including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices, workstations, displays, and digital signage; HP information, visit: www.hp.com/go/printersecurityclaims. inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, Scitex, and Jet Fusion 3D printers; and scanners. 6 Data for 2017 and 2018 include improved data that better reflects average laser printer paper usage, compared to Product and solutions portfolio 2017 data for product use stated in the HP 2017 Sustainable Impact Report. 1 The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2018 using high-volume 7 Safer alternatives are rated as GreenScreen® benchmark 2 or better. This data point is calculated based on the total product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume personal systems product lines mass of benign and safer alternatives divided by the total mass of products shipped. Commercial and industrial graphics include notebook and desktop computers, tablets, all-in-ones, workstations, thin clients, and displays. printing solutions products, as well as accessories and packaging for all HP products, are not included in this total. 2 As defined by TCO Edge plastic part definition. 8 See Joint JEDEC/ECA Standard: Definition of “Low-Halogen” for Electronic Products. 3 As defined by the IEEE 1680.1 2018 EPEAT standard. Data are calendar year 2018. 9 Excluding DC cable, AC power cord, and connectors. 4 Based on all-in-ones with self-serviceable hard drive, M.2 storage, webcam, and the ability to remove and service the 10 This number does not include commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, packaging for those solutions, display and PC individually as of September 1, 2017. scanners, personal systems accessories sold separately, or documentation for any products. 5 HP’s Forest Positive Framework is built on previous HP achievements in responsible sourcing of HP brand paper 11 Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage of total plastic used in all HP personal systems, printer hardware, and and paper-based product packaging. The Framework includes actions in five areas: maintaining HP’s long-standing print cartridges shipped during the reporting year. Total volume excludes brand-licensed products and after-market commitment to sustainable sourcing, engaging in collaborative projects with NGOs to support leading forestry science, hardware accessories. Total RCP includes postconsumer recycled plastic, closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound plastic working with NGOs to restore and protect global forests, leveraging HP’s media partnerships to influence positive used in HP products. Personal systems plastic is defined by EPEAT® eco-label criteria. Subject to relevant restrictions on actions, and advancing printing technology to help customers use paper efficiently. To reduce the burden on forests, HP the use and distribution of materials destined for recycling and/or recycled feedstocks. has also been increasing alternative fiber content in its packaging. 12 Does not include toner bottles. 6 Recycled content plastic (RCP) as a percentage of total plastic used in all HP personal systems, printer hardware, and print cartridges shipped during the reporting year. Total volume excludes brand-licensed products and after-market 13 Less than 2% of paper by tonnage is not labeled as certified, but is made from certified fiber. Recycled fiber for paper hardware accessories. Total RCP includes postconsumer recycled plastic, closed-loop plastic, and ocean-bound plastic products is included in the FSC-certified value. used in HP products. Personal systems plastic is defined by EPEAT eco-label criteria. Subject to relevant restrictions on 14 All HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging will be derived from certified and recycled sources by 2020, the use and distribution of materials destined for recycling and/or recycled feedstocks. with a preference for virgin fiber from certified sources of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Packaging is the box 7 Compared to the majority of in-class color desktop inkjet all-in-ones <$199 USD. HP internal research survey of that comes with the product and all paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. printer manufacturers’ published specifications, sustainability reports, and press releases as of 1/1/2019 and Buyers HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 145 Executive summary Sustainable Impact Footprint Integrity and human rights Supply chain responsibility Operations Products and solutions Appendix Laboratory Inc. January 2019 study commissioned by HP; keypointintelligence.com/products/samples/hp-envy/. 21 InfoTrends, 2018 North America Supplies Recycling study, commissioned by HP. Findings are based on average results Market share as reported by IDC CYQ3 2018 Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker. The HP ENVY 6200, 7100, and 7800 all-inof interviews with 7 remanufacturers, 2 NBC manufacturers, 3 empty collectors and 3 distributors. For details, see one printers contain more than 10% plastic from recycled printers and other electronics by weight of the plastic. www.hp.com/go/NA-2018InfoTrends. Program availability varies. For more, hp.com/recycle. 8 Energy consumption .835 kWh/week based on Keypoint Intelligence/Buyer’s Laboratory test report “HP PageWide 22 Based on comparable competitive binder jetting and selective laser melting (SLM) metals 3D printing solutions Managed Color Flow MFP E77650z vs. Competitive Laser Models,” January 2019. available as of July 31, 2018. Productivity claim based on: 1) up to 50 times more productive, on average, based on 9 Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) savings based on the average lifetime use of printing 100,000 pages, and excluding print speed for serial production up to 100,000 parts, and 2) solution acquisition cost. paper. Peer-reviewed life cycle assessment models commissioned by HP and conducted by thinkstep for inkjet 23 Low cost based on comparable competitive binder jetting and selective laser melting (SLM) metals 3D printing (August 2016) and LaserJet (May 2016) and updated in 2018 comparing to comparable models of HP Color Laserjets. solutions available as of July 31, 2018. Expected printer price for 2020 launch for lead customers. Specific results run by HP internal LCA experts. 24 HP Jet Fusion 3D printing solutions using HP 3D High Reusability PA 12 and HP 3D High Reusability PA 11 provide 80% 10 Supplies and packaging materials comparison based on Keypoint Intelligence/Buyer’s Laboratory test report “HP postproduction surplus material reusability, producing functional parts batch after batch. For testing, material is aged PageWide Managed Color Flow MFP E77650z vs. Competitive Laser Models,” January 2019. in real printing conditions and tracked by generations (worst case for reusability). Parts are then made from each 11 HP ink cartridges contain recycled HP ink cartridges plus bottles or hangers. HP toner cartridges contain recycled HP generation and tested for mechanical properties and accuracy. toner cartridges. 25 https://www8.hp.com/us/en/hp-information/environment/product-recycling.html. 12 Based on plan usage, Internet connection to eligible HP printer, valid credit/debit card, email address, and delivery 26 In addition to HP Multi Jet Fusion, the assessment included specific 3D printing systems using the following service in your geographic area. Number of countries is as of April 2018. technologies: digital light synthesis, fused deposition modeling, and selective laser sintering. 13 Based on monthly subscription cost using only all pages in plan vs. cost per page of most color inkjet cartridge printers 27 The HP material and agents do not meet the criteria for classification as hazardous according to Regulation (EC) < $399. Share of New Inkjet Unit Shipments (< $399) for 2018Q1 period in the United States from IDC 2018Q1 Final 1272/2008 as amended. Release. Standard cartridge CPP from gap intelligence 7/24/18. 28 As of May 2019. 14 Compared with non-subscription purchase of the same HP ink cartridges. Based on a 2017 life cycle assessment (LCA) performed by Four Elements Consulting and commissioned by HP. Analysis includes the CO2e associated with Product repair, reuse, and recycling customer trips to purchase ink cartridges at a retail store versus delivering directly to a customer’s house, and it 1 Does not include toner bottles. includes recycling empty ink cartridges versus throwing them away. Data and assumptions drawn from six years of customer data in the United States. Reductions in materials consumption, carbon footprint, energy use, and water 2 Compared to the majority of in-class color desktop inkjet all-in-ones <$199 USD. HP internal research survey of usage are average values. printer manufacturers’ published specifications, sustainability reports, and press releases as of August 1, 2017 and Buyers Laboratory Inc. 2017 study commissioned by HP; keypointintelligence.com/products/samples/hp-envy/. 15 Clone cartridges are newly built cartridges that are manufactured to look like Original HP toner cartridges, but use Market share as reported by IDC CYQ1 2017 Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker. The HP ENVY 6200, 7100, and 7800 all-innon-HP parts and toner and may violate patent holders’ intellectual property rights. one printers contain more than 10% closed-loop plastic from recycled printers and other electronics plastic by weight 16 2019 NA SpencerLab Monochrome Reliability study, commissioned by HP, compared Original HP cartridges with two of the plastic. brands of imitation cartridges for HP Pro M402 and Pro M521 printers; HP 26A and 55A cartridges. For details, see 3 This is the number of countries or territories where HP offers hardware recycling and/or HP ink cartridge recycling www.spencerlab.com/reports/HPReliability-NA-NBC2019.pdf. and/or HP toner cartridge recycling. 17 A 2019 NA Market Strategies International study commissioned by HP. Results based on 222 surveys from HP ServiceOne Partners who have at least 6 months of experience servicing HP monochrome and Color LaserJet printers with HP and non-HP toner cartridges installed, and have done so within the previous 12 months of the study. For details, see www.marketstrategies.com/hp/NA-Technician2019.pdf. 18 2018 Four Elements Consulting LCA study, commissioned by HP, compared Original HP 80A and 83A monochrome Δ M  icrosoft, Office, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, System Center Configuration Manager, and Internet Explorer are either toner cartridges with a sample of new build compatible (NBC) alternatives across eight environmental impact registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. categories. For more, visit http://www.hp.com/go/NA-LJLCA-NBC-2018. The LCA leverages a SpencerLab 2016 study, commissioned by HP, comparing Original HP LaserJet toner cartridges with three brands of NBC toner cartridges sold in NA. For details, see http://www.spencerlab.com/reports/HPReliability-NA-NBC2016.pdf. 19 Dec 2017 WKI Blue Angel Indoor Air Quality compliance study, commissioned by HP. The study tested New Build Compatible toner cartridge brands sold as substitutes for HP LaserJet Pro MFP M425dn with cartridge 280A. The tests were carried out in compliance with Blue Angel labeling of office equipment in accordance with RAL-UZ-205P. For details, see http://h20195.www2.hp.com/v2/getpdf.aspx/4AA7-1981ENW.pdf. 20 2018 Four Elements Consulting LCA study, commissioned by HP, compared Original HP 80A and 83A monochrome toner cartridges with a sample of new build compatible (NBC) alternatives across eight environmental impact categories. For more information, visit hp.com/go/NA-LJLCA-NBC-2018. The LCA leverages a SpencerLab 2016 study, commissioned by HP, comparing Original HP LaserJet toner cartridges with three brands of NBC toner cartridges sold in NA. For details, see http://www.spencerlab.com/reports/HPReliability-NA-NBC2016.pdf. HP 2018 Sustainable Impact Report www.hp.com/sustainableimpact 146
