How we think about tomorrow. Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact 2018 PALFINGER INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DETAILED GRI AND SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES REPORTING STANDARDS GRI STANDARDS The allocation of PALFINGER’s sustainability topics to the respective GRI disclosures is marked by references. Moreover, the impacts of a topic, in particular PALFINGER’s contribution to the respective impact, are shown by means of the value creation chain and the four sustainability areas. The following impact table presents an overview of where in the value creation chain – supply chain, within the Company or during product use – a direct or indirect impact occurs and under which of PALFINGER’s four sustainability areas it is subsumed. The impacts, their measurements and any improvement measures instituted are described in the relevant chapters of this Report. SUSTAINABILITY AND DIVERSITY IMPROVEMENT ACT (NADIVEG) The impact table further below also shows which of PALFINGER’s sustainability topics are associated with which provisions of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act, the application of which became mandatory in 2018. This illustrates PALFINGER’s implementation of the requirements under this Act in connection with the value creation chain and other guidelines such as GRI, UNGC and the SDGs. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) In 2017, PALFINGER deepened its analysis of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and specified the direct or indirect impact of its own actions on individual SDGs. The following impact table presents in detail the direct impact of individual sustainability topics on a Sustainable Development Goal. The top 13 sustainability topics of PALFINGER directly impact nine SDGs. The major impact is shown to be exerted on the five following goals in descending order. These five, which often interact and support each other, have been included in the reporting. SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production PALFINGER assumes responsibility by using raw materials efficiently. The reduction of energy input as well as of hazardous waste is promoted along the entire value creation chain. With its safe, efficient, low-noise products that have a low consumption of operating materials, PALFINGER provides lifting solutions that correspond to the state of the art in research and the demand in the market. Product lifecycle approaches take into account application and production patterns ranging from the supplier to the end customer. SDG 13: Climate action PALFINGER is committed to climate protection and strives to continuously optimize energy consumption and intra-company transports caused by production operations and during product use, thereby reducing costs and emissions. Examples are hybrid or electric solutions, the switch to renewable energy sources in procurement, and photovoltaic solutions for production floors. Specific objectives and measures regarding energy consumption and CO2 emissions have been defined in order to contribute to this goal. In addition, to the extent that regional conditions allow, PALFINGER strives to achieve the greatest possible efficiency in buildings as well as in production processes. 217 PALFINGER INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DETAILED GRI AND SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth The viability of the business model is of great importance to PALFINGER and contributes to economic growth. Relevant trends, such as digitalization, are actively monitored. It is equally important to guarantee attractive employment on the basis of an internalized corporate culture and internalized corporate values. This includes legal and ethical standards as well as diversity aspects, training opportunities and voluntary social benefits for PALFINGER employees. Moreover, control by means of management systems like OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 promotes safe working conditions and is taken into consideration in the selection and regular assessment of suppliers. SDG 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure PALFINGER is committed to keeping its business model up to date with current trends at all times and hence invests in research and development to maintain the Company’s viable position in the future. With the help of innovations, PALFINGER enhances its production processes as well as the safety of its products, for example by means of virtual reality applications. Another focus is on the efficient use of raw materials such as steel or aluminium. SDG 10: Reduced inequalities PALFINGER views compliance with legal and ethical standards as its social responsibility. Exceeding regional standards also makes PALFINGER an attractive employer. PALFINGER acts in an ethically correct manner: Laws are obeyed, taxes are transparent and are paid correctly, and corruption is counteracted. Relevant topics here are the promotion of diversity and equal opportunity, for example in connection with talent management, as well as fair working conditions, modern workplaces and fair remuneration. UN GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) Since 2013, PALFINGER has been committed to compliance with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Instead of disclosing a Communication on Progress report, PALFINGER once again combined the sustainability topics with the UN principles in 2018; this is presented in the impact table below. IMPACTS OF THE SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS ALONG THE VALUE CREATION CHAIN The impact table shows which sustainability topics are deemed material for PALFINGER, at which stage of the value creation chain their impacts occur, and to which areas the impacts are allocated. The ranking of the material topics corresponds to their long-term impacts and at the same time the overall relevance identified by internal and external stakeholders in 2017. All 38 topics that were assessed in the materiality analysis have been included. Any changes in comparison with previous reports are indicated in the key and/or the chapter “Materiality analysis”. References to guidelines and reporting standards and the meeting of KPIs are indicated as well. In addition, the measures conducive to the development of a sustainability topic were reported for the first time in 2018. Management report, Materiality analysis, page 45 218 PALFINGER INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DETAILED GRI AND SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES IMPACT TABLE Responsible employer Eco-efficiency in production Sustainable products Fair business Impact on value creation chain Supply chain Product use Within the References to guidelines Ranking Company GRI disclosures, NaDiVeG, Material topics SDG, UNGC Intensity of reporting Measures 1 Product safety • GRI: 416-1, 416-2 Quantitative presentation of • Product data tracking for PALFINGER’s products should be any accidents involving safety distinguished by utmost safety. products and description of The prevention of accidents safety innovations for during their use should go beyond products statutory requirements. 2 Product research and • No GRI disclosures Quantitative presentation of • R&D process development available investment in research and • Training of R&D employees PALFINGER should increasingly • NaDiVeG development invest in product research and development and offer the latest • SDG: 9, 13 technologies. 3 Innovation in production • No GRI disclosures Quantitative presentation of • R&D process PALFINGER should promote available investment in research and sustainable innovations and • NaDiVeG development technologies in the production process in order to increase • SDG: 9, 13 efficiency (“more output with less input”). 4 Viability of the business model • GRI: 201-1, 201-2 Quantitative presentation of • Marine business as second PALFINGER should make sure • SDG: 8, 9 monetary flows to mainstay that its business model remains stakeholders, management • GLOBAL PALFINGER viable in the long term and actively systems as well as ORGANIZATION pursue trends (e.g. urbanization, presentation in the context of rental instead of purchase, the management report, risk circular economy, etc.). management, economic PALFINGER should make a performance, organizational contribution to society. profile 5 Health and safety • GRI: 403-2 Quantitative presentation of • Uniform global definition of PALFINGER should protect its • NaDiVeG accidents, fatalities, staff accidents and uniform employees against accidents and absences in the Company’s reporting proactively promote occupational • SDG: 3 own production process, • Expansion of PALfit health and safety as well as absentee rate and preventive health care and social management systems as well • Global health initiative security provision. A good workas description of initiatives life balance should contribute to the employees’ well-being. 6 Product lifecycle • GRI: 301-1, 302-1, 302-3, Quantitative description of • Lifecycle approach PALFINGER products should be 305-1, 305-2, warranty costs and waste • Lifecycle app characterized by their reduced 305-3, 305-4 cuttings rate as well as weight and their lower need for qualitative description of • Business model innovation • NaDiVeG (TCO) energy and operating materials product innovations for over the entire product lifecycle. • SDG: 12 quality enhancement as well The products should be of top • UNGC: 7-9 as of safe and efficient quality, reliable, durable and low products in maintenance. 7 Employee development • GRI: 404-1 Quantitative presentation of • Coaching for executives PALFINGER should promote the • NaDiVeG hours of training, appraisal • Expansion of employee initial and further training of its interviews as well as development employees and prepare them in • SDG: 4, 8 qualitative description of good time for changes in their development programmes • Learning strategy working environment (e.g. • Global leadership Industry 4.0, expert framework & programme development). 219 PALFINGER INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DETAILED GRI AND SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES Impact on value creation chain Supply chain Product use Within the References to guidelines Ranking Company GRI disclosures, NaDiVeG, Material topics SDG, UNGC Intensity of reporting Measures 8 Energy efficiency and climate • GRI: 302-1, 302-3, 305-1, Quantitative indicators and • Paint shops and powder protection 305-2, 305-3, management systems as well coating plants PALFINGER should strive to 305-4 as qualitative description of • Modernization and continuously optimize energy • NaDiVeG energy efficiency and climate expansion of plants consumption and intra-company protection transport (e.g. on-demand • SDG: 13 • Greenfield investments logistics, e-drive induction loops) • UNGC: 7-9 marine business and to reduce costs and • Energy efficiency Russia emissions, thus making an active • E-mobility contribution to climate protection. • Exchange on environmental PALFINGER should aim for the topics highest building efficiency possible under regional • Photovoltaic systems conditions. • Heating degree days • Climate strategy • Renewable energy 9 Raw material demand and • GRI: 301-1 Quantitative presentation of • Steel supplier assessment efficiency • NaDiVeG raw material demand, waste • Waste cuttings rate In production, PALFINGER should cuttings rate and hazardous use raw materials such as steel, • SDG: 12 waste as well as qualitative aluminium and glass fibre • UNGC: 7-9 description of raw material efficiently. demand and efficiency 10 Attractive employment • GRI: 102-8, 401-1 Quantitative presentation of • Establishment of an PALFINGER should be highly • NaDiVeG employee development, employer branding strategy reputed as an attractive employer, employee turnover and • Personnel marketing maintain a high employee • SDG: 4, 5, 8 diversity; qualitative retention rate and create • UNGC: 3-6 description of PALFINGER’s • On-boarding process development opportunities attractiveness as an employer • HR strategy (horizontally and vertically) within • HR system the Company. • Job architecture 11 Corporate culture and values • GRI: 102-16, 102-17 Quantitative presentation of • Focus on corporate culture PALFINGER employees, in • NaDiVeG employee survey as well as and vision particular executives, should set qualitative description of • Organizational structure an example when it comes to • SDG: 8 corporate culture and values embracing PALFINGER’s • UNGC: 10 corporate culture and acting on the basis of its values of entrepreneurship, respect and learning. This should lead, among other things, to intercultural understanding, a higher level of recognition and appreciation and an active exchange of knowledge. 12 Compliance with legal and ethical • GRI: 102-16, 102-17, Presentation of violations, if • Training in corporate ethics standards 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, any, and description of for new employees PALFINGER should act in an 206-1, 307-1, 417-2, initiatives regarding corporate • Corporate audit ethically correct manner: laws are 417-3, 419-1 ethics and prevention of obeyed, taxes are paid correctly corruption • Compliance training • NaDiVeG and corruption is counteracted. • Compliance risk analysis • SDG: 5, 8, 10, 16 • Human rights assessment • UNGC: 7-10 • Code of Conduct review • Data protection 13 Industry 4.0 and digitalization • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of • PALFINGER 21st PALFINGER should focus available digitalization and Industry 4.0 increasingly on the digitalization • NaDiVeG and connectivity of machinery; this also extends to its suppliers • SDG: 9 (open sourcing). The responsible handling of data, in particular utmost data protection, should be guaranteed. 220 PALFINGER INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DETAILED GRI AND SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES Impact on value creation chain Supply chain Product use Within the References to guidelines Ranking Company GRI disclosures, NaDiVeG, Further topics SDG, UNGC Intensity of reporting Measures 14 Alternative drive systems • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of PALFINGER should offer available product innovations alternative drive systems (e.g. • SDG: 13 electric, hybrid). 15 Effluents and wastes • No GRI disclosures Presentation of waste • Reduction of hazardous At PALFINGER sites, potentially reported cuttings rate and waste hazardous waste and substances • SDG: 12 development of hazardous should be avoided, safely stored, waste, description of the and disposed of in an state of the art of environmentally friendly manner electroplating and paint or, if possible, reused. shops, description of product innovations 16 Working conditions • GRI: 403-2, 412-1, 412-2 Quantitative presentation PALFINGER should establish • NaDiVeG of health and safety, uniform minimum standards in human rights issues as well order to guarantee globally • SDG: 3, 8, 10 as qualitative description of applicable working conditions for • UNGC: 1-6 working conditions its employees. This should create safe and healthy jobs. 17 Environmentally friendly • GRI: 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, Quantitative indicators and • Low impact product products 305-4 qualitative description of definition PALFINGER products should • NaDiVeG emissions, product • CO2 emissions in product avoid noise and emissions during innovations for quality use operation, be free of hazardous • SDG: 12, 13 enhancement, the state of substances (e.g. chromium VI), • UNGC: 7-9 the art of electroplating and • PALfluid offer product variants with paint shops as well as biodegradable hydraulic oil and presentation of waste thus avoid potential risks to cuttings rate and humans and the environment. development of hazardous waste 18 Overall performance • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of • PALdrive platform PALFINGER should increasingly available PALFINGER’s overall become a full-service provider for performance one-stop-shop solutions. 19 Fair remuneration • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of PALFINGER should offer fair reported wage level remuneration regardless of age, • NaDiVeG gender, origin and other diversity factors, and should ensure local • SDG: 5, 10 minimum wages. 20 Employee motivation • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of PALFINGER should provide an available employee motivation environment that raises the motivational level of its employees. Innovative incentive systems should support this, especially for agile teams. 21 Regional responsibility • GRI: 203-2 Qualitative description of PALFINGER sites should become • NaDiVeG regional responsibility actively involved at the regional level and should invest in public welfare (e.g. donations, sponsoring, development programmes). Good relations should be maintained with local residents. 22 Diversity and equal opportunity • GRI: 405-1, 406-1 Quantitative presentation • PALversity project PALFINGER should enhance • NaDiVeG of the percentage of “Recruiting” diversity and offer all employees women, generations and • PALversity project “Working the same opportunities – • SDG: 5, 10 incidents of discrimination, Conditions” irrespective of age, gender, • UNGC: 3-6 as well as qualitative personal background and other description of diversity • PALversity project “Talent diversity factors. Discrimination strategy, employees with Management” should actively be prevented. disabilities and of initiatives • Diversity scheme 221 PALFINGER INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DETAILED GRI AND SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES Impact on value creation chain Supply chain Product use Within the References to guidelines Ranking Company GRI disclosures, NaDiVeG, Further topics SDG, UNGC Intensity of reporting Measures 23 Correct corporate governance • GRI: 102-18, 102-19, Presentation of compliance The management should act in a 102-20, 102-21, 102-22, management and any correct manner and guarantee the 102-24, 102-32, 415-1 violations independence of the Supervisory • NaDiVeG Board, the involvement of shareholders and the transparent • SDG: 10 remuneration of the top • UNGC: 10 management. The importance of acting in accordance with defined corporate values should be emphasized. 24 Sustainability in the supply chain: • GRI: 308-1, 308-2, 407-1, Number of supplier audits suppliers 408-1, 409-1, 414-1, and results PALFINGER should take an 414-2 interest in whether suppliers pay • NaDiVeG attention to environmental protection and to their social • SDG: 8, 12, 13 responsibility. Suppliers that show • UNGC: 1-9 commitment in these fields should receive advantages from PALFINGER. 25 Product recyclability • No GRI disclosures Presentation of waste Starting in the development available cuttings rate and phase, PALFINGER products • SDG: 12 development of hazardous should be designed so that they waste, description of the can be easily disabled state of the art of (decommissioned) and recycled electroplating and paint at the end of their lifecycle. shops, description of product innovations 26 Employee communication • GRI: 402-1 Qualitative description of • New intranet Every employee should be • SDG: 10 employee communication • Communication strategy informed about major corporate and concept developments in a timely manner. Communication with and among employees should take place at an elevated international level and be characterized by the common corporate values. 27 Modern workplaces • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of PALFINGER should create available modern workplaces structures, processes and • SDG: 5, 8, 10 framework conditions to ensure flexible, agile and mobile workplaces. These should take into account the interests of present and future employees (working time models, remote working arrangements, parental leave, expatriation rules, etc.). 28 Sustainability in the supply chain: • GRI: 308-1, 308-2, 407-1, Qualitative presentation of dealers 408-1, 409-1, 414-1, dealer relations PALFINGER should take an 414-2 interest in whether dealers pay • NaDiVeG attention to environmental protection and to their social • UNGC: 1-9 responsibility. Dealers that show commitment in these fields should receive advantages from PALFINGER. 29 Environmentally friendly • GRI: 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, Qualitative description of • CO2 emissions in transport transport 305-4 transport The transport of raw materials, • NaDiVeG components and PALFINGER products should be kept short and • UNGC: 7-9 environmentally friendly. 222 PALFINGER INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DETAILED GRI AND SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES Impact on value creation chain Supply chain Product use Within the References to guidelines Ranking Company GRI disclosures, NaDiVeG, Further topics SDG, UNGC Intensity of reporting Measures 30 Solutions for developing and • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of emerging countries available lifting solutions for PALFINGER should adjust its • SDG: 1, 8 developing and emerging products to the needs in less countries developed countries to make them affordable and to make physical labour easier. 31 Efficiency of water consumption • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of The water consumption in reported efficient use of water PALFINGER’s production should • NaDiVeG be constantly reduced. • SDG: 6 32 Product information and fair • GRI: 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, Qualitative description of • Review of dealer standards marketing 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, product information and • Operator’s guides and Users should be provided with 102-7, 102-8, 102-9, marketing training product information and training 102-10, 102-11, 102-12, in order to ensure safety and 102-13, 417-2, 417-3 • End customers in the environmental protection when system • NaDiVeG using PALFINGER products. Promotion of the products should • UNGC: 3-9 be honest and transparent. 33 Products for ecological/social use • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of PALFINGER should increasingly available product innovations strive for product innovations for the use in environmental and social fields. This has already been achieved in the case of cranes for wind energy plants, access systems for people with disabilities or davit systems (rescue boats). 34 Regional procurement and • No GRI disclosures Qualitative description of production reported regional procurement and PALFINGER should procure production regionally and produce in the region where the products are placed on the market. 35 Freedom of association • GRI: 102-41, 407-1 Qualitative description of PALFINGER should uphold • NaDiVeG freedom of association freedom of association and guarantee freedom of expression. • UNGC: 1-6 36 Stakeholder involvement • GRI: 102-40, 102-41, Presentation within the PALFINGER should openly inform 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 framework of stakeholder customers, suppliers, employees • NaDiVeG management and all other cooperation partners, and engage them in the • UNGC: 3-6 development of the Company accordingly. 37 Biodiversity • No GRI disclosures Qualitative presentation of PALFINGER should practise reported protection of biodiversity nature conservation and, in • NaDiVeG particular, preserve biodiversity at its sites. • SDG: 14, 15 38 Second-hand market • No GRI disclosures Qualitative presentation of In the future, PALFINGER should available PALFINGER’s secondcollaborate with its dealers to hand market promote the second-hand market, thus promoting the control and a possible upgrade of used products. GRI 102-47, 103-1 Management report, Materiality analysis, page 45 223
