2018 ANNUAL REPORT 2 A world leader in the field of in vitro diagnostics for over EDITO 55 years, bioMérieux is present in 43 countries and serves 4 more than 160 countries with the support of a large 2018 AT A GLANCE network of distributors. In 2018, revenues reached 6 €2.4 billion, with over 90% of international sales. CLINICAL APPLICATIONS bioMérieux provides diagnostic solutions (systems, Diagnostic testing: instrumental in combating antimicrobial resistance A unique range of solutions to ﬁght sepsis reagents, software and services) which determine the CONTENTS Expanding our portfolio for the diagnosis of respiratory infections 18 source of disease and contamination to improve patient health and ensure consumer safety. Its products are mainly INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS The importance of diagnostics for pharmaceutical product quality used for diagnosing infectious diseases and some critical Diagnostics for food safety illnesses. Its diagnostic solutions are also used for detecting microorganisms in agri-food, pharmaceutical and cosmetic products. 24 SERVICES Close to our customers with a range of services 28 AN INTERNATIONAL SUCCESS 30 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Committed to being a socially responsible company with a humanistic vision Committed to people Committed to our workforce Committed to respecting the environment Committed to ethics in business 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 62 KEY FIGURES 64 FINANCIAL TABLES 67 THE BIOMÉRIEUX SHARE bioMérieux is listed on the Euronext Paris stock market. (Symbol: BIM ISIN: FR0010096479). Website: www.biomerieux.com 68 GLOSSARY More than 25 years ago, we leveraged our expertise in clinical diagnostics and applied it to the protection of consumer health by developing industrial microbiological control solutions. Today this area of our business represents near by 20% of sales, driven in 2018 by the dynamic performance of products for the pharmaceutical industry and by the rapid growth of molecular biology solutions for the agri-food sector. As a global public health player, today bioMérieux earns more than 90% of revenues outside EDITO of France. In 2018, the Americas region recorded very strong sales (growth of 12.5%), and North America, our biggest market, accounted for 38% of sales. The Asia Pacific region also delivered solid results with growth of 12.4%. Sales in Europe rose steadily by nearly 6%. To sustain this strong momentum, we continue to prepare for the future by investing at a higher level in R&D than the more average investment for our sector. In addition, bioMérieux has made three strategic acquisitions: Astute Medical, a U.S. company that developed the NEPHROCHECK® test for the early risk assessment of acute kidney injury; Hybiome, a Chinese company specialized in automated immunoassay tests (in which we acquired a ” majority stake); and, in early 2019, Invisible Sentinel, a U.S. start-up that develops and Alexandre Mérieux manufactures innovative molecular diagnostic solutions for the detection of pathogens in Chairman and CEO food and beverages. Since bioMérieux was founded, we have always placed great importance on the quality of social dialogue and on our employees’ professional development and success. With them, In 2018, bioMérieux recorded highly satisfactory results with sales growth of 9.9% we cultivate a state of mind that may be summarized in three words: BELONG.DARE.IMPACT. (at constant exchange rates and scope of consolidation) and profitability reaching nearly As these three pillars illustrate, we care about having a humanistic culture, being part of a 15% of sales. These results confirm the solid performance we have seen in recent years. unique community and our commitment to the territories in which we operate. This approach They are the outcome of sustained business activity thanks to the balance of our clinical is inspired by our pioneering spirit, our belief in collaborative innovation and our capacity to and industrial product lines and the scope of our international network. undertake entrepreneurial initiatives. This mindset guides our actions on a daily basis and enhances our impact on global health. For more than 55 years we have been developing our expertise in infectious disease diagnostics to address major public health challenges such as antimicrobial resistance, sepsis and respiratory infections. We are fully aware that our public health mission brings with it a unique responsibility to society and to future generations The patient has always been at the center of our strategy of and we remain committed to social responsibility in the developing products with high medical and economic value. conduct of our business. Because our diagnostic tests results are delivered more and Thus, bioMérieux actively promotes health awareness, education and prevention. We also more rapidly and precisely, they make a genuine impact on uphold our commitment as a socially responsible company by sponsoring initiatives to help improving patient care. In addition, they contribute to the communities where our sites are located and by supporting the Mérieux Foundation and the Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux Foundation, two family foundations that fight economically sustainable healthcare systems by keeping infectious diseases in developing countries. costs under control. bioMérieux has what it takes to be a leader in our industry: highly motivated teams, proficiency For example, the innovative syndromic approach to molecular diagnostics provided by our in the technologies that will drive the diagnostics of tomorrow and a unique international BIOFIRE® product line, is a clear growth driver that has propelled bioMérieux to the position footprint. I am confident that we will be able to maintain the current momentum and continue of market leader. to fulfill our public health mission far into the future. 2 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 3 INFRASTRUCTURE Inauguration of the Shanghai (China) training campus Acquisition of land for the construction of a new BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® manufacturing facility at Salt Lake City (United States) Automation of the BACT/ALERT® blood culture bottle packaging line in Durham (United States) AT A Expansion of the Craponne (France) site Construction of a new building to house immunoassay R&D GLANCE and expansion of VIDAS® production capacity at Marcy l’Étoile (France) ACQUISITIONS PARTNERSHIPS IN THE FIELD CNES-NASA OF IMMUNOASSAYS Cooperation agreement for the quality control of water in the International Space Station using AQUAPAD DEINOVE (FRANCE) Astute Medical (United States) Agreement for bioMérieux to High medical value provide DEINOVE with more than NEPHROCHECK® test for the risk 250 bacterial strains (130 species) assessment of acute kidney injury for screening of antibiotic and antifungal activities LABORATORY OF MEDICAL MICROBIOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF ANTWERP (BELGIUM) Hybiome (China) Renewed support for PRODUCT NEWS Automated immunoassay tests the Global Point Prevalence Survey for hospitals (GLOBAL-PPS) CLINICAL APPLICATIONS INDUSTRIAL MICROBIOLOGICAL CONTROL CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL IN THE FIELD OF INDUSTRIAL AND PREVENTION (UNITED STATES) BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® VITEK® MS NEPHROCHECK® BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO® MICROBIOLOGICAL CONTROL Commitment to take part in PNEUMONIA FDA clearance of the expanded This test for the early risk assessment FDA clearance for the BPA the AMR Challenge, a new initiative Launch of innovative syndromic CE-marked database in 2017 for the of acute kidney injury was included in and BPN culture bottles for by the US CDC panels for the diagnosis of lower identification of challenging the consensus guidelines of medical use by blood banks EUROPEAN PROJECTS respiratory tract infections. pathogens such as Brucella, Candida societies: ERAS® Cardiac Surgery and (INNOVATIVE MEDICINES INITIATIVE) These panels have received auris and Elizabethkingia anophelis. Acute Dialysis Quality Initiative (ADQI) GENE-UP® CRONOBACTER Invisible Sentinel (United States) Participation in the COMBACTE-CDI CE marking and FDA clearance The database now contains Launch of a test to detect The VERIFLOW® platform is an (COMbatting BACTerial resistance in 16,000 strains representing VIDAS® PTH (1-84) the pathogen Cronobacter spp for innovative molecular biology Europe) project 1,316 species Launch of a third-generation products in the agri-food industry solution for the detection of Co-leader of the VALUE-Dx project quantitative test to measure pathogens and spoilage organisms parathyroid hormone and support ENDOZYME® II GO in food and beverages, in particular, BAXTER (UNITED STATES) the diagnosis of hyperparathyroidism wine and beer (early 2019) Collaboration to improve Launch of an innovative test identification and treatment and hypoparathyroidism for the detection of endotoxins of acute kidney injury in pharmaceutical products 4 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 5 CLINICAL APPLICATIONS DIAGNOSTICS IS POWER The power to sustain antibiotic efficacy for future generations bioMérieux wants to unleash the full power of diagnostics to fight infectious diseases and make an even greater impact to improve patient care. The fight against antimicrobial resistance is at the heart of our public heatlh mission. #pioneeringdiagnostics The work I do every day helps 700,000 deaths combat antimicrobial resistance, annually worldwide for the health of my children and an estimated and children everywhere. 10 million deaths ” Sakurako a year by 2050 (1) Marketing manager A potential cost to global economic output of $100 trillion (1) CLINICAL APPLICATIONS As a world leader of in vitro diagnostics, we have and an annual been active in the field of infectious diseases for more decrease in global DIAGNOSTIC TESTING: than 55 years. Combatting resistance to antibiotics lies at the heart of our company’s global public health GDP* of between 1.1% mission. and 3.8% (2) by 2050 INSTRUMENTAL IN COMBATING 80% of sales in clinical ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE applications from products that contribute to the fight against antimicrobial resistance either directly or indirectly Antimicrobial resistance has been recognized as a major global public health threat. International organizations, including the United Nations, 75% the European Commission, the G20, the WHO, of R&D expenses and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, dedicated to combatting have all taken steps to strengthen the international antimicrobial resistance community’s determination to address this threat. The Company offers a unique and comprehensive range of diagnostic solutions that support the * Global Domestic Product responsible use of antibiotics. 1) Tackling drug-resistant infections globally: Final report and recommendations, The Review on Antimicrobial Resistance, Chaired by Jim O’Neill, May 2016. 2) Press release from the World Bank: “By 2050, drug-resistant infections could cause global economic damage on par with 2008 financial crisis”, September 19, 2016. 8 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 9 ●●● ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE VITEK® MS: bioMérieux offers a unique and comprehensive range of diagnostic AN EXPANDED DATABASE solutions that support the responsible use of antibiotics. In 2018, the expanded database of VITEK® MS, a mass spectrometry microbial identification system, received CE marking and FDA clearance. The Our diagnostic tests make it possible to: expanded base safely identifies Brucella, a bacterium that is often difficult for lab personnel to recognize, as well as emerging and drug-resistant pathogens such as Candida auris, Elizabethkingia anophelis and other clinically important microorganisms. This innovative solution further improves the performance of the VITEK® MS system by adding 272 new species to its database, including 217 new bacterial species and 55 fungal species, bringing the number of strains in the VITEK® MS database to 16,000 representing 1,316 species. MYLA®: AN IT SOLUTION TO CONSOLIDATE TEST RESULTS MYLA® is an IT solution that ensures connectivity between several instruments via a microbiology laboratory information system (LIS). It acts as a “control tower” by supervising the flow of Confirm bacterial infection and identify the causative Determine a pathogen’s resistance profile to select the most Monitor patient response to personalized treatment duration information from instruments while providing full pathogen to ensure optimal patient outcomes and avoid appropriate treatment, limit use of broad-spectrum antibiotics and discontinue antibiotics as early as possible with the traceability of exchanges with the IT system and unnecessary antibiotic use with: and avoid adverse side effects with: VIDAS® test to measure procalcitonin level. delivering relevant indicators of laboratory efficiency. MYLA® consolidates all VITEK® MS, VITEK® 2 and BACT/ALERT® 3D results, thereby reinforcing the medical value of individual diagnostic tests. Since 2018, this solution also connects additional instruments that are complementary to the bioMérieux product ranges, so that it is possible to consolidate all laboratory VIDAS® BIOFIRE® PREVI® COLOR BACT/ALERT® WASPLab® CHROMID® VITEK® MS VIDAS® B.R.A.H.M.S PCT™ data on antibiotic sensitivity. MYLA® is a valuable B.R.A.H.M.S PCT™ FILMARRAY® VIRTUO® tool to support antibiotic stewardship programs. LUMED: FOR THE RESPONSIBLE USE OF ANTIBIOTICS IN HOSPITALS BIOFIRE® VITEK® 2 ETEST® RAPIDEC® In October 2017, bioMérieux signed a distribution FILMARRAY® CARBA NP agreement with Lumed, an innovative Canadian start-up working at the intersection of IT and medicine. This agreement covers distribution of The bioMérieux offer also includes MYLA® lab informatics the APSS (Antimicrobial Prescription Surveillance solutions, allowing to connect several systems to treat System) software in Canada, the United States and microbiological data to consolidate test results, and France. The APSS solution supports clinical BIOMÉRIEUX EPISEQ®, an epidemiological surveillance tool decision-making and was specifically designed for for prevention and infection control to avoid outbreaks antimicrobial stewardship teams. and limit the spread of resistance. 10 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 11 Thanks to data analysis techniques, SEPSIS SOLUTION, BIOMÉRIEUX’S UNIQUE INTEGRATED APPROACH ACQUISITION OF ASTUTE MEDICAL I contribute to the development bioMérieux offers the most extensive range of In April 2018, bioMérieux acquired the U.S. company Astute Medical, which developed and produced the of high medical value diagnostic tests products on the market for sepsis diagnostics NEPHROCHECK® test for the early risk assessment of developing acute kidney injury (AKI). The test has to improve the health of patients and management, with immunoassay, microbiology and molecular biology tests. received FDA clearance and CE marking. This high around the world. ” medical value predictive test is based on using The Sepsis Solution allows workflow urinary biomarkers that indicate kidney stress in optimization so that samples from sepsis advance of AKI, which can change the way hospital Laure patients undergo analysis as quickly as physicians manage this disease. AKI is a frequent Biostatistician possible, thus providing clinicians with results complication of severe conditions, in particular that facilitate medical decision making. sepsis, and it increases mortality associated with sepsis. This acquisition follows the partnership formed between Astute Medical and bioMérieux in 2015, according to which Astute granted bioMérieux THIS PRODUCT OFFERING INCLUDES: a license to develop and market the NEPHROCHECK® * The measurement of a patient’s procalcitonin level test on bioMérieux’s VIDAS® immunoassay system. with the VIDAS® B.R.A.H.M.S PCT™ test, a specific CLINICAL APPLICATIONS marker of severe bacterial infection. Blood cultures, with the BACT/ALERT® range and NEPHROCHECK® TEST INCLUDED IN A UNIQUE RANGE OF SOLUTIONS * BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO®, a fully-automated blood culture system that continuously processes CONSENSUS RECOMMENDATIONS BY samples 24/7. MEDICAL SOCIETIES TO FIGHT SEPSIS * Molecular syndromic diagnostics, with the BIOFIRE® In the second quarter of 2018, the NEPHROCHECK® FILMARRAY® Blood Culture Identification Panel, biomarkers were included in the consensus guidelines which after just 2 minutes of hands-on time for a issued by the Enhanced Recovery after Cardiac positive blood culture, identifies pathogens and Surgery (ERAS®) Society and the Acute Dialysis 3 antibiotic resistance genes associated with blood Quality Initiative (ADQI), an international organization stream infections in one hour. with over 150 members, specialists in the diagnosis and management of acute kidney injury and related Sepsis is a serious infection in which the body’s Even though it is often under-recognized, sepsis is * Rapid, automated identification of pathogens using conditions requiring dialysis. immune response leads to potentially fatal organ one of the leading causes of death worldwide and mass spectrometry with the VITEK® MS system. dysfunction. It develops from the clinical deterioration one of the main infection-related causes of death: * Identification of pathogens and automated of a common infection, such as respiratory, antibiotic susceptibility testing with the VITEK® 2 gastrointestinal, urinary infections, as well as skin 27 to 30 million people affected each year (1) system. and wound infections. 6 million deaths (1) * The ETEST® antimicrobial susceptibility testing Although sepsis may affect people of all ages, the range, providing precise information about the groups at highest risk for development of sepsis 1 death every 3 to 4 seconds worldwide (1) concentration at which disease-causing bacteria are are: immunocompromised patients, children under mortality of 20 to 30%, and in the case of septic sensitive to antibiotics. one year, adults aged over 60, and patients who may shock, up to 70% (2) * Lab Consulting solutions to analyze sample flow in be more susceptible following an illness. the laboratory and suggest organizational Early recognition and rapid diagnosis are essential adjustments to improve operational efficiency and to begin effective antibiotic treatment; any delay in time-to-results. starting appropriate treatment is associated with * MYLA® software, which processes microbiology data increased mortality. and ensures connectivity to link several analysis instruments. 1) Global Sepsis Alliance, https://global-sepsis-alliance.org 2) Chun et al., Journal of Laboratory Automation, 2015, Vol. 20(5) 539–56. 12 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 13 THE BIOMÉRIEUX SOLUTIONS I help design diagnostic tests that BIOFIRE® range multiplex are performed on patient samples molecular biology solutions: • Respiratory Panel to detect infectious diseases. ” • Respiratory 2 Panel Camille • Respiratory 2 plus Panel Scientist in R&D Biosciences • Respiratory EZ Panel (sold in the United States) • Pneumonia Panel • Pneumonia plus Panel Despite significant progress in the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of The VIDAS® test to measure lower respiratory tract infections, procalcitonin levels for the including pneumonia, these infections management and monitoring of CLINICAL APPLICATIONS cause nearly three million deaths patients with a lower respiratory EXPANDING OUR PORTFOLIO annually (2). tract infection or sepsis It is the leading cause of death due to CHROMID® chromogenic culture FOR THE DIAGNOSIS OF RESPIRATORY infectious diseases worldwide (2) and one of the primary reasons for hospitalization media for the detection of in Europe and the United States (3). Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus INFECTIONS and methicillin-resistant Lower respiratory tract infections may be Staphylococcus aureus due to bacteria or viruses. Treatment with (MRSA) It is the leading cause of new antimicrobials is often possible. Early Respiratory infections are a major global cases of diseases, all diseases identification of the cause of infection and combined, both infectious and of the antibiotic resistance profile in the The VITEK® range for the health burden due to their high non-infectious (1). case of a bacterial infection are critically identification and automated frequency and consequent mortality. important in order to limit mortality due antimicrobial susceptibility testing Worldwide, one person has an average to such infections. of bacteria and yeasts of more than two upper respiratory tract While typically caused by a virus, bacterial infections per year. infections may also be the causative agent with considerable consequences for The ARGENE® range in molecular patients. Identifying the infectious agent is 1) GBD 2017 Disease and Injury Incidence and Prevalence Collaborators. Global, regional, and national incidence, prevalence, and years lived with disability for 354 diseases and injuries for biology important to limit the inappropriate use of 195 countries and territories, 1990-2017: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017. Lancet. 2018 10;392(10159):1789-1858. antibiotics, to treat patients in a timely 2) Global Health Estimates 2016: deaths by cause, age, sex, by country and by region, 2000-2016. Geneva, World Health Organization; 2018. manner, and to avoid epidemics. 3) McDermott KW, Elixhauser A, Sun R. Trends in hospital inpatient stays in the United States, 2005–2014. HCUP Statistical Brief #225. June 2017. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, Rockville, MD. 14 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 15 ●●● RESPIRATORY INFECTIONS Syndromic molecular diagnostics, an effective tool in the fight One OneOne One OneOne Takes about Takes Takes aboutMultiple about results Multiple Multiple resultsImproves results patient Improves Improves 6 patient patient against respiratory infections sample sample comprehensive sample comprehensivean hour comprehensive test testtest results forhour an an hour results results for for in one report in one in one report management report management management 6 6 60% 50% 40% Detection (%) 30% 20% 10% 0% May July Sept. Nov. 2018 March May July Sept. Nov. 2019 March Adenovirus (Group) Bacteria (Group) Coronavirus (Group) HMPV (Group) HRV/Entero (Group) Flu A (Group) Flu B (Group) Parainfluenza (Group) RSV (Group) Source: www.syndromictrends.com BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® TORCH REDUCED LENGTH APPROPRIATE USE ENHANCED INFECTION FDA cleared and CE marked Reduced OF Length Reduced ReducedSTAY Length Length Appropriate UseUse OFAppropriate Appropriate ANTIBIOTICS ofUse of of Enhanced Infection Enhanced Enhanced CONTROL Infection Infection of Stay 2,3,4,5 of Stay2,3,4,5 of Stay 2,3,4,5 Antibiotics 2,3,5,6 Antibiotics Antibiotics 2,3,5,6 2,3,5,6 Control 3,5,7 3,5,73,5,7 Control Control BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® PNEUMONIA BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® RESPIRATORY PANELS SHORTENING EPIDEMIOLOGICAL SURVEILLANCE PANELS The BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Respiratory Panel THE LENGTH OF HOSPITAL STAYS Syndromic Trends is an epidemiology tool based on LAUNCH OF INNOVATIVE SYNDROMIC PANELS FOR THE DIAGNOSIS OF LOWER RESPIRATORY simultaneously tests for 20 viruses and bacteria that cause respiratory tract infections. It is improved and 264264264 A randomized controlled trial conducted in the emergency using the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Respiratory Panels in the United States. Contributing laboratories are able to department and medical units of a UK hospital showed that TRACT INFECTIONS complemented by the Respiratory Panel 2 and Respiratory 220220220 the average hospital stay was reduced for patients for compare their data to that of other laboratories at local, Panel 2 plus, which simultaneously and even more rapidly whom the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Respiratory Panel was regional and national levels. In 2018, the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Pneumonia Panel and the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Pneumonia Panel plus test for 21 and 22 pathogens, respectively, in just 176176176 routinely used, compared to those not using the panel. 45 minutes. The RP2 Panel received FDA clearance in received 510(k) clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug 2017 as did the RP2 plus Panel, as well as CE marking. 132132132 This test also makes it possible to better target antiviral treatment in the case of influenza and to increase the * Polymerase Chain Reaction 4) Uyeki TM, Bernstein HH, Bradley JS, et al. Clinical practice guidelines by the Infectious Administration (FDA) as well as CE marking. These panels, Diseases Society of America: 2018 update on diagnosis, treatment, chemoprophylaxis, and which aid in the diagnosis of lower respiratory tract The Respiratory Panel EZ detects 11 viruses and 3 bacteria 88 88 88 number of patients receiving a brief course of antibiotics institutional outbreak management of seasonal influenza. Clin Infect Dis 2019 5;68(6):e1-e47. 5) Brendish NJ, Malachira AK, Armstrong L, et al. Routine molecular point-of-care testing for associated with respiratory infections. The panel is CLIA(one dose) (5). infections, are the most sophisticated panels to be 44 44 44 respiratory viruses in adults presenting to hospital with acute respiratory illness (ResPOC): developed to date. The BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Pneumonia waived (for use outside of clinical laboratories) and is a pragmatic, open-label, randomised controlled trial. Lancet Respir Med 2017;5(5):401-411. available only on the United States market. SAMPLES SAMPLES SAMPLES Panel identifies 33 targets (18 bacteria, 8 viruses and PER DAY PER DAY PER DAY 7 antimicrobial resistance genes) in sputum (including endotracheal aspirate) and bronchoalveolar lavage NEW RECOMMENDATIONS CONCERNING THE VIDAS® TEST TO MEASURE PROCALCITONIN LEVELS (including mini-BAL) samples. The Pneumonia Panel plus includes the same targets with the addition of the THE USE OF DIAGNOSTIC SYNDROMIC TESTS SUPPORTING ANTIBIOTIC STEWARDSHIP MERS-CoV emergent virus. IN RESPIRATORY INFECTIONS In late 2018, PCR multiplex syndromic testing was These two innovative panels report results in semirecommended by the Infectious Diseases Society of In February 2017, bioMérieux received FDA clearance for the expanded use quantitative levels for 15 bacteria in order to help America (IDSA) in hospitalized immunocompromised of VIDAS® B·R·A·H·M·S PCT™. This test helps physicians determine the clinicians to differentiate micro-organisms that are patients, as well as in hospitalized patients who are not most appropriate antibiotic to prescribe for patients presenting with lower naturally present in the body from those responsible for immunocompromised, if it might influence care (4). respiratory tract infections. Using the VIDAS® B·R·A·H·M·S PCT™ test in the infection. It is noteworthy that this is the first time these frequent and critical clinical situations will contribute to limiting the the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® System has utilized its realinappropriate and unnecessary use of antibiotics, avoiding the side effects time PCR quantification capabilities, and the first time associated with their use while slowing and even preventing the emergence the FDA has cleared a semi-quantitative multiplex panel. of resistant bacteria. 16 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 17 INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS DIAGNOSTICS IS POWER The power to protect consumer health Harnessing the power of diagnostics is essential to protect consumer health. Ensuring the safety of agri-food and pharmaceutical products and preventing the risk of contamination are priorities for bioMérieux, which in 2018 confirmed its position as leader in industrial microbiology. #pioneeringdiagnostics Implementation of ENDOZYME® II ENDOZYME® II GO recombinant Factor C reagent benefited LAUNCH OF AN INNOVATIVE TEST FOR our supply chain security, quality control THE DETECTION OF ENDOTOXINS and corporate sustainability initiatives by This new test in the bioMérieux ENDONEXT™ range, I’m proud to fly the bioMérieux colors replacing an animal-sourced reagent with introduced in May 2018, is based on recombinant Factor C (rFC) proteins from horseshoe crabs, an when I interact with customers, an equivalent synthetic for the detection of bacterial endotoxins. This benefits not endangered species in Asia and a protected species since the added value of our solutions only us, but horseshoe crabs and the species in the United States. The blood of horseshoe crabs is used in most currently marketed tests for has a real impact on everyone’s health. in the respective ecosystem that depend on endotoxin detection. ” them. Based on our initial evaluation, ENDOZYME® II GO enables endotoxin testing in we look forward to the speed and quality pharmaceutical grade water, injectable drugs and Camille benefits of the innovative ENDOZYME® II GO other pharmaceutical products. It improves the Sales Representative reliability of a test that previously had been made ready-to-use test plate. ” with animal-sourced raw materials. It promotes an easy and fast workflow and is particularly adapted Jay Bolden to raw materials and final product testing. Sr. Consultant Biologist, Eli Lilly and Company, USA From 2018, it has been very successful with major pharmaceutical companies beginning to roll out this technology at their production sites for ethical, environmental or technical reasons. In the pharmaceutical industry, microbiological ENDOZYME® II GO was shortlisted as one of the winners of the 2018 Medicine Maker Innovation INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS control prevents the bacterial contamination of Awards, which recognizes innovative technologies medicines and monitors the manufacturing THE IMPORTANCE OF DIAGNOSTICS launched in 2018 to support the development and environment during all phases of production. manufacture of pharmaceutical products. Such controls meet increasingly demanding requirements, in particular for the development PARTNERSHIPS of injectable medicines, biotherapies, and cell FOR PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT QUALITY WITH PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES and gene therapies for patients whose immune In recent years, we have stepped up partnerships systems are compromised. with major pharmaceutical companies in order to bioMérieux is constantly expanding its product take on board the needs and future challenges of ranges and for several years has been investing in these customers earlier in our development process, and to allow them to benefit from innovations that what are proving to be very important approaches: better match their development strategies. the automation and digitalization of diagnostic ENDOZYME® II GO, developed in close collaboration Microbiological control is essential to guarantee the safety solutions. The Company develops and improves with these companies, provides the perfect automated systems and carries out initiatives to illustration of this approach. of medicines during production. As a leader in this market, promote the digitalization of microbiology, which in bioMérieux offers the most comprehensive range of the pharmaceutical industry remains a manual and BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO® solutions to meet the needs of companies in non-connected activity. Important developments FOR BLOOD BANKS the pharmaceutical sector during the various stages of have taken place for two automated ranges: the In December 2018, the culture bottles BACT/ALERT® solid-phase cytometry instrument SCANRDI® and production. The Company has turned its attention to BPA and BPN received 510(k) clearance from the the automated blood culture system BACT/ALERT®. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for quality two key areas: automation and digitalization. Both of these systems, which speed up and control testing of platelets with the BACT/ALERT® automate sterility testing, have met with particular VIRTUO® fully automated blood culture system. success among companies specialized in cell therapy, This innovative system is now available to blood banks and blood transfusion services in the United as well as bioproduction and biomedicine firms. The States and in countries that recognize the CE rapid delivery of the results of microbiological controls marking. It improves blood banks’ productivity and helps reduce the time required for medicines to reduces contamination risks for patients receiving become available to allow for better patient care. a transfusion. 20 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 21 I’m proud to manufacture tests that detect infectious diseases The team here spent a long time looking at a technology that would because they help protect us, deliver fast test results and reduce false since we are all patients positive results for customers. With one of our largest customers, and consumers. ” we undertook a worldwide search of all the technologies before settling William on GENE-UP® which we collectively Filling operator thought would be the best option for our requirements.* ” * NZ Herald “450 experts keeping food safe” March 15, 2019 With its GENE-UP® and CEERAMTOOLS® ranges, Dr Michael Hodgson Business Manager bioMérieux meets the requirements of various sectors at AsureQuality’s Auckland in the food industry for manufacturers of dairy, beef, Laboratory, Australia seafood and even chocolate products. INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS bioMérieux has developed GENE-UP®, an innovative solution that considerably simplifies laboratory DIAGNOSTICS workflows through improved productivity while limiting the risk of inter-sample contamination. The menu for the GENE-UP® platform enables detection of the disease-causing organisms most commonly INVISIBLE SENTINEL FOR FOOD SAFETY tested for in the food chain. It is used to detect organisms ACQUISITION OF A US-BASED MOLECULAR such as Salmonella, Norovirus, Escherichia coli O157:H7, BIOLOGY SPECIALIST Listeria, enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli and, since February 2018, Cronobacter, with the development Based in Philadelphia, Invisible Sentinel Inc. of the first kit in unit-dose format, which significantly develops, manufactures and markets innovative and simplifies workflows. user-friendly molecular diagnostic tools for the rapid, accurate and reliable detection of pathogens In early 2019, bioMérieux launched a new unit-dose The manufacture of food products is subject to very strict format of its reagents for use with the entire range. and spoilage organisms in food and beverages. VERIFLOW®, its innovative molecular biology controls to guarantee their microbiological quality. This method has been approved by AOAC (a scientific testing platform, does not require sophisticated Microbiological testing is carried out throughout the entire organization that develops globally accepted lab infrastructure. It is used by a diverse range of production process, from raw materials to finished standards of analytical methods) and by AFNOR sectors in the food and beverage industry: beer, (the French Standardization Association). The new wine, poultry, fruit juices and even nutraceuticals. product, as well as in the production environment in order With this acquisition completed in early 2019, format further simplifies workflows for our customers to ensure food safety for the consumer. while providing rapid and extremely precise results. bioMérieux strengthens its position in food pathogen testing and spoilage organism detection by expanding Testing the microbiological quality of foods is one of the Major companies in the agri-food sector have chosen it to new customer segments such as breweries the GENE-UP® system for molecular pathogen and wineries. The Invisible Sentinel product line is historical industrial applications that bioMérieux has the perfect complement to bioMérieux’s molecular detection due to its numerous innovative features. developed for more than 25 years, based on a host of diagnostic testing solution GENE-UP® system used Additionally, thanks to bioMérieux’s worldwide presence, solutions. for food quality controls. the training and services provided to set up their analysis systems represent a genuine advantage for these international companies. 22 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 23 DIAGNOSTICS IS POWER SERVICES Diagnostic testing plays a key role in improving patient care The power to save lives and protecting consumer health. For our customers, bioMérieux provides a portfolio of services so that they will use diagnostic tests under the best conditions, helping laboratories worldwide perform better and more efficiently, no matter where they are located. Whether for clinical applications or applications in industrial microbiological control, the health priority is the same: to deliver test results as rapidly as possible. #pioneeringdiagnostics Remote access (VILINK®) allows us to troubleshoot in real time in most cases, with minimal interference to I design new digital services our laboratory workflow. ” to continuously improve the customer Margarida Pinto REMOTE SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT experience, which is important Director of the CHLC Group Microbiology Lab, For several years, we have deployed a vast program to increase the connectivity of bioMérieux systems with the to me because it affects the health Lisbon, Portugal aim of improving our ability to interact remotely and thereby of patients and consumers. reducing intervention times, in particular for software updates, system calibration and preventive maintenance. ” Nassim Digital transformation SERVING CUSTOMERS project coordinator AROUND THE GLOBE It helps in overall maintenance, and any issues which may affect optimal performance are detected, Around 1,500 employees are working on the ground to ensure the availability of installed systems and the performance of where even we may miss them. This definitely helps in system optimization. ” our diagnostic solutions. Our teams are committed to offering personalized services. Dr Michael Mawlon Consultant Microbiologist Nazareth Hospital, Shilong, 94.5% of customers Meghalaya, India CLOSE TO OUR CUSTOMERS were satisfied in 2018 * Our ambition is to maintain and exceed our customers’ WITH A RANGE OF SERVICES expectations. The customer satisfaction survey conducted in 2018 showed that our customers recognize bioMérieux’s LOGISTICS AT THE HEART OF THE BUSINESS performance record, particularly when it comes to reagents, At the interface between production and our customers, our instruments and the quality of after-sales service, logistics teams are responsible for making sure that products maintenance and training. are available and orders are delivered worldwide, thanks to more than 400 people and a distribution network including two international platforms and 25 local warehouses. Their In 2017, we launched a transformation plan for the bioMérieux Customer satisfaction is a priority for bioMérieux. customer service activity in order to strengthen the organization main objective is to ensure the availability, quality and on-time delivery to our customers of reagents, instruments The Company provides the same level of quality and and make it more efficient. The effects were felt in 2018 with: and spare parts. an expanded service offering to meet the specific needs n Strengthened management of customer relations both In 2018, we continued efforts to streamline our logistics locally and globally; of all our customers, regardless of where they are located. n The creation of a team of experts in charge of training and network. To strengthen the network and ensure better traceability, a system to track customer orders was rolled Our diagnostic tests help protect the health of patients coaching for employees in different countries and out worldwide: every time an order is placed, the customer dedicated to project management focused on ensuring and consumers worldwide. that the notion of service is taken on board as of the can visualize the detailed order and check its status. design phase of our solutions. The customer service activity, which is in charge of 91% of customers were satisfied or very satisfied with maintenance, service contracts and workflow audits, Supply Chain performance in 2018* displayed strong growth in 2018, reaching 12%. 95% “On Time in Full” delivery service rate * Based on the results of a customer satisfaction survey conducted in 38 countries among 6,000 customers 26 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 27 AMERICAS REGION SALES €1,070 MILLION GROWTH EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, +12.5% * AFRICA (EMEA) REGION In guiding the Company’s development, bioMérieux has always SALES SALES focused on meeting healthcare challenges all over the world. NORTH AMERICA €922 MILLION With over 90% of sales outside of France today, the scope 38% GROWTH of our activity is geographically balanced. +5.9% * 44% 38% SALES AN INTERNATIONAL SUCCESS LATIN AMERICA 6% BIOMÉRIEUX’S CONSOLIDATED TOTAL SALES AMERICAS REGION EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA (EMEA) REGION ASIA PACIFIC REGION 18% The Company recorded solid growth In Europe (+3%) growth was driven Growth was powerfully driven by in North America (+14%) and sales by Southern Europe, Scandinavia China, which has become the third were robust in Latin America and the Benelux countries, with solid largest market for bioMérieux, and (+4.1%), except for Brazil. momentum in the Middle East, by India and Southeast Asia. Russia and Africa (+19%). CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS ASIA PACIFIC Growth driven primarily by BIOFIRE® CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS Sustained momentum in particular REGION FILMARRAY® and the microbiology The VITEK®, VIDAS® and BIOFIRE® through the development of the lines. FILMARRAY® lines made a significant BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® range. SALES contribution to the business. INDUSTRIAL MICROBIOLOGICAL CONTROL INDUSTRIAL MICROBIOLOGICAL CONTROL INDUSTRIAL MICROBIOLOGICAL CONTROL €430 MILLION Strong sales dynamics for our The culture media ranges have made GROWTH culture media ranges. Strong performance by our solutions an especially positive impact on for the agri-food sector and pharmaceutical industry. business development. +12.4%* * Year to year, at constant exchange rates and scope 28 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIAGNOSTICS IS POWER Together, we help save lives True to our public health mission and driven by the power of diagnostics, bioMérieux is committed to protecting life. We are focused on improving the quality of life of the many communities we interact with, the development Through financial planning and analysis, of our employees, furthering access to care for the most vulnerable patients, I help drive the business forward countering new infectious threats worldwide, and sustaining the efficacy in our pursuit to improve public of healthcare systems for future generations. health worldwide. ” Deirdre Financial controller #WeArebioMérieux COMMITTED TO BEING A SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE COMPANY, WITH A HUMANISTIC VISION THE UNITED As a pioneer in the field of in vitro diagnostics, bioMérieux has been committed to fighting A PRINCIPLED GOVERNANCE MODEL bioMérieux is a family company, founded in 1963 by NATIONS SUSTAINABLE infectious diseases worldwide for more than 55 years. Our company has always adopted Alain Mérieux, and directed today by CEO Alexandre Mérieux. The Company is 59% owned by Institut Mérieux. Since 2005, Fondation Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux, under the aegis DEVELOPMENT GOALS a socially responsible, humanistic approach to of Institut de France, has been a one-third shareholder in business development in line with the values Institut Mérieux. The Foundation indirectly collects the only dividends that Institut Mérieux distributes in order to upheld by the Mérieux family. finance its activities in the field. Fondation Christophe et We take a long-term view when it comes to Rodolphe Mérieux works in the field to fight against infectious diseases in disadvantaged countries. our employees as well as to outside stakeholders and the community in general. Our public health THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT mission means we have a particular responsibility Each year since 2003, we have renewed our support for to today’s society and future generations. the United Nations Global Compact. bioMérieux has committed to respecting the 10 principles set out in the Through our activities, bioMérieux supports Global Compact, based on four pillars: respect for human the advancement of the United Nations Sustainable rights, labor conditions, the environment and the fight Development Goals (SDG), which aim to provide against corruption (see p. 58). a blueprint to build a better and more sustainable RATING AGENCIES’ RECOGNITION FOR future for all. OUR CSR POLICY For several years, extra-financial agencies have recognized bioMérieux’s commitment to corporate social responsibility (CSR). These agencies, which evaluate the company’s social, societal and environmental performance, have included bioMérieux in their SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) indices, such as the Ethibel Forum (Ethibel In 2019, Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe) and FTSE Russell (FTSE4Good Index). After joining additional indices bioMérieux was listed 26th in 2017, bioMérieux obtained new labels: Vigeo Eiris, on Corporate Knights Corporate OEKOM Research, CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) and EcoVadis. In 2018, the Company was listed in the Corporate 100 index, ranking the most Knights Global 100 Index. sustainable companies with more EcoVadis, a platform for rating corporate social and environmental performance, ranked bioMérieux among than 1 billion dollars revenue. the top 1% of companies worldwide recognized for their CSR performance with a 72/100 score, up compared to the previous year. 32 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 33 Through my work each day for our SUSTAINING customers, I contribute to preventing the inappropriate use of antibiotics ANTIBIOTIC EFFICACY FOR and to improving diagnostic practices, so that patients will receive better care. FUTURE GENERATIONS ” Ghislain Product manager Bacterial resistance to antibiotics BIOMÉRIEUX SUPPORTS THE GLOBAL-PPS is a major public health threat In 2018, bioMérieux renewed its support for Professor Herman Goossens and Dr. Ann Versporten of the University worldwide. of Antwerp (Belgium), coordinators of the GLOBAL-PPS (Global Point Prevalence Survey)*. This study of If we do not take action, by 2050 antimicrobial unprecedented international scope, which began in 2015, COMMITTED resistance could cause 10 million deaths annually (1). provides key information about the use of antibiotics and antimicrobial resistance in hospitals worldwide. The bioMérieux is a pioneer in the development of GLOBAL-PPS makes it possible to compare results within in vitro diagnostic solutions for the identification a single center and among different centers and monitor their evolution over time by repeating the survey annually of disease-causing agents and the detection of so that improvement plans can be developed at hospital antimicrobial resistance, helping physicians to and country levels. TO PEOPLE determine the most appropriate treatment. The sole private sponsor of the study, bioMérieux is The Company also takes part in programs to involved in two ways: in addition to the Company’s financial educate healthcare professionals and to raise support, our teams contribute to promoting and developing the study at local levels. In 2018, teams in Africa, Asia, public awareness about the importance of Canada and Mexico helped to significantly improve medical the appropriate use of antibiotics in order to communications with hospitals, encouraging many of combat this threat. them to take part in the GLOBAL-PPS. In 2018, participation in the GLOBAL-PPS continued to grow, particularly in As a public health stakeholder, bioMérieux places the patient and, more LMICs (Low-and Middle-Income Countries), the study’s broadly, public health at the heart of its business activity. GLOBAL-PPS at the end of 2018: priority target. The GLOBAL-PPS was mentioned in several important publications, including in the prestigious medical As a Company, we are aware of our social responsibility and, in accordance * More than 80 participating countries; journal The Lancet, a sign of recognition of its international * Nearly 800 participating hospitals on scope. with Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we are committed all continents; In 2019, the GLOBAL-PPS will include an additional module to providing global health solutions that improve the management of on healthcare-associated infections (HAIs). It is designed * Data collected from over 200,000 hospitalized infectious diseases. patients; to provide additional tools to help hospitals implement action plans to reduce HAIs and promote the appropriate Our commitments are focused on the fight against antibiotic resistance, * 3 scientific grants awarded to healthcare use of antibiotics. professionals from Brazil, Egypt and the early detection of sepsis and epidemics in Low-and Middle-Income the Philippines. Countries. In addition, we have strong ties with local stakeholders where we are located. And we support also the action of Fondation Mérieux and Fondation Christophe and Rodolphe Mérieux in the fight against infectious * bioMérieux is the exclusive private sponsor of the Global Point Prevalence Survey. The Company funds the survey but plays no role in the study design, selection, analysis 1) Tackling drug-resistant infections globally: Final report and recommendations, and interpretation of data nor in drafting the report. The data, which are strictly confidential, diseases. The Review on Antimicrobial Resistance, chaired by Jim O’Neill, May 2016. are stored anonymously at the Coordination Center of the University of Antwerp. 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • BIOMÉRIEUX 35 ●●● SUSTAINING ANTIBIOTIC EFFICACY FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS WELCOMING LORD JIM O’NEILL COMMITMENT TO THE CDC’S AMR CHALLENGE On March 7, 2018, bioMérieux hosted a day of debate and In September 2018, bioMérieux joined the AMR (antimicrobial COMBATTING SEPSIS, A CRITICAL GLOBAL discussion to raise awareness of the public health challenge of resistance) Challenge, an initiative organized by the US antibiotics and the key role of diagnosis with 100 internal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to bring specialists at the Company’s headquarters. Lord Jim O’Neill, government, healthcare and industry leaders together in a an eminent British economist and politician, who chaired The year-long concentrated effort to step up the fight against HEALTH PRIORITY Review on Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR), took part in the antimicrobial resistance. This initiative expands on the discussions. In his final report, he recommended a set of commitments of the 2015 White House Stewardship Forum on measures to be adopted at the international level to combat the appropriate use of antibiotics. bioMérieux was one of two this threat and contributed to the recognition of AMR on the infectious disease diagnostic companies invited to participate world political scene. The use of rapid diagnostics figured in this forum, among 150 other global healthcare leaders. among the top 10 recommended measures. bioMérieux is an active participant in the CDC’s AMR Challenge, through three commitments: * Innovative diagnostics: In 2018, approximately 75% of bioMérieux’s clinical R&D budget was dedicated to developing effective diagnostic solutions to combat AMR; BIOMÉRIEUX IS INVOLVED * International studies: particularly by supporting the WITH INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS GLOBAL-PPS; Although people are not always Sepsis is the body’s overwhelming response to an infection, leading to severe multi-organ failure. It may bioMérieux is recognized for its expertise in the field of diagnostic testing for infectious diseases and the Company is * Public-private partnerships. Within the framework of familiar with sepsis, it affects 27 to affect people of all ages, but the risk is higher for some projects financed by the European Commission and led actively involved with international bodies that are working to by IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiative), bioMérieux is a 30 million people annually and patient groups: immunocompromised patients, the elderly and children under 12 months, as well as debilitated combat antimicrobial resistance: partner of the COMBACTE-CDI project (COMbatting causes around 6 million deaths (1). patients. * Signatory to the 2017 declaration on antimicrobial BACTerial resistance in Europe), dedicated to Clostridium Given the magnitude of this life-threatening condition, in resistance during the World Economic Forum in Davos difficile infections (CDI). In addition, the Company is bioMérieux has made the fight against sepsis May 2017 the World Health Organization adopted a (Switzerland); co-leading a consortium (26 partners) to carry out the one of its public health priorities by focusing resolution to improve the prevention, diagnosis and VALUE-Dx project, aiming at demonstrating the medical * Participant in the 2017 launch of the AMR Industry and economic value of diagnostics to combat antimicrobial on initiatives to reach as many people as treatment of sepsis. Alliance, representing the diagnostics industry on its resistance by optimizing antibiotic use. possible in order to promote awareness and bioMérieux has a longstanding commitment to combat Board; sepsis through a full range of diagnostic solutions. For education about this serious infection. * Voting member of the Presidential Advisory Council on example, the BACT/ALERT® VIRTUO® automated blood Combating Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria (PACCARB); culture system speeds up detection of bloodstream * Member of the AdvaMed (Advanced Medical Technology infections by three to four hours. In the case of sepsis, Association) and MedTechEurope working groups; when every minute counts, this can considerably increase EDUCATION AND TRAINING TOOLS We’ve had great success partnering with the patient’s chances of survival. In addition, bioMérieux * Leader of the French “Antibiorésistance” project of the bioMérieux is actively involved in programs to improve bioMérieux to educate healthcare providers organizes education campaigns targeting health Industrial and Governmental Health Strategy Committee. professionals, the general public and our own employees. awareness among healthcare professionals and the public and the general public alike about sepsis. and promote the responsible use of antibiotics: Educational materials are distributed worldwide via Sepsis education and awareness programs electronic communications, videos, testimonials and * Organizing high-level scientific encounters all over the world; are so important, because when patients, webinars to help people recognize the warning signs and * Developing in 2016 of the educational website doctors and nurses don’t recognize sepsis, symptoms of sepsis more easily. www.antimicrobial-resistance.biomerieux.com; it takes longer for treatment to begin, * Publishing a series of educational booklets for laboratories and for every hour that treatment is MEMBER OF THE GLOBAL SEPSIS ALLIANCE and clinicians https://www.biomerieux-diagnostics.com/clinician-booklets; delayed the mortality rate for sepsis bioMérieux is a member of the Global Sepsis Alliance, a * Supporting European Antibiotic Awareness Day and increases by 8%. non-profit organization that supports healthcare ” professionals in more than 70 countries to improve care World Antibiotic Awareness Week for patients with sepsis. https://WAAW2018.biomerieux.com; Thomas Heymann President and Executive Director To contribute to the global fight against sepsis, bioMérieux * Training on the role of diagnostic testing in hospital supports two events organized by the Global Sepsis of Sepsis Alliance, antimicrobial stewardship policies; San Diego, USA Alliance: the World Sepsis Congress and World Sepsis Day, * Raising awareness among bioMérieux’s employees with the goal of reducing the incidence of sepsis by 20% through an annual in-house communication campaign. by 2020. 1) Global Sepsis Alliance, https://www.global-sepsis-alliance.org 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • BIOMÉRIEUX 37 ACTING AGAINST EPIDEMICS IN LOW-AND MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES FORGING STRONG TIES WITH LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS WITH SCHOOLS AND ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS In 2015, the Company established a five-year partnership with bioMérieux and the INSA Lyon Foundation (National Institute EMLYON Business School in France. bioMérieux was one of of Applied Sciences, France) have been partners since 2010. the first companies to join the Global Business Network, which The Company hosts interns from the school, organizes career brings together major international businesses that are conferences there and participates in the INSA Business partners to the school. We have become the partner with Forum. Building on this partnership, bioMérieux has become a expertise in the life sciences as part of the I.D.E.A. program corporate partner of the UNITECH program for academic (Innovation, Design, Entrepreneurship & Arts), a novel learning excellence. The program brings together nine European approach adopted by EMLYON to train future innovative universities -INSA Lyon (France), Chalmers (Sweden), Trinity entrepreneurs. bioMérieux also supports the development of College Dublin (Ireland), RWTH Aachen (Germany), ETH Zurich research projects conducted by the French Corporate (Switzerland), Polytecnico di Milano (Italy), TU Delft (The Governance Institute (IFGE). Netherlands), Loughborough University (England) and UPC IMPROVING CARE Barcelona (Spain)and 22 partner businesses. It has developed FOR CHILDREN WITH MENINGITIS bioMérieux is a founding member of the Fondation Université a network of over 650 alumni and currently supports IN UGANDA Grenoble Alpes (France) created in 2014. The aim of this 80 engineers in diverse fields of specialization who have been foundation is to support top-notch research projects and selected to take part in the program. Following an initial study on the diagnosis of meningopromote equal opportunity. In 2018, bioMérieux renewed its encephalitis among adults living with HIV/AIDS, bioMérieux support for five more years. The Company has also participated In 2017, bioMérieux renewed its longstanding commitment to has continued a collaborative project in Uganda with the since 2015 in the BioHealth Computing project at Université the Graduate School of Biology-Biochemistry-Biotechnology Infectious Diseases Institute (IDI) at the University of Kampala, Grenoble Alpes, which combines multidisciplinary approaches (ESTBB), one of the schools of the science faculty of the expanding the clinical study to include children. The aim of this and develops interfaces among the healthcare, computer Catholic University of Lyon (France) by signing a three-year project is to assess the benefits of using the BIOFIRE® engineering and mathematics fields. Within the scope of this partnership. Nearly 180 bioMérieux employees are ESTBB FILMARRAY® Meningitis-Encephalitis Panel as part of care support, the Company has funded 27 scholarships in four graduates, and each year we host students for internships and given to children presenting with a central nervous system JOINING FORCES TO COMBAT years, providing top students in this specialization the work-study programs. Since 2008, the HR Director France of infection at the Mbarara Hospital. PLAGUE OUTBREAKS IN MADAGASCAR opportunity to continue their studies in an international bioMérieux has been a member of ESTBB’s Excellence Council. Working in collaboration with the Institut Pasteur of Madagascar, environment by pursuing the “Health 4 Life” Engineering Master’s degree (formerly Excellence bioHC) and enabling In the United States, bioMérieux and the University of North bioMérieux has set up a study on diagnosis of the plague using DIAGNOSING PEDIATRIC INFECTIONS bioMérieux to hire young graduates from this course. Carolina are partners. The Company sponsors the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® Global Fever Panel RUO (Research Use IN CAMBODIA Biomanufacturing Training and Education Center (BTEC) and Only). This clinical study, funded by bioMérieux in conjunction The Angkor Children Hospital in Cambodia received BIOFIRE® awards scholarships to two students annually. At its St. Louis, with the Institut Mérieux, aims to improve the diagnosis of FILMARRAY® equipment as well as Meningitis-Encephalitis and Missouri site, bioMérieux employs interns from Washington this endemic disease, which causes outbreaks each year in Gastro-Intestinal Panels, which are intended to help hospital University. Also in Missouri, the Company gives scholarships Madagascar. teams diagnose children admitted to the Emergency Room for to students selected from two universities. Management suspected neuro-meningitis and gastro-intestinal infections, teams maintain close ties with these institutes of higher respectively. education, facilitating the recruitment of recent graduates to join bioMérieux teams. 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • BIOMÉRIEUX 39 ●●● STRONG TIES WITH LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS WITH RESEARCH INSTITUTES WITH ASSOCIATIONS IN CHINA IN FRANCE At the conclusion of our ten-year With the Lyon Civil Hospitals (HCL) Since 2007, bioMérieux has been a loyal Employees of our subsidiaries have also been active in various collaboration with Fudan University supporter of Sport dans la Ville, an projects to support local communities, such as: Shanghai Cancer Hospital, we created a association that helps young people find * Cooking meals for the Ronald McDonald Foundation: new joint research laboratory with the Shanghai Children’s bioMérieux and HCL have begun a new project, in addition to their place in society and the professional world through sport. several times each year, bioMérieux teams help with the Medical Center. A three-year collaboration agreement signed the ANTOINE research program launched in 2017 by the bioMérieux sponsors and hosts young people so they can gain cooking at the Ronald McDonald House in Tübingen in early 2019 will initially focus on a clinical study concerning bioMérieux-HCL joint research laboratory located at the Lyon professional experience. In 2018, the Company contributed to (Germany) and in St. Louis (United States); the use of the NEPHROCHECK® test for the early risk Sud Hospital, focusing on the diagnosis of severe bacterial the purchase of a second retrofitted school bus (Apprenti’Bus) * Renovating a school in Turkey; assessment of acute kidney injuries (AKI) in young children. infections in children admitted to the Emergency Room. The to be used for training. As one of the Apprenti’Bus traveling new project involves a study of the NEPHROCHECK® test for educational support initiatives, the recruitment team at * Supporting the Dynamo Camp in Italy, a recreational the early risk assessment of acute kidney injuries (AKI) among bioMérieux took part in an interviewing and coaching workshop therapy camp for children with serious illnesses; patients with multiple injuries, presenting a profile similar to dedicated to teenagers looking for their first job. The Company * Taking part in a Day for the Alzheimer’s Society in the that of sepsis patients, and who are treated in intensive care at also contributed to building a digital space within the Lyon UK; Edouard Herriot Hospital. Campus of the Association to raise awareness among young * Preparing and distributing meals for more than people. It was inaugurated on January 30, 2019 in the presence 100 people at the Botanique metro station in Brussels of Alexandre Mérieux. (Belgium). WITH YOUNG PEOPLE With the French Technology Innovation Institute in Since 2014, bioMérieux has been a partner of the Institut Microbiology (BIOASTER – Lyon, France) In November 2018, bioMérieux Télémaque, which provides schooling and homework support * The research program known as REALISM (REAnimation for youngsters from poor social backgrounds, from 7th grade p a r t i c i p a t e d i n L’ U s i n e Low Immune Status Markers) was launched in October through high school graduation. For the 2017-2018 school Extraordinaire held at Le Grand 2016 by bioMérieux, the College of Industrial Physics year, the Company funded in-house tutors who accompanied Palais in Paris. Under the aegis and Chemistry of the City of Paris (ESCPI), GSK, Lyon 16 young people selected by the Institute. of Fondation Agir Contre IN BRAZIL Civil Hospitals (HCL) and Sanofi to improve the l’Exclusion, this French event management of patients with a high risk of sepsis. The was organized to promote our industry among the public, in Based on the model of the research program ANTOINE particular adolescents. Around 100 employees from our French (bioMarkers to differeNtiate bacTerial frOm vIral iNfEctions) project was completed in 2018 and interpretation of the PRISE DES POSSIB conducted in conjunction with the Lyon Civil Hospitals (HCL) study results is taking place in 2019. N TRE LE sites were in attendance to present their jobs and meet with L’ E S young people. in France, bioMérieux has worked with the Infants Institute of * The CODIRA 2 project (Optical characterization for the São Paulo in Brazil to launch the ANTONIO project for children rapid diagnosis of bacterial infections) that began in 2017 under age three admitted to the Emergency Room with febrile with BIOASTER and the Clinique des Cèdres (Échirolles, illness. This research aims to identify biomarkers that will help In the United States, the Durham site organized, for the first France), focusing on the ultra-rapid diagnosis of infectious exclude a bacterial infection and guide the prescription of time, a Manufacturing Day in October 2018. This initiative, diseases, was completed in 2018. antibiotics. In early 2019, Alain Mérieux, President of Institut Mérieux, which is overseen by the National Association of Manufacturers, * In late 2018, the DIREX research project was launched to officially launched L’Entreprise des possibles, a highly aims to promote manufacturing jobs, in particular to attract study rapid microbiology using automated readers to detect REPRI innovative socialR Einitiative PRI that calls on businesses E Pthe Rin R I Lyon young people by organizing an open house. Around 40 students Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, an important ENT ENT ENT L’ SE area and their employees to help the homeless and vulnerable L’ SE L’ SE and members of the local community were welcomed at the step in the identification of pathogens. individuals. As one of the founding companies in the group, North Carolina bioMérieux site where BACT/ALERT® blood * bioMérieux and BIOASTER are partners in the ISIT-TB bioMérieux immediately responded to the call to action along culture bottles are produced. S P DE ES L S P DE with other businesses L ES DE S P ES L project, which was launched in 2018 to identify biomarkers OSSIB O S S I B in the Lyon area. OSSIB for the diagnosis of tuberculosis. Among patients who have been exposed to the tuberculosis bacterium, the project aims to determine which patients are likely to develop active tuberculosis, and how each patient responds In South Africa, bioMérieux has established a partnership with to treatment. At the same time, molecular markers are the training firm Skill Tech Solutions to train 23 unemployed being prototyped on the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® platform. people in 2018, some of whom have a disability. PRISE DES POSSIB N TRE LE 40 L’ E S ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • BIOMÉRIEUX 41 SUPPORT FOR THE IN BANGLADESH ROHINGYAS REFUGEES The Foundations contribute to improving access to care for As part of an equipment people in isolated areas of Bangladesh. In particular, they work donation program, alongside the NGO Friendship to fund and launch laboratory bioMérieux has donated activities at the Shyamnagar Hospital and to provide training BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® and for lab personnel. On the island of Maheshkhali, a center to mini VIDAS® systems to the provide care for children with disabilities has been set up Mérieux Foundation to support thanks to a partnership with the Bangladeshi Ministry of initiatives in Bangladesh that Health, the NGO AMD (Medical Aid for Development), and the provide aid to the Rohingyas NGO SARVP (Social Assistance and Rehabilitation for the refugees. Physically Vulnerable). FIGHTING AGAINST INFECTIOUS DISEASES ALONGSIDE THE FOUNDATIONS SUPPORT FOR EDUCATION AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT HELPING MOTHERS AND CHILDREN IN MADAGASCAR The Foundations work alongside local partners in countries The Foundations support health education initiatives for where laboratories have been set up and countries affected Malagasy children through a partnership with local stakeholders by humanitarian crises. Health, hygiene, education and and government authorities. Using modern technologies, they the development of socio-economic activities are the fields are developing interactive health education kits, that give where initiatives are organized to improve living conditions children an active role and stimulating discussion. The WASH and access to care for the most vulnerable populations, in (water, sanitation and hygiene) kit was distributed in nearly As part of its sponsorship activities, bioMérieux particular mothers and their children. 100 schools in 2018. It takes a playful approach to teaching supports the initiatives of the Mérieux children about good hygiene and good habits that help prevent Foundations: the Fondation Mérieux, which has DEVELOPING ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE the spread of diseases. Additional kits are being developed on other topics: nutrition, sexual education and the prevention of CHRISTOPHE MÉRIEUX PRIZE public interest status, and the Fondation FOR REFUGEES, DISPLACED AND Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux, under the aegis DISADVANTAGED POPULATIONS sexually transmitted diseases. AWARDED TO DR. PATRICIA BRASIL IN LEBANON of the Institut de France. These two independent MEETING BASIC NEEDS The foundation stone of a mother and child health center Dr. Patricia Brasil, a researcher and professor of tropical family foundations work in close cooperation to to serve vulnerable Lebanese and refugee communities IN HAITI medicine and clinical research at the Oswaldo Cruz combat infectious diseases and to sustainably was laid in 2018 by the Mérieux Foundation, representatives Since the construction of the Village of Nazareth in 2012, the Foundation in Brazil, received the 2018 prize for her improve the quality of life and health of vulnerable of the city of Douris, and the NGO Amel Association, with Foundations have continued to support this orphanage study of pregnant women and neonatal complications populations, in particular mothers and children. the support of the Department of International Cooperation located in Leogane, home to nearly 70 young girls. The aid following infection with the Zika virus. She created the of the Government of the Principality of Monaco. This allows the center to operate and grow, and each year Febrile Disease Research Clinic at the Evandro Chagas In 2018, bioMérieux allocated €2.350 million to primary care center in the Bekaa Plains will provide medical construction projects make it possible to develop incomeInstitute of Clinical Research (IPEC) and focuses her the Mérieux Foundations. This support was used care to families, access to health education, and orientation generating activities. Projects in 2018 included the installation work on emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases. services to direct families to health and social facilities that of dry toilets, repainting of all the buildings, and the renovation to carry out a number of projects to benefit can address their needs. of four classrooms. disadvantaged communities. 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • BIOMÉRIEUX 43 I feel enthusiastic about my work to manufacture quality products that will help improve the lives of women and men all over the world. ” Sébastien Manufacturing Technical Assistant SUPPORTING THE SUCCESS AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT OF EVERY EMPLOYEE COMMITTED TO OUR WORKFORCE Mérieux Université is a corporate university Our priority focus today is blended learning, which combines complementary training approaches: e-learning, face-tofounded in 2014 to support the development of face training, massive open online courses (MOOC), lectures, the employees of the companies that are part video training, etc. In 2018, several remote training options of Institut Mérieux. became available through the Learning Portal, which opened in 2017 in order to complement face-to-face training. It provides training, ensures the transmission of Employees have unrestricted access to video tutorials and a strong entrepreneurial culture within the Group use the software to continue developing their skills. At bioMérieux, we are convinced that economic performance is and helps to build bridges among its various meaningful only when it is combined with social performance, and entities. therefore the professional development of our employees is very 224,600 hours of training provided Its teams are active in three regions: EMEA important to us. With 70% of our workforce located in France and the (Europe, Middle East and Africa), the Americas in 2018 United States, these two countries are the benchmark and the drivers and Asia Pacific. of the socially responsible policy that we seek to apply to all our +20 hours of training employees worldwide. per employee (on average) Two systems are in place to meet professional development needs: Mérieux Université, a corporate university created to train Group employees, and a regional organization to be in line with local requirements. 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • BIOMÉRIEUX 45 ●●● SUPPORTING THE SUCCESS AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT OF EVERY EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS SCIENTIFIC CONFERENCES Mérieux Université works with bioMérieux teams during teambuilding exercises designed to enhance the organization’s Each year, two types of events are organized to share PROMOTING PROFESSIONAL collective performance and help teams develop, transform and information on scientific topics. improve the ways they work together. IN 2018 : In 2018, 1,296 people were coached. * The Institut Mérieux Encounters focused on Brazil DEVELOPMENT AND WELL-BEING and current trends in microbiology; * The bioMérieux Days were held three times on MANAGEMENT ET LEADERSHIP the topis of preserving antibiotic efficacy, tuberculosis and serious respiratory infections. IN THE WORKPLACE NEW LEADER INDUCTION This training program for newly recruited managers fosters the development of a shared management culture to facilitate their successful transition. Since it was created in 2015, it has been an added feature in the Company’s attractiveness. EMPLOYEE SKILLS TRAINING In 2018, 32 people participated in the program. These training programs are designed to improve employees’ skills in line with the evolving demands of their jobs and customer FIT FOR THE FUTURE needs. They cover a number of different sectors and functions. This week of intensive training is a genuine talent booster, bringing together employees to work on topics that are of key SALES: We continued to develop inter-regional training interest to bioMérieux. They also attend presentations by programs for sales forces and began setting up an international renowned speakers from outside the Company. After working network of trainers so that our employees will receive training on their projects for six months, participants present them to in their local language. the Management Committee for validation and implementation SUPPLY CHAIN: In partnership with Mérieux Université and QUALITY OF SOCIAL DIALOGUE of actions plans across the Company. the Rennes School of Business (France), bioMérieux Supply In 2018, 19 employees took part in the fourth edition of this Chain teams have developed a six-module training program Since it was founded, bioMérieux has been strongly committed training program. open to all Company employees. The “Supply Chain Academy” to the quality of social dialogue and works in close concertation aims to develop skills, encourage future talent and earn market with social partners and employee representatives in France PROGRAM GMS & CLUSTER HEADS recognition for the bioMérieux Supply Chain as a key player in and throughout our subsidiaries. Discussions focus on a number This seminar brings together subsidiary and cluster directors of pivotal topics for the Company. In 2018, the bioMérieux PREVENTING PSYCHOSOCIAL RISKS customer satisfaction. with the aim of communicating the Company’s strategy and Central Works Council met 11 times for information or Since 2016, the prevention of psychosocial risks (PSR) has MARKETING: We continued to roll out “Marketing 4 Impact” information/consultation meetings. The European Works Council, the challenges of this function, building a community of been included in the single assessment guidelines for for global and local marketing teams. This training program created in 2008, met twice during the year. practices, and gathering participants’ insights and feedback occupational hazards (Document Unique d’Évaluation des revisits the position and role of marketing, especially the about cross-functional initiatives. Risques Professionnels, DUERP) at the Company. In 2017, a connection with R&D and local marketing. The seminar was held for the third time in May 2018. pilot training for PSR working groups on the identification of PURCHASING: The “Purchasing Academy” was founded to the various stress factors and the different resources available to MANAGERIAL AND RELATIONAL CULTURE strengthen two key skills for employees in this division: complex 5 AGREEMENTS NEGOTIATED overcome these factors was tested at the La Balme/Saint-Vulbas, Mérieux Université also supports bioMérieux teams through negotiating skills and the capacity to influence. Pilot training Grenoble and Verniolle sites in France. It was then rolled out courses on managerial and relational culture so that they can WITH LABOR UNIONS IN FRANCE sessions were organized at the end of the year to prepare for across all sites in 2018. meet the challenges of working with collective agility and global deployment in 2019. * 2018 Agreement on the Mandatory Annual Negotiations, cross-functionality, making decisions and taking initiatives. signed unanimously The promotion of healthy living takes many forms: ETHICS, COMPLIANCE AND CYBERSECURITY: Training for all employees about information security aims to improve data * Agreement to extend the terms of employee * All Group employees are covered by health insurance; protection and emphasize each individual’s responsibility and representatives until October 31, 2019 while awaiting * Sites encourage employees to engage in sports understanding of good practices. More targeted modules cover the establishment of the Economic and Social activities; specific issues that are important for employees working in Committee (ESC), signed unanimously * Seasonal influenza vaccination campaigns are organized The “Fit for the Future” program was a really great experience areas such as finance, for example. * Agreement on the Customer Service organization at most sites (France, United States, Asia Pacific); for me, and far beyond my expectations. We had a very providing nonstop service seven days a week * In the United States, bioMérieux is rolling out a pilot broad mix of senior people, more than 11 nationalities, * La Balme/Saint-Vulbas site agreement concerning healthcare and education program through a medical representing a wide range of departments, companies, 2,850 people received implementation of working hours between 4 pm and center for employees and their families in St. Louis. cultures and disciplines. This led to a lot of knowledge job-related trainings midnight to improve customer deliveries, signed The St. Louis and Durham sites raise awareness among unanimously employees and their families about priority public health and perspective sharing, which I found really enriching. Agreement on the quality of life at work, negotiated in measures. A digital program to help people lose weight is This excellent program, with great content, reflective 800 people received * 2018 and signed in early 2019 also available to employees. conversations and well-structured sessions, will have “change management” support a long-lasting effect on me. ” Can Aydoğan 700 people received Marketing Manager, Turkey leadership training 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • BIOMÉRIEUX 47 ●●● PROMOTING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND WELL-BEING IN THE WORKPLACE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY DISABILITY GENDER EQUALITY HIRING YOUNG PEOPLE The 2018-2021 disability agreement renewed the voluntary Attracting and hiring young people, who represent a talent RECOGNITION FOR OUR * The gender equality index reaches contribution of €257,000 annually, which is nearly 10 times 88/100 in 2018. pool for the future, is a priority of bioMérieux’s HR policy. The INITIATIVES more than the mandatory contribution. As a result, it is Company supports their integration into the workforce through possible to implement a policy to promote the hiring, * 48% of the global workforce are women its training programs. integration and training of people with disabilities and to The Company opens its doors to young people through a wide support job retention by adapting workstations. and 39% of executives are women. range of options: RANDSTAD AWARDS Within the scope of the disability agreement, the EMEA* In France, 43% of management positions n Job shadowing for high-school internships; For the second year in a row, bioMérieux recruitment team renewed the “#HandiBioRecrutement” are held by women. program, which promotes hiring employees with disabilities n Pharmacy student interns; received a Randstad Award in 2018 and in two ways: by increasing awareness among managers * The Executive Committee will be renewed, n International internship program (V.I.E): 12 participants was rated the third most attractive and by organizing a dedicated recruitment day. as a priority, through the appointment of worked on an assignment with one of the Company’s company in France. This recognition subsidiaries and 5 were offered a contract at the end of reflects the Company’s efforts to promote “HandiBio” Days were organized in France at the Marcy, women until parity has been achieved. their assignment in France, Singapore and Australia; mobility, an ambitious training policy and Craponne, Combourg and Grenoble sites with the goal of improving employee awareness about disability. * The policy implemented by the Group n Internships and work-study: 176 interns and the development of in-house initiatives resulted in a larger percentage of women 147 work-study candidates were taken on (with that support work-life balance. qualifications ranging from the baccalaureate to a employees being promoted in 2018. graduate degree), and these figures are steadily rising. In early 2019, bioMérieux again received an SHARE OF EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES IN THE WORKFORCE Of 669 promotions worldwide, 51.6% Randstad Award and confirmed its 3rd place concerned women employees. among the most attractive companies. % IN 2018 % IN 2017 * The Company participated in nearly EMEA* 1.1 1.2 20 student fairs FRANCE 4.5 3.7 AMERICAS 2.1 2.5 The Women Ready for Leadership Diversity (WoRLD) network The 2018 Bike & Run event, a sports challenge involving BIOMÉRIEUX CHINA, is open to all bioMérieux employees worldwide, both women manager/student pairs, was organized on the EMLYON campus ASIA PACIFIC 0.2 0.2 A TOP EMPLOYER and men. Since it was created in 2013, this in-house in France. A total of 13 bioMérieux managers ran with network has been promoting greater diversity in 11 university students from Centrale Lyon, ESTBB, Grenoble bioMérieux China was officially recognized management positions in parallel to initiatives by the INP, EMLYON and Sciences PO Lyon. On the Bike & Run website, by the Top Employers Institute as one of Human Resources Department. In 2018, WoRLD renewed internship vacancies at bioMérieux were consulted 478 times. the best employers for the quality of two major partnerships, first with l’Alliance pour la Mixité working conditions. en Entreprise (AME), an organization that connects the networks of around 15 companies operating in the RhôneTHE “BEST PLACE TO WORK” APPROACH Alpes region, and secondly with the social enterprise JUMP. These partnerships provided bioMérieux employees The “Best Place to Work” program was launched in late 2016 TROPHÉE USINE 2018 the opportunity to participate in 10 or so inter-company at all our subsidiaries in the EMEA* region to strengthen events organized by AME in 2018 to address the challenges employees’ pride of belonging, trust in management and a HR INITIATIVE AWARD of increasing the role of women in corporate management. friendly atmosphere within the Company. bioMérieux was selected to receive In October 2018, bioMérieux also hosted the JUMP Forum an award from the French magazine in Lyon for the third year running. Nearly 250 participants L’Usine Nouvelle for the best industrial attended the forum, which focused on the theme of IDAY IDEA TANK strategy involving and rewarding “Sharing power for more responsible leadership.” Finally, iDay, is a dedicated day during which employees are invited to employees. The Trophée Usine 2018 in-house networking events continued to help participants expand their network of bioMérieux contacts. makes suggestions and share ideas about improving employee Initiative RH award recognizes the engagement. This initiative, organized on February 8, 2018, met Company’s capacity to mobilize its with resounding success. Some 7,000 employees took part and teams in order to improve productivity. nearly 20,000 suggestions and more than 110,000 expressions of support were received from all over the world. The 7 winners selected by the jury traveled to the headquarters or to a site of their choice and met with colleagues and management teams. The idea that received the most support was implemented in 2018: a collaborative platform among co-workers for various purposes: from swapping houses during holidays to traveling * Europe, Middle East, Africa abroad to learn a new language... 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • BIOMÉRIEUX 49 My job is to ensure that the tests we manufacture comply with laboratory requirements, which contributes to improving health worldwide. ” Nadine Quality System specialist VISION 2020: EXPANDING OUR HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES IN 2018 In 2017, we added the assessment of water consumption to COMMITTED this program, and following results that exceeded expectations in 2016 and 2017, we raised our energy consumption and waste reduction objectives. In 2018, we made an addition to Vision 2020, setting the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which concerns both direct and indirect emissions related to energy consumption. TO RESPECTING THE ENVIRONMENT VISION 2020 OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS AT END OF 2018 In 2016, bioMérieux laid out its “Vision 2020” policy, through which it aims to achieve ambitious objectives to protect the environment and the safety and health of employees on all company sites. 20%* 25 %* 20 %* 20 %* 30 %* Certification This policy is aligned with the Corporate strategy, and is managed reduction reduction reduction reduction reduction ISO 14001 and monitored by a global Health, Safety and Environment committee. in our energy in waste in water in GHG in our accident and/or consumption generation consumption emissions rate (LDIR) OHSAS 18001 of bioindustrial sites -16% -21% -9% -15% +5% 9 * From 2016 to 2020 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • BIOMÉRIEUX 51 REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF OUR PRODUCTS DURING THEIR LIFE CYCLE SITE PARTICIPATION AND EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT To reach the ambitious Vision 2020 objectives and maintain Following a grass-roots survey conducted in June 2018 on risk the level of vigilance, the “Proud to be a daily hero” global exposure, an action plan for 2019-2020 was drawn up to apply awareness campaign was launched in October 2018. It aims at the HSE model to commercial operations worldwide. A training encouraging each employee to act safely and in a clean way. module about car safety, adapted to local languages and For several years now, the Company has The first focus of the campaign was to prevent accidents as regulations, was also rolled out to close to 2,000 drivers. applied an eco-design approach to take on ENERGY SAVINGS employees move from place to place. This campaign is In France, the Combourg, Grenoble and Verniolle sites received board the environmental aspects of designed in particular to reduce the rate of accidents, which is ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications. Today all our sites By 2020, we have planned to implement energy management still too high in the regions of Europe, the Middle East and in the regions of Europe, the Middle East and Africa have been the product life cycle during the development systems at our main sites. Today 50% of the electricity Africa. Worldwide, however, the total accident rate was at 3.9 certified and the commitment of our North American sites has processes. This approach is based on sobriety consumed by our European sites comes from renewable (-60% compared to 2010), which represents a good performance. been confirmed. sources. Since October 2018, 100% of CO2 emissions related in terms of the choice and use of materials in to gas consumption at French sites are offset. In the United At the same time, we are seeking to reduce employees’ exposure a broad sense to manufacture and States, a detailed energy audit was launched at the St. Louis to musculoskeletal disorders, in connection with initiatives by the Human Resources Department for the prevention of commercialize our diagnostic systems. and Durham sites, with the aim of assessing insulation in buildings, establishing consumption profiles of machinery and psychosocial risks. Each year, our sites develop projects to The aim is to think about manufacturing, reassessing that equipment consumption is consistent with improve workstation ergonomics, which are measured and production needs. assessed for their efficiency. transportation, use and end-of-life of products right from the beginning of the innovation process, as part of a sustainable approach. SAVINGS DURING TRANSPORTATION AND DISTRIBUTION bioMérieux works closely with suppliers and logistics providers to improve the Company’s health, safety and the environment results. In 2018, HSE specifications were drawn up for key family products and services, and a carbon emissions roadmap was developed for distribution. Since 2017, maritime transportation has been replacing air transportation for some shipments, increasing from 13% in 2017 to 20% in 2018. In addition, for the first time, in 2018 a shipment was transported by rail from France to Mongolia. This pivotal initiative illustrates a determination to increase the number of shipments using alternative means of transportation, which reduces the Company’s carbon footprint. The ambitious program to provide remote maintenance of our instruments, which started in 2017, has considerably reduced travel by technicians. The roll-out of the VILINK® application, which allows us to provide remote assistance for some maintenance operations, customer services and IT updates of systems, has generated a reduction in travel of up to 50%. 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • BIOMÉRIEUX 53 I apply my IT expertise to finetune the production of diagnostic tests that will be used to perform medical analyses for patients across the globe. ” Daniel Industrial IT Expert 2018 PRIORITIES KEY AREAS OF FOCUS Particular attention was focused on the implementation of a program to ensure compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the new European regulation on data Preventing corruption protection, while also continuing to strengthen compliance with the new Sapin II Law. Securing the distribution network COMMITTED PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA Preventing conflicts of interest AND PATIENT DATA To ensure compliance with new regulations concerning the protection of personal data, in particular the GDPR, bioMérieux Applying export regulations has implemented a compliance program. A network of data privacy representatives is active at all Protecting patient data Company sites and subsidiaries and the global functions. The TO ETHICS IN BUSINESS network serves as the interface between the Data Protection Officer and the business entities, particularly as concerns compliance with the GDPR. Every employee accessing personal data receives training and must adhere to the principles of these regulations. Our customers and partners can find more specific information about compliance on our Corporate website: www.biomerieux.com. ETHICSLINE: A GLOBAL AWARENESS CAMPAIGN Any employee who has an ethics question may contact their bioMérieux has put in place internal rules and procedures to protect regional Compliance Officer. In addition, a local hotline allows the Company against risks in connection with its international employees to speak to someone in their local language, and a dedicated website is available to employees worldwide who industrial business activity, and to provide employees with the wish to make a report. This alert system, which was set up in necessary tools to anticipate and manage such risks. In an environment France in 2014, has been rolled out in the 43 countries where bioMérieux operates. As part of a global awareness campaign where challenges related to risk management, compliance and ethics to encourage employees to speak up if they have an ethics concern, in the summer of 2018 all employees at each are on the rise, the Company also carries out initiatives to secure its subsidiary received a message and a card with information network of partners. about how to contact the EthicsLine. 54 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 55 ●●● COMMITTED TO ETHICS IN BUSINESS PREVENTING CORRUPTION STRENGTHENING OUR ORGANIZATION Risk mapping has been undertaken within each subsidiary so In a context of increasing geopolitical risk and ever more rapid that procedures to manage corruption risks may be analyzed, changes in market regulations – particularly those affecting improved and strengthened. exports – we have increased the number of Ethics & Compliance In 2018, a new process was introduced to automatically and employees worldwide and strengthened our organization. routinely identify third-party risks and to verify the ethical Local compliance teams, which are active at each of our sites, practices of business partners. have taken on an increasingly important role to ensure that the Company’s global policies are adequately applied across In 2018, all global and local distributors (i.e. more than all business entities. Local compliance “Champions” were 500 companies) were contacted to ensure that their employees appointed in 2018 and will undergo specific training in 2019. who work with bioMérieux receive the Company’s corruption prevention training module, which is available in 18 languages. RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING EMPLOYEE TRAINING At bioMérieux, we engage our suppliers in a continuous improvement approach and involve them in our sustainable Training is one of the primary ways to build awareness among all growth strategy based on environmental protection, social employees about international rules and in-house procedures progress and respect for human rights. Our commitments to to promote respect for ethics and compliance. our suppliers and what we expect of them are outlined in the A mandatory annual training program is organized for all Charter for Responsible Purchasing between bioMérieux and GLOBAL CODE employees, in addition to modules specific to their function and risk exposure. Within the first few months of joining the its Suppliers, which was updated in 2018. We have stepped up our supplier evaluations by adding CSR OF CONDUCT Company, new hires receive training on the Global Code of Conduct, the Corruption Prevention Manual and the conflicts criteria to the selection process and by monitoring our strategic partners’ annual CSR performance. In 2018, we launched a of interest policy. Each year, employees must validate a certificate supplier CSR assessment process with the help of the rating of compliance with the rules of the Code of Conduct. agency EcoVadis. In 2018, nearly 24,000 on-line training modules on these topics were provided to employees across all subsidiaries via the Company’s Learning Portal. TAX POLICY bioMérieux operates in more than 160 countries. The Company implements a responsible tax policy in compliance with applicable local and international rules. CODE OF CONDUCT AVAILABLE IN 9 LANGUAGES The Global Code of Conduct, which sets out the rules of conduct and integrity and the procedures governing the behavior of employees wherever bioMérieux conducts business, is now available in 9 languages: English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, German, Turkish, Russian and Chinese. 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • BIOMÉRIEUX 57 PRINCIPLES RELATED TO HUMAN RIGHTS 1. bioMérieux and its employees are committed to support and respect the protection of internationally THE PRINCIPLES proclaimed human rights 2. bioMérieux and its employees are committed to make sure they are not complicit in human OF THE UNITED NATIONS rights abuses PRINCIPLES RELATED TO LABOR GLOBAL COMPACT 3. bioMérieux and its employees are committed to uphold the freedom of association and recognize the right to collective bargaining 4. bioMérieux and its employees are committed to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 5. bioMérieux and its employees are committed to contribute to the abolition of child labor 6. bioMérieux and its employees are committed to contribute to the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation PRINCIPLES RELATED TO THE ENVIRONMENT 7. bioMérieux and its employees are committed to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. bioMérieux and its employees are committed to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. bioMérieux and its employees are committed to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies PRINCIPLE RELATED TO ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. bioMérieux and its employees are committed to work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 58 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 59 MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE CORPORATE The Management Committee is responsible for implementing the Company’s strategy decided by the Board of Directors. It meets once every three months and monthly by telepresence. COMMITTEES Since January 1st, 2019 it is comprised of: OF THE BOARD ALEXANDRE MÉRIEUX OF DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE Chairman and CEO MICHEL BAGUENAULT THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Executive Vice President, Company Secretary It is comprised of GUILLAUME BOUHOURS Mrs Agnès Lemarchand, Executive Vice President, Finance, Mr Philippe Archinard and Purchasing & Information Systems Mr Harold Boël, its chairman. PIERRE BOULUD Executive Vice President, ASPAC Region, The Committee met 7 times in 2018. Portfolio & Strategic Planning BOARD OF DIRECTORS NICOLAS CARTIER Executive Vice President, Industrial Microbiology Unit THE HUMAN RESOURCES, PIERRE CHARBONNIER NOMINATIONS Since 2017, Alain Mérieux, The Board of Directors, which met MARIE-HÉLÈNE HABERT Executive Vice President, Global Quality, AND COMPENSATION 5 times over the course of 2018, Director of Communication Manufacturing & Supply Chain Chairman and CEO is comprised of 11 members: and Patronage, Dassault Group COMMITTEE It is comprised of FRANÇOIS LACOSTE of Institut Mérieux MARIE-PAULE KIENY Executive Vice President, Clinical Unit ALEXANDRE MÉRIEUX Mrs Marie-Hélène Habert, is Founding President INSERM Research Director Mr Jean-Luc Belingard and Chairman and CEO, bioMérieux Formerly, Assistant Director General, VALÉRIE LEYLDÉ of bioMérieux. Mrs Fanny Letier, Executive Vice President, PHILIPPE ARCHINARD World Health Organization its chairman. Human Resources & Communications Chairman and CEO, Transgene AGNÈS LEMARCHAND The Committee met 3 times in 2018. JEAN-LUC BELINGARD Administrator, various companies MARK MILLER Executive Vice President, Chief Medical Officer Vice President, Institut Mérieux FANNY LETIER HAROLD BOËL Co-founder of GENEO, YASHA MITROTTI THE STRATEGY Executive Vice President, Europe, Middle East, CEO, Sofina (Belgium) capital entrepreneur COMMITTEE Africa Region & Global Commercial Performance PHILIPPE GILLET MICHELE PALLADINO It is comprised of Chief Innovation Officer, SICPA SA RANDY RASMUSSEN Mrs Marie-Paule Kieny, Executive Vice President, Molecular Biology (Switzerland) Mr Michele Palladino, DIRECTOR Mr Philippe Gillet and KIRK RIRIE REPRESENTING EMPLOYEES Mr Jean-Luc Belingard, Executive Vice President, Chief Innovation Officer its chairman. FRÉDÉRIC BESÈME STEFAN WILLEMSEN CSR Manager, bioMérieux The Committee met once in 2018. Executive Vice President, Americas Region 60 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 61 SALES BREAKDOWN OF SALES R&D EXPENSES in millions of euros by application in millions of euros 2500 2,421 18% 1% 340 327 2400 2300 2,288 INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS OTHER LINES 320 303 300 2200 2100 2,103 280 272 2000 23% 40% 260 1900 MOLECULAR BIOLOGY MICROBIOLOGY 240 1800 220 1700 200 1600 1500 18% 180 IMMUNOASSAYS 1400 160 1300 140 1200 1100 Approximately 60% of sales were generated in clinical and industrial 120 1000 microbiology, two areas where bioMérieux is the world leader. 100 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 In 2018, sales growth in molecular biology (23% of sales in 2018 Sales amounted to €2,421 million in 2018, versus €2,288 million in compared to 19% in 2017) was driven by the success of the Continuing its innovation efforts, the Group invested €327 million 2017, an increase of 9.9% at constant exchange rates and scope BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® line. in research and development in 2018, or 13.5% of sales. of consolidation. Supported by the commercial strength of the VITEK® and BACT/ This increase reflects the intensification of activities associated with ALERT® lines, microbiology represented 40% of revenue, up by 6%. the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® line. KEY CONTRIBUTIVE OPERATING INCOME BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEMS * in millions of euros WORKFORCE AS AT DECEMBER 31 * 380 360 361 BREAKDOWN OF SALES 11500 11,200 340 335 11000 320 by geographical region 10,400 300 298 38% 10500 10000 9,800 280 EMEA* 18% FIGURES 9500 260 9000 ASIA PACIFIC 240 8500 220 8000 200 7500 7000 180 6500 160 6000 140 5500 120 44% 5000 100 AMERICAS 4500 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Lifted by the strong sales organic growth, contributive operating The Group’s growth was chiefly driven by strong sales in the Americas Changes in the workforce in 2018 mainly relfect the strengthening of income came slightly above initial target. region especially in the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® line, as well as solid BioFire Diagnostics’ industrial and commercial teams to support It was up by 7.8% compared to 2017, to reach €361 million, or 14.9% sales dynamics in Asia Pacific. the growth of the BIOFIRE® FILMARRAY® line as well as the of sales. strengthening of teams in Asia Pacific. * Europe, Middle East, Africa. * Contributive operating income before non-recurring items corresponds to operating income * Full-time equivalent. before non-recurring BioFire acquisition and integration costs and before accounting entries relating to the company’s purchase price allocation. NET INCOME FOR THE PERIOD FREE CASH FLOW * INVESTMENTS CHANGES IN THE FINANCIAL POSITION in millions of euros in millions of euros in millions of euros in millions of euros 270 256 170 165 166 240 2200 2,003 250 238 220 2000 230 150 200 58 57 1800 1,737 180 1,621 210 1600 190 179 130 160 51 1400 140 170 1200 110 120 150 1000 100 130 800 110 90 85 80 178 130 166 600 60 CAPITAL EQUITY 90 70 40 400 EXPENDITURE (IAS19R SINCE 2011) 70 20 200 50 50 OF WHICH PLACED INSTRUMENTS 0 OF WHICH BORROWINGS 0 275 156 267 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 -200 2016 2017 2018 Net income of consolidated companies for the year amounted to Excluding the one-off payment to the U.S. pension fund, free cash flow The capital expenditures made over the year amounted to €223 Net debt stood at €267 million at the end of the year, representing €256 million, up by 7.6% compared to 2017. It represented 10.6% of amounted to €222 million in 2018, versus €165 million in 2017, million, the results of the industrial investment strategy intended only 13% of equity. sales. representing an increase of more than 30%. Including the one-off mainly to increase capacity and productivity of production facilities. This leaves a high degree of flexibility to promote the Group’s strategic payment, reported free cash flow came to €166 million. The total capital expenditures for the year represented 9% of sales. ambitions. * Cash flow before acquisitions of companies, divested operations, share buyback programs and dividends. 62 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 63 FINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET ASSETS (In € millions) Intangible assets 12/31/2018 507.3 12/31/2017 430.7 TABLES Goodwill 616.5 442.7 Property, plant and equipment 807.5 711.4 Financial assets 71.8 57.9 Investments in associates 0.3 0.1 Other non-current assets 16.2 14.1 Deferred tax assets 74.3 51.6 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 2,093.9 1,708.5 Inventories and work in progress 414.9 380.3 Accounts receivable 490.0 460.1 Other operating receivables 61.7 75.1 Tax receivable 39.2 36.1 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Non-operating receivables 9.6 15.7 Cash and cash equivalents 280.1 312.1 In € millions 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 CURRENT ASSETS 1,295.6 1,279.4 NET SALES 2 421.3 2 288.2 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE 0.1 2.1 Cost of sales -1 119.1 -1 076.4 TOTAL ASSETS 3,389.6 2,990.0 GROSS PROFIT 1 302.2 1 211.8 OTHER OPERATING INCOME 31.2 31.2 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY (In € millions) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Selling and marketing expenses -480.3 -447.5 Share capital 12.0 12.0 General and administrative expenses -165.2 -156.4 Additional paid-in capital & Reserves 1,660.6 1,487.5 Research and development expenses -326.9 -304.4 Net income for the year 256.6 238.1 TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES -972.4 -908.3 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 1,929.3 1,737.6 CONTRIBUTIVE OPERATING INCOME 361.0 334.7 MINORITY INTERESTS 74.0 -0.9 BioFire acquisition's fees and depreciation costs (a) -17.5 -18.2 TOTAL EQUITY 2,003.3 1,736.7 OPERATING INCOME BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEMS 343.5 316.5 Net financial debt long-term 446.8 391.1 Other non-recurring income (expenses) 0.2 -1.6 Deferred tax liabilities 136.0 103.8 OPERATING INCOME 343.6 314.9 Provisions 47.1 106.7 Cost of net financial debt -18.5 -16.2 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 629.9 601.5 Other financial items -4.5 -6.2 Net financial debt short-term 100.2 76.9 Income tax -65.2 -54.5 Provisions 45.0 34.1 Investments in associates 0.2 -0.4 Accounts payable 176.9 161.3 NET INCOME OF CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES 255.6 237.6 Other operating liabilities 345.1 300.7 Attributable to the minority interests -1.1 -0.6 Tax liabilities 33.5 24.2 Non-operating liabilities 55.8 54.6 ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE PARENT COMPANY 256.6 238.1 CURRENT LIABILITIES 756.4 651.8 Basic earnings per share 2.18 € 2.02 € Diluted earnings per share 2.17 € 2.01 € LIABILITIES RELATED TO ASSETS HELD FOR SALE 0.0 0.0 (a) Corresponds to non-recurring BioFire acquisition and integration costs and accounting entries relating to the company’s purchase price allocation. TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 3,389.6 2,990.0 64 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 65 ●●● FINANCIAL TABLES CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT THE BIOMÉRIEUX SHARE In € millions 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 * SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE IN 2018 * Net income of consolidated companies 255.5 237.5 90 € Investments in associates -0.2 0.4 85 € Cost of net financial debt 18.5 16.2 Other financial items 4.5 6.2 80 € Current income tax expense 65.2 54.5 Operating depreciation and provisions on assets 157.9 140.5 75 € Nonrecurring items and BioFire acquisition's fees and depreciation costs 17.4 19.9 70 € EBITDA (before non-recurring items) 518.8 475.2 Other non current operating gains/losses 0.1 -1.1 65 € (w/o exceptional depreciations, assets losses and capital gains/losses) Other financial items -4.6 -6.1 60 € (w/o accruals & disposal of financial assets) Operating provisions for risks and contingencies -47.8 5.5 55 € Change in fair value of financial instruments 0.3 2.3 Share-based payments 6.7 7.5 50 € bioMérieux -26% CAC40 -13% Elimination of other gains and losses without any impact on cash or operations -45.3 8.1 4 €5 SBF120 -14% Change in inventories -27.3 -4.3 EURO STOXX® Healthcare Index -16% Change in accounts receivable -30.3 -25.6 40 € January 18 February 18 March 18 April 18 May 18 June 18 July 18 August 18 September 18 October 18 November 18 December 18 Change in accounts payable 13.7 -4.1 Change in other operating working capital 41.1 -3.8 Change in operating working capital (a) -2.8 -37.8 * Indexes rebased on bioMérieux’s stock price as at 12/31/2017 (€74.69) Other non operating working capital 2.7 1.5 Change in non-current assets -1.5 2.0 * BREAKDOWN OF CAPITAL * THE BIOMÉRIEUX SHARE Other cashflows from operation -1.6 -34.3 as at December 31, 2018 Income tax paid -66.5 -91.5 bioMérieux shares have been traded publicly since July 6, 2004 on the CAC Mid 60®, SBF 120®, CAC Mid & Small®, CAC All-tradable® Cost of net financial debt -18.5 -16.2 35% FLOATING & 59% and CAC All-Share® French market indices. In addition, bioMérieux NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS 386.9 341.3 OWN SHARES INSTITUT MÉRIEUX was included in new indices during 2017, specifically MSCI France Purchase of property, plant and equipment -226.8 -183.5 Index and STOXX® Europe 600. The Company’s shares are listed on < 1% compartment “A” of the Eurolist market and are eligible for deferred Proceeds on fixed asset disposals 5.4 7.9 EMPLOYEES settlement service (Service de Règlement Différé – SRD). Purchase / Disposals of financial assets 0.0 -0.4 bioMérieux’s social, Corporate and environmental commitment has FREE CASH FLOW (b) 165.5 165.3 5% been recognised for a number of years by extra-financial rating GROUPE INDUSTRIEL Purchase / Disposals of investment -5.4 -13.7 MARCEL DASSAULT agencies that evaluate its CSR performance and have included it in their SRI indices (Socially Responsible Investments) such as the Impact of changes in the scope of consolidation -191.4 9.3 Ethibel Forum (Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe), NET CASH FLOW FROM (USED IN) INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES -418.2 -180.4 * CALENDAR OF EVENTS FTSE Russell (FTSE4Good Index), Vigeo Eiris, EcoVadis, OEKOM Purchases and proceeds of treasury stocks -22.6 -0.9 Research, CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) and Corporate Knights February 27, 2019 * 2018 Financial Results Global 100 Index. Dividends to shareholders -40.2 -39.4 At December 31, 2018, the closing price for the bioMérieux share was Dividends to minority interests 0.0 -0.1 April 24, 2019 * First quarter 2019 sales €57.50 (€74.69 at December 31, 2017) and the Company’s market Change in confirmed financial debt 115.5 -0.6 (before start of trading) capitalisation was €6.8 billion. Change in ownership interest not resulting in a change in control 0.0 -11.5 May 23, 2019 * Annual General Meeting In 2018, 30 711 238 of the Company’s shares were traded on NET CASH FLOW FROM (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES 52.7 -52.5 September 4, 2019 * Second quarter 2019 sales Euronext (28,750,521 in 2017). and first-half 2019 results NET CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 21.4 108.4 (before start of trading) October 22, 2019 * Third quarter 2019 sales * INVESTOR RELATIONS CONTACT NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 260.4 146.6 (before start of trading) Impact of currency changes on net cash and cash equivalents -11.8 5.4 Sylvain Morgeau Phone : +33 (0)4 78 87 22 37 • Email : investor.relations@biomerieux.com NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE YEAR 270.0 260.4 The Reference Document approved by the AMF is available upon request or on our Web site: www.biomerieux-finance.com (a) Including additions to and reversals of current provisions. (b) Corresponds to the sum of net cash from operating activities and net cash used in investing activities excluding the impact of changes in Group structure. It also includes purchases and sales of treasury shares and the cost of net debt. 66 2018 ANNUAL REPORT • BIOMÉRIEUX 67 GLOSSARY Healthcare-Associated Infection (HAI) n HAIs are infections occurring in a patient during the process of care in a hospital (or other healthcare facility) that were not present at the time of admission and are directly related to the care received. Immunoassay n Diagnostic test based on an antigen/antibody reaction, enabling the detection of infectious agents (bacteria, viruses, parasites) and pathogen markers. In vitro diagnostics n Analysis of biological samples (urine, blood, etc.) performed outside the human body. Mass spectrometry n Technique used to identify a molecule and determine its chemical structure by analyzing the mass and the charge of its ions. Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) n Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) was first identified in September 2012 in Saudi Arabia and is responsible for the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). Among people affected by the disease, symptoms include fever, coughing and shortness of breath, as well as gastrointestinal symptoms in some cases. Approximately 35% of reported patients with MERS-CoV infection have died. Microbiology n The study of microorganisms. In the field of in vitro diagnostics: culturing biological, food and pharmaceutical Acute kidney injury (AKI) n Abrupt loss of kidney function that samples in growth medium allows any bacteria that may be develops within 7 days, it is a broad clinical syndrome encompassing present to multiply. The bacteria are subsequently identified and various etiologies, including specific kidney diseases, which can their susceptibility to antitiotics tested in certain cases. occur in the community, as well as in the hospital or ICU. AKI can be Molecular Biology n Technique that can detect a bacterium, virus, prevented through early detection and rapid treatment. yeast, parasite or a biomarker through the presence of DNA or RNA Antibiotic resistance n A microorganism’s natural ability to genetic sequences in a sample. withstand the effects of antibiotics: taking an antibiotic puts 06-19 • 9316841 022/GB/P • This document Pathogen n A microbe that causes or has the potential to cause an and/or pictures are not legally binding; selective pressure on bacteria, eliminating bacteria that are infectious disease. modifications by bioMérieux can be made without susceptible to the antibiotic and selecting resistant bacteria, which then multiply. The widespread and often inappropriate use of PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) n Molecular biology technology prior notice • BIOMERIEUX, the blue logo, ARGENE, antibiotics contributes to rising rates of antibiotic resistance, which BACT/ALERT, BIOFIRE, CHROMID, DIAGNOSTICS for in vitro amplification of genetic sequences, used to copy known is one of the biggest threats to public health worldwide. IS POWER, ENDOZYME II GO, ETEST, FILMARRAY, DNA or RNA sequences in large quantities (by an order of magnitude MYLA, NEPHROCHECK, PIONEERING DIAGNOSTICS, of a billion) from an initially small quantity. This technology is Antibiotic Susceptibility Testing n Determines the susceptibility RAPIDEC, R-GENE, SCANRDI, VERIFLOW, VIDAS, particularly useful for detecting the presence of viruses. of a bacterium in the presence of antibiotics and classifies it as VIRTUO and VITEK are used, pending and/or susceptible, resistant or intermediate. PCT (Procalcitonin) n An early and specific host marker of a registered trademarks belonging to bioMérieux bacterial infection, PCT is useful to adapt antimicrobial prescriptions. S.A., to one of its subsidiaries or companies Biomarker n Any indicator (nucleic acids, enzymes, metabolites • B·R·A·H·M·S PCT is the property of Thermo Fisher and other types of molecules: histamines, hormones, proteins, etc.) Sepsis n A serious systemic infection characterized by the Scientific Inc. and its subsidiaries • SBF 120 is present in or excreted by the body as a biological response to a presence of bacteria, fungi, viruses and parasites in the blood and the property of EURONEXT PARIS SA • WASP and disease. combined with an inflammatory immune-reaction (host response) WASPLab are the property of COPAN Italia that can result in the rapid deterioration of the patient’s general • Any other name or trademark mentioned in this Blood culture n Laboratory analysis used to detect bloodstream condition leading to possible organ failure. document is the property of its respective owner. infections, carried out by taking a sample of venous blood, which is then cultured to reveal the presence or absence of pathogenic Syndromic approach n Medical approach based on analyzing a Photos: Angkor Children Hospital, Axono, microbes. syndrome (i.e., a set of symptoms and/or clinical signs) that uses a N. Bouchut, F. Dubray, C. Ganet, Jump, single test to identify the disease-causing organism(s) responsible J.P. Mesguen, Didier Plowy Institut de France, Dengue n Dengue is a viral infection transmitted by the Aedes for this syndrome, whether they are viruses, bacteria, fungi or bioMérieux, Fondation Mérieux, Fotolia, mosquito that causes flu-like symptoms. A person with dengue may parasites. GettyImages, iStock. develop life-threatening complications. Zika virus n The Zika virus is transmitted by the bite of an infected Sculptures from Claude Quiesse: DNA Sequencing n Method used to determine the order of the Aedes mosquito. It recently caused an epidemic affecting several “Le Cheval” (p. 5), “Le Cavalier” (p. 58), nucleotide bases for a given DNA fragment. countries in Latin America, Africa and Asia, and currently it is “Les Parques” (p. 60) Endotoxin n Component of the outer membrane of certain Gramprobably spreading worldwide. Often asymptomatic, the disease negative bacteria that can cause high fevers. Pharmacopoeial may present as a moderate infection similar to dengue. Symptoms bioMérieux S.A. 673 620 399 RCS Lyon standards require that endotoxins be absent from pharmaceutical may include fever, muscle and joint pain, conjunctivitis, fatigue and Printed in France on recycled paper products that come into contact with the bloodstream or the headache. Skin rash is a characteristic feature of Zika. The théra • RCS Lyon B 398 160 242 central nervous system, such as injectable drugs and medical potentially serious impact of the virus is connected to its ability to devices. It is also recommended that the endotoxins be quantified cause neurological complications and severe malformations, in in raw materials or in-process materials. particular neurological malformations in the fetus. 68 • ALGERIA • GERMANY • SERBIA • ARGENTINA • GREECE • SINGAPORE • AUSTRALIA • HUNGARY • SOUTH AFRICA • AUSTRIA • INDIA • SPAIN • BELGIUM • ITALY • SWEDEN • BRAZIL • IVORY COAST • SWITZERLAND • CANADA • JAPAN • THAILAND • CHILE • KENYA • THE NETHERLANDS • CHINA • KOREA • TURKEY • COLOMBIA • MALAYSIA • UNITED ARAB EMIRATES • CZECH REPUBLIC • MEXICO • UNITED KINGDOM • DENMARK • NORWAY • USA • EGYPT • POLAND • VIETNAM • FINLAND • PORTUGAL • FRANCE • RUSSIA bioMérieux S.A. • 69280 Marcy l’Étoile • France • Tel.: + 33 (0)4 78 87 20 00 • Fax: +33 (0)4 78 87 20 90 www.biomerieux.com
