UN global compact communication on progress report Frontmatec Groups ApS [“Frontmatec”] has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2017, and I am pleased to confirm that Frontmatec reaffirms its support of the Ten principles of the United Nation Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In its, Frontmatec first Communication on progress report, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and it principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. The UN Global Compact is an overall framework for our future work with CSR, where the focus is and will be on the four principal areas: ▪▪ Human rights ▪▪ Corruption ▪▪ Environment ▪▪ Labour Yours Sincerely Henrik Andersen CEO, Frontmatec Group ApS, COP for 2018 About Frontmatec Group ApS Frontmatec develops world-leading customized solutions for automation in the food industry, other hygiene sensitive industries and the utilities industry. We are especially renowned for our high-quality systems for the entire value chain of the meat industry – from carcass grading, slaughter lines, cutting and deboning lines, hygiene systems and control systems to logistics and packaging. No matter the solution, be it for a pork or cattle plant, we never compromise on our key design criteria: ▪▪ Animal welfare ▪▪ Ergonomics ▪▪ Hygiene ▪▪ Meat quality ▪▪ Yield optimization With operations in Europe, the Americas and Asia, Frontmatec serves a wide range of highly respected customers, from local industrial players to large global food processors. With 1200 employees in 10 countries, Frontmatec strives to offer more complete and unique solutions, which will create value for our customers. Human rights principles Principle 1 What we want case the right to privacy and data protection – into businesses’ online Hereafter Frontmatec can conduct implementation and training in operations. companies outside EU. This is to be done end of 2019. Businesses should support Frontmatec is an international company with different cultural and work To maintain our good work with GDPR and maintain same positive behaviour; therefore it is our priority to be an internationally open and and respect the protection accommodating workplace and thereby respect human rights. We can What we have achieved progress Frontmatec will have an ongoing procedure, regarding complying with the rules and with necessary adopt needed changes. of internationally proclaimed in no way accept discrimination based on race, religion, gender, age, To achieve compliance in this field, Frontmatec has conducted needed disability or any other kind. Every employee in Frontmatec shall have equal policies and goals across the organization. human rights; and opportunity to build a career and shall feel safe in every situation while Following policies are implemented: Measurement of outcome and goal working for Frontmatec. ▪▪ General data protection policy It is Frontmatec goal that all employees have been introduced to GDPR We will support and respect international human rights contained in ▪▪ Processing of employees’ personal data policies and understands the importance hereof and their rights in Principle 2 the International Bill of Human Rights. We will assess our actual and ▪▪ IT Security Policy connection with processing of their personal data. ▪▪ Personal Data Processing Job Application Make sure that they are not potential adverse impact on these international human rights. We will remedy We have implemented KPI’s where the following is a task: Employees adverse impacts on human rights in case we are involved in such. The policies are implemented and uploaded on Frontmatec Intranet must know and have signed an adequate data policy. complicit in human right abuses We will respect the privacy of our customers and employees. so all employees have access hereto at all times in the language they The measurement and outcome can be realized in Frontmatec COP 2020. We will work to ensure non-discrimination and equal opportunities. This understand. For those without IT access the policies have been printed applies internally with regard to our employees and externally in our value and shared with the employees. chain. Furthermore, information meetings has been conducted at all of Our goal is to protect our employees and all of business partner’s personal Frontmatec European sites to all employees, white and blue collar. For data. those employees processing the personal data, an internal GDPR training has been conducted introducing the employees to the rules, obligations and responsibilities. Assessment Frontmatec has also conducted a Contingency plan, so all employees at For the past year, Frontmatec has focussed on protection of all-time know what to do if we face a breach. personal data General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The goal of Frontmatec is to protect employees and all of business partner’s personal data. What remains to be done Frontmatec supports the fact that digital rights, and protection hereof needs At this moment, Frontmatec is finalizing Binding Corporate Rules [“BCR”] to be integrated into the business operations and strategies of companies. to make intra-organizational transfers of personal data across borders The GDPR stands out as one of the first instruments that provides a in compliance with GDPR. After finalization, BCR are required to be concrete answer on how to practically incorporate human rights – in this approved by the data protection authority in each EU Member State. Labour rights principles Principle 3 What we want a contribution if an employee needs safety prescription glasses or screen The outcome for year 2018 was as follows: glasses. ▪▪ Sickness absence (%) = 1.59% (white collar and blue collar) Business should uphold the freedom We will provide our employees with an employment framework that will The Frontmatec employee handbook states that all employees at all-time ▪▪ Lost hours caused by work related injuries pr. 1 million hours = 459.3 always follow applicable laws and collective agreements in our areas with of association and the effective regards to the payment of fair wages as well as other employment know their right and respect the rights and freedom of the colleagues. (only blue collar) Frontmatec is satisfied with the low number on sickness absence and Lost recognition of the right to collective conditions. We will work to ensure that our employees have development hours caused by work related injuries, taking in account that Frontmatec is What we have achieved bargaining; opportunities at work by offering education and training. a production company and employs about 575 blue collars. We will provide our employees with equal opportunities as well as a safe, We have conducted an employee handbook stating guidelines with focus The 2019 goal for Frontmatec is to keep the low percentage on healthy and non-discrimination working environment. on openness, safety and acceptable workplace for all employees. We sickness among employees. This will be done by frequent measurement Principle 4 We will protect our employees against any corporal punishment, mental have specially made an anti-sexual harassment policy covering not only and needed assessment and handlings if the number should increase coercion or harassment. sexual but any form of harassment. Frontmatec CEO has made an official during 2019. The elimination of all forms of forced We will recognize our employees’ right to employee representation and statement regarding the anti-sexual harassment policy, making it clear to Frontmatec takes safety very seriously and a good environment is our compulsory labour freedom of association, collective bargaining, working hours, pre-agreed all employees of Frontmatec that Frontmatec do not tolerate any kind of main task in day to day business, which is why Frontmatec during 2019 compensated working and rest time. harassment, that harassment is prohibited and that no one should accept will work to reduce Lost hours caused by work related injuries pr. 1 million We will denounce forced labour and child labour. If we hire young workers harassment. hours by 10 %. This will be done by ongoing evaluations and improvement Principle 5 between 15 and 18 years, they may not perform hazardous work or night at production sites where an improvement is needed and can contribute to The elimination of all forms of child -shift work. What remains to be done a safer working environment. We will not discriminate in the workplace because of age, sex, race, During 2019 Frontmatec will conduct information meetings at all The status on our achievement will be described earliest in COP 2020. labour; and colour, disability, religion or belief, language, national or social origin, Frontmatec sites, so Frontmatec employees at all-time know their rights trade union membership or any other discrimination grounds recognized and in connections to this conduct assessment of working environment by international law. We will only make decisions regarding hiring and so Frontmatec this way can manage to improve and/or make changes if Principle 6 employment on the basis of relevant and objective criteria. needed in connection to Labour Principles. The elimination of discrimination in Assessment respect of employment and Measurement of outcome and goal Our work with safety and well-being takes place in the work environment occupation committee. We focus on the individual employee’s well-being regardless of To have a more based focus on safety and employee’s health and well-being Frontmatec has implemented KPI’s for Lost workhours per 1 location and workplace. million workhours and Sickness days as percentage of total number of We provide our blue-collar employees with needed working clothes and workdays. other safety equipment needed for performance of the work. We also give Water M3 2017 2018 2019E Environment Tandslet 713 784 950 Quebec 1,553 1,509 1,550 Kolding 2,300 1,925 1,200 Electricity KwH 2017 2018 2019E Principle 7 What we want of animals with minimum stress and suffering caused when processed with our equipment. Business should support a We will comply with environmental legislation, including thorough ongoing Tandslet 755,213 679,880 730,000 training and monitoring. precautionary approach to What we have achieved Quebec 1,930,080 1,780,680 1,900,000 We will work systematically to continually improve environmental environmental challenges Kolding 713,262 688,852 450,000 performance, to reduce our impact on the environment and to promote It is not possible to report on any measurement yet, because the greater environmental responsibility. implementation of policies and guidelines has only been active for the last We will support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. year. Gas M3 2017 2018 2019E Principle 8 Assessment What remains to be done Tandslet 14,678 14,194 15,000 Businesses should undertake Quebec 68,535 61,400 62,000 Frontmatec is still working on possible assessment to achieve best During 2019 Frontmatec will conduct information meetings at all initiatives to promote greater participation in the work with principles 7, 8 and 9. Frontmatec sites, so Frontmatec employees at all times know their rights Kolding 222,509 218,450 210,000 environmental responsibility Frontmatec has started the work with Environment principles by minimizing and in connection to this, conduct assessment of working environment so the transportation cost and pollution in this matter by providing company Frontmatec this way can manage to improve and/or make changes if necars for employees to use for free, and made it an obligation for employees eded in connection to Labour Principles. The status on our achievements will be described earliest in COP 2020. Principle 9 to travel together in every situation possible. Encourage the development and Furthermore, to minimize unnecessary traveling by car, train, airplane etc. Measurement of outcome and goal In the future, when Frontmatec replaces technical equipment, we have implemented skype for business, so we in that way can have To have a more based focus on or use of energy. Frontmatec has environmental impact is always part of the buying criteria. diffusion of environmentally friendly meetings online internally and with customers, whenever possible and implemented KPI’s for: whenever a face-to-face meeting is not necessary. technologies Frontmatec also works together with the suppliers to ensure that our Frontmatec welding equipment will over the next 5 years be exchanged ▪▪ Use of water M3 water spent in the company (in general) with equipment with lower power consumption products are compliant with the REACH and RoHS obligations and that ▪▪ Use of electricity kWh spent in the company (in general) no harmful substances are exposed to the consumers and the workers ▪▪ Use of heating/GAS M3 spent in the company (in general) Frontmatec has frequent reviews on the buildings in terms of evaluation of handling the products throughout the supply chain. energy consumptions. As an example of this, most of Frontmatec lightning Furthermore, Frontmatec designs its equipment so they are ergonomic For the last year measurements have been conducted, and based on the is changed to LED. friendly for the operator and easy to clean, thus ensuring high food safety results the outcome company goal for 2019 is as follows: and hygienic standards as well as reducing the volume of water required Reason for estimated increased consumption in Tandslet for 2019 is due for cleaning. to increase in production. Frontmatec also develops products ensuring correct and humane handling Anti-corruption principles Principle 10 What we want the employee or associated person. The prohibition against bribery is not Measurement of outcome and goal limited to monetary transfers. Bribery can also take form as a transfer of Business should work against We will maintain a high level of integrity and accountability in all our any other asset, such as a gift, loan, fee, remuneration or any other thing To have a more constructed focus on bribery we have implemented KPI’s external relationships, and we do not participate in corruption or bribery. for Zero confirmed incidents in the company. corruption in all its forms, We will not offer, promise or give any kind of bribes to improperly influence of value. For the last year, measurements have been conducted, and based on the Frontmatec prohibits its employees or associated persons from making including extortion and bribery public officials, judges or business associates. or accepting any facilitation payments. Facilitation payment means any measurement the outcome company goal for 2019 is as follows: We will also refrain from receiving or accepting any bribes ourselves. ▪▪ Zero confirmed incidents in whistleblowing scheme payment made to a public official to expedite the performance of a routine Our agents, intermediaries or other persons acting on our behalf are The status on our achievement will be described earliest in COP 2020. or necessary governmental action, such as issuing a permit. subject to this obligation not to participate in corruption or bribery. To support the above stated goal we have implemented an internal Facilitation payments must be distinguished from an official, publicly whistle-blower possibility with different approaches anonymously and available fast-track process. Provided, that it can be established that Assessment the payment is a legitimate fee, the employee is authorized to make the direct approach is possible. In 2019, we will focus on a total market, customers, agents and similar It is our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical payment. analysis/assessment to have a better approach on our work and behaviour manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and Frontmatec acknowledges that it in many situations is considered and in that way have a better control and tools in place against corruption are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our customary and acceptable to give or accept promotional gifts. in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. In connection with the final business dealings and relationships. Therefore, this Policy does not prohibit the giving or accepting of assessment and results, hereof a training will be conducted at all of our In order to maintain a high level of integrity and credibility in all our reasonable and appropriate gifts. Employees must make a written report of sites to with focus on most exposed areas in our business. external relationships, we have adopted anti-corruption and bribery policy all hospitality or gifts given or received, exceeding the amount of EUR 100. (hereinafter called the ”Policy”). The report must be forwarded to the local Finance Manager upon receiving The intention of the Policy is to serve as a source of information and as or giving of the before mentioned. a guideline for our employees on ethical behavior. We base the Policy Prior to entering into any contract, arrangement or relationship with a on the values of the Company and it applies to all our employees at all potential business partner, due diligence should be undertaken by the levels, including managers and executive officers, as well as agents and Company. consultants of the Company. Frontmatec prohibits its employees or associated persons from offering, What we have achieved promising, giving, soliciting or accepting any direct or indirect bribe. The We have implemented need policies to have needed guidelines and prohibition against bribery is absolute and applies whether the person or control in regards to prohibiting and fight against Anti-corruption. company, to, or from, whom the bribery has been offered or accepted, It is not possible to report on any measurement yet, because the is a public or governmental official, official of a state-controlled industry, implementation of policies and guidelines has only been active for the last political party or a private person or company, regardless of location of year. Our fundamental beliefs Frontmatec and all its employees share a common set Our promise of beliefs that defines us a business. It describes the apOur customers can expect high quality solutions that proach of both management and each individual towards are innovative and at the forefront of technology, yet our customers, business partners and colleagues across thoroughly tested and highly reliable to secure minimum organisational and national borders. down-time and maximum productivity. We deliver to our promise – every time. What we deliver We deliver customized solutions of the highest quality Our heritage based on years of experience and true craftsmanship. Our business is built on in-depth knowledge of the fields We are the highly experienced partner that customers we work in and long-term relations with our customers. count on for every step of the journey – from the initial Quality, dedication, reliability, and personal service run design phase to the after sales service. Time is of the in our blood. essence – we react promptly and professionally when dealing with any issues. How we work Our culture is based on a strong work ethic and an unyielding dedication to the customer. We are a proud and flexible team that is closely knit and we keep our feet on the ground. We poses an unrivaled expertise of our industry and each one of us take our responsibility for our deliveries seriously. Birmingham, UK Lünen, Germany St. Anselme, QC, Canada Phone: +44 121 313 3564 Phone: +49 2306 7560 680 Phone: +1 418 885 4493 E-mail: birmingham@frontmatec.com E-mail: luenen@frontmatec.com E-mail: quebec@frontmatec.com Beckum, Germany Moscow, Russia Tandslet, Sydals, Denmark Phone: +49 252 185 070 Phone: +7 495 424 9559 Phone: +45 744 076 44 E-mail: beckum@frontmatec.com E-mail: moscow@frontmatec.com E-mail: tandslet@frontmatec.com Borculo, the Netherlands Sallent, Barcelona, Spain frontmatec.com Phone: +31 545 259 999 Phone: +34 938 380 835 E-mail: borculo@frontmatec.com E-mail: sallent@frontmatec.com Grodzisk Mazowiecki, Poland Shanghai, China Phone: +48 227 345 551 Phone: +86 215 859 4850 E-mail: grodzisk@frontmatec.com E-mail: shanghai@frontmatec.com Kansas City, MO, US Skive, Denmark Phone: +1 816 891 2440 Phone: +45 975 250 22 E-mail: kansascity@frontmatec.com E-mail: skive@frontmatec.com Kolding, Denmark Smørum, Denmark Phone: +45 763 427 00 Phone: +45 445 037 00 E-mail: kolding@frontmatec.com E-mail: smoerum@frontmatec.com Group_V1-0_2019_EN
