Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 PensionDanmark A/S — CVR no. 16163279 Contents 25 years of occupational pensions – 25 years of corporate social responsibility.... 4 Using the UN Sustainable Development Goals as a lever........................................ 9 Partnerships – part of the solution.......................................................................... 10 PensionDanmark’s business model........................................................................ 12 4 9 Securing members in the best possible way.......................................................... 14 Prevention creates value for everyone ................................................................... 16 Lifelong learning...................................................................................................... 18 Better member services through digital solutions................................................. 20 Proactive services..................................................................................................... 21 Investments create growth and jobs....................................................................... 22 Our national footprint............................................................................................... 23 16 18 Green transition entails new opportunities ............................................................ 24 Investing in the UN Sustainable Development Goals ............................................ 26 Higher returns from sustainable real estate investments ................................... 28 Sustainability programme for new real estate........................................................ 30 Responsibility founded on international guidelines................................................ 32 Active ownership pays off......................................................................................... 34 Room for development and ambition...................................................................... 36 20 26 PensionDanmark’s policies..................................................................................... 38 Appendix................................................................................................................... 40 This report constitutes PensionDanmark’s statutory report on corporate social responsibility in pursuance of sections 132 and 132a of the Executive Order on financial reports for insurance companies and multi-employer occupational pension funds. Printed: In Denmark in 2019 by GSB Grafisk, an ecolabelled printing house Paper: MultiDesign Original White 28 36 Photos: Ursula Bach, MT Højgaard (p. 6), Jakob Boserup (pp. 6, 21, 32), Simon Knudsen (pp. 11, 15, 18, 30), Palle Peter Skov (p. 17), IFU (p. 26), Mia Manghezi (p. 28), Red Star Photo (p. 29). Front page: Electricians Peter, Valentino and Kenneth of Høyrup & Clemmensen − all members of PensionDanmark Back page: Bus drivers Olga and Lars of Arriva − both members of PensionDanmark 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 3 “Our mission is to enable our members to have a long and productive working life and to give them a financially secure retirement. In a sustainable way.” Torben Möger Pedersen Valentino, electrician at Høyrup & Clemmensen and a member of PensionDanmark PensionDanmark was named Best European Pension Fund for the fourth time in 2018 25 years of occupational pensions – 25 years of corporate social responsibility 2018 was a special year for PensionDanmark. We celefirmly anchored in a robust set of values and a long-term brated the 25th anniversary of the first contributions to the vision for our ambitions and beliefs. pension schemes set up with great courage and vision by the social partners in 1987 through their Joint Declaration. PensionDanmark has decided to let our activities be guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals adopted by all Since then, things have moved fast. From originally contribmember states in 2015. We rely on these goals in workuting less than 1%, employees contribute 12% or more of ing to provide our members with better health, better their incomes towards their pension. Employees who origieducation and training and attractive pensions. The goals nally could only expect to receive state pension will now be are also an integral part of our investment policy, which pension millionaires by the time they retire. This is because has won us the position as a leading investor in sustain­ PensionDanmark invests member savings, totalling DKK able real estate and renewable energy infrastructure. Our 216 billion, responsibly with a view to generating solid susresults over the past few years are testimony to the fact tainable returns. PensionDanmark also has a tightly knit that commitment to sustainable investments generates social safety net which we spread out in the event of illness attractive returns — exceeding those provided by listed or death among our members, or if they need early retiremarkets — while at the same time helping to make the ment or lifelong learning support. And by taking advantage world a better place. We will continue to do good and do of the many possibilities offered by digital technologies, we well at the same time. are able to keep costs down while providing better services to our members. This 2018 report aims to take us one step further in measuring how our activities contribute to achieving the UN This is the Danish welfare model 2.0. Denmark’s ranking Sustainable Development Goals. We will continue these as the country with the most sustainable pension system efforts in and beyond 2019. This year, we address a numand PensionDanmark winning the European Pension Fund ber of dilemmas that arise in pursuing corporate social of the Year award for the second year in a row in 2018 are responsibility. We hope this will trigger a good and critical therefore well-deserved achievements. We are happy and dialogue with all our many members, companies, union proud to have received this recognition, which inspires us representatives, organisations and other partners. All the to work even harder at providing solid pensions, insurancwhile focusing on our overriding mission: es, health schemes and world-class lifelong learning. To enable our members to have a long and productive Marking a shift from “seven good years” following the working life and to give them a financially secure retiresevere financial and growth crisis ten years ago to “seven ment. In a sustainable way. lean years” of slowing economic growth, low interest rates, volatile equity markets and greater political uncertainty as to where the world is heading, 2018 was also a very challenging year. Torben Möger Pedersen These developments entail massive challenges for the CEO, PensionDanmark pension industry and make it even more important to be tmp@pension.dk 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 2018 Total assets of The year DKK 236 billion gone by 340,000 732,000 interdisciplinary treatments members employed with Owned by 11 trade received by members 23,600 companies contri­ 900,000 unions and buted DKK 14.2 billion member log-ins 29 employers’ to pension.dk associations Exhibition on the 25th Agreement on traineeships anniversary of occupational at PensionDanmark’s pensions opened at the Grants for 44,000 training building sites Workers Museum programmes 10,000 painters PensionDanmark Member no. 5,000 Pension benefits enrolled in won Urban Developreceived Prompt increased by New member app PensionDanmark’s ment Award for its Diagnosis assistance 5-25% launched healthcare programme Køge Kyst project February March April May June June September November December PensionDanmark PensionDanmark PensionDanmark provided the first opened three new won two investment pension scheme member health awards for alternative for a digital clinics investments and Together with its platform business private debt PensionDanmark PensionDanmark received co-investors, Pension(Hilfr) won four awards international award at the IPE Danmark handed over Real Estate Global Awards at the 2018 Slagelse Hospital 2018 in Milan for its strategy IPE Awards PPP project to on sustainable and innovative in Dublin Region Zealand PensionDanmark invested DKK 400 million in real estate investments Danish SDG Investment Fund, set up to invest in projects working towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 7 Using the UN Sustainable Development Goals as a lever In 2015, world leaders defined the world’s key challenges going forward to 2030 in the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Comprising 17 goals and 169 targets, the goals apply to all countries. Responsibility and sustainability are part of PensionDanmark’s DNA. The UN Sustainable Development Goals have provided us with a framework for our CSR efforts, and with new opportunities. As a provider of supplementary welfare benefits within the areas of pension, social security and lifelong learning and as a major investor, most of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals are relevant to our work. This report shows how PensionDanmark’s activities contribute to achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In 2018, we began the work to develop specific measuring and reporting tools for our various business areas with a view to illustrating the impact of our efforts to our members, Denmark and the world community. There is still work to be done, and we will continue our efforts in the years ahead. For more information on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, see: www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 9 >> We work with the National Agency for IT and Learning ship efforts for several years. In the years ahead, we will to ensure our members receive the right supplemen­ continue to support the UN Global Compact and to report tary training. on our progress in relation to its principles. >> In 2018, we formed a partnership with the Capital Region, the Zealand Region and the eight vocational schools in their areas to create more building and construction traineeships and apprenticeships at PensionDanmark’s many building sites. PensionDanmark is actively engaged in the public debate on social responOn the investment front, 2018 saw the formation of a new partnership with the Investment Fund for Developing Counsibility through, among others... tries (IFU) and the Danish State concerning the establishBoard Leadership Society ment of Danish SDG Investment Fund to invest in projects Dansif and companies working towards realising the UN SustainInsurance & Pension Denmark able Development Goals. Global Compact Network Denmark Green Building Council Partnerships are a prerequisite for reaching our sustainGreen Climate Fund ability targets. Therefore, PensionDanmark is actively IFU engaged in the public debate and in a number of networks Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change PensionDanmark’s domicile at Langelinie Allé and organisations. OECD Centre on Green Finance and Investment Patient associations PensionDanmark is a signatory to the UN Global Compact Danish Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment Partnerships – part of the solution and a member of the board of directors of Global Compact National Agency for IT and Learning Network Denmark. UN Global Compact is a leading corSustainable Build porate sustainability initiative, and the ten Global Compact UN Global Compact principles for responsible business conduct have been a World Economic Forum In November 1987, the social partners to sharing knowledge and impacting the conditions we driving force in our investment screening and active owner­ and the Danish government concluded operate under. Through our partnerships with the social partners, other financial undertakings, authorities and oran agreement which laid the groundwork ganisations, we work every day to secure attractive pension for the world-leading pension system schemes and good service for our members while at the that Denmark has today, more than 30 same time contributing to making the world a better place: Torben signs an agreement with Heino Knudsen, Chairman of the Zealand Region, and Sophie Hæstorp Andersen, Chairman of the Capital Region years later. >> In the context of our healthcare programme, we work with patient associations, including the Danish Brain The so-called Joint Statement provided the framework for Injury Society, the Danish Heart Foundation, the Danish solving Denmark’s challenges with respect to competitiveCancer Society, the Danish Parkinson’s Society and the ness, balance of payments deficits and an obsolete pension Danish Multiple Sclerosis Society, to help critically ill system. A few years later – in 1989 for the public labour members. In cases related to early retirement, we also market and in 1991 for the private labour market – employwork with the Danish Rheumatism Association. er and labour organisations agreed to set up compulsory group pension schemes for the large groups of employees >> We cooperate on data integration with the Danish who up to that point were only entitled to state pension and Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment and the supplementary ATP pension on retirement. This marked Danish Health Authority for the purpose of identifying the birth of occupational pensions – and of PensionDanmembers with long-term illnesses and helping them mark – which have grown into the solid pension system get the right treatment and return to work. that has won Denmark the reputation as a world leader in designing pension systems which embrace all and which are not a burden on the public purse. So, partnerships and Target 17.17 collective solutions are part of PensionDanmark’s DNA and Encourage and promote effective public, have been a cornerstone of our work since the beginning. public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and Today, our partnerships go beyond trade unions, employers’ resourcing strategies of partnerships. associations, companies and union representatives. They have grown in number and now comprise all parts of our PensionDanmark engages in partnerships in all its business. We use partnerships to put together the best and business areas to secure the best and most effective most effective solutions for our members and companies, solutions. and we participate actively in our partnerships with a view 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 11 PensionDanmark’s business model PensionDanmark pursues a 360-degree approach to engaging with our members. We want to give our members a financially secure retirement. We want to protect them during their working lives by means of insurances that come into operation in case of an accident. We want to enable them to have a long and productive working life by offering them active, preventive healthcare programmes. And we want them to maintain and develop their skills through lifelong learning. PRODUCTS VALUE FOR MEMBERS RESULTS ACHIEVED IN 2018 PENSION Members are ensured a financially secure retirement. In terms of returns, 2018 was a difficult year. Younger memPension savings consist of three Investment risks are aligned with members’ age, and bers received a negative 2.6% return, while older members savings products: Retirement savings, pension contributions are distributed on savings pro­ducts received a positive 0.2% return. Losses were mitigated by lifelong pension and annuity pension. so as to minimise offsetting against public benefits. robust returns on real estate and infrastructure investments. INSURANCE Insurances provide security for our members during 780 members received supplementary early retirement Our members are covered by insurances their working lives. Members can raise or reduce insurbenefits. 3,070 members received a lump sum of typically that become operative on death, critical ance amounts to align them with their current needs. DKK 100,000 on critical illness. 2,840 beneficiaries received illness, early retirement and subsidised Through integration of public registers, we make sure a lump sum on death. In total, our members received penjobs. our members always receive what they are entitled to. sion and insurance benefits of DKK 3.8 billion. HEALTHCARE PROGRAMME Our healthcare programme prevents physical disabil40,100 members received 340,000 treatments at our health PensionDanmark’s healthcare proities and assists members in combating health probclinics. 27,300 members contacted PensionDanmark’s gramme offers free access to prevenlems and returning to the labour market faster. This health team. The team helped more than 70% of our memtive interdisciplinary treatment, health provides security for each individual member. bers with long-term illnesses return to work. 3,100 memcounselling and Prompt Diagnosis. bers received paid memberships of patient associations. LIFELONG LEARNING Lifelong learning helps our members maintain and 19,000 employees in 2,000 companies were able to upgrade PensionDanmark manages a number upgrade their skills and thus remain active memtheir skills thanks to supplementary training funded by the of educational funds which provide bers of the workforce. educational funds managed by PensionDanmark. financial support for various types of supplementary training programmes. COUNSELLING Members receive proactive, personalised member Our members received more than 1.1 million personalised Members can access our member services service aligned with their current life situation. messages. by phone Mondays-Fridays from 8:00 Members can choose their preferred platform of comOur members logged on to pension.dk 0.9 million times a.m. to 9:00 p.m. − and at pension.dk munication. This ensures a high degree of accessibility − an increase of 75%. 24/7. and readiness to meet our members’ needs. The average call wait time was 10.1 seconds. 250,000 members have signed up to We interacted with 275,800 members across our various receive messages with personalised Members receive personalised information through channels. information. e-mail, text messages, e-Boks, website and by telephone. 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 13 Aldersopsparing implemented in 2018 The new Aldersopsparing (retirement savings) product was incorporated into our members’ pension savings in 2018. Following the introduction of new pension rules, retirement savings benefits are not set off against state pension, and this makes the product attractive. We have adjusted the distribution of savings so that we automatically allocate the maximum allowed amount (DKK 5,100 for younger and DKK 46,000 for older members) to retirement savings. The remaining pension contributions are distributed among annuity pensions and lifetime pensions. “Aldersopsparing has become an integral part of our members’ pension savings, making it even more attractive for our members to save up for retirement. Pension Danmark will always adjust the scheme according to new pension rules so that our members will not have The firefighters of CPH Brand & Redning are members with PensionDanmark to worry about that. This makes it easy and safe to be a Stig Søllested, deputy president of the Plumber and member of PensionDanmark.” Pipeline Union in Denmark Securing members in the best possible way Target 1.3 Implement nationally appropriate social Dilemma: At PensionDanmark, we manage and How pension contributions are distributed protection systems and measures for Why does PensionDanmark not provide critically ill develop occupational pension and in­ Each member paid an administration fee of DKK 297 in all, including floors, and by 2030 achieve members with the option of having their pension savings paid out? surance schemes with a view to creating 2018, which was one of the lowest administration fees substantial coverage of the poor and the among Danish pensions providers. When costs are low, vulnerable. The main purpose of pension savings is to give memthe maximum value for our members. pension savings grow. bers a financially secure retirement, and pension savThrough their savings with PensionDanmark, our ings are therefore not paid out prematurely. Members PensionDanmark’s pension and insurance schemes are members are guaranteed attractive and stable pension diagnosed with a critical illness are guaranteed a lump a supplement to public benefits and are aligned with the incomes and an important supplement to public pension sum of typically DKK 100,000. About 70% of members needs of members within different industries. Being a benefits. They also have effective insurance cover in the diagnosed with a critical illness survive their illness and member-owned company, it is a fundamental principle of event of incapacity for work or critical illness. therefore need their pension savings when they retire. ours that our schemes are solidarity-based and that memHealth 0,8% bers’ pension contributions are primarily used to increase Death 2,2% their savings. Our insurance schemes are designed so as Critical illness 1,7% to minimise offsetting against public benefits, and through The dairy operators of Christiansfeld Dairy are members of PensionDanmark Early retirement and integration of public registers we make sure our members subsidised jobs 4,1% Costs 0,7% always receive what they are entitled to. Insurance cover options Savings 90% The insurances included in the pension scheme cover in the event of critical illness, the granting of early retirement pension, resource programmes or subsidised jobs and on death, and they generally embrace the needs of most members. However, members have the option of adjusting insurance amounts to align them with their individual needs. It may be a good idea for members to adjust their The best pension system in the world insurances if they get married, divorced, have children or For the sixth year in a row, Denmark tops the internabuy a home, for instance. tional Melbourne Mercer Global Pension Index (MMGPI) of the world’s best pension systems. The MMGPI report In 2018, PensionDanmark adjusted the insurance cover emphasises Danish pension savers’ high pension becoming operative on the granting of early retirement contributions relative to their income, that the pension pension so that members joining a municipal resource prosystem is for all, and that the ratio of pension assets to gramme are entitled to receive a tax-free lump sum of typiGDP is among the highest in the world. cally DKK 50,000 after one year in a resource programme. 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 15 Assistance in Our health team Solicitude call in Follow-up on joining public helps the event of health test smoking cessation members... critical illness programme etc. Preventive Prompt treatment diagnosis Guide to Health A PensionDanmark member being treated in one of our 137 health clinics the public counselling health service Prevention creates value for everyone Karin, nurse at PensionDanmark The purpose of PensionDanmark’s Making a difference Assistance with healthcare programme is, through preIt is important to us that our members are aware of the opRehabilitation job centre Psychological Substance abuse counselling counselling vention and prompt action, to enable our tions available to them under the healthcare programme. proceedings Accordingly, we keep them informed through company members to remain in the labour marvisits, articles in the media of employer and labour organiket. This is in the interests of our memsations, personalised messages, etc. bers, the companies they work for and society. Taking care of vulnerable members Our health team assists vulnerable members, including Like the other insurance benefits included in the pension members who are or risk becoming absent for longer The team can also help members who have been referred Dilemma: periods of time, providing advice and recommending other to a specialist get a prompt diagnosis. The member is Why offer a healthcare programme when Denmark scheme, our preventive efforts are solidarity-based and offers (interdisciplinary treatment, psychological therapy, assigned a nurse who will help patient through the healthhas an efficient health system? a long-term investment for the individual member and specialist treatment, scans, etc.). care system with no unnecessary delays. for the community. Not working has serious financial and Despite our efficient public healthcare system, triage personal implications. And to the community, prevention times can be so long that members lose their ties Members who have received insurance benefits in connecis cost-effective. For instance, if a typical 50-year-old with the labour market and end up in resource protion with a critical illness will also get a solicitude call from member is granted early retirement, this will cost the grammes or, at worst, early retirement. PensionDana nurse offering guidance concerning the many options Pension­Danmark community almost DKK 1.3 million in mark's Prompt Diagnosis programme ensures prompt available under the healthcare programme. supplementary early retirement benefits. In other words, diagnosis within an average of 23 days. Target 3.8 preventing early retirement is sound business. Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access Focusing on individual member needs to quality essential health-care services Musculoskeletal disorders are the most frequent cause of and access to safe, effective, quality and physical disabilities and early retirement among Pension­ affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all. Results achieved in 2018 Danmark’s members. >> 40,100 members received 340,000 preventive treatments, an increase of 15% on 2017. Most of our members have a health scheme with PenThrough the healthcare programme, members suffering sionDanmark. In addition, all members are covered by >> 5,000 cases of Prompt Diagnosis, an increase of 57% on 2017. from, for instance, back pain have access to prevenan insurance of typically DKK 100,000 in case of critical tive treatment by a physiotherapist, a chiropractor or a >> More than 1,000 health consultations conducted across the country out of PensionDanmark’s advisory bus. illness. In addition to insurance benefits, members massage therapist. As a doctor’s referral is not required, suffering from critical illness receive one year’s paid >> An increase of 15% in the number of preventive treatment slots compared with 2017. access to preventive treatment at one of our 137 health membership of a relevant patients association. clinics is simple and fast. 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 17 Supplementary training at Arriva At transport operator Arriva, management is committed to providing supplementary training opportunities for its employees. “At Arriva, we see supplementary training as a good investment in upskilling already qualified employees. Many of our employees have non-Danish ethnic backgrounds, and by providing them with supplementary training in the form of Danish lessons, we upgrade the skills they use in their day-to-day work. This is often the first step towards becoming a skilled driver. As an employer, we are happy to support this.” “Thanks to the programme, I’ve become much better at Marianne Bøttger, Head of CSR, Arriva Danmark writing and speaking Danish, and I've also qualified as a skilled driver. This also means that I get paid a little Olga Daria has been a driver with Arriva for seven more. Without the Danish lessons, I would not have qua­ years. She wanted to become a skilled driver and began lified as a skilled driver.” by taking Danish lessons at UCplus. Olga Pavlova, bus driver, Arriva Danmark Teacher giving lesson at Selandia Business College Results achieved in 2018 Lifelong learning >> The educational funds paid corporate supplementary training grants of DKK 57 million. >> 2,000 companies received grants for 19,000 employees completing 44,000 training programmes. PensionDanmark manages 18 educaThe site also provides employees and employers with new >> Four major educational funds decided to also support continuing adult training programmes to stimulate further tional funds provided for by collective opportunities for collaborating in drawing up development training of skilled employees. plans and sharing information on completed training and agreements which provide financial supsupplementary training programmes. This makes it easy port for various types of supplementary for the company to plan supplementary training based on training programmes. the support provided by the educational fund. Property service technicians undergoing training at Next Copenhagen By providing quick and easy access for companies to Securing members through supplemenreimbursement from the funds when their employees tary training participate in supplementary training programmes, we Studies show that lifelong learning leads to less sickness help ensure that members and companies are aware of the absence, enhanced job security and job mobility and higher options available to them for continually upgrading their incomes. The purpose of our lifelong learning efforts is to: general and specialist skills. >> stimulate adult and supplementary training among our By upgrading their skills, members strengthen their ties members to the labour market and give companies access to skilled >> ensure that training programmes are aligned with the staff. This is an important task as there is already now a skills of each individual as well as with the company’s shortage of skilled labour in several industries. Forecasts needs. show that Denmark will be short of some 30,000 skilled workers by 2020, whereas the number of unskilled workers will exceed demand by 80,000 in the absence of a substanTarget 4.4 tial skills upgrade. By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant New training site — new opportunities skills, including technical and vocational At the beginning of 2019, we launched a new training skills, for employment, decent jobs and site providing members with a 360-degree overview of entrepreneurship. their supplementary training options, completed training programmes and work experience and with guidance in PensionDanmark manages 18 educational funds which identifying relevant training courses within the framework subsidised 44,000 training programmes in 2018. of their respective educational funds. 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 19 Proactive services Situation-aligned communications PensionDanmark provides members with relevant information aligned with their current life situation. New job Industrial injury Divorce Change in Critical Close to legislation illness retirement Preferred communication channels Glaziers at Glarmester Svensson checking personalised messages received through the PensionDanmark app Information is provided through our members’ preferred communication channels. Better member services through digital solutions E-mail e-Boks Text message Phone Advisory bus App or website We are fundamentally committed to providing good service and advice to our service to our members, we work continuously to optimise existing processes and enhance automation in order to re@ e duce the case processing time. We do this by, for instance, members while at the same time keepimplementing new tools such as Machine Learning and AI ing costs at a minimum. Digitalisation is (artificial intelligence), which we use to scan and analyse a key part of the solution. e-mails received from members. This enables us to better understand our members’ needs and thus to provide them Digitalisation enables us to provide our members with prowith better and more cost-efficient services. active, personalised digital services while enhancing case processing efficiency and reducing costs. Robots and automation Monitoring and follow-up Using software robots is an important part of PensionDanA specific example of proactive member service could be mark’s member service strategy, and we began using softWe monitor member responses to our messages. sending a message to selected members that they have ware robots for case processing purposes in 2017. Some of Depending on how important the information is, we may send follow-up messages or call the member. the option of increasing the sum becoming payable on the benefits of using robots are that members applying for death when we become aware of changes in their family or critical illness benefits on pension.dk typically receive their housing situation. All messages are data-driven and autoinsurance benefits the next day, compared with the previmatically generated and are sent out to relevant members ous processing time of 16 days. The case processing time through their preferred channel(s). for payout of other insurance benefits has also dropped significantly. Digitalisation also means that if a member gets stuck using the self-service solution on pension.dk, the member is The same automatics unfold if a member gets stuck using contacted by a member of our member services team, who the self-service solution on pension.dk to, for example, will then help solve the problem . transfer pension savings from a previous job to PensionDanmark. In such cases, the system ensures that the Through targeted, automatically generated content distri­ member is contacted by our member services team, who buted through various digital channels, we make sure our will then help the member transfer the money. members make the most of their pension savings. SatisResults achieved in 2018 faction surveys show that member satisfaction increases in Through the integration of public registers, Pension­ step with the number of interactions with PensionDanmark Danmark generally makes sure our members and their >> 250,000 members have actively signed up to receive individual digital messages from PensionDanmark. – such as advisory messages and log-ins to pension.dk. families always receive what they are entitled to in the >> We sent 1.1 million individual messages to members. event of an accident. Continuous optimisation >> The number of visits to pension.dk passed 900,000 – an increase of 75% compared with 2017. As part of our efforts to always deliver the best possible >> The administration fee was kept at DKK 297 per member. 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 21 Investments create growth and jobs Our national footprint PensionDanmark invests in a broad range of assets in order to diversify risk and secure robust returns for our members. Our investments provide funding for a wide range of projects and activities that stimulate growth and job creation in Denmark and the rest of the world. When buying mortgage bonds issued by Danish mortgage credit institutions, we effectively provide loans to Danish home owners and housing associations. By investing in shares and direct loans, we help procure capital for small and large businesses to enable them to develop and create growth and jobs. Co-owner of wind farms, biomass power plants By investing in real estate, we help create jobs for construction workers during the construction period and provide healthy and solar parks world­ workplaces for the many employees who work in PensionDanmark’s office buildings, hotels and department stores. By wide, which produce investing in wind farms and biomass power plants, we help produce green energy and create jobs in Danish businesses green energy and creates and their many sub-contractors. green jobs in Denmark. We have invested DKK Target 8.5 Holding mortgage bonds 5.9 billion in 47 small and By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for worth DKK 40 billion, we large listed Danish com­ young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value. have effectively financed panies employing a total of 30,000 Danish homes. 900,000 people. PensionDanmark makes sure apprentices are taken on for all our construction projects. In 2018, 80 apprentices worked at PensionDanmark’s construction sites. Infrastructure DKK 24bn Listed shares DKK 69bn Government and mortgage bonds DKK 49bn Private Equity Real estate DKK 10bn DKK 22bn Credit DKK 41bn We have provided 170 800,000 sqm of real estate small unlisted Danish with 45,000 attractive and businesses with longhealthy workplaces in 33 term risk capital of DKK cities across Denmark. 700 million. We have provided Danish businesses with long-term growth capital of DKK 2.1 billion. 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 23 Worldmap by Layerace Green transition entails Wind farm new opportunities Biomass power plant Since 2008, PensionDanmark has invested more than DKK 16 billion in wind, Transmission grid ­biomass and solar cells. PensionDanmark’s overriding priority is to ensure robust and stable long-term pension savings for our members, and our renewable energy investments are instrumental in enabling us to do so. They also Solar park contribute to tackling the climate challenge. PensionDanmark reached a number of climate milestones in 2018 with our colla­ boration partner Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners (CIP) being engaged to build the first offshore wind farms off the US and Taiwanese coasts. Entering new markets and participating in the project construction phase enables us to enhance returns for our members, and when the turbines have been connected to the grids of the respective countries – the first ones scheduled for 2021 – they will offer a capacity of 800 MW and 900 MW in the US and Taiwan, respectively. Target 13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. PensionDanmark is part of The Investor Agenda, which helps the global investor community accelerate and scale up the actions that are critical to achieving the global goals of the Paris Agreement. The Investor Agenda includes Climate Action 100+, an investor initiative to engage the world’s 100 largest greenhouse gas emitters on contributing to the green transition. The Investor Agenda was launched in response to former UN climate chief Christiana Figueres’ challenge to global investors to invest 1% of their assets in renewable energy. PensionDanmark has invested far more than that in renewable energy for several years and in 2018 had renewable energy investments of DKK 16 billion in green investment funds such as Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners alone. 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 25 Investing in the UN Sustainable Development “To achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals, we need to involve the private sector and turn the tranGoals sition to a green and more sustainable economy into an attractive business case. That is the purpose of the Danish SDG Investment Fund, which will raise up to DKK In 2018, PensionDanmark together with the Danish government and a number of other investors, established the 30 billion for developing country investments in support Danish SDG Investment Fund to invest in sustainable projects with a view to helping achieve the UN Sustainable Develof the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Every krone is opment Goals. PensionDanmark will contribute DKK 400 million, and with contributions from other investors and the an investment in a better future for planet Earth. I’m very government, the fund will have up to DKK 30 billion available for investment. pleased that Danish pension companies are taking the lead on this. The Danish SDG Investment Fund will invest in companies and projects in Africa, Asia, Latin America and parts of Europe. It will do so in collaboration with the Danish business community, which commands strong competencies, knowLars Løkke Rasmussen, Prime Minister how and technologies within a number of the strategic sectors working towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The fund will operate on market terms to generate competitive returns for PensionDanmark’s members. The Danish Target 17.7 SDG Investment Fund is shaped around the same structure as the Danish Climate Investment Fund and the Danish Encourage and promote effective Agribusiness Fund, which were also co-established by PensionDanmark. These funds are managed by the Investment public, public-private and civil society Fund for Developing Countries (IFU). partnerships, building on the expeTorben and Danish Prime Minister Lars Løkke rience and resourcing strategies of Rasmussen at the launch of Danish SDG Investment partnerships. Fund. Solar parks in Chile Through the Danish Climate Investment Fund, PensionDanmark is a co-owner of solar parks Parque Solar Sol del Norte and Parque Solar Luna del Norte, both located 500 km north of Santiago de Chile, the capital of Chile. These parks have a capacity of 3.4 MW each and have been in operation since 2015. 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 27 Buildings bound for gold certification Skibet, Søndre Havn, Køge Kyst Frederiks Plads Company House, Aarhus C Floor space: Floor space: The Pollux property at Islands Brygge, Copenhagen Approx. 7,169 sqm and 2,400 sqm of parking facilities Approx. 5,300 sqm and 420 underground parking spaces Number of rental units: Tenants: 80 apartments, of which 28 50+ life style homes Horten Advokater, SAS Institute and Alektum Group Higher returns from sustainable real estate Architects: Vandkunsten Architects: C.F. Møller A/S investments Target 11.1 By 2030, ensure access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and Certified sustainable real estate is a basic services and upgrade slums. sound and responsible investment. Sustainable elements The Pollux property at Islands Brygge, constructed usPensionDanmark aims to build for residents of all inPensionDanmark is invested in 269,000 sqm of sustainable ing recycled tiles from Funen, has obtained DGNB gold come brackets – including students and senior citizens real estate, most of which has been awarded the DGNB certification. Using recycled instead of ordinary tiles with modest incomes. PensionDanmark’s first youth gold certificate, and investments of an additional 144,000 saved 100,000 tonnes of CO2. The building materials housing units will be ready for occupation by summer sqm are underway. For collaboration purposes, properties were chosen with great consideration for the indoor 2019. The project also includes terraced houses and are sometimes also certified according to the US LEED climate and the environmental impact. As much wood family-sized apartments. By 2020, the first multioccusystem or the UK BREEAM system. as possible is FSC/PEFC-certified to ensure that no pied senior homes, so-called 50+ life style homes, will more wood than the forests can produce is harvestKunstnerkarréen, Ørestad be ready for occupation by their tenants. The project at Work is also ongoing to certify and energy upgrade Pened. Rainwater from the roof and the courtyard is led Floor space: Køge Kyst also includes ordinary family housing units. sionDanmark’s portfolio of existing, older properties. We into the harbour basin without affecting the municiApprox. 9,189 sqm and 2,571 sqm of parking facilities The diverse mix of occupants will benefit all users of the are part of the Energispring energy optimisation partnerpal sewage system. LED lighting has been installed Number of rental units: properties. ship working to make the City of Copenhagen the world’s everywhere, inside and outside. The lifespan of LED 28 terraced houses and 67 apartments first CO2-neutral capital by 2025. lighting is up to 20 times that of conventional lighting, Architects: Årstiderne Arkitekter and the cost is up to 50% less. Water-saving installaA total of 25 properties in PensionDanmark’s DKK 20 tions and domestic appliances have been installed in billion real estate portfolio have obtained sustainability all units. Solar cells have been mounted on the roof, Sustainable domicile helps drive certificates or will do so shortly. and regeneration modules in all elevators lead excess results braking energy back into the system to reduce power “It's just over three years since we moved to our certiPensionDanmark has developed a Housing Platform conconsumption. fied sustainable domicile, and we’re absolutely thrilled taining value and sustainability programmes for the homes to be here. There are several reasons for that. One is the great design. This is not so much down to the certification, rather to the high-quality materials that have of tomorrow that contribute to making sustainable real Social sustainability been used and to the indoor climate, which is so much estate an attractive investment for our members. Today, PensionDanmark requires of its contractors that an better than in the four old buildings we used to reside sustainable building materials with a low carbon footprint appropriate number of apprentices and trainees are in. Also, the focus areas identified by the workplace are no more expensive than other materials and are often taken on for each construction project, that everyone assessment we’ve performed of the physical workmore durable, while at the same time the certification working on our projects must be covered by a Danish ing environment are much more manageable than in requirement makes the construction process more strincollective agreement, that there is a strong focus on the old buildings. That is a great benefit. And we’ve gent. Moreover, sustainable housing, hotels and offices are occupational health and safety, and that collaboration Dorthe Ulsø, HSEQ Director at Semco Maritime, which reached the goal we set out to achieve: a low sickness attractive for owners and tenants, which leads to higher is established with local trade unions. is domiciled in PensionDanmark’s property in Esbjerg absence rate.” returns and easier re-letting. 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 29 Sustainability programme for new real estate PensionDanmark’s sustainability programme sets out to New properties built by PensionDanmark must not only Reusing rainwater in the property reduce the environmental and climate impact of the pro­ meet the requirements of the sustainability programme, perties we build and to enhance the health and well-being they must also be certified according to the DGNB proof their users. gramme. The Building Regulations set out certain environmental requirements, and rated by sustainability paramRegulating the financial, technical, environmental and soeters, a building complying with the Building Regulations cial standards of a property, the sustainability requirements will obtain DGNB silver certification. focus on: Certified buildings score between 50 and 100 points. By Locally sourced way of example, we have delivered Gladsaxe Company building materials >> the lifetime economy of the building House, a platin-certified project occupied in 2015 that Clearing rainwater >> keeping operational and maintenance costs low from the roof into the scores 80 points and meets the 2020 energy requirements >> ensuring that end-users will be happy with the harbour basin of the Building Regulations. Green roofs Solar cells completed building and that the building process is sustainable. Healthy indoor climate Water-saving Balconies designed to installations and serve as private spaces domestic appliances LED lighting inside and out Recycled bricks Minimising backFSCor PEFCRainwater ground noise certified wood collection for local use Planting featuring local flowers and biodiversity Attractive outdoor spaces Separation offering sun and shelter of waste Healthy indoor climate “We are thrilled to live in Pollux and not only because Cloudburst-proof underground car park prepared for electric vehicle charging points Regeneration of its fantastic location. The building is constructed susmodules tainable in every detail. It provides us with quality of life in elevators through a healthy indoor climate and an incredibly low heating bill. Furthermore our consciousness is is of course much better knowing that our CO2-footprint is reduced to a minimum. In fact, we are a bit proud when we tell our friends and family about it.” Healthy working environment and waste management at the Hans Frederik Jørgensen, resident at the Pollux building construction site on Islands Brygge, Copenhagen. Pollux has obtained DGNB Gold certification. Clearing rainwater without affecting the municipal sewage system 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 31 PensionDanmark’s portfolio managers have access to ESG data, which they take into consideration when making inNextera Energy — best in class vestment decisions. Such data concern human and labour We are invested in US utility company Nextera Energy, rights, climate and environment and corporate governance. which has outperformed the industry by 5x in terms of returns over the past ten years and is in a speedy proWhen PensionDanmark pledges support for new investcess of abandoning the use of fossil fuel and investing ment funds and projects, ESG is part of the due diligence in renewable energy. 24.5% of the company's total enprocess completed prior to any investment. As part of this ergy generation is renewable, and management plans process, we investigate whether there are any ESG matters to increase production by up to 70%, corresponding to which we should be aware of, and whether the manager/ 12 GW, going forward to 2020. For the past five years, project partner has ESG policies in place as part of its MSCI ESG Research has assigned a best-in-class ongoing portfolio management. AAA rating to Nextera Energy, based primarily on its reduced water consumption, reduced waste water disOur equity portfolio is screened on a regular basis to encharge, reduced CO2 emissions and renewable energy sure that our investments are in accordance with responpotential. sible business conduct and to identify any companies with which PensionDanmark should engage in order to steer them in a positive direction. The results of PensionDanmark’s active ownership are detailed overleaf. Dilemma: Meeting at the Investment Department Responsible investment is good business Is investing in nuclear weapons responsible? At PensionDanmark, we believe that investments in A nuclear war would have devastating consequences responsible businesses yield higher long-term returns befor mankind, which leads some people to believe that Responsibility founded on international cause such businesses are in control of all aspects of their investing in nuclear weapon manufacturers is irreactivities and are abreast of ongoing and future responsisponsible. Denmark is part of NATO, whose main conbility developments. guidelines Pursuing transparency tributors include the US, the UK and France. All three countries are nuclear powers, and Denmark’s defence therefore ultimately relies on the deterrence offered PensionDanmark aims for a transparent responsible by nuclear weapons. So any investments Pension­ PensionDanmark manages assets worth >> International guidelines for responsible business coninvestment approach, and our website provides examples Danmark may have in companies involved in nuclear DKK 236 billion on behalf of our 732,000 duct must be put into practice and be embedded in the of PensionDanmark’s active ownership investments. It weapons are consistent with Denmark’s foreign and company. also lists the companies with which PensionDanmark, in members. It is our responsibility to indefence policies. A number of companies manufacturcollaboration with our external partner, has engaged in vest these assets responsibly and ensure >> Due diligence processes must be in place to identify, dialogue, and provides a list of cases concerning specific ing or otherwise involved in nuclear weapons, includprevent and mitigate current and potential impacts on ing aircraft manufacturers Boeing and Airbus, also that our members receive solid returns society. corporate dialogues. Moreover, it provides a complete list make products which we all use on a regular basis. on their pension savings. of our equity investments as well as our exclusion list, and >> Investors must prevent and mitigate negative effects – PensionDanmark is happy to answer any additional queseven if they did not cause or contribute to the negative tions concerning our responsible investments. Our responsible investment efforts are based on internaeffects. tional guidelines such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the Danish government’s Guide to >> Investors must communicate and report on specific reResponsible Investment. sponsible investment efforts, challenges and priorities. In 2018, PensionDanmark invested in COBIS, a biotech and life science park The OECD’s guidelines are the only multilaterally recogPensionDanmark has implemented and integrated a range nised, comprehensive set of standards for responsible of measures in our investment policy and processes to business conduct which OECD member state governments ensure that we comply with the OECD guidelines. have committed to implementing. The guidelines apply to companies, and we expect the companies and projects we are invested in to comply with the OECD and other relevant guidelines. The OECD guidelines apply to investors as well OECD guidelines and UN and therefore also to PensionDanmark. Our responsibili­ Sustainable Development Goals ties are emphasised by the Danish government’s guide“By complying with the OECD guidelines and imlines, which are based on Responsible Business Conduct plementing responsible due diligence processes, for Institutional Investors, which specifies what is expected businesses contribute to society and to sustainable of investors under the OECD guidelines. development in accordance with the UN’s 17 Responsible Development Goals and the Paris Agreement” In brief, the Danish Business Authority’s guidelines set out The Danish Business Authority's Guide to Responsible four requirements for investors: Investment 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 33 PensionDanmark’s voting at general meetings in 2018 In favour of the board’s recommendation Against the board’s recommendation Shareholder proposals 210 273 Articles of association 865 65 Capital structure 1.402 282 Remuneration 1.603 640 Audit & financial statements 3.297 90 Board composition 8.201 1.277 Other 424 69 0% 50% 100% If dialogue does not produce the intended progress, we will We voted at 73 general meetings of Danish companies and Niels and Stephen, listed share specialists with PensionDanmark’s Investment Department divest. voted in accordance with all of the recommendations of the board of directors. Participation at general meetings is an integral part of Active ownership pays off active ownership. We vote based on our own voting policy, which stipulates that the companies must be run in the best interests of all shareholders. Target 8.8 In 2018, PensionDanmark was engaged Milestones in 2018 Protect labour rights and promote safe We emphasise the importance of the company’s board of and secure working environments for all in dialogue with 436 companies, includdirectors being independent of its management and of the workers, including migrant workers, in ing 162 dialogues on corporate governProgress No progress or new milestones company pursuing a remuneration policy that aligns the particular women migrants, and those in ance, 90 on labour and human rights, 76 Environment and climate interests of management and shareholders. precarious employment. on corporate strategy and risk and 108 In 2018, PensionDanmark voted at 1,655 general meetings In 2018, PensionDanmark was engaged in dialogue with on environmental and climate issues. Labour and human rights etc. of foreign companies, and in 85,6% of the votings, we voted 33 companies on labour rights. Corporate governance in favour of the recommendations of the board of directors. In order to be able to measure our work, we set specific milestones for the dialogue conducted with companies. In 2018, the companies in which we are invested reported Strategy, risk and communication progress on 197 milestones. The subjects to be addressed 0 50 100 150 200 Milestones Offshore turbines and transformer at the Anholt offshore wind farm, in which PensionDanmark is an investor are often complex, and the process of bringing a company to take action and thus reaching a milestone is therefore time-consuming. Milepæle for selskabsdialog investment guidelines, we assess the issue together with Hermes EOS and consider whether Hermes EOS should Our active ownership efforts are generally handled by engage in dialogue with the company in question. We will Hermes EOS, our London-based collaboration partner. always seek to prevail upon a company to rectify unacceptable conditions rather than divest our shares in the If made aware of a possible breach of our responsible company. We consider this the most responsible approach. Corporate dialogue milestones Dialogue with The company Action plan Action plan is the company is acknowledges addressing issue carried out and initiated issue is developed dialogue ended 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 35 Strengthening social relations “On the executive committee of the staff association, we organise after-work events which help strengthen social interaction among colleagues. It’s fun, and we’re allowed great leeway in picking events. We organise a well-attended monthly Friday bar and a broad array of other events in the course of the year. This may include wine tasting events, plus-one Friday bars, chocolate courses, sailing in Copenhagen Harbour or a tour of the Copenhagen City Hall. We also sponsor Mads from Alternative Investments often takes the e-bike to sports events such as the DHL Relay running event, meetings the Christiansborg Swim event and various cycling events. informal structure with a short chain of command. Our Line, Actuary, chairman of the staff association employees contribute actively to developing new business solutions and are instrumental in running a thriving staff association. Line and her staff association colleagues planning an event We regularly measure employee satisfaction on a number of parameters, and our surveys have shown a high employUlrikke and Marianne were both appointed Senior Vice Presidents in 2018 ee satisfaction rate over a number of years. Room for development and ambition Target 4.3 By 2030, ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and quality To achieve its goals, PensionDanmark technical, vocational and tertiary education, including university. needs to have the best qualified employPrioritising and appreciating learning ees and to release untapped potential “Sensing the strong in-house commitment to deve­ At PensionDanmark, we consider competence develop­ loping PensionDanmark for the benefit of members among men and women alike. ment a natural part of our staff policy. All employees and companies is highly motivating. We are a very must have and maintain the skills required to handle innovative organisation keeping many balls in the air current and future tasks and challenges. Accordingly, PensionDanmark is strongly committed to taking the lead – and our people make sure the balls don't fall to the when it comes not only to enhancing diversity and ensuring our employee contracts stipulate that employees have a ground. We are also a workplace where learning and right and an obligation to attend supplementary training healthy working conditions but also to promoting sustainapersonal development are prioritised and appreciated. bility and protecting the climate. If we want a say in setting as agreed with their immediate superiors. I completed my Executive MBA at CBS in 2018. This the broad responsibility agenda, we need to have our own was rewarding for me personally, but is of course of affairs in order. even greater value to PensionDanmark and my day-today work for the company. PensionDanmark’s domicile at Langelinie Allé was awarded the DGNB gold sustainability certificate in 2016 A good working environment drives Susanne, Vice President, Finance & Accounting performance Since Green Building Council Denmark developed a susSusanne talking to Risk Manager Cengiz tainability certification programme for existing buildings in 2016, PensionDanmark’s domicile has been energy-­ optimised with measures including using sea water in the building’s cooling system and mounting solar cells on its roof. This has won us a DGNB gold sustainability certi­ficate. Moreover, an almost 20-metre-tall plant wall has been installed in the central stairwell to improve the physical indoor climate. Our employees have access to, among other things, supplementary training programmes, a massage scheme, a fitness centre, company bicycles, health checks, vaccination programmes, an organic kitchen focusing on a healthy and varied diet, and an attractive social working environment with a high in-house information level and a flat and 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 37 When making investments, we thoroughly investigate the Over the past few years, initiatives have been taken at tax conditions in the relevant locations and make sure that the OECD and the EU level to enhance the transparency international tax structures are in accordance with the of global tax payments and contain tax evasion through, laws of the countries in which we operate. Tax is paid in the among other measures, the use of third countries in tax countries in which the underlying investments are placed structures. PensionDanmark’s tax reporting and investin the form of local income tax, indirect taxes, payroll taxes, ments comply with the principles of these initiatives. etc. For more information, see pensiondanmark.com. Target 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decisionmaking in political, economic and public life PensionDanmark is committed to promoting equal opportunities for men and women and has adopted a policy on the gender composition of the company's upper management tiers, which lays down a target for the proportion of the under-represented gender on the Board of Directors. The target for 2018 was 20%. Three of the 16 incumbent members of PensionDanmark’s Board of Directors are women. At the end of 2018, the share of women in top management was 29%, while the proportion of women in mid-level management positions was 44%. A total of 117, or 46%, of PensionDanmark’s 252 employees are women. When recruiting new managers, Project Manager Elin talking to Christian, General Counsel with Alternative Investments PensionDanmark makes a point of interviewing qualified candidates of both genders, and our staff policy and terms of employment offer equal career opportunities in PensionDanmark’s policies Sermin, student assistant in the Real Estate Department the company regardless of gender. PensionDanmark has policies in place >> work persistently and systematically to comply with nain all business areas to ensure that we tional environmental legislation and limit their impact Using all the building’s facilities for meetings is encouraged on the environment ourselves meet the expectations we have of the companies we are invested in. >> discourage and work actively against tax evasion, bri­ bery and other kinds of corruption. Supplier policy PensionDanmark works with a number of suppliers, and If we find that a supplier fails to live up to our policy and our supplier policy stipulates that our suppliers must: guidelines, we will initiate a dialogue with that supplier. If this dialogue does not lead to any improvements, we will >> respect the rights of employees to unionise and to terminate our collaboration with the supplier. No breaches collective bargaining of PensionDanmark’s supplier policy were registered in 2018. >> promote health and safety at work and prevent work-related accidents, attrition, etc. Tax policy >> discourage discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, All of PensionDanmark’s investment returns, whether genreligion, age, disability, gender, sexual orientation, trade erated in or outside Denmark, are subject to tax on pension union membership or political conviction investment returns in Denmark (15.3%). The investment return on all PensionDanmark’s investments is reported >> pay their employees wages and salaries that are conannually to the Danish tax authorities. Through the past sistent with relevant collective agreements and ensure five years, PensionDanmark has paid a total of DKK 9.5 fair living standards relative to national standards billion in tax on pension investment returns. >> dissociate themselves from forced, compulsory and child labour PensionDanmark is under an obligation to maximise returns for our members within the legislative framework. 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 39 Key figures and financial ratios 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Contributions before tax, DKKbn 14.2 13.6 12.8 12.1 12.5 Benefits paid, DKKbn 8.3 7.8 6.9 5.9 8.1 Return on investments before tax, DKKbn -3.2 16.6 13.0 7.1 16.1 Total assets, DKKbn 235.9 233.2 221.5 199.8 171.0 Equity, DKKbn 4.3 4.2 3.7 3.8 3.6 Members 732,000 713,000 695,000 684,000 662,000 Mohamad of Malerfirmaet Petersen & Andersen is a member with PensionDanmark Udbetalinger Balance Benefits Total assets DKKbn DKKbn Appendix 10 250 200 Industry distribution Contributions before tax Indbetalinger 150 5 100 Agriculture, forestry Organisations and other industries DKKbn and dairy 50 15 0 0 Public 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 sector 10 Construction 5 Accumulated Akkumuleretreturn,afkast,50-year-old Administration fee 50-årig Medlemsadministrationsbidrag Private model member services 0 % DKK per member per year 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 40 400 30 300 Commerce and transport 20 200 Member distribution Age pool scaling down profile 10 100 % 0 0 Retired 100 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Investment Grade Fixed Income Nominelle obligationer Se Non80 nio rS Udlån med højReinforcement sikkerhed work at PensionDanmark’s building site at Køge Kyst contributing ec ur ed Di re Aktier 60 c Public and Private Equity tL oa ns Kredit 40 Corporate debt, EMD, mezzanine Stabile alternativer and distressed debt 20 Real assets with stable cash flows (Real estate, renewables, infrastructure) Contributing 0 Apprentices 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 Age 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 41 PensionDanmark A/S Langelinie Allé 43 DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø +45 3374 8000 info@pension.dk pensiondanmark.com Social icon Square Only use blue and/or white. For more details check out our Brand Guidelines.
