Annual Report 2018 State Trading Organization plc. 3 is report comprises the annual report of State Trading Organization plc prepared in accordance with the Companies Act of the Republic of Maldives (10/96), listing rules of Maldives Stock Exchange, the securities act of the Republic of Maldives (2/2006), securities continuing disclosure obligations of issuers regulation 2010 of Capital Market Development Authority and corporate governance code of Capital Market Development Authority requirements. Unless otherwise stated in this annual report, the terms ‘STO’, the ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to State Trading Organization plc and its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures collectively. e term ‘company’ refers to STO and/or its subsidiaries. STO prepares its ﬁnancial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). References to a year in this report are, unless otherwise indicated, references to the Company’s ﬁnancial year ending 31st December 2018. In this report, ﬁnancial and statistical information is, unless otherwise indicated, stated on the basis of the Company’s ﬁnancial year. Information has been updated to the most practical date. is annual report contains forward looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events. ese forward looking statements can be identiﬁed by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. Forward looking statements oen use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, ‘will’, ‘may’, ‘should’, ‘would’, ‘could’ or other words of similar meaning. Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be aﬀected by other factors that could cause actual results, and STO plans and objectives, to diﬀer materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. ere are several factors which could cause actual results to diﬀer materially from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements. Among the factors are changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions. STO cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Contents 06 Vision 07 Mission 08 STO Group In 2018 10 Message from CEO & MD 12 Our Business 23 Financial Review 28 Share Performance 32 Corporate Governance Report 48 Audit & Risk Committee Report 50 Risk Report 53 Corporate Governance & Compliance Committee Report 54 Nomination & Remuneration Committee Report 55 Remuneration Report 66 Human Resource Report 70 Sustainability Report 77 Independent Auditors Report & Financial Statements 161 Executive Team Proﬁle 167 General Information 170 Group of Companies 172 Five Year Group Financial Review Visionn & Value Vis Visio Valu Value Vision Enriching lives through expansion and accessibility . Values Caring Accessible Respectful Innovative Progressive Mission M ission ssion on 7 Mission Lead Lead through expansion of existing businesses, diversiﬁcation, exploring new possibilities and entering into new venture. Explore beyond borders Explore beyond our borders, expand our markets and establish ourselves as an international player, respected by the international business community. Build a skilled workforce Build a skilled workforce by Presence nationwide investing in human development; Ensure accessibility with our build our competencies, presence nationwide; oﬀer peace to achieve sustainable and of mind and assurance to the public of unhindered growth and fulﬁl our uninterrupted provision and aﬀordability of vision. essential goods and services and those that contribute to a fulﬁlling modern lifestyle. STO in 2018 STO Group In 2018 1,509 Gross profit 10,873 Re Rev Revenueenue evenue ue (In millions) MVR (In (I m llllio ons ns)) MVR llions) n millions) MV M Share ha Sha reevenu evenue haree off revenue reve eve e by by segments seg segm eggmeents nts Fuel & Lubricants (58.7%) Trading (24.5%) Fisheries (12.3%) Insurance ( 2.3%) Gas (2.0%) 2018 Other services 0.2% 9 Operating cash outflow 247 Operating profit (218) (In millions) MVR (In millions) MVR 58 Dividend proposed (Per share) MVR 80 Profit before tax Before impairment of investment in Hulhumale hotel In millions MVR Message from CEO & MD Message from CEO & MD Following my appointment as Managing Director / CEO of STO, my ﬁrst priority was given to minimize the losses incurred from some business segments of STO, including Staple Foods operation and Regional outlets, and come up with a concrete plan to minimize such losses by achieving operational eﬃciency and implementing eﬀective sourcing methods. I would like to highlight that strengthening policies and business strategies of Fuel Supply Maldives (FSM), which is the distribution channel used for STO’s core business segment-Fuel, was prioritized as the latter’s business sustainability and proﬁtability relies on operational eﬃciency of FSM. It is also important to note that STO has been operating pharmacy business throughout Maldives, irrespective of population size and its business viability, and that some pharmacies are currently operating at a loss. We are hoping to rectify this and focusing on developing strategies and business models to attain proﬁtability from this business segment. Continuous losses incurred from MIFCO, one of the subsidiary companies of STO, has been one of the biggest setbacks for STO. MIFCO was a debtladen state company when it was converted into a subsidiary of STO in 2016 and minimizing losses incurred from MIFCO draws much focus and eﬀort of the company. Strategies are revamped to ensure availability of technologically advanced facilities at MIFCO in order to achieve economies of scale. As MIFCO’s Perspective of 2018 & challenges eﬃcient operation is closely linked to the thriving of ﬁshermen and ﬁshing industry, I would like to note ensuring is year marks 54 years of successful operation of the company. From successful operation of MIFCO, especially to ensure its a colourful and accomplished history, STO continues to look forward role in fulﬁlling the governments pledge of guaranteeing to more milestones and achievements, overcoming obstacles as it prompt payment for ﬁshermen for their catch, will remain had continued to do over the past decades in existence. While STO one of my key priorities. performed ﬁnancially better in 2018 than 2017, losses incurred from some of the subsidiary companies and provision done for Hulhumale'' I also would like to highlight that increase in ﬁnance cost hotel led for reﬂecting a net loss in ﬁnancial statement of group of has been inevitable due to high accounts receivables companies of STO. e group recorded a 19.5% jump in revenue to from government and State Owned Enterprises as both MVR 10.9 billion and 5% jump in gross proﬁt to MVR 1.5 billion. Net stakeholders owed more than MVR 2.3 billion by the end proﬁt was adversely aﬀected due to loss of MVR 199 million from of 2018. In spite of high receivables from debtors, STO MIFCO and MVR 210 million from Hulhumale' hotel impairment as continues to supply fuel and other basic items through group decided to value the cost of property to fair value to reﬂect an other means of ﬁnance, ultimately resulting in high ﬁnance appropriate market value. cost. 11 Vision & key business areas Other than enhancing current business segments of STO, we have assu a u I assure ure e all re stakehol eho a stakeholders old ollder der ab abo ers about ou outt implementing mplemen em imp men nti en be stt practices est ting best ac prac pr ambitious plans to empower small and medium enterprises. w ilile wh while e iin ting estin ves investing g innC CS CSR Ra ac ivit ctiivitie vit esss. E activities. Exppen end dit iture Expenditure eo nC on w uld be wou wo R would CSR While entering into new ventures in future, consideration will be basse b based sedd on n tthee nee ed eeds needs ds off th he the e commumm mmunit communities ities es annd working and ow to ng towards o ing working made to ensure STO does not enter into competitive business ma m makinakin making king g a me anin nin meaningful gfull diﬀ d ﬀerence gf ngfu ereence to eren he to theem. tthem.m. environment where there are suﬃcient private sector players. We believe that our future business aspirations should consider Acknowledgements AAc nowl n wlleddge ckknnowled geemen emmenntts the ways to empower private sector traders and overall beneﬁt S STO ST O was w wa a ass established esta e est b shed he ed to rve o serve servve th e thehe Maldivian M Ma vian aldivia div ian an n people; pe peo to ensure of general public. heir nec their cessit ecessit ities necessities it ess are re met and ndd to see seee tthat consumers are ee One of the major investments STO is keen in investing in the ovi ed provided wit relia re rel abl reliabl wi h reliable d with bl serv e and ble service qu q qual ua ity products. Noting the a d quality ualit qualit near future is shipping business. is would greatly beneﬁt STO trust and ttrust d fai fait faith o nd urr cu our usto ttomerss p customers pla ace in STO in fulﬁlling numerous place by reducing freight of imported products and passing the cost ne nee eds, needs, s from fro om fo od od prod ood food p ducts tto od products o household appliances, from saving to end consumer or general public. I strongly believe that c onssttrruction con construction mate ctio materials ri aterials ria to op pharmaceuticals, among many others, a government-owned enterprise should initiate this and STO wou uld I would ke to d like o hi highlight the signiﬁcant role STO plays in the lives would be the ideal solution provider for this. STO has already of Maldivians and in driving the Maldivian economy. announced plans to ensure staples are available across the For our shareholders, STO always aims to provide a greater country at the same prices as Male’ and I feel STO venturing into return in the forms of reasonable dividends and increasing shipping would be beneﬁcial for this as well. share value. Ensuring food security should remain a priority for a country as STO is undoubtedly big family, and our dedicated, hard working dependent on imports as the Maldives. Besides ensuring food staﬀ who are currently with us, and those who had served in the security, we also plan to make a concerted eﬀort to develop past, are the cornerstones of STO’s success. e commitment agriculture sector by empowering farmers. Strategies would be and professionalism of Team STO is exemplary and I would like developed to strengthen agriculture sector of Maldives, which to take this opportunity to express my profound gratitude for eventually would lead to minimizing imports. the excellent work and loyalty of all our employees, each of Furthermore, in terms of investments, I believe that STO has whom contributes greatly to the success of the company. It is huge scope to invest in emerging technologies. my hope that we continue to strive together for the betterment of the company and serve this country and people to the best of Trend in the global word is investing in renewable energy our capacity. May Allah grant us success, fortitude, perseverance sources and it gives me immense pleasure to declare that we and wisdom in our endeavours. are very ambitious to invest in solar energy in Maldives and STO has a proud history of being at the forefront of introducing technologically advanced solutions in diﬀerent areas. Social responsibility An integral part of STO’s philosophy is its commitment to empower and enhance the quality of lives of the people of Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad Maldives. Sustainability at STO embraces environmental and CEO & Mananging Director social responsibility while creating value for its stakeholders. 13 1 Our Business Our Business Report Our Business “Enriching lives through accessibility and availability” Trading Gas 223 Net Revenue Net Revenue 2,662 MVR in Million MVR in Million Fuel Insurance Net Revenue Net Revenue 6,381 MVR in Million 245 MVR in Million Fisheries Net Revenue 1,342 MVR in Million 15 Trading Creating long term value for our customers Portfolio Construction Medical Services People’s Choice Performance Net Revenue Net Revenue increased by 4% 2018 2,662 MVR in Million 2017 2,567 MVR in Million Compared to 2017 Trading segment experienced an upsurge in revenue, as trading segment revenue increased by 4% compared to 2017. e most prominent contributor for trading revenue is medical services with an increase in revenue by MVR 114 million. Share of Trading revenue Medical Services 36% Peoples Choice 46% Construction Materials 18% Strategic focus Streamline business processes Focus on cost reduction Improve resource efficiency Our Business Report Construction Materials Designs and develops competitive solutions for construction industry Portfolio Cement Aggregate sand Deformed bars Plywood timber Roofing materials Ready-mix concrete Performance Net Revenue Share of Trading Revenue 2018 481 MVR in Million 18% Better strategic planning, increased 2017 446 MVR in Million productivity and eﬃciency enabled the Group to achieve higher revenue from construction materials. Associates Together with the Group’s associates, STO Group ensures that better quality products are supplied to customers. e rooﬁng sheets produced locally by Maldives Structural Products have enabled the Group to provide quality products at very competitive prices. Additionally, Maldives Marine Cement is locally packed by Lafarge Maldives Pvt Ltd in accordance with international standards. Contribution to urban development and construction industry e Group expanded the ready-mix concrete operation by opening a new batching plant at Hulhumale’. e plant is initiated with a higher capacity in order to cater to the growing demands of the construction industry. e ready-mix concrete operation enables to avoid the hustle and road blocks near construction sites. It is designed to have a positive impact on environment by reducing exposure to hazardous dust and fumes generated as there is no requirement to handle cement and raw materials at customer site. e laboratory for slump and cube testing at batching plants increases the quality of concrete, thereby adding value for customers. 17 Medical Services Improve people’s health through better health care Portfolio Pharmaceuticals Hospital consumables Medical equipment Performance Net Revenue Share of Trading Revenue 2018 963 MVR in Million 36% e geographical presence in all inhabited 2017 849 islands and medical equipment sales to heath sector signiﬁcantly increased the MVR in Million net revenue. Contributions to national health sector As a pioneering business leader in medical services, the Group expanded inpatient services to 34 locations through pneumatic tube in Indhira Gandhi Memorial hospital. STO Group has always taken the initiative in being the ﬁrst to respond to nationwide pandemics, providing assistance when it is most required. e Group ensures better outcomes and enhanced services to patients through trainings provided to health care professionals. Hence, a conference on “Rational use of Blood” was organized for the Laboratory Technicians in collaboration with IGMH Laboratory Department. Further, the Group partnered with National Healthcare Academy in organizing conferences, symposiums & workshops such as Immunohematology workshop, Tobacco Cessation and Congenital Heart Disease etc. In order to develop a culture where prevention is considered better than cure and to elevate hope, several awareness programs were organized on special days like world cancer day, diabetic day, and health day etc. Also the Group organized the Asian Breast Cancer Conference in Maldives with Maldives Association of Surgeons. Our Business Report People’s Choice Portfolio Home improvement & electronics Food & beverages Regional sales Performance Share of Trading Net Revenue Revenue 2018 1,218 46% MVR in Million e setbacks and challenges of providing goods and services to geographically 2017 1,272 dispersed islands decreased the revenue from the segment compared to 2017. MVR in Million However, the Group is determined to serve by emphasizing on mitigating costs and eﬃcient utilization of resources. Uninterrupted provision of goods and services STO Group provides assurance that basic necessities will be provided at aﬀordable prices. To ensure fairness, accessibility and availability of staple foods to islanders, the Group will establish uniform prices starting from April 2019. Improving living standards e Group focuses on adding value for customers through consistent delivery of high-quality products to geographically scattered islands through regional sales outlets. In addition, the Group ensures customer well-being and improved lifestyle through home improvement products. Service centres located in Male’ and Addu City are well equipped with trained and skilled technicians to ensure a superior level of technical support and product services. 19 Fuel Portfolio Petrol Diesel Jet fuel Performance Net Revenue Net Revenue increased by 2018 6,381 34% compared to 2017 e investments by the Group is a step MVR in Million forward in holding down market share 2017 4,769 while reaping beneﬁts of operations that are economically more feasible. Once MVR in Million again, the Group is the market leader by expansion and lowered costs of operation. Strategic developments e bold investments by the Group secured supply and ensured price stability for the Country. e Group introduced new fuel tanker, “MT Alimas” with a capacity of 22,500 metric tons to STO Fleet, which eliminated the need to rely on chartered vessels, thereby reducing costs. e Group focused in expansion of storage facilities through construction of four new storage tanks which increased the capacity of the terminal by 210,000 barrels. In order to cater to the growing demand, Funadhoo terminal’s berthing capacity was expanded to discharge vessels up to 30,000 DWT. Additionally, to ensure better accessibility, fuel sheds were opening in GDh. inadhoo and Gn. Fuvahmulah. ese investments carried out by the Group in fuel segment is large, but the strategic importance and beneﬁts to the Country is even larger. With these investments, the Group has reduced the country’s vulnerability to fuel shortages and frequent price ﬂuctuations. Our Business Report Gas Industry leader in gas supply solutions including medical gases Portfolio Cooking gas Medical oxygen Industrial gas Other appliances Performance Net Revenue Revenue increased by 2018 223 MVR in Million 6% compared to 2017 Better strategic planning and sustainable 2017 210 MVR in Million development Group to strategies increase compared to 2017. enabled revenue by the 6% Strategic focus and developments With more than 300 agents located strategically across the nation, the Group ensures all inhabited islands and resorts are continuously supplied with LPG, industrial and medical gases. During the year, the Group established 99% purity level oxygen plant which eliminated the need of relying on imports. is also facilitated the Group to provide clean oxygen at reduced costs. STO Group ensured fast and reliable service to customers by establishing digital ordering and payment services. Also, aﬀordability of products and services were exercised by providing price reductions from 10 kg cylinders exclusively for Ramadan. 21 Insurance We've got you covered! Portfolio Cargo Accident Health Family Fire Hull Life Ayady Performance Net Revenue Revenue increased by 2018 245 MVR in Million 3% compared to 2017 By leveraging the expertise and innovative 2017 237 MVR in Million technology to customized provide solutions, dynamic the and Group expedited a higher net revenue from insurance. Strategic developments e initiative to modernize technology empowered STO Group to establish Maldives 1st artiﬁcial intelligence insurance service, Agent 1600. is enabled the customers to make queries and generate immediate response without having to wait for a customer service staﬀ to respond. Travelling experience was enhanced for customers by introducing travel insurance and establishing travelling insurance website. In addition, exclusive online portal for health insurance customers “My Allied” was established. STO Group is eager to develop the Country’s agriculture sector by empowering farmers. Hence, to promote and increase crop insurance awareness, the Group collaborated with Ministry of Fisheries, Marine Resources and Agriculture to conduct information sessions. Our Business Report Fisheries Leader of Maldives Fisherman Portfolio Frozen tuna Canned fish Pouch tuna Fish meal Chilled fish Performance Net Revenue Revenue increased by 2018 1,342 3% compared to 2017 MVR in Million With the focus on long term sustainability, 2017 1,303 production facilities were expanded. is enabled the Group to increase net MVR in Million revenue from Fisheries segment. Strategic developments To cater to growing demands of the ﬁshing industry, the Group expanded Felivaru Fisheries Complex (FFC) with increased capacity. Additional production capacity from the FFC facilitated to increase the export of canned tuna. In order to strengthen the product portfolio, tuna pouches were introduced to the market. e Group also invested in establishing Addu Fisheries Complex, which will be built with a cold storage of 1500 metric tons to store the ﬁsh bought from ﬁsherman and have the capacity to store ice, diesel and fresh water. e establishment of Addu Fisheries complex is expected to increase exports, expand production capacity and also create signiﬁcant number of jobs for the islanders. e Group envisions to contribute to the ﬁshing industry by building the relationship with ﬁshing communities. Hence, sponsorships were provided to local ﬁshing communities and the Group collaborated with Gemanafushi Fishermen’s association to train youth to pole and line ﬁshing. 23 2 Financial Review Financial Review Financial Review During the year under review the Group strengthened its competitive position in the market in order to improve the ﬁnancial performance of major segments. Despite of an improvement in ﬁnancial performance of the key business segments, the Group faced some unexpected challenges in the macro environment and ﬁnancial reporting compliance requirements. Fuel segment remains the key contributor for the ﬁnancial performance followed by insurance and trading segments. ese segments contributed for a signiﬁcant increase in revenue and margin. However, the ﬁsheries segment posted a gross loss as a result of fall in international prices of frozen tuna. In addition, the overall cost of the Group was escalated due to the increase in operating costs incurred by the ﬁsheries segment and the provisioning impact from the expected credit loss model which was prescribed by the reporting requirement. Revenue e ﬁnancial year 2018 had been a remarkable year in terms of revenue for STO Group. e growth Achieved a net momentum that was seen last year continued through 2018, achieving a net revenue of MVR 10.9 10.9 billion. revenue of 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Billions in MVR Revenue 10,873 9,100 6,939 7,313 9,171 Revenue 1.8 Revenue growth was seen across all segments under the umbrella of the Group, increasing net growth revenue by MVR 1.8 billion compared to 2017. e most prominent growth was seen in fuel segment as the increase in international oil prices increased average selling prices. Additionally, the expansion of oil storage facilities enabled to acquire new private customers steering volume growth. Billions in MVR compared to 2017. Gross Profit 1,509 1,435 In 2018, STO Group mainly focused on expanding customer base by 2018 2017 maintaining a sustainable gross proﬁt. Gross Proﬁt increased marginally due to growth in sales volume. Another notable contributor for the growth in gross proﬁt was the improved eﬃciencies in sourcing and reduced Million in MVR Million in MVR freight cost through utilization of own vessels. Regardless of the substantial improvement in revenue, the gross proﬁt improved only by 5% compared to previous year. e international prices of frozen tuna showed a declining trend which generated a gross loss for the ﬁsheries segment. However, the gross loss was covered by the increase in gross proﬁt from other segments of the Group. 25 Operating Profit 247 315 2018 2017 Fuel and Insurance segment contributed to a signiﬁcant growth in operating proﬁt. However, the operating costs of ﬁsheries segment in the absence of gross proﬁt and the provisioning impact of MVR 66 million from the application of expected credit loss model for the impairment of Million in MVR Million in MVR receivables reduced the total operating proﬁt compared to 2017. Profit before tax and Earnings per share Proﬁt before tax Earnings per Share 80 211 25 137 2018 2017 2018 2017 Before impairment of Million in MVR MVR MVR investment in Hulhumale hotel Unadjusted for In millions MVR Hulhumale' hotel impairment Net finance cost 178 116 2018 2017 e sharp increase in receivables from government owned companies including utility companies created the biggest challenge for the Group and therefore, payments to creditors had to be delayed by incurring additional delay charges for the extended period. As a result, the net Million in MVR Million in MVR ﬁnance cost of the Group was escalated by MVR 62 million compared to 2017. Financial Review Hulhumale’ Hotel Impairment e Group was committed to focus on core business segments, therefore initiated the process to divest the Hulhumale’ hotel which is under construction. Due to delays in construction of the hotel and based on the oﬀers received from prospective investors, the Group decided to value the cost of the property to its fair value to reﬂect the most appropriate market value. Hence, an amount of MVR 210 million was recognized as impairment loss which had a negative impact on the bottom line of STO Group. Cash flow Cash ﬂows generated from operating activities fell into negative territory mainly due to the fundamental change in working capital structure of the Group. During the year, the Group reﬁnanced the supplier credit with a working capital loan from an international bank at a lower interest rate. As a result, the supplier credits were repaid by utilizing the fund inﬂows from the bank which was accounted under ﬁnancing activities. In addition to this, the overall increase in gross receivables further deteriorated the cash ﬂows from the operating activities. e net cash outﬂow from investing activities was MVR 388 million. is is a signiﬁcant amount spent on the capital projects of the Group, which is expected to yield higher returns in the future. e Group has completed one of its auspicious project of expansion of fuel storage, which is the main contributor for cash outﬂow from investing activities. Financial Position e STO Group continued to focus on maintaining a sound asset base and eliminate idle assets for a sustainable future. Hence, in 2018 the Group impaired its Hulhumale’ hotel to reﬂect the fair value of the asset. Further, the application of expected credit loss model increased the total impairment by MVR 328 million and reduced the total receivable of the Group. ese impairments had a negative impact on the assets and thus the Group’s total assets reduced to MVR 7,697 million compared to MVR 7,738 million in 2017. e net loss incurred by the Group in 2018 mainly due to the loss incurred by MIFCO, impairment of investment property and the application of expected credit loss model in the transitional period deteriorated total equity and reduced it to MVR 2,035 million compared to MVR 2,518 million in 2017. e total liabilities of the Group increased from MVR 5,220 million in 2017 to MVR 5,661 in 2018, mainly due to increase in loan and borrowings as a result of increase in international oil prices and growth in fuel volume which triggered a higher amount of payables for oil bills. 2019 Outlook Despite the environmental challenges, the future seems very promising for the STO Group. e revenue is expected to grow at a steady rate in all reportable segments of the Group in 2019. e fuel segment is expected to generate higher revenue and volume growth due to expansion in storage facilities and increase in market share. As the Group is focusing on operations that are more feasible and leveraging expertise on sound strategies, the Group expects to expedite performance in all segments . 27 Group key figures In MVR (Millions) 2018 2017 Revenue 10,873 9,100 Gross Profit 1,509 1,435 Operating Profit 247 315 Profit before tax** 80 211 Profit/Loss for the year ** 30 159 Earnings/Loss per share, MVR ** 25 137 Net assets per share, MVR 1,807 2,234 Net cash flow from operating activities (218) 290 Return on Equity, % (7.9) 6 Net Debt/Equity ratio 2.6 1.9 Dividend per share, MVR * 58 55 Interest cover ratio 1.2 2.3 * Proposed dividend for 2018 ** Unadjusted for Hulhumale' Hotel ell impa otte mp pa rment iimpairment men mentt for f 2 fo 018 2018 29 3 Share Performance Share Shh Performance Share Performance GGovernment Public Total issued shares 1,126,910 207,041 Nominal value of shares 91 9919,869 19,8 19 86 86 18.4% MVR50 81.6% 88111.6 .66 No single party other than Government holds more than 5% shares Dividend Proposed Dividend MVR 55/share MVR/share 2018 2017 (MVR 61.98m) 58 MVR 51/share 2016 (MVR 57.5m) 31 Trading statistics Highest trade price Lowest trade price Last trade price Weighted Average Trading Price Number of trades Number of shares traded ett Capitalization Market ap api apitaliz pit piitita Capit liliza iizza izatio zat itaaliliz ttio iooon (Million) attion (Mil (Milli (Mi Miilli (M lion lilio iioonn) ion) llilion)n Corporate Governance Report 4 Corporate Governance Report 33 Our business practices are conducted in good faith, in the interest of the Group and all our stakeholders, with due observance on the principles of good corporate governance. STO is a limited liability Company and complies to the Companies Act of the Republic of Maldives 10/96, the Corporate Governance principles of the Company and the Corporate Governance Code (Code) of the Capital Market Development Authority (CMDA). Compliance to the rules and recommendations of the Securities Act 02/2006, the Listing Rules of Maldives Stock Exchange Pvt. Ltd. (MSE) and Securities (Continuing Obligation of Issuers) Regulation 2010 were also followed, where applicable. During the year, STO was committed to maintain high standards in compliance with all regulations described above. Any deviations are explained through the “comply” or “explain” principle, in this report. Corporate Governance Report 4.1. Corporate Governance Framework Determines the purpose and values, develops strategies and provides strategic direction and leadership aligned to the company’s value system to ensure the sustainability of business Nomination and Remuneration Committee Corporate Governance Audit and Risk Committee and Compliance Ensures that the Board is appropriately Provides oversight on ﬁnancial Committee structured to enable its functions eﬀectively. reporting, internal controls and Provide oversight on STRATEGIC Monitors the Company’s remuneration risk management. policies and ensures that the company compliance to good has the optimal remuneration to attract, governance, ethics retain and motivate employees and Nonand best practices in Executive Directors. business and to the company. TACTICAL Assists the Chief Executive Oﬃcer and Managing Director to implement the strategy and objectives for and in vision of STO. Evaluation Committee Disciplinary, grievance Strategic Planning and Sexual Harassment Emergency, Staff Loan Committee Information Review Credit Committee Tender Committee and gender equality Organizational Health Investment Review Committee and Safety Committee Committee Prevention Committee Committee OPERATIONAL 35 4.2. Board of Directors a. Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad CEO & MD b. Mohamed Mihad Executive Director / Chief Financial Oﬃcer c. Amir Mansoor Non-Executive / Independent Director d. Mariyam Zaahiya Non-Executive / Independent Director e. Aishath Fazeena Non-Executive / Independent Director a b c e d Corporate Governance Report a.Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad Mihad is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management Managing Director Accountants. He was the Chairman to the Board of Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt Ltd and currently is a Director at Maldives Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad was appointed as the Chief Industrial Fisheries Company Ltd. Executive Oﬃcer and Managing Director of the Company on 30th November 2018. c.Amir Mansoor He currently serves at the Board of various STO Group Non-Executive, Independent Director Companies, including the Chairmanship of Maldives Industrial Amir Mansoor was initially appointed to the Board as an Fisheries Company Ltd and Lafarge Maldives Cement Pvt Ltd. Independent, Non-Executive director in May 2012, by the He is also a Board of Director of Addu International Airport Pvt majority shareholder (Government). Ltd representing STO shareholdings in the Company. Amir is a well-known business ﬁgure who has founded and Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad has held the position of Chief performed in various large companies. He is currently the Executive Oﬃcer of Maldives Transport and Contracting Chairman of Carpediem Maldives Pvt. Ltd., the Managing Company plc from September 2010 till February 2012. In Director of Lily International Pvt. Ltd. and also the Managing addition to that he has served the Government in positions Director (owner) of Grape Expectation Pvt. Ltd. He has been in such as Deputy Under-Secretary of Economic Development various business industries for over 25 years and is well versed Unit at the President’s Oﬃce and was a member of Privatization with the past and present business norms. Committee formed by President’s Decree in 2018. He is particularly interested in the Enterprise Risk Management He has also had various key positions in the ﬁeld of Politics, as and is completing an international training to become a Qualiﬁed the Chairperson of 100 days Committee during the transition Risk Director. He too holds an Executive Diploma in Directorship period of presidential election in 2018 and played a major role from Singapore Management University, Singapore. He has a in development of the 100 days action plan for the ﬁrst 100 Master of business from Tarlac State University, Philippines. days of the current Government. He is currently a member of National Council and Economic Committee of the Ruling Party of Maldives. Furthermore, he is a successful entrepreneur. d.Mariyam Zaahiya Non-Executive / Independent Director He holds a Master of Business Administration from International Mariyam Zaahiya is an Independent, Non-Executive director Islamic University, Malaysia and has a Bachelor of Science in of State Trading Organization (STO) and was appointed to the Computer Science from University of Sunderland, through Board on 23rd January 2018. Binary University College Malaysia. She is an Assistant Director General at the President’s Oﬃce. Currently, she is undertaking an assignment to incorporate public centric approaches to those services provided by the b.Mohamed Mihad government and those considered as public service. Prior to Executive Board Director / Chief Financial Officer this assignment, her main tasks revolve around monetary and Mohamed Mihad joined STO in 2009 as an accountant, ﬁscal policy, budget control and creating synergies to enhance continuing onto gaining experience and knowledge in the ﬁeld the economic development of the country as whole. Although of ﬁnance and audit, resulting in the designation of the post of Zaahiya started her career at the President’s Oﬃce from the very Chief Financial Oﬃcer of the Company. He was appointed to the entry level, and has managed to be part of the executive branch Board of Directors as an Executive Director on 28th March 2016. for the most part of her career, she also has proved that she can work at other avenues by heading the Research and Monitoring He also played a key role in the ERP implementation project of Department of the Human Rights Commission during the very the Company, acting as a core team lead of the SAP ERP ﬁnance start of the democratic movement in the country. Prior to being module and has also served as a Senior Auditor for 4 years. appointed as a Board Member of STO, she also has worked as a 37 Board Member of Velana International Airport. Zaahiya holds a Master of Public Policy with a triple major in Transition and Development Studies, International Relations and Political Economy from Korean Development Institution, South Korea and has completed her Bachelors in Business Administration from University of East London, at HELP Institute, Malaysia. e.Aishath Fazeena Non-Executive / Independent Director Aishath Fazeena is an Independent, Non-Executive director of State Trading Organization (STO), appointed to the Board at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, by public shareholders of the Company. Currently, she is an associate lecturer at Maldives National University (Business School). Other than STO, Fazeena is a Board Director of Maldives Tourism Development Corporation plc as well. She also performs audit and consultancy services. Previously, she worked in the Ministry of Education as a project manager and as a lecturer at Villa College. She is an ACCA Aﬃliate member of the Association of Chartered Certiﬁed Accountants (ACCA) and holds a Bachelor’s in Science Honours in Applied Accounting from Oxford Bro Brookss U Un tyy She rsity. nivers sity. University. She has also completed the Directors Training of Capital Market Development Authority and dh as a has x cut an Exec utiv utive iv Ce Executive er ertiﬁcate ertiﬁ ca ﬁcate tiﬁ Certiﬁ D ectorrship ate in Directors rector hip fr Directorship from he om tth thee Si ga nga Singapore Management University / Singapore Institute of Directors. Corporate Governance Report 4.3. Board charter e Board Charter was most recently amended by the Board on December 2016. is Charter provides guidelines for Directors on their responsibilities, authorities, composition, meetings, appointment, training, evaluation and disclosure. e roles and responsibilities of Board include; • Developing the corporate vision, mission and strategies • Developing business plans and budgets • Identifying operational risks and its mitigation strategies • Monitoring the ﬁnancial performance and asset management • Establishing the right technology direction for the Company • Overseeing general business of STO Group • Deciding on the dividend policy • Publishing the Annual Report and other information for the shareholders • Framing an appropriate corporate governance outline for management to operate in is information is updated until 30th December 2018. Executive Above 50 Directors 43% 29% MIX AGE Below 50 Non-Executive, 57% Independent Directors 71% Below degree Female level 43% 0% GENDER EDUCATION Male Degree and 57% above 100% 39 4.4. Board composition In Accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association (AOA), the Board comprises of 7 members appointed by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting for a term of one year. Of these 7 members, 5 are non-executive members and 2 are executive oﬃcers of the Company, which include the Managing Director. However, following the recent changes to the Board of Directors in late 2018 and early 2019, currently there are 5 members in the Board. is include of 3 non-executive directors and 2 executive oﬃcers. Below table indicates the changes that came to the Board of Directors; is information is provided until 30th March 2019. Name Date of initial appointment Date of last appointment Resignation / Removed date Hussain Salim Mohamed 06.12.2016 30.05.2018 Resigned 21.01.2019 Ahmed Shaheer 25.12.2013 30.05.2018 Resigned 15.11.2018 Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad 30.11.2018 30.11.2018 Mohamed Mihad 28.03.2016 30.05.2018 Amir Mansoor 07.05.2012 30.05.2018 Aishath Raﬁyya 21.08.2014 30.05.2018 06.02.2019 Aishath Rayaheen Shareef 28.03.2016 30.05.2017 23.01.2018 Mariyam Zaahiya 23.01.2018 30.05.2018 Mohamed Farshath 14.06.2012 30.05.2017 30.05.2018 Aishath Fazeena 30.05.2018 30.05.2018 4.5. Tenure Board Director Amir Mansoor is currently fulﬁlling his seventh year in Board Directorship. Furthermore, the Board acknowledges that at least one third of the Board had retired or changed in every 2 years during the past 5 years. Below graph indicates the tenure of existing members in the Board. More than 5 More than 2 years years 20% 20% 2 to 5 years 60% Corporate Governance Report 4.6. Diversity evaluated according to the Board Candidacy Guideline. e prime purpose of this evaluation is to identify the e merits for directorship of the Company include knowledge skills, knowledge and experience of the candidates and of the business, its markets and the industry, ability to read and to see how it would strengthen the existing Board understand ﬁnancials and sustainability, business background, • Nomination and Remuneration Committee also meets skills, experience, expertise, personal quality and integrity. e with the short-listed candidates to assess and to further merits for an eﬀective Board further include age and gender evaluate the candidate diversity. • Nomination and Remuneration Committee C ommitt ttee STO Board comprises of a mix of all such merits, in terms of age, recommends the candidates who m meets etss th eet et tthe hee rrequired eq ire equ red gender, experience and knowledge. In 2018, the Board had 4 criteria to Board male directors and 3 female directors. As of today, the Board has 3 male directors and 2 female directors. • e majority shareholderr makes ma ma akkes appointments app ntm tments tm en s to to tthe thhe Board through Privatization zation na and nd CCorporatization orppora por izzat atiz ization Board. B rd oard. However, the Board d Candidacy Ca andididacy guideline g guuid gui del ne and del and d the thee Fit 4.7. Independence and Proper Guidelines nes o lin CMDA CMDA are C of CM are passed ssed seed toto ththem, em, m requesting to consider, nside onsid er,, when whhen making makin ng eir appointments g their th he appo poin ntme ments ents All directors have a duty to act with independence of mind in the best interest of the Company. e Board believes that the • Directors are then en n elected electted d and a appointed appo nted fo ointe another for ano othe er Independent Non-executive Directors are of the appropriate term, at the Annual nuu lG General Gene Gen eral M Meeting Mee tin ngg calibre, diversity and number, for their views to carry signiﬁcant weight in the Board’s deliberations and decisions. In 2018, 3 candidates fro from om th the he p public pu blic shareholders b haare sharreh ehoo ders rs submitted subm mittted d their names for directorship. ec torrsh O torshi cto One of tthe e of ne he candidates e ca ndi ates didat ates w withdrew thd th rewew e AOA further indicates that majority of the Board shall be before the interview process pr procesess ss whwhile ile tth the other two wo o candidates cand nd dates ndida ate tes independent of the Company. e independence of these were interviewed by the e NomNomination N No Nomi natation and an Re Remuneration Remu mun neeraat on erati erati eratio members is determined upon the criterion’s described in Committee. Aer considering de g the onsideri onsidering interview in erv e inter int ervi w res results ults esults ts anandd o other he ther the Code of CMDA, where neither a Director nor his or her information, the Committee mmittitt tttee recommended ecomm ee rec mended mend Aishath d Ais A ha hathth hF Fazeena, az en e a, for a fo o or immediate family members during the past year has held a election at the Annuall Ge General ne n ralal MMeeting. ee Mee eeting eting  e eC Committee omm ommi m tee c mi came camme am me key position in the Company and the director or none of their to this conclusion aerr co on ideri consideringering boa b ard g board d div d diversity,ty, verrsity, expperie y, experience riencece immediate family members have had any substantial ﬁnance and other several factors give givenen n iin Candi n Ca C dida Candidacy acy cy G uidelin Gui Guideline. ine. dealings with the Company. Considering these factors, all non-executive members of the Board were considered to be Aishath Fazeena was elected d at the t e Ann A nua Annual al G enneral ral Me General eeting Meeting g by by independent in the past year. a vote of shareholders. 4.8. Process of re-election and 4.9. Board induction and nndd con on nt continuing ntinu ntin ontinui uingg nuing appointment of new directors education e Nomination and Remuneration Committee has put in place e Company has a comprehensive orientation program a formal process for the selection of new directors to increase designed for newly appointed directors to familiarize them the transparency of the nomination and election process in with business and governance policies. e orientation identifying and evaluating nominees for directors. program arranged by the Company Secretariat gives directors an understanding of the Group’s business to enable them to e selection process explained; assimilate into their new roles. • Both the majority shareholder (the Government) and Eﬀective 2018, the Company provides a training analysis report the minority shareholders are given 21 days of notice to for Directors, upon their appointment, based on their education submit their candidates/interest and experience. is report highlights which areas the director is required to focus on development, during his/her tenure. • e nominees for public share representatives are then 41 In 2018, Directors attended a total of 5 diﬀerent training executive and senior management team programs conducted abroad. ese trainings focused on areas • Leads the development of senior management within such as corporate risk management, corporate governance, the Group leadership and corporate ﬁnance. • Ensures that the Chairman is kept appraised in a 4.10. Chairman and Managing Director timely manner of issues faced by the Group and of any important events and developments e e Chairman Chairm man and Managing Director’s role in the Company • Leads the development of the Group’s future are ae a as med assu assumed d b byy diﬀd erent individuals and their roles and strategy including identifying and assessing risks re ons spon ar provided bil ties are onsibilities sibil responsibilities provid rovid de in the Directors Charter. and opportunities for the growth of its business and In 2018, 20 the th he Chahair e Chairman ha airma rmma man n of thet Board Booard was Hussain Salim Mohamed reviewing the performance of its existing businesses ile the while e MManag an gin Managing in D ing ging Dire irectors rrole ir Directors e wwas performed by Ahmed S h hahe Shaheer, Ras ash Ra aheer, up u had sha Rashad ad was un a as appointed 5th untilil 15th h No Nov N appointe ass tth vem em November mber 2 he thee M 018 01 Husen Amru Mohamed 2018. naagin Managinggin Director on 30th 4.11. Role of the non-executive No vember 2018 November 20 2 2018.8. directors ere clea ere iiss a clear d divisi vission lear division re pon on of responsibilities res ponsnsibil bilities bettw b es between we the Chairman e Board and management fully appreciate that an eﬀective and andd thehe Man anag Managing ging DireDirector Director, r, w wh hich ch ensu which sures a b ensures balance of power and robust Board whose members engage in open and annd andda uthority orit authorityrit the top rity att the opp of thttheeCCom mpany Company. anny any constructive debate, and challenge management on its assumptions and proposals is fundamental to good corporate e Chairman e C Chairma man iss the ead off the tthe leader leader ea the h Board.ard ar Boar d. He; H governance. • Ens Ensures e ectiven ec venesss off the e eﬀ ectiveness th he Board, Board B d, board rd, b boa bo committee For this to happen, the board and in particular the nonannd andd indnddiv ivi vididu vidua d al directors dua individual dire di ectorsrs executive directors, must be kept well informed of the Group’s • Lea eads and eads Leads and drives rive o oththers to achieve ess others achiev ac achhie e and and maintain a high a businesses and be knowledgeable about the industries the ndar standard ard o of ccorporate or rate te eggoover ve anc governance ce Group operate in. To ensure this, non-executive directors are well supported by timely information. • Approve ppp es tthe Approves e agen a agendanddaa fofor th B or the Booa Board meetings and ensursuress suﬃ ensures uﬃﬃcie ci cient allo al ocati allocation on of ttim attion me and information time e Board has also adopted processes to ensure that nonexecutive directors have suﬃcient time and resources to • Promot rom mottes an Promotes a ope o openen ennv n environment onm vironmeme for debates and perform their functions eﬀectively. e roles and responsibilities ensures ensur ur s No on-Exec Exe ut ve Non-Executive eD rec irect Directors can speak freely and of non-executive directors are also described in the Directors contnt ibute contribute ect ly ectiv te eﬀectively ec Charter. • Pro Provides ov o ight g oversight e igh oversight, guidance, advice and leadership to tth the M Ma e Man nag agi aging ag na Managing ging g giing g Di Director 4.12. Other directorships held • Ens nssur nsu Ensures constructive dialogue between shareholders, No director has held directorship in more than three public listed the Board and management companies, over the year. However, some of the directors do e Managing Director is the highest-ranking executive oﬃcer practice membership on the Boards of STO Group companies, of the Group. He; private companies and non-proﬁt organizations. Despite this, all Directors devoted enough time and eﬀorts to their duties as • Runs day-to-day business of the Group, within the board members of the Company. Details on other directorships authorities delegated to him by the Board held by the directors are provided in their proﬁles. • Ensures implementation of policies and strategy across the Group as set by the Board • Provides oversight, guidance, advice and leadership to Corporate Governance Report 4.13. Board evaluation Board continuously monitors and reviews the board performance and evaluation framework. Board has laid down a set of evaluation criteria for the performance review of chairman, executive, non-executive, independent directors, the company, the board, its committees and the company secretary. is evaluation is carried out through an online questionnaire. is process enables to review the functioning and eﬀectiveness of the Company and the Board while also identifying possible paths for improvement. e questionnaire includes on board dynamics and relationship with stakeholders, company performance and strategy, information ationonnﬂ ﬂo w ow, decision-making of the directors, and the eﬀectiveness of the whole board and its various committees. e evaluation n foforr tthee ye a year 2018 was completed in March 2019 and areas for improvement were identiﬁed. e Board is currently in the process of formulating ce s of orm ffo m lat la ng ga new set of guidelines and a questionnaire for board evaluation in future. 4.14. Director remuneration Details on director remuneration is provided in the remuneration report of Nomination and Remuneration muuner uneration ion Co io mm Committee. m ttee. Refer Ref Reef ef to page ge 55 for this information. 4.15. Conflict of interest and materially significant related lated part tra trannssacti pparty transactions attedd party acctiioonnss e Company has a Board approved Conﬂict of Interest Policy for the Directors. As part off this thi pro p hi process, ocesess the Dire t Directors Direec cto mustt disclose m to must discllosee any company, association or other aﬃliation where he/she and his/her immediate family ymmem members ers holdold gni d a sig niﬁca signiﬁ ca ntt inter nte est cant is es is interest. information is reviewed and tallied by the Registrar of Companies to conﬁrm the information mat at ation mation p n prov ovided ovid provided.dedd. d All known substantial ssubsta ubsta antial antia al or o material third party transactions, monetary transactions or relationships between the Company omp an panyy and nd nd its Dire rs, the Management, M Man i Directors, nagemen g gee eme em gem ment, m subsidiaries or relatives have been disclosed in the note 159 to 161 of audited ﬁnancials. 4.16. Board meetings e Board of Directors held 22 board meetings during the year. In addition to this, the Committees’ tee al alto a togeether, es’’ altogether, oge et , held eld 20 meetings. me mee meetiings. ngs gs e e Company Secretary dra the agenda for each meeting in consultation with the Chairman and MD. D. e D Direc ecto tors ar Directors e given are en n ce otic notice e as per the Articles of Association and are authorized to suggest the inclusion of additional items in the ag end nd w genda, agenda, wh ere ere necessary. where ess y es necessary e table below indicates the attendance of Directors to the Board Meetings. Name of Director Attendance at the last Annual General Meeting Number of meeting eetingg atten nde ennd attend attended endedde ded edd / held on May 30, 2018 Number of meetings eetings gs held heeldd Hussain Salim Mohamed Present 21/22 Ahmed Shaheer Present 20/22* Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad n/a 02/22** Mohamed Mihad Present 22/22 Amir Mansoor Present 22/22 Dr. Aishath Raﬁyya Present 22/22 Aishath Rayaheen Shareef n/a 01/22*** Mariyam Zaahiya Present 19/22**** Mohamed Farshath Present 11/22 Aishath Fazeena n/a 11/22 (*) Ahmed Shaheer resigned on 15.11.2018. (**) Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad was appointed on 30.11.2018. (***) Aishath Rayaheen Shareef was removed from Board on 23.01.2018. (****) Mariyam Zaahiya was appointed on 23.01.2018. 43 4.17. Board proceeds and major 4.18. Non-executive directors decisions meeting Board has access to all company related information, including As per the Board Charter and Corporate Governance Policy of that of the employees where required. At Board Meetings, STO and the Code of CMDA, the Non-Executive Directors held execu ex ut executive team members and managers who can provide one meeting in the absence of executive members of the Board. ad di ional ins additional in gh into the items being discussed, are invited. insights e purpose of this meeting was to review the performance of the executive members, the management team and the Board B oaard age oar Board ag end agenda daaa n pa nd and p peers are provided well in advance of the papers as a whole while assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of m meeting ing eetingng via Boar g via B ardpaq. Boardpaq. paq. Bo Boar Boa rdp Boardpaq is an international soware, the ﬂow of information between the management and the thatt is c ost-e cost-eﬀ -e ﬀec ﬀe ect eﬀectivctiv ective,ve ve, p papererless and centralizes all board e, paperless Board. d ummen documents ents ts and d iinf in f nformatio ation. at information. ppl on. iis application app also makes it easier to pproovid ov provideidee add tional additional materi al material ma ateri l o fo for iinfo orr in information requested by the di rec ecttors directors, pro to promptly.ommp m tly. 4.19. Committees M ana age Management’sme men ement’s en nt s prop posals opo osa proposals a tto the Board o the oa oard for approval provide e Boards work is supported through its Committees – the b ound ckground backgr background und da and d exp exxplan nato anato natory infor n explanatory matio nformatio mation information uch ion ssuch ha ch as facts, resources Audit and Risk Committee, the Nomination and Remuneration nee n ded, risk needed, sk a an lyssis an analysis mit and miti gatio mitigation ion rategie , ﬁnancial impact, n strat strategies, Committee and the Corporate Governance and Compliance egu u atory imp regulatory im cations, iimplications, licati ns exp pec cte expected ed outcom tc mes cconclusions and t mes, utc outcomes, Committee. e chairman and members of the committees re coomme m nda recommendations. atio tio s. are appointed, and their performance is reviewed by the Board, annually. In order ordererr too ke kee keep p directors d recto ect s ab bre st o abreast onnC Compa Com pany’s Company’s ’s performance, anageme an management mentent a lso alsso also o sshah hares es com are shares mpany p company erfo perfor form fo orrm man rman rm performance an nce reports with e membership, responsibilities and activities of each of these thee Board. B rd. d. es d ese rep rts e reports t include bud includ budgets, udgets f fore dgets, forecasts, quarterly committees are described further in this report through the ﬁn anc anci nancial re epo and cia reports eport mon and monthlyonthly mont hly management manana geme t accounts. gemen age a c individual committee reports. Each committee has a set of guidelines in the form of charters, approved by the Board and addition, n addition, In on,, ththe Hea e He Head d of In ad Inte nal Audit erna Audit dep Internal de paartme also provides partm department signed by the members. th thee A Au ditt and Audit a issk Committee Risk Comm Co mitte eee a and d w wh ere where e necessary to the Bo ard w Board with h a aud dit re audit p ports.  repo reports. esee se re ese orts include, report reports in annual audit e Nomination and Remuneration Committee is combined plaans, ffraud plans, d ris sk a risk sessme asses assessment ent nt a and d ﬁnd di dinn from internal and ndings for the purpose of expediency, since majority of same Directors nv estti ation ves investigation on audits. ion auudits. Man di s. Management Manage Ma me em en rthe provides status on the nt furthe further are entrusted with the functions of both committees. mplem im tat at on off re entation mentat implementation co mend reco comm recommendations ati dations given in the audit reports, to th the the Boa Bo Boar ard Board, d, qqu art a er quarterly.erly e committee chairperson and the Company Secretary determine the frequency and duration of the committee ome of th Some he ma h the maj aj decis major d ecisio dec isio is decisions taken during the year include; meetings. All committees are required to meet at least four times a year. Recommendations of the committees are then • Approved pp ed changes to the articles of association for Approved submitted to the entire Board for approval before management su ub submission to annual general meeting is assigned the work for implementation. • Approved company's credit exposure limits Changes were made to credit policy, incentive policy and bonus policy 4.20. Good governance, policies, • A MVR100m payment fund was approved to MIFCO procedures and guidelines Over the years, Board has developed and reviewed the • Approved to develop STO Training centre Company’s corporate governance principles to help fulﬁl • Approved to dismiss some of the subsidiaries based on its corporate responsibility towards the stakeholders. ese their performance and overall Group sustainability principles ensure that the Board has the necessary authority and processes to review and evaluate the operations when Corporate Governance Report required. Furthermore, these guidelines allow Board to make that meet people’s needs and improve their everyday lives. decisions that are independent of the Management. e operations of the Company are divided into Peoples STO ﬁrst established its governance guideline in 2006. ereon, Choice, Medical Services and Fuel, Logistics & Construction. the Company has reviewed and made changes to it, considering ese businesses are catered in Male’ and in many of the Atolls, the various amendments brought to the relevant legislations while the Company has its presence though it’s pharmacies in and the international codes. e Company further established every inhabited island. ese business areas are supported by its ﬁrst Code for the Group in 2014. a ﬁnance, human resources, administration, procurement, men n nt, t, aand nd information communications & technology. Apart fr from rom om the these, e e STO has in place, policies and procedures to govern its subsidiary STO has in place an internal audit, risk management, na em nag mentt, m men managing ana an gin ing companies and major commercial activities, a manual for board director’s bureau and a secretariat and leg legal department. partment. al depart epa part directors and a code of ethics for directors. Furthermore, STO has timely reviewed the board and its committee charters STO Group has its businesses established estaablished in ﬁ estab ﬁe elds e ﬁelds su ds ssuc ucch such a h as and corporate governance guidelines. STO also, has in eﬀect a insurance, fuel distribution, commodity ommodmod trade, dity tr ade gas e, g distribution, ass dist di b tion, bu on guideline on holding annual general meetings and preparation ﬁsh canning and production off ﬁssh pr prod ucttss and products ucts a an ndd manufacture man anu an ufaactturre of of annual reports for its Group Companies. ese policies, rooﬁng sheets. ese businesses nessse re administered ssess are admministered as as susubsidiary ubsid bsidiary ry procedures and guidelines are believed to provide the Group companies governed byy STO.STO. with guidance and emphasize the importance of proper STO has over 4000 staﬀ n its Group, ﬀ in Gro p, serving oup, ng the servi ving the e community c comm mm mmu unityy and nd governance within the companies. the country, every day. In 2018, the guideline on trading in Company Securities was e Nomination and Remuneration Remun nerat on ComCommittee om mm mitt m tt e rre reviews vie ew ws a and ndd revised. recommends to Board,oard th co rd, the compensation pen mpen nsatioon o and bene ts to nd beneﬁ to al all executive board members. mbers mbers. mb s. e Managing e Ma M Man ing Direc Director ec reviews, ctorr revie ector r views ewws, 4.21. Company secretary evaluates and promotesote the es thhe memembers mem m mber bers of th the exeexecutive ecutut ve tteam, e m, e team tea in accordance with thehe salary he sal sala b neﬁttss st and beneﬁ and be bene structure truc ruc ure approved ture ucture app approved ved All directors have access to the services and advice of the by the Board and the e executive exeec xe c tiv ecu ve team team d does oes es thtthe ssame e samam me for or oother the heer e Company Secretary. e Company Secretary supports the employees of the Company. mpa paany. ny Board as a whole, and directors individually, by providing guidance as to how to fulﬁl their responsibilities as directors e Managing Director,, the the ChChief Financial hieff Fi anc Fina ancial al Oﬃcer er a and d the th in the best interests of the Company. e Company Secretary Head of Managing Directorss Bu eau, au, au wh urea Bureau, w whichich also so nc udess the in o inc inclu includes he regularly refreshes her knowledge of developments in corporate th he Co sentt the public relations unit, represent om mpanyy in Company n inte i eractiion interactionsionss governance best practice and regulation. with investors, the media and the he Gov G Gove e Government. rnment. e in ndivid dual individual al Executives and Head of Human Resources es esou ces es and a an dm Adm ministtratio Administration onn e Board remains satisﬁed with the competency and interact with employees while individual al Ex ecu cuttiv cu Executives deal ves deal ves ea with experience of the Company Secretary. their clients. 4.22. Management review and 4.23. Group management responsibility e Board of Directors have entrusted the Managing Director of STO with the function of overseeing its Group of Companies. e Company’s vision is to enrich the lives of its stakeholders; As such many measures have been taken to establish good the customers, employees and shareholders, through expansion governance practices within the Group. of its services while being accessible to all. A Board Manual and Code of Ethics was approved by STO Board rough a sustainable growth, innovative products under strong for its Group of Companies. brands, operational excellence and dedicated employees, STO creates the condition to reach its vision. e objective is to Currently there are 7 subsidiaries of STO; where STO hold more develop smarter, more accessible, resource-eﬃcient solutions than 90% of shares. STO also has 1 Joint Venture Company and 45 holds associate shares in 4 other Companies. STO’s control environment determines the individual and collective behaviour. It is deﬁned by policies and procedures, Details of STO Shares held in these Companies as required by manuals and codes, IT generated controls and is enforced by the the CDOI Regulations 2010 is provided on page 170. organizational structure with clear responsibility and authority based on collective values. 4. 44.24. Internal Audit e Board of Directors have the overall responsibility for establishing an eﬀective system of internal control. e e internal interna al aaudit function is responsible for independent, responsibility of maintaining internal controls is delegated to obj bje ect e as ectiv objective surran ance assurance, e, in order to systematically evaluate and the Managing Director. p prropos propose ose improvements impro im v ments enntss fo for more eﬀective management, overnance governance ce and ndd inte ernrnal nternal internal tro processes. al ccontrol e Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in overseeing relevant manuals, policies and important accounting principles e Company Com C mpany mp ha has a well-established has well-estab wellwe l es ishe she hed in-house audit function. applied. e  inteern e internal nal a au d t is an audit n ind epende dep independentnde en function. e Head of ernal Intter Internal na Au ditt (C (Ch Audit ief eff IInternal (Chief ternall A dito uditor) d to rep Auditor) or directly to the Audit reports e limits of authorities and responsibilities are given in an and ndd Ri Risk k Comm ommittee o Committee ee fu functio ona functionally allly and d to t Managing Director t the instructions for delegation of authority, manuals, policies and a admin adm ministtrativ administratively. tivelyy. procedures and code, including the code of conduct, employee handbook and various policies and procedures. Together with 44.25. .2255. External Ex Extern rnal a Audit al Auudi dit laws and external regulations, these internal guidelines form the control environment. e e current curre rrent ap app appointment o tmen oin ntt of AuA Auditorstor ditor vieewe reviewed tors iiss re e every year by All entities within STO Group are required to maintain adequate th the e Audi udi dit and Audit an Ris isk Committee. Risk ommit Comm Com mitttee  e e Audit and udit and ud Ri Committee d Risk controls. Monitoring and testing of control activities is performed advi adv vises advisesses th he thee Board Booard o on n th he the e re res ults o sults results of this this a ass asses as sses sm esssm assessment which is periodically to ensure the adequacy of these controls and to tthen ubbmitted m ed n ssubmitted d to to the th Ann An nua Ge Annual ner General all Meeti eral Me tin ti Meeting ng fo for shareholders’ ensure that the risks are properly mitigated. e eﬀectiveness appr provoval approval. e al.  eB oard Board d of o DiDire irecc ors w Directors we welcco come om th welcome he im the impartial opinion of control activities level is monitored by the Internal Audit and an nd and eco e menendatio d rrecommendations tioons off the he appointed pp nted ind appo dep p independent auditors Risk Department at Group level, business areas level, functional an nd andd st ve to im strive mpro pro improve ove e tthe ﬁn d dinngs pointed pointe oin ed o oin ndings u in the auditor’s out level and process level, which is reported to the Audit and Risk re epor ep ort. report. Committee and the Management. Controls that have failed shharehoholde re-elected e shareholders re-el ele ted KPM d KPMG MG ass the t external auditors for are re-mediated, by establishing and implementing actions to 20 8  018 2018. e e Audit Au Aud tors Auditors p ov or provide a annaaudit pi udi opinion opi regarding STO and correct the weaknesses. th t e co the c o onso ida consolidated ted ﬁna ate te stateemen nc al statements nancial me of STO Group. e Audit e Board is conﬁdent that the system of risk management w was cond nduc ass conducted cte ac orrda ed in accordance acc da dance withw International Standards on and internal controls in place within the Group is adequate A ud ing. Auditing. sttandards g. ese standards stan en rds ensure that the auditors comply with and eﬀective in addressing the material risks in the Groups in e evant ethica relev relevant thical call re ethical eq requ reqquuirrem quirem requirements and plan and perform the audit its current business environment including material ﬁnancial, to obtain btain n reason nab assurance about whether the consolidated reasonable operational, compliance and information technology risks. and and sepa d separatear ﬁnancials statements are free from material misstatement. 4.27. Risk management 4.26. Internal controls e Company has an integrated approach to managing risks inherent in various aspects of the business. e Risk e process of internal control and risk management framework Management Report forms part of this Annual Report on page provides reasonable assurance that the Group’s goals are met in 50. terms of eﬃcient operations, compliance with relevant laws and regulations and reliable ﬁnancial reporting. Corporate Governance Report to provide shareholders with a balanced and clear assessment 4.28. Shares and shareholders of the Group’s position and prospects. STO’s shares are listed at the Maldives Stock Exchange (MSE). As required by the Code of CMDA, the MD and CFO certiﬁcations At year-end 2018, STO had 4045 active shareholders in the on the ﬁnancials are provided with this report. e Board, to the shareholder register and of the total share capital, 83.6% was best of their knowledge conﬁrms that the ﬁnancial statements owned by the Government of Maldives while the rest of the for the period from 1st January 2018 to 31st December 2018 18.3% was owned by the General Public. has been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting None of the individual shareholders (other than the Government) standards and gives a true and fair view of the Group oup ou and nd tthe hee hold shares more than 5% within the Company. Company’s consolidated and separate assets, liabilities, tie biliti ti es, ﬁn nancial nan nc all position and results of operations. 4.29. Voting rights 4.32. Prevention off insid in ins insider ide tr nssider siid tradin trading ra rading adding ingg e share capital of STO includes of ordinary shares. Each share entitles holders to the same proportion of assets and earnings e Company has in place a guideline g ide guid tra tr t adin elin on trading din in n company’s c co ompany’s and carry equal rights in terms of dividends. securities, to regulate, monitor itoor and an e nd repor re report tr ading by insid trading iinsiders. in ins ders.rss. is guideline also includes prac pract ticess and pr practices proc cedu oce du procedures ureses forr did sclososure disclosuresure According to the Articles of Association, each share accounts to matio rma of price-sensitive information on and a d continual co continual all d di sclosusure sure. disclosure. one vote each. Voting is based on show of hands where vote is counted as 1 vote per member, unless 10% shareholders present or their proxy, request for poll where voting will be counted on 4.33. System m for ra rai raising for raisingaisssiiing co cconcern onccern oncern ern rn shares represented. Appropriate mechanisms ani ms are nisms a e in n place pla e to nab o enableable e emplo e em employees, plo ees, es management or other take ther stak sta akkeho keho keh ke stakeholders ders olde ra rs to raise any an ny co once ncer ceern concerns, ns, 4.30. Communication with whether on a conﬁdential en al b den ba basis a asis or otherw otherwise e ofo anya y nonnon compliance or fraud or other o oth misdem m demean misdemeanour’s nour our’s it in or ithin r s within wit t the or to shareholders mp em Company. STO has implemented me enteted a Frau aud ud Fraud d R pon Response nsee Po ol cy Policy and a Whistle-blower Policy. Po icyy.  e e Com C Company pany has estab esst blishe has established ished a e quarterly report, along with additional information and whistle-blower facility for or th ttheee emmployeess tthr emp employees rou hro through ntra intra ugh the intranet ranet anet oﬃcial news releases, are posted on the Company’s website and a 'Raise your concern'' fa lit lityy forr othe acility facility o otherer stak sta old ehold hold stakeholders thro hr ugh ders through der gh www.sto.mv. e proceedings of the Annual General Meeting our website. In addition, the Coompa mpany e Company h ha also y has allso impl mple emen so implemented nted ented and the voting rights are also stated in the Company’s website. a Disciplinary, Grievance and Gender Ge de Equality Equalit ender Commit mm ttee m al ty Committee te and tee nd d In addition to this, the Company has set up a communication a Sexual Harassment Prevention Committee C mm m tte mitt t at loo ee that oo s into looks into facility for the shareholders through the website http://sto.mv/ concerns and grievances raised by the e staﬀ sttaﬀ aﬀﬀ. Investor_Relations.aspx. All complaints or messages received In 2019, the Company has also put in place a “raise raise rais c co e yourr concern once nce onc er ern through this facility is delivered directly to the Chairman and “facility that is directly passed to our Managing Director. ector o the Company Secretary. e Chairman then submits to and recommends for actions at the earliest Board meeting. Furthermore, Board members hold and facilitate meetings with 4.34. Annual General Meeting the shareholders as required. e decision-making rights of shareholders are exercised at the General Meetings. e Annual General Meeting of STO is held 4.31. Certification of financials during the ﬁrst half of the year. Extraordinary General Meetings (EGM) may be held at the e Board has reviewed and approved the ﬁnancial results of discretion of the Board or, if requested by the auditors or by the Company. In presenting these results, the Board has aimed shareholders owning at least 10% of all shares in the Company. 47 Participation in decision-making requires the shareholder’s presence either personally or through a proxy. In addition, 4.37. Details of non-compliance the shareholder must be registered in the share register by a No penalty has been imposed by any stock exchange, CMDA or stipulated date prior to the meeting and must register for the Registrar, nor has there been any instance of non-compliance meeting in the manner prescribed. with any legal requirements, or on matters relating to the capital market in the past year. Decisions at the meeting are usually taken on the basis of simp simple ple m majority. e  2 e 2017 Annu Annual Ge G nua General Meeting was held at Dharubaaruge 4.38. Going concern declaration and on May on of the of M y3 0, 20 30, he share sha 201 8. 121 2018. cappita sha e capital c pital 21 shareholders are shar al were we ep w re represented re presenting a total of 82.40% at the Annual General future outlook Mee eeting. Meeting. e Board is conﬁdent that it has the right mix to provide the necessary support to the management to implement Majo Major or d eccisi s made ecision decisions ade at tthe e at he A nu General Meeting 2017 nnua Annual the strategic and business objectives of the Company. Hence incnc cluud include; the Board is highly optimistic on what the future holds for • Dividen Divivi nd pa Dividend payment p m me o off M VRR55.00 MVR55.00 00 per .00 5.0 p share this valuable company. ere is no doubt that the Board will continue to strive to pursue the long-term vision of the • ection off Dire Elec Election rectors to B Directors oard Board Company. ereby, we hereby conﬁrm that the Company can carry on its activities, implement its proposed plans and achieve • pprov pp ppr val Approval nn nn al of Annual R epportt and nd Report d Ba ance Sheet alanc Balance its forecast results, satisfactorily. • ppointm ppoi App Appointment men nt oof K PMG KPMGMG MG a terrna as Exte ternrn A External dit Audit Auditors for a fee of On behalf of the Board of Directors: USSD 48,230.00 USD 48 232 0.0000 e next AnnualA Annu nua Ge G en all General Gen ne nera al Meeting eral ral Meetin Meeteting ing ofo STO S O will be held will be h on May 16, 2019 att Dharubaa ha ba D Dharu 2019 baa aaruge, Dharubaaruge, uge, Male Cit e, Ma M Male’ di s Maldive y, Ma City, Maldives. 44.35..3355. 5 Remote Re RRem em mot mo otete ee-voting e-voottingg and aannndd ballot b Amir Mansoor voting voti vo oting otingg at at th the hee annuannual ann nuaual uaal ggengeeneera meeting general Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee To a allow ow o all w the shaareho he shareholders re olders der to o vote vo v te eoon the rresolutions proposed at th the e An nual Gen Annual G era General Me al Meeti Meetin Meeting,ng tthe he C Com Company has developed and arr rrrang anged arranged ed fo o a for ne an e-v ot otin e-voting ng fac fa y is facility has made managing lity lity. facility. th tthe he mee tings, eetings, ng ea meetings, easiererr aand an d q uic quicker. is facility was developed byy STO S CT ICT de d depa T department epa partm p ep me ment tm entt staﬀ and the Company has used the cilit in facility n the t e past pa past stt 2 Annual A General Meeting’s successfully. Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad CEO & Managing Director 4.36. Dividend STO target is for the dividend to correspond to at least 10% of proﬁt for the period. However, for a number of years, the dividend level has been considerably higher. In accordance with the dividend policy of the Company, the Board has declared MVR 58 per share for shareholder’s approval in the upcoming Annual General meeting 2018. Audit and Risk Committee Report Audit and Risk Committee Report e Audit and Risk Committee functioned as separate committees at the beginning of the year until June 2018. erefore, for reporting purposes, we have separated the attendance to Audit and Risk Committees, prior to and aer June 2018. Audit Committee (until June 2018) Name of Director Attended meetings Remarks Amir Mansoor (Chairman) 3/4 Mohamed Farshath 4/4 Resigned from m Boa ard Boarddo 5.20 05. 0.05. 018. on 30.05.2018. Aishath Rayaheen Shareef 1/1 Removed fro o B from do oard oa Board n2 on 23 11.201 018. 23.01.2018. Mariyam Zaahiya 3/3 ted Appointed d to Board oard o on 23 on 2018 0 .20188. 8 23.01.2018. Risk Committee (until June 2018) Name of Director Attended meetings Aishath Raﬁyya (Chairperson) 3/3 Amir Mansoor 2/3 Mariyam Zaahiya 1/3 Audit and Risk Committee (aer June 2018) Name of Director Attended meetings Amir Mansoor (Chairman) 4/4 Aishath Raﬁyya 4/4 Aishath Rayaheen Shareef 4/4 Mariyam Zaahiya 4/4 e Audit and Risk Committee held 11 meetings during 2018. e Committee assists the Board in overseeing the quality and integrity of the accounting, reporting, information dissemination, internal control practices and the management of key risks as well as the frameworks, guidelines, policies and processes for identifying, monitoring and mitigating risks of the Company. e Committee also ensures compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the qualiﬁcations, performance and independence of the external auditor and the performance of the internal audit function. e Committee has the authority to take independent professional advice on matters covered by its terms of reference at the Company’s expense. e Committee charter is reviewed bi-annually. e Committee Chairman reports the outcomes of the meeting to the Board, regularly. e Committees eﬀectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the Board’s performance evaluation process. 49 Key Duties • Monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim letters of Group Companies ﬁnancial statements, accompanying reports to • Discussed in detail on the internal audit and risk reports shareholders and corporate governance statements issued by Chief Internal Auditor and the Chief Risk • Reviewing and monitoring the eﬀectiveness of the Oﬃcer Com mpan Company’s internal controls to ensure that adequate • Presented, discussed and where required investigated easur measuresure ar re taken to safeguard Company’s assets are further or took appropriate action on the issues • O ers ing the Oversee Overseein Overseeing Co Commpa he Company’s relations with the external identiﬁed through whistle-blow messages received auuditors ditors ditors auditors • Presented and discussed on the External Auditors • kin re Making Making mm nda o to omm ecommen recommendation o bo board on the appointment, Report presented to Audit Committee re tention rete retention na andnd rem emov mo al o removal he ex of the h ter te external auditors • Committee discussed and submitted their • su sur Ensure th thehee indeepen ndence independence e a and credentials of recommendations on appointment of external auditors inndepepen nden independent dentt au auditor ors auditors rs for the year 2019 • R view performance Revie Review perrform orman nce ce of thet e internal inter ternal a ud function and audit • Discussed the Budget for 2019 ep nden e indepen independent dent audito au or auditors • App A ppp oving Approving ng the he h in i te nal e inter na internalal au a d p dit audit plan re nd reviewing an an and regular Conclusion reports re por ports on eﬀ ﬀec eﬀectective vennes of the ectiveness th intern he internal inte co in nal control o systems e Committee is satisﬁed with the activities carried out during • Ensnsuri Ensuring com c complia ri g compliance iance to t statutory statuto req rrequirements and re toryy requ the year. ethical e hical sta hica tan t dards standards rd On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee; • vie Reviewingwi g and win ewi iscu and discussing dis usssing ssin sin with ma w th management the Compan mp ny’s m Company’s isk sk governance y’ss risk gov rna vern struc str sttr cture ance structure, re, risk assessment and a d rriskk mam manag nagem management me ennt ppra ctices ces and the frameworks, practices guide guid de nes, delin guidelines,es p poli olicies oli policies and and oce oces d proce esse es processes for risk assessment and nd risk nageme risk management man anag e ent Amir Mansoor Chairman • Monittor Monitoringor ori g ri risk mananagemen k management m policy implementation in tthee Group G Gro roup • Revviewi eviewi Reviewingwiin ing win d g disclosure dis os sclo iisclos regarding risk contained in the Com ompan om panyy’ss A Company’s Annual Report • Review reports on selected risk topics as the committee deems appropriate from time to time Major Activities of 2018 • Discussed and agreed to deadlines for implementation with management, on the issues identiﬁed by the external auditors during interim audit • Discussed and agreed deadline with Group Company management, on issues identiﬁed in the management Risk Report Risk Report In terms of attaining the set objectives, STO Group faces varied tolerance level in the key objective areas and type of risk such risks which could aﬀect the Group’s ability to create value, as strategic, operational and ﬁnancial and compliance. And to preserve assets, business reputation, and goodwill. e Board further strengthen the existent internal controls, work is being is committed to eﬀective risk management and recognizes that carried forth to further develop the Group risk management management of business risk is crucial to continued growth and framework with the guidance provided by the COSO – success. Risk and its identiﬁcation, assessment, management, Enterprise Risk Management Integrated framework. e Risk and mitigation are fundamental to the Group’s business. Management Department support our comprehensive Group Risk management is an essential element of our corporate risk management processes and facilitate risk workshops. e governance and strategy development. With the thought that Chief Risk Oﬃcer reviews our risk management process and Risk management is an integral part of the overall management ensures compliance with the relevant standards. Major business process, Risk management is viewed by the Board as both a risks are identiﬁed and assessed, including appropriate controls set of vital policies and procedures to protect the Group from measures and implementation of mitigating measures through existing risks, and, as a means of ensuring that the future risks risk registers, which are subsequently monitored and reviewed and uncertainties are properly prepared for, as far as practical. by the Risk Management Committee and the Board. Overall Board policy for risk management is communicated to the Management of the Group for implementation through formal Risk Management Policy of the Board. Risk management in 2018 e Group’s Risk Management process underpins the successful execution of its strategy and planning for the future. During Risk management policy and 2018, 11 department-level Risk Management workshops were framework held, which includes workshops to review the previously issued reports by departments as well. In addition to the departmental e Group continued to review its approach to risk management level Risk Management workshops, several project related to ensure that the focus is aligned with the changing needs workshops were held. rough these workshops, over 350 of the business and that processes and standards follow unique risk scenarios were identiﬁed, which were prioritized by good international practices. e risk management policy and Risk Champions and Departmental teams. e outcomes of all framework are in line with these 31000:2009 Risk Management the risk analyses are included in risk registers. Our initial focus – Guideline and provide reasonable assurance that business is on the major risks that may impact the achievement of our objectives can be achieved and our obligation to customers, business objectives over the next three to ﬁve years, and beyond. shareholders, employees, and society can be met. e policy As such, 148 risks were assessed and classiﬁed as major risks to and framework outline the principles, governance, roles and the Group. Our risks are classiﬁed into eight categories that could responsibilities, and approach within a coherent framework threaten the business model and include the sustainability, that addresses and prioritizes risks that are material and future performance, solvency or liquidity of the Group. ese relevant to the Group’s corporate goals. It also provides clarity major risks are related to its strategy, its ﬁnancial, operational, on risk appetite, with the boundaries that determine the market, and physical security, cyber security, political challenges, 51 Operational risks and management systems In the normal course of business, the Group is subject to many diverse risks relating to its activities, such as the products it deals in, counter-party relationships, and possible shortcomings or failures in the systems or employees. ese operational risks that the Group is exposed to are managed through a number of management frameworks and processes within as well as compliance and control risks. Many of the described the Group. e Company’s management systems, structures, risks could have a positive or negative impact on the Group. processes, standards and codes of conduct together, form a system of internal control that governs how it conduct the A risk aware culture business and manages associated risks. ese processes and controls are contained in standard operating procedures and e board recognizes the cultivation of a risk aware culture in wherever possible, appropriate risk management techniques the Group as a vital component to eﬀective risk management. are embedded into internal control systems and standard It is important that the Group harnesses and establishes a operating procedures. foundation of values, knowledge, beliefs, understanding and communication of the risks associated to the Group’s ability to achieve its objectives. For the purpose of cultivating a risk aware Market and supply risks culture in the Group, in-house trainings were conducted for the As a diverse trading company, STO’s business is increasingly risk champions on a Group wide basis. And to further broaden concerned about the impact of volatility, intensiﬁed the scope of knowledge of the board in risk management, competition and international market developments. e trainings were held for the board in association with leading risk Group is exposed to ﬂuctuations in the price of commodities practitioners. e risk management department has plans to and products including fuel, gas, and consumables and related further contribute to the creation of a risk aware culture through risks such as interest rates, currency rates, insurance costs, and various other means in an all-inclusive view. freight rates. e Company minimizes these risks by monitoring ﬂuctuations and where appropriate, by entering into long-term Financial risks supply arrangements. e ownership of an own fuel tanker provides a partial cushion against increases in fuel freight Core to our management of ﬁnancial risks is our comprehensive costs. e Company continually evaluates its supplier base, system of planning, budgeting, and management reporting for logistics, and supply chain while implementing improvements both capital expenditure and annual operations. e Group’s on service development, system, team members, and process ﬁnancial risks are regulated by a number of policies and improvements procedures, including credit policy, bad debt policy, cash handling policy, etc. that has been adopted by the Board of Directors. e Group also has policies and processes in place to manage and Political challenges monitor its exposure to liquidity risk in both local and foreign e diverse locations of Group operations around the Country currencies and capital management risks. Management of these and the international nature of its supply chain exposes risks are centralized to the STO ﬁnance department. STO Group to a wide range of geopolitical developments and consequent changes to the economic and operating environment. e Group seeks to manage this risk actively through the development and maintenance of relationships Risk Report with key stakeholders, both o oth iin n the the c coun country coountrytr try ry andan in a e n each eaach re h region. reg egio eg on n Physical caal security ssecu seecurritittyy In commonmmo mon with wit w th a l other h all ot oth her establishments, establ establis ishm ishmen ments tth ts, the bu nes busine he business b ess ss iss open o ope pen n to p sical to physical physica ph al calamities, ca calam lamit mitie s such es, su ucch as natural n naattura d ural disasters, dis isa saste ers rs, ﬁres re res,s, storms, sstor torm ms,, aand ndd dents. d nts. accidents. s. Itt is ts. i also so at risrrisk skk of host hos ostile hostile l acts, t such cts, ct suucch h as terr rrorism terro as terrorism i m or pirrac or piracy,c whic cy which ould cou ich could d harm harmm our emp mploye em ourr employees, es l yees, es, dis uptt ourr operations, op opera s, disrupt di rations ti tioo , and tion nd n stroy oy esstr destroy yo our urr a ass set assets. ts. H etts en nce, the nce Hence, the eC Co om mp Company pa p pany pan mon nyy monitors torss e onitors emme erg emerging ing gin g tthre hrrea threats an atss andnd v d vu lne neera e ab bilitie erab vulnerabilities to ma ittiess to m na n ge manage e its ittss phy phhyssical hysic physical e ur cal security. se P Phy u tyy. Physical sica hyysic sic cal seecurity rity urity security thre th tyy threat threats atss tetendnd tto ary o vary geog y geogra ge rap phic raphical geographically icaally and d by type of bus by ttype b usin sineess. Con business. Co n Conside Considering ing the nsidering erin th d ers he diversity ty of the th rsity he G Grorou e Group’s Grou up bus busin n p’s business usiness nes activities, activities iit es acttivit a es, th thee sk riskk of p physica ph hysica physical ecu all sse cur u urity security is abundant is abunda an ant antt byby nature. na natture e e. TThehe emergency he em m merg eergrgen rggegenc ge cy health hheaealtlthh and a d safety sa safet safet afeetty Co Com Committee, ommmitte mittee tee, tog tee, toge to together geth ther w with th thehee rre rel eva relevant evan va d antt depa dep de departments partm artm ments tm ts o nts of ST TO p STO prov provi pro vide provide de eg idan guidance dance guida and e an a support sup d supp su pport po o t for conduc orr con co conduct nduduuct ctt assu ass assurance ran wit ance with w ith h respect resp res pe esspe ect to the th ma man nag agemen management emm ntt o sec se off secur security risskss aﬀ ri urittyy risks aﬀectin e ct ng ecting g the t people th pe peop opllee and a ope and operations.ati nss. e Com o eration Companypany also mpany als maintains ma int ns di maintains d isas is ster disasterter rec coove ve recovery,ery cris y, crisis, and an i is,, and busin b d business nesesss co onnttinuity tin tyy m continuity ma nage nagemen management ge en ntt pplans pla s in n tthe ubsidi ub diarries. e ssub subsidiaries. ies Cy Cyber err se ssececur security ec eccuurirrityy  e e threats th hrea hre ats to o the the e ssecu security ecu eccuri rity oof the th he eG Group’s Gro Group up p p’s digital di diggitittal ta infrastructure in nf nfra rast rastruc ucttur co urre continue continuein e to o evolve e evvol olvve and like e and, a lik ke many m many other o oth he globa er global g globa al organizations, or orga org g nniza zattio zatio onns,s, it its ts reli rreliance elianc nce ce onnc coomputeputers pu computers rs aan andndd net twwo w network echnolog ec ork techn technology olo logyy is in nccre easing. increasing. C g. Cy ber risk be yber Cyber appe ris appears ppe ears in nm any many y forms o s, alll of forms, whi wh hich of which ca h can r re an represent repr se ese ma ent major maj th ajor threats thr hreats a to o thhe the b bus busin sine ness. business. sss. A cybe yb ber cyber er ssecu se curit urity security ty b reac each breac breach h cou could have could ha hav ave sig gniﬁ sign ve signiﬁ iﬁca ﬁcant ca cant mpa mp ntt im mpactt o impact bu on businessines busines ope esss operation. oppera er eratio rationn. STO on. ST see eeks TO seeks kss to o manage manag m man age th hiss risk ge this rissk by a d adh b adhering dher dherin ngg to cybe berr ssecu cyb cyber ec u ity s be curi security’s est st best stanand da standards, ards, ds, o on s,, ongoing ngo ng oing moni nito g monitoring mo m oriring ng of eats of threats, th hre close ts, clos co se cooperation coope ope on w erattio with wit haau utho ritie horitie authorities, es, and em emplo a d employee ploy oyeee awararen ar war e awareness nesss initiatives in initiat initi ive iativ es hrro th ouughout throughout ou the he G Group Gro Group. p. e Comp ompany e Company m mai al maintains any also ain ains IC ns ICTCTT disaster ec rec di as r rrecoverycovery ma mana ge en ryy management a ageme ntt p ans. plans. Compliance Coompmp mplian pl lia pplia ianc iaance aanncce anc ce and aanndd ccon co control oon ont ontr ntrol ntro tro ttrrool ol risk rris ririsks sks kss mis Ethicall misconduct mi m misconduct uct and and d legal le egal or ega o regulatory re r gu atory tory no non-compliance on-n-cocom complia om mp pl n e orr bre b rea ea breaches achcheess of app cable of applicable ab law la aw ble laws gulatio rregul ws orr regulations re reg at onsns c could ouuld ould dam m d damage ma mag age ge theth he he Company’s Com Compa pany’s ny s reputation and a adverse ad and adversely seelyy aﬀect oper per tional ctt operational ti al rre esu esults su s a results an and d shshararehol ar ollde shareholder de err value. value v lue ue Com omp p nc e. Compliance plianc ce su e iss assured assu red ure b the d by C Com t Company’s ommpany mp y’s eﬀ ﬀect eﬀec ﬀe ct ctive ective le eggall legal team. e Company Com mpany mpa m ke kee any keeps abrea abb astt of eps abreast o newn reeg new regulationsgu atio tions and ulation nd an legi d legislation le sla tion atio an n and plan nd plans la anss adequate ade a qu eq uaate resp res reesponse e responses nsess to th t them. em he Speci Spe Sppe all attention m. Special attenti a ten te on on is paid to risks within h Cor C in Co hin po orpor Corporate ate rate orate eG Go overn verrnan Governance. nance ance.. Vari nan V Va Various ouss po ious p olicie icie policies a procedures p proc rocedu ess and edure edu uress have hav ave ha vee been bee been adopted ad pted opte adopte d with witth w deﬁne h deﬁ d n ed da ned uthhor utho auth horit authority ffor ityy fo orr eﬀ e e eﬀec iv ctive ective compliance and controls rolss ssu tro uch ch a such as tthehe eF raud R Fra Fraud Re sponse esp Response nsse P oliccy cy, Policy, W y, Wh e-b hissttleWhistle-blower ow blowewer Pol cy, and er Policy, olicy, olicy and Group Gr Grooup Coomp p Companies anie panies pan Cod ode off Conduct. nies Code C Con Co C ondu uct uct. Further, Fur Furt F employees are provided with w th a rra ran nge range e of cocom mplia mp compliance ance nce ttrainiing e training tr an ing and mo m onnitorin a d monitoringitoring rin prrogram ng programs. rogr gram gr s STO ST O Group TO Groro oup op pe to p iss open eedba t feedback ffeeedbackack andannd listens l to its employees, contractors, and do her ssta other ake ke kehhold hol ho ders stakeholders errs c ers clo e y. o ely closely. Corporate Governance Committee Report 53 Corporate Governance and Compliance Committee Report Name of Director Attended meetings Remarks Mariyam Zaahiya (Chairperson till Sep 2018) 4/4 Aishath Fazeena (Chairperson from Sep 2018) 2/2 Appointed on 30.05.2018 Aishath Raﬁyya 4/4 Mohamed Farshath 2/2 Resigned on 30.05.2018 e Committee comprised of 3 non-executive, independent • Ensuring that an appropriate code of ethics is established directors. Corporate Governance and Compliance Committee and reviewed necessarily for the Company held 4 meeting during the year. • Ensuring that appropriate methods are being established e Committee composition was changed in September 2018 for the stakeholders to submit their recommendations and Aishath Fazeena was appointed as the chairperson. and inquiries to the necessary established regulatory bodies in the Company is Committee is responsible to monitor and review the Company’s overall approach to corporate governance issues and implement, administer and continue to develop a system of Main activities of 2018 governance within the Company. Reviewed Committee Charter e Committee has the authority to take independent • Reviewed subsidiaries compliance to Code of Conduct professional advice on matters covered by its terms of reference at the Company’s expense. e Committee charter is annually • Recommended bearer of “Excellence in Governance” reviewed and signed by the members. e Committee Chairman award for the year 2017 to Board reports the outcomes of the meeting to the Board, regularly. e Committees eﬀectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as part • Reviewed and evaluated the subsidiary Board’s, of the Board’s performance evaluation process. its Chairmen, MD’s, individual directors, Company Secretary, Committees and the Company’s ﬁnancial performance. Results were submitted to Board and Key duties further discussed. Recommendations were given to subsidiaries, considering the ﬁndings and some changes Undertaking an annual review of corporate governance issues were also brought to the members of the Boards and practices for the Company and make recommendations for improvements where necessary • Advising the Board or any of its committees on corporate Conclusion governance issues e Committee is satisﬁed with the activities carried out during the year. • Developing and implementing an orientation and educational program for new recruits to the Board On behalf of the Corporate Governance and Compliance Committee; • Developing a process for assessing the eﬀectiveness of the Company, Board, individual Directors and its committees and ensure that the Board conducts these evaluations annually Aishath Fazeena Chairperson Nomination & Remuneration Committee Report Nomination and Remuneration Committee Report Name of Director Attended meetings Remarks Mohamed Farshath (Chairman until 04/04 Resigned 30.05.2018 30.05.2018) Aishath Raﬁyya (Chairperson aer Sep 2018) 04/04 Amir Mansoor 04/04 No meetings held aer Aishath Fazeena Appointed 30.05.2018 appointment e Committee comprised of 3 non-executive, independent • Be responsible for identifying and nominating directors. Nomination and Remuneration Committee held 4 appropriate candidates for the approval of the Board meetings during the year. Dr. Aishath Raﬁyya was appointed as the Committee chairperson in September 2018. In February 2019, Mariyam Zaahiya was appointed as the Chairperson of Major activities of 2018 the Committee. • Reviewed Committee Charter e Committee has the authority to take independent • Reviewed the adequacy of the composition of the Board professional advice on matters covered by its terms of in terms of number of members, qualiﬁcation, diversity reference at the Company’s expense. e Committee charter and experience. e Committee found the composition is reviewed annually. e Committee Chairman reports of the Board, adequate for functioning the outcomes of the meeting to the Board, regularly. e Committees eﬀectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as • Evaluated, interviewed and made recommendations on part of the Board’s performance evaluation process. public directorship candidates to Board • Reviewed Board evaluation form Key duties • Developing policies on employee remuneration and Gender diversity ﬁxing the structure and the amount of remuneration Board works toward and believes in the importance of gender packages of individual directors and key employees of diversity, in board and company. As such, STO board has 2 the Company female directors and majority of administrative and support • Approving the design of and determining targets for staﬀ in the company are female. any performance related pay schemes • Determining the policy for and scope of pension Conclusion arrangements for the Company as required by law e Committee is satisﬁed with the activities carried out during the year. • Oversee any major changes in employee beneﬁt structures throughout the Company On behalf of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee • Regularly review the structure, size and composition (including the skills, knowledge experience and diversity) of the board and make recommendations to Mariyam Zaahiya the board and shareholders regarding any changes Chairperson Remuneration Report 55 Remuneration Report We believe that our strategic objectives can only be delivered with the dedication and hard work of our employees. e Nomination and Remuneration Committee assists the Board by formulating a remuneration strategy that ensures a balance in attracting, motivating and retaining human capital through competitive remuneration practices, while creating shareholder value. is Policy gives eﬀect to the remuneration strategy, supports the business objectives and oﬀers a balance in remuneration mix to align it with our goals. Taking Care of our employees We try to maximize our employee value proposition. We are committed to provide Pay-for-performance a competitive pay to all employees and We focus on pay-for-performance in the design operate various wellness programs. of our variable pay structure, particularly for sales segments. Our remuneration objectives Gender Diversity and Equality Training and developing talent We support main-streaming diversity in the We invest in the development and skills of our employees to workplace and develop more robust employment maximize learning potential with study assistance, performance equality plans and targets management and career development. Remuneration Report e remuneration policies for employees and board directors are separately stated in this Policy. Employee remuneration and other incentives e employee remuneration principles include; • A systematic role of evaluation shall be developed for each employee to identify their appropriate level of remuneration and placement within the structure • e remuneration shall comprise of ﬁxed and performance-based components • e evaluation must be performed annually, and the review must assess the degree to which the e ployee is satisfying e employee employ atissfyin sffyying satisf ssatisfy g the th requirement of his/her role and the degree to which established performance objectives have e been be been achieved achiev d • Fixed remuneration must align it with that of comparable industry positions • Employees are entitled to performance-based incentives including bonuses and other relative t ve all relative allowa nce allowances • Employees can trade in securities of the Company, in accordance with the Trading in Secuurities itie n Securities Se G Guide Gu es Guideline delinnee of o the Com Co mpan th Company any • e company abides by the Maldives Pension Administration Oﬃce regulations for or pens enssion p pe pension prov vis n o provision of e mpployees. oyeees.. As ssuch employees. such mpa ompapany pro the employee provides 7% of his/her basic salary to pension provision, and the Company ovides des provides ame tthe same e the • Employees are further entitled to retirement, termination and severance payments he a ts nts ts whe w where plicable pplicabablle applicable • Employees are also eligible for loans provided by the Company Board directors remuneration and other incentives e remuneration provided to the Board Directors for serving on the Board are determined edd andd ap ov by approved pproved prov the by tth har are older shareho he shareholders ers at the Annual General Meeting. While the executive members of the Board are paid the same and a additional nd an ad dit ditional dditi re remu i al remuneration uneratio mun ion for their tthei he heii stateme position in the Company. is information is further disclosed below and in the audited ﬁnancial statementsmentsnts (re (refer ote 16 eferr note 61). 161). e remuneration of the Executive Directors is set in accordance with the principles of employee’s ’s remuneration e’s rem em eratio remun at o and inc d incentives, en ves, ent centi ess, inspected by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. e remuneration of the members of the Board consist of the following elements; • Monthly remuneration • A fee for attendance per meeting • A chairman allowance for the Chairman of the Board e principles for board director remuneration include; • Non-executive directors shall be remunerated by way of fees paid in recognition of their membership on the Board and its sub-committees • e executive directors should be paid the same fee as that received by the non-executive directors for their board membership • Executive directors shall also receive variable salaries in addition to the Board membership fees. is salary must be a 57 market median of companies comparable in, market segment, business complexity and international scope. e executive’s performance must also consider fulﬁlment of various improvement targets and attainment of certain ﬁnancial objectives. • e Company's remuneration policy must be formulated to attract and retain high calibre executives and motivate them to develop and implement the Company's business strategy to optimize long-term shareholder value creation. SSummary Suum mm on remuneration provided for executive directors Ba Base se Sal Base S Salary ry Policy Polic Pol olicy • Benchmarked Bench en hm markedked ag arked against gain t mark market rk ket practices in Maldives with companies that are comparable in size, business and complexity • en er ly, era ner Generally, y, re reﬂ m market cts market ﬂects et median med a levels based on the role and individual skills and experience Implementation Imple Im plelem mentatio tationn in 2018 2 • Paid aid m id monthly mon nthly hly • inccreas rease or No increase dec crea o decrease ted g nted asse was granted gran • stt in Last cr m cre me increment give entt gi givenn in 201 en 20 13 2013 Pens ension Fund Pension Fund Polic Policy oliccy • Provided rovvid id ided as per Ma per Maldives a divves dmm P ns on Administration es Pension Oﬃce regulations for pension provision mple Im Imp lem Implementation mentatio nttationn in 2018 2 • Paaid aid to Paid o Ma Maldiv iv Pe Maldives dives ives ensio Pensionon Admdm Administration dmin min monthly • % of 7% basic salary o basic sa cont c n ribut d from employee’s salary contributed • %o 7% of bas ba basic salary sala c ssa con ry contributed ont ntri from STO ealth a Insu Health suran rance Insurance Policy Polic ol cy • Allied Insurance Gold package subscribed for executive directors Implementation in 2018 • Paid to Allied Insurance yearly • Cost borne by Company • Covers 1 spouse and 2 children of below 18 years of age • Cost depends on age of director and dependent • Director has to bear any insurance for additional dependants Remuneration Report Life Insurance Policy • Allied Insurance life insurance package subscribed for executive directors Implementation in 2018 • Paid MVR 180 per person a year Annual and Deferred Bonus Policy • Bonus calculations are made between 1 to 5 % of net proﬁt, as approved by the Board • Bonus is given yearly • Annual bonus is distributed equally to all corporate and staple department staﬀ • Employee must have served a minimum of 30 days over the bonus review period • 50% marks is taken from performance appraisal • 50% marks is concluded from attendance and disciplinary actions • As such, points are deducted for disciplinary actions, late and sick leave • Overall 49 mark and below don’t receive a bonus, 50 mark to 79 mark receive 80% el % of eligible elig igib ig igible gi boonus us and bonus 80 mark and 80 k to ark mar 1100 o 100 mark receive 100% of eligible bonus Implementation in 2018 • Year 2017 bonus was paid in 2018 • Board approved to pay 3% of net proﬁt to all eligible employees • gib Both executive directors received above 80% marks and hence were paid 100% of the eligible ble a amm un amo e amount received ed nt received re • ere was no deferred bonus paid to any of the executive directors in 2018 Sales and Performance Incentive Policy • Incentive calculations are made based on monthly and annual targets on gross proﬁt and net proﬁt • is policy applies to all staﬀ of business segments, excluding staple foods • Targets are approved by the strategic committee • Amount of incentive reward is maintained between 1 and 10 % of target proﬁt for the month • Above target incentives are also provided as per incentive and performance policy • 20% of incentive and an administrative change of 3% is withheld by the Company • Incentive for each month is paid in the preceding month 59 Implementation in 2018 • Executive Directors are not eligible for this bonus Service contract, notice period and severance fee Implementation Imp mplementa entat tat on in 2018 • Managing Ma anagin ng D Director re rec Ahmed Shaheer’s service contract was terminated on 15.11.2018 due to submission of his resignation • M Managin ManagingginggD ect Directo ect H Director Hu Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad joined STO on 30.11.2018 • co contr Se vice contract Service rac contractsac acts have been n signed with all executive directors of the company • e  Chie e Chief Finna nanci Oﬃ Financia ief Financial ﬃc M ha Mo er Mohamed cer Mihad has a service contract signed with the Company • Hee has h s also sig ig so signed the to the Directors D rectors tor Ch C or Charter upon appointment to the Board • ere er  e wass no ere o notice period per not e period d given giv n to a of the executive directors o any • Exe ecuti cu ive No Executive Direc e Directors D cttorrs w ere were re e rem ov oved removed d fr from Board or his position in the Company. Hence there were no severance fees paid for executtive or exe executive dire ve directors directorss du ring the uring the year. during year. Ahmed Shaheer resigned from post on 15.11.2018 • All ex Al exe cu ve executive ed rec dire cto tors a directors are em re employ plo ee employees o tthe Company, yet their term on Board is conﬁrmed by the majority shareholder e of Share options are opttionss a nd ttr and nd trading tra adin securities ing in securiti se es Implementation Imp Im mple mpl plementa menta men tatio atio tion in 22018 08 01 • Noo share sshaare tions were re options ptio tio w re provided prrovide ovided de e to o any an a executive directors • d g in T adin Trading i securities ssecu ities ess are are implemented impleme im ente t according to the Trading in Securities guideline of the Company Other Otther benefi b fits ts Im Implementation Imp mpllementa mplem nta tationn in 22018 08 • Executive Execut Exxec ve Direct v Directors Dire Directocttors tors rs ar are provided additional beneﬁts such as authority to use certain company vehicles, accept gis from company co omp mp pany pan on on certain cert ert occasions and discount beneﬁts as per the beneﬁts list and policies approved by the Board of Directors Remuneration Report Summary on remuneration provided for non-executive directors Remuneration and Allowances Policy • Approved at the Annual General Meeting by Shareholders • com om mplex exitty Benchmarked against market practices in Maldives with companies that are comparable in size, business and complexity • Generally, reﬂects market median levels based on the role and individual skills and experience Implementation in 2018 • Paid monthly • No increase or decrease was granted • Includes a monthly fee of MVR 10,000 and an attendance fee of MVR 500 per meeting ng • Chairman was provided an additional fee of MVR 10,000 and a phone allowance of MV MVR R 1,000 1,000 per m 0 per moonth month • No additional remuneration is provided to committee members or its chairpersons ons Pension Fund Policy • Provided as per Maldives Pension Administration Oﬃce regulations for pension provision provision ovisio v • Board Directors are not eligible for this fund Implementation in 2018 • No pension provisions provided for or from non-executive directors Health Insurance Policy • Allied Insurance Gold package subscribed for non-executive directors Implementation in 2018 • Paid to Allied Insurance yearly • Cost borne by Company • Covers 1 spouse and 2 children of below 18 years of age • Cost depends on age of director and dependent • Director must bear any insurance for additional dependants 61 Life Insurance Policy • Allied Insurance life insurance package subscribed for non-executive directors Implementation in 2018 • Paid MVR 180 per person a year Ann An nuua and ual Annual d DeDef erre Deferred ed Bonus Policy Pol • Bonu Bonus B calculations alcu lc atio calcu nus ca c calcul tions are re made between 1 to 5 % of net proﬁt, as approved by the Board • B Boonu nus is giv Bonus iven yye given early yearly • Annua nn al bo Ann Annual bonus bonus rib d s ri buted us iis distributed d equally equa eqq to all corporate and staple department staﬀ • mplo Emp Employee ee e must oyee mu m have serv have se ved a minimum sserved m minimim m of 30 days over the bonus review period • 50% %m ark marks take kss is taken enn from frromm perform p form manc performance ce appraisal • 50 0% 50% %m arks marks kss iss concl cl de concluded ded d fromm att atte da attendance and disciplinary actions • Ass ssuc h, p such, int a oints points areed de uc ucte deducted ed ffor disc sciplin in disciplinary actions, late and sick leave • Over Overall 49 mark m mar erall 49 ark rkk and below b don d on’t don’t re ec ece ve a bonus, 50 mark to 79 mark receive 80% of eligible bonus and 80 mark to 100 ceive ’t receive mark ma rec re eceive receive vee 1100 100%0% off e ble igib gib e bonu eligible b bo bonusus us Implementation Immpplem plementa tation on in 20 2201818 • Board o oa DireDir Directors rectors cto to ar re n are not no ble fo ble ot eligible for or aany n types of bonus or incentive plans le and Sales and PPer orma ormmanc Performance nce Inc nc In nti entiv Incentiveti e Pol Policy ol cy • Incentive Inc ncenttive ve ca c ccalculations cu on culat ons a are re made based on monthly and annual targets on gross proﬁt and net proﬁt • poli is policy app es to p cyy applies applie t all staﬀ of business segments, excluding staple foods • Ta arg Targets are approved gets are ar a by the strategic committee • Amount of incentive reward is maintained between 1 and 10 % of target proﬁt for the month • Above target incentives are also provided as per incentive and performance policy • 20% of incentive and an administrative change of 3% is withheld by the Company • Incentive for each month is paid in the preceding month Implementation in 2018 • Board Directors are not eligible for any types of bonus or incentive plans Remuneration Report Service contract, notice period and severance fee Implementation in 2018 • All directors are appointed for a term of one year (i.e. from one annual general meeting to another) • e non-executive directors were last appointed to Board on 30.05.2018 • All directors have signed the board charter • is charter indicates the term, roles and responsibilities of Board and its directors Share options and trading in securities Implementation in 2018 • No share options were provided to any non-executive directors • Trading in securities are implemented according to the Trading in Securities guideline of the Company Other benefits Implementation in 2018 • Non-Executive Directors are provided additional beneﬁts such as authority to use certain company vehicles, accept gis from company on certain occasions and discount beneﬁts as per the beneﬁts list and policies approved by the Board Paid remuneration to board members In 2018, a sum of MVR 1,151,656 was paid to the Board of Directors as remuneration in the Board, while MVR 3,329,992 was paid to Executive Directors as remuneration for their executive position in the Company. A total of MVR 8,477,637 was paid to the top management, excluding the Executive Directors, as basic salary and allowances. Name of Director Position in Board Total Remuneration received for the position in Board (in MVR) Hussain Salim Mohamed Chairman 262,500 Ahmed Shaheer Managing Director until 15.11.2018 115,000 Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad Managing Director from 30.11.2018 11,333 Mohamed Mihad Director/ CFO 131,000 Amir Mansoor Director 137,500 Aishath Raﬁyya Director 138,000 Aishath Rayaheen Shareef Director 8,419 Mariyam Zaahiya Director 129,403 Mohamed Farshath Director 60,500 Aishath Fazeena Director 78,000 63 Paid remuneration to top management Due to salary disparities in the employment market, the Board of Directors have chosen not to disclose the individual remuneration and package of top management and Executive Directors. e following table indicates the remuneration paid to individual Board of Directors for the year 2018. No notice periods, severance fees or stock options were provided to the members of top management. Members of top management and their proﬁle will be available on page 161 to 163. Directors shareholding in the company e Directors have the right to subscribe for securities in the Company, in accordance with Trading in Securities Guideline of the Company. However, they do not have the right to subscribe for securities in the subsidiaries. Director’s shareholding as at 31st December 2018 were as follows: Name of Director Direct Shares Indirect Shares Hussain Salim Mohamed 0 0 Ahmed Shaheer 50 125 Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad 0 0 Mohamed Mihad 0 0 Amir Mansoor 0 0 Aishath Raﬁyya 0 0 Aishath Rayaheen Shareef 0 0 Mariyam Zaahiya 0 0 Mohamed Farshath 50 236 Aishath Fazeena 1 0 Remuneration Report Directors membership on other boards According to the Subsidiaries and Major Commercial Activities Policy of the Company, the Executive Directors along with the senior management staﬀ can sit on the Boards of subsidiary companies. According to the Code of CMDA, no Director is permitted to sit in the Board of 3 or more public listed companies. As such, below table includes the Board Members who held directorships in other Companies as at 31st December 2018, and it further stipulates any additional remuneration received from the said Boards. Name of Director Position in Board Policy on Remuneration Remarks Ahmed Shaheer Chairman of Maldives National Monthly MVR 2,500 and a Oil Company Ltd sitting fee of MVR 300 per No payments made since it was meeting decided there was no capacity Chairman of STO Maldives Monthly MVR 2,500 and a in the Company to make these (Singapore) Pte Ltd sitting fee of MVR 300 per payments meeting Chairman of Maldives Industrial Monthly MVR 5,000 and a Eligible payment based on Fisheries Company Ltd sitting fee of MVR 300 per remuneration policy, paid until meeting 15.11.2018 Board Director of Addu MVR 5,000 per meeting Eligible payment based on International Airport Pvt Ltd remuneration policy, paid until 15.11.2018 Husen Amru Chairman of Maldives Industrial Monthly MVR 5,000 and a Eligible payment based on Mohamed Rashad Fisheries Company Ltd sitting fee of MVR 300 per remuneration policy, paid from meeting 30.11.2018 Chairman of Lafarge Maldives Monthly MVR 5000 and a Cement Pvt Ltd sitting fee of MVR 250 per meeting Board Director of Addu MVR 5,000 per meeting Eligible payment based on International Airport Pvt Ltd remuneration policy, paid until 15.11.2018 Mohamed Mihad Chairman of Fuel Supplies Monthly MVR 5,000 and a Not a board member since March Maldives Pvt Ltd sitting fee of MVR 300 per 2019 meeting Board Director of Maldives Monthly MVR 5,000 and a Eligible payment based on Industrial Fisheries Company sitting fee of MVR 300 per remuneration policy, paid from Ltd meeting 30.11.2018 Mohamed Farshath Board Director of Maldives Monthly MVR 10,000 and a Was a Director until 2017 AGM of Transport and Contracting sitting fee of MVR 500 per MTCC Company Plc meeting Aishath Fazeena Board Director of Maldives Monthly MVR 10,000 and a Was a Director until 2017 AGM of Transport and Contracting sitting fee of MVR 500 per MTCC Company Plc meeting Board Director of Maldives Monthly MVR 10,000 and a A director since 2018 till date Tourism Development sitting fee of MVR 1000 per Corporation plc meeting 65 Payment to past directors ere were no payments made to past directors, during 2018. Declaration is Remuneration Report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the Chairperson of Nominations and Remuneration Committee. Mariyam Zaahiya Chairperson d Remune Nomination and mu ation ra erat u era Remuneration omm on Comm e ee m ttee Committee Human Resource Report 5 Human Resource Report 67 Organizational operations Employees are a vital part of any organization. e Department of Human Resources provides human resource leadership to ensure a high-performing workforce. e department provides strategic direction and advice related to government-wide human resource policies and initiatives such as, diversity and leadership development; develops and implements innovative corporate human resource policies and practices; and fulﬁls legislative and delegated responsibilities for recruitment, compensation, pensions and beneﬁts, employee development, organizational health and labour relations. Human Resource Report • As STO continues to strive to become • Identifying talented employees a performance-based organization, and drawing attention to them for supporting employee attendance at key positions work is critical to achieving organizational performance. • Considering talented • Supporting talented employees employees as part succession with Group –wide networking management. Staff trainings and inclusive talent development During the year 2018 a total of Short-term overseas 84 staﬀ participated in various shortManagement term overseas training programs in training 84 staff the ﬁeld of management, social media participated Health care marketing, health care, service training on Microbiology BACT alert and Vitek, Social media Financial Analysis on Supply Chain, Oﬃce marketing 365, Successful Project Management, Vitek, Financial Analysis Service training on Share Point work-ﬂow, etc. While 7 staﬀ on Supply Chain Microbiology BACT were given opportunities in Companyalert sponsored long-term certiﬁcate, diploma and degree-level courses in the ﬁelds of Successful Project Oﬃce Business, Marketing, Engineering, Oil/Gas Management 365 Share Point Management and Health Services. work-ﬂow In-house training programs conducted in 2018 include Team Building, Basic ﬁre ﬁghting for evacuation Oﬃcers, Public Speaking Workshop, Advance Excel Training, Dhivehi Training, ISO 22000 Training, etc. In 2018, STO made a wide-ranging eﬀort on staﬀ training and development. Career and capacity development remained a top priority in the organizations HR strategy. HR department acted to ensure that staﬀ training needs were met in order to develop capacity and staﬀ ability to make informed decisions and deliver the best possible service to customers and suppliers. 69 Staff count 2018 2,140 Employees at the end of the year 2018 15% foreign employee 85% Maldivian employee 40.20% Women 59.8% Men % Amount Maldivian employees 85% 1819 Foreign employees 15% 321 Men 59.8% 1280 Women 40.20% 860 Sustainability Report 6 Sustainability Report 2018 71 Serving the community is the founding principle of STO. National interest and social responsibility are speciﬁed in our organizational values. We are keen to merge business success with ethical values, human dignity and sustainable development. Accordingly, we espouse a leading and proactive attitude towards sustainability reporting, which helps us gauge and push ourselves. In our conventional approach to corporate social responsibility, our eﬀorts have been divided into four main categories: society, market, staﬀ, and environment. Nine years ago we joined the United Nations Global Compact and committed to its ten principles that are based on human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. More recently, we have endorsed the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) designed by the United Nations to tackle the economic, social and environmental issues around the world, and it sets the format for this report. SDGs are long term, and require action by governments, NGOs and the private sector. As a prominent PLC in the Maldives, we are committed to lead by example and function towards these goals. We strive to reduce the negative impact of our actions on the ecosystems and communities we engage. Each one of the seventeen SDGs has a speciﬁc target to be achieved by 2030. is report highlights eight that oﬀer the most congruency with our operations and capabilities. Food Security e uninterrupted provision and aﬀordability of essential goods is part of STO’s mission statement, and staple foods is a crucial component of this. We essentially play the role of a regulator (both price and quality) of staple foods. We are currently executing a programme to equalize availability and price of staple foods across all 187 inhabited islands We have plans to build a new central distribution centre with vastly improved capacity, conditions and access. Sustainability Report Health Healthcare is one of the biggest areas of contribution to the public by STO. STO Medicals routinely hosts or sponsors key medical symposiums. As the organization entrusted with the supply of controlled drugs, key equipment and consumables, we work closely with the Health Ministry, other organizations and healthcare facilities and professionals on various projects to advance national healthcare. STO is always amongst the ﬁrst to respond and provide assistance in nationwide pandemics. Health sector donations and MVR sponsors in 2018 1Million Quality Education Within a few decades Maldives has made admirable progress in this area compared to the region, especially in primary and secondary education. However, the quality and access to early childhood education and lifelong learning opportunities still vary greatly across island communities. Education-related MVR sponsors in 2018 1 Million One of the ways we support education is our assistance to smaller schools and private or community establishments in the atolls with their resource needs and integrating technology. To promote educational achievement at the crucial secondary level, we honoured the top students for the seventh consecutive year in 2018. Number of students from Number of students island schools: 138 honoured in 2018: 375 7 73 Gender Equality Board of Directors Total staﬀ 2 females 40.2% female 3 males 59.8% males One of the ﬁrst local Plc's to meet the We stand ﬁrmly against gender-based discrimination. We CG guideline of appointing two female do not tolerate gender-based diﬀerentiation in employee directors beneﬁts and opportunities such as salary, training, promotion or decision making. Donations to NGOs that work in gender equality and women MVR empowerment in 2018 318,500 Reduced Inequalities Our island communities being scattered across the ocean, access to basic services becomes a key area of focus in addressing ad ddres d d ssing inequalities. STO continues to reduce the gap in accessibility to essentials such as medicine and staple foods. 187 pharmacies 1 on each island We continue to work with government agencies and NGOs in assisting special needs groups. Our sponsorship of trained staﬀ and facilities at Fiyavathi help improve the odds for a better future for these children. Aid provided to MVR orphanages in 2018 650,000 Sustainability Report Sustainable Cities and Communities e rapid urbanization of the Greater Malé area raises concerns about adequate housing and infrastructure, environmental impact, and vulnerability to disasters. In July 2018 we introduced Powermix (our ready-mix concrete service) in Hulhumalé where most largescale construction projects are concentrated. Powermix vastly reduces air and noise pollution, construction safety and quality issues that plagued the conventional method of concrete mixing in the Maldives. Powermix benefits Save millions 4-6hours faster Equivalent to more than 23 workers Prevent Increase traffic and road efficiency blocks We are also taking a more direct involvement in tackling the housing problem by introducing our own housing scheme for the neediest staﬀ. Number of housing units 300+ 75 Climate Action We are the ﬁrst local PLC to manage recyclable waste and general waste separately according to industry best practices. ac ctices ice . Biodegradable bags Launched reduce across all outlets plastics initiative Adopted WAMCO best practices in waste management in all business operations Life below Water Life below Water has been chosen as a theme of STO’s CSR eﬀorts in 2019. Hundreds of coral reefs in the countryountry o t y are delicate d delicat i te ecosystems important for both environmental and economic reasons. Fisheries and tourism sectors that form the he ba he bac bo e of o kbone backbone ur our economy are heavily dependent on them. As an MSC-certiﬁed ﬁsheries company, our subsidiary MIFCO uses sustainable ﬁshing methods, doing its part to ensure the world’s oceans remain teething with life today, tomorrow and for generations to come. Amount of plastic waste STO transported free-of-charge from the atolls to Malé in 25 2018 for recycling by Parley Maldives Jumbo bags Reducing plastics and micro-plastics going into the ocean is an area we will continue to explore for greater contribution moving forward. Sustainability Report Emmenge STO Apart from our commitments to UN Global Compact and the SDGs, we strive to be a more caring organization to our communities. 4,680,514 Fitness, sports & youth Re lig ion 2 16 ,96 1 ,72 36 1,2 h alt 0 He Wome n 318,50 Business 0 1,078,574 Education ment 69 1,050,809 Govern 416,2 Chil dre 13 n 75 444,210 Specia 4,7 7,7 42 l ne 6 eds 4 Arts & culture Total 10,570,036 rough our CSR and sponsorship programs we spent a signiﬁcant portion of our 2018 marketing budget towards developing a sustainable future. Similar eﬀorts were made by our subsidiaries, making STO Group arguably the nation’s top corporate contributor to sustainable causes. 77 7 Independent Auditor's Report & Financial Statemen Statement e t INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC We have audited the accompanying consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements of State Trading organization PLC (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together with the “Group”), which comprise the consolidated and separate statements of ﬁnancial position as at 31st December 2018 and the consolidated and separate statements of proﬁt or loss and other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash ﬂows for the year then ended and notes to the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements, comprising a summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies and other explanatory information set out in pages 84 to 160. Opinion Group In our opinion, the consolidated ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated ﬁnancial position of the Group as at 31st December 2018 and of its consolidated ﬁnancial performance and its consolidated cash ﬂows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). Opinion Company In our opinion, the separate ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the unconsolidated ﬁnancial position of the Company as at 31st December 2018 and of its unconsolidated ﬁnancial performance and its unconsolidated cash ﬂows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the “IESBA Code”) and we have fulﬁlled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suﬃcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Emphasis of Matter – Restatement of Comparative Balances We draw our attention to Note 43 to the consolidated, ﬁnancial statements, which describes that consolidated ﬁnancial statements presented previously has been restated to include the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation of the subsidiaries not recorded previously and disclosed as comparatives in this consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Our opinion is not modiﬁed in respect of this matter. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signiﬁcance in our audit of the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements of the current year. ese matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters 79 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC Key Audit Matters (Continued) Recognition of revenue from trading business (Refer to the signiﬁcant accounting policies in note 3.12 and Note 7 of the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements). Risk Description Our Response Revenue is an important measure used to evaluate the Our audit procedures included; performance of the Group and the Company. Given the • Testing the key IT controls and manual controls over signiﬁcance of the total value, the number of transactions, recognition of revenue. geographical locations and the dependence on IT systems over recognition of revenue from trading sector of the Company • Assessing and challenging the assumptions made by the and the Group, the recognition of revenue from the trading Group and the Company in the computation of revenue sector was considered as a key audit matter that requires our to be recognized during the year. signiﬁcant attention. • Performing procedures in order to establish the completeness of the revenue recognized in the appropriate period. • Developing expectations over current revenue amount based on trend analysis taking into account historical sales patterns. Recognition of Insurance Claim Liabilities (Refer to the signiﬁcant accounting policies in note 3.2(iv) , 3.11 and Note 32 of the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements). Risk Description Our Response Non-life insurance liabilities, which include the Group’s Our audit procedures included; outstanding claim provision and unexpired risk reserve, are determined based on historical claims experience, existing • Testing the key controls over the submission of data for knowledge of events, the terms and conditions of the relevant estimating the insurance contract liabilities. policies and interpretation of circumstances which require the • Assessing the reasonableness of the assumptions use of signiﬁcant judgments and estimates. Estimates have to through the use of analytical procedures, trend analysis be made for both the expected ultimate cost of claims reported and benchmarking to market data. For changes in the as at 31st December 2018, and for the expected ultimate cost of methodology or key assumptions, we have assessed claims incurred but not yet reported (IBNR) as at 31 December whether these are reasonable based on changes in the 2018. industry and the Group’s historical claims experience. Additionally, the valuation of the life insurance liabilities in relation to the life business require the application of • Engaging internal experts to assess the reasonableness assumptions such as mortality, lapses and surrenders, loss of the assumptions used in the valuation of the life ratios, surplus distribution and administrative expenses. insurance, contract liabilities with reference to market Considering the level of assumptions used in the recognition data and policyholders experience. INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC Key Audit Matters (Continued) Recognition of Insurance Claim Liabilities (Continued) (Refer to the signiﬁcant accounting policies in note 3.2(iv) , 3.11 and Note 32 of the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements). Risk Description Our Response of insurance claim liabilities, this was considered as a matter that • Verifying provision for pending claims with surveyor require our signiﬁcant attention. reports and recalculating the claim recoverable from reinsurers. • Assessing the completeness and accuracy of the related disclosures. Transition and adoption IFRS 9 (Refer to the signiﬁcant accounting policies in note 3.2, 5, 21 and 22 of the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements). Risk Description Our Response Due to the introduction of the new International Financial • Our audit procedures included; Reporting Standard (“IFRS 9”) relating to the ﬁnancial • Evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies instruments, the Group evaluated its existing accounting policies based on the requirements of IFRS 9 with our business involving the classiﬁcation, measurement and recognition of understanding and industry practice. impairment over ﬁnancial instruments. ese new accounting policies included estimates that involves signiﬁcant judgment • Assessing the reasonableness of key judgement of the management and complex computations. Further, the and assumptions incorporated into the impairment adoption of this standard has resulted in adjustments of MVR calculations by using our own KPMG specialists to 231,592,427/and MVR 205,430,706/to the opening balance of challenge their rationale and change their assumptions equity of the Group and Company presented as at 1st January and recalculated where necessary. 2018. • Evaluating the appropriateness and tested the mathematical accuracy of the estimation of provision for impairment. • Evaluating the completeness, accuracy and relevance of data used in preparing the transition adjustments. • Assessing the appropriateness of the assumptions used by the Company/Group in the estimation of recoverable value of trade, other and related party receivables. • Assessing the completeness, accuracy and relevance of the transition disclosures. 81 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC Key Audit Matters (Continued) Recognition of provision for impairment on investment property (Refer to the signiﬁcant accounting policies in note 3.5 and 14 of the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements). Risk Description Our Response Due to the negative impairment indications existed, the Our audit procedures included; Company assessed the recoverable value of the Investment • Evaluating the appropriateness of the application of property under construction and estimated a provision for the accounting policies in line with the International impairment amounting to MVR 209,894,959/for the year Financial Reporting Standard 36. ended 31st December 2018. Considering the level of judgments and assumptions used in the estimate of impairment provision, • Assessment of the reasonableness of management’s key this was considered as a matter that require our signiﬁcant assumptions, including verifying the estimates relating to attention. the assessment with external corroborative evidences. • Checking the mathematical accuracy of the computation of provision for impairment. • Evaluating the appropriateness of the disclosures made in the ﬁnancial statements. Other Information e Board of Directors (the “Board”) is responsible for the other information. e other information comprises the information included in the annual report, but does not include the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements and our auditors’ report thereon. e annual report is expected to be made available to us aer the date of this auditors’ report. Our opinion on the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identiﬁed above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. When we read the annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to the Board. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements e Board is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRSs, and for such internal control as the Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing these consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements, the Board is responsible for assessing the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (Continued) Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether these consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to inﬂuence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of these consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is suﬃcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. e risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the eﬀectiveness of the Group’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast signiﬁcant doubt on the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain suﬃcient appropriate audit evidence regarding the ﬁnancial information of the business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with the Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and signiﬁcant audit ﬁndings, including any signiﬁcant deﬁciencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the Board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 83 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (Continued) From the matters communicated with the Board, we determine those matters that were of most signiﬁcance in the audit of the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest beneﬁts of such communication. e engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditors’ report is R.W.M.O.W.D.B Rathnadiwakara. Chartered Accountants 23rd April 2019 Male’ STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Note MVR MVR (restated*) MVR MVR Revenue 7 10,873,171,406 9,099,847,272 9,404,114,486 7,505,223,841 Cost of sales (9,363,864,105) (7,664,902,208) (8,214,418,971) (6,569,083,477) Gross proﬁt 1,509,307,301 1,434,945,064 1,189,695,515 936,140,364 Other Income 8 80,609,020 77,910,883 64,459,838 54,584,905 Administrative expenses (638,587,234) (580,912,624) (351,858,543) (295,411,545) Selling and marketing expenses (600,968,288) (490,343,616) (482,241,488) (386,695,479) Impairment loss on trade, other and related party receivables (65,818,485) (49,806,888) (24,042,049) (12,841,675) Other operating expenses (37,795,949) (76,508,983) (15,541,247) (8,324,641) Operating proﬁt 246,746,365 315,283,836 380,472,026 287,451,929 Finance income 9 26,032,162 22,254,181 48,697,141 48,037,615 Finance costs 9 (203,677,100) (138,045,028) (177,707,737) (99,377,543) Net ﬁnance costs 9 (177,644,938) (115,790,847) (129,010,596) (51,339,928) Share of proﬁt of equity accounted investees net of tax 18 11,024,686 11,555,770 Proﬁt before tax and impairment of investment in hulhumale hotel 10 80,126,113 211,048,759 251,461,430 236,112,001 Impairment of investment in hulhumale hotel 14.2 (209,894,959) (209,894,959) (Loss)/ Proﬁt before tax (129,768,846) 211,048,759 41,566,471 236,112,001 Income tax expense 11 (50,534,409) (52,387,407) (27,154,607) (24,830,264) (Loss)/ Proﬁt aer tax (180,303,255) 158,661,352 14,411,864 211,281,737 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss Remeasurement of deﬁned beneﬁt liability net of tax 29 (2,439,950) (2,978,381) (3,285,558) (2,278,521) Equity Investment at FVOCI Net change in fair value 19 (6,920,774) (7,920,774) Related tax 11.3 1,381,931 427,922 1,680,950 341,778 (7,978,793) (2,550,459) (9,525,382) (1,936,743) Items that are or may be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss Available for sale investments Net change in fair value 19 3,875,000 Related tax 11.3 (600,000) 3,275,000 Total other comprehensive income net of tax (7,978,793) 724,541 (9,525,382) (1,936,743) Total comprehensive income for the year (188,282,048) 159,385,893 4,886,482 209,344,994 (Loss)/ Proﬁt attributable to: Owners of the Company (182,148,061) 154,653,269 14,411,864 211,281,737 Non controlling interests 1,844,806 4,008,083 (180,303,255) 158,661,352 14,411,864 211,281,737 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the Company (190,130,623) 155,366,201 4,886,482 209,344,994 Non controlling interests 1,848,575 4,019,692 Total comprehensive income for the year (188,282,048) 159,385,893 4,886,482 209,344,994 Basic and diluted earnings per share 12 (161.63) 137.24 12.79 187.49 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. * Refer Note No. 43 e consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group and separate ﬁnancial statements of the Company set out on pages 92 to 160. e Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages 78 to 83. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION Group Company Note 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 1/1/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR (restated*) MVR (restated*) MVR MVR ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 13 2,124,169,650 1,979,928,588 1,646,959,479 1,466,154,667 1,422,893,687 Investment property 14 509,645,180 735,266,951 686,187,345 509,645,180 735,266,951 Intangible assets 15 17,122,436 15,766,336 17,309,922 1,782,804 Prepaid lease rent 16 139,719,977 144,387,611 33,753,738 29,124,654 31,439,196 Investment in subsidiaries 17 112,288,081 117,249,835 Interest in equity accounted investees 18 31,299,165 33,274,479 34,718,709 15,267,267 15,267,267 Investment in Equity Instruments 19 49,820,026 56,740,800 22,865,800 4,820,026 12,740,800 Amounts due from related parties 22 36,666,667 93,825,609 1,665,151 36,666,667 93,825,609 Deferred tax assets 11 103,255,872 55,704,943 56,080,312 115,928,722 60,325,618 Total non-current assets 3,011,698,973 3,114,895,317 2,499,540,456 2,289,895,264 2,490,791,767 Current assets Inventories 20 1,084,152,217 982,503,384 1,033,988,273 755,060,533 665,129,643 Trade and other receivables 21 749,220,390 739,455,359 648,190,054 383,711,270 286,551,274 Prepaid lease rent 16 4,667,634 4,667,634 2,314,542 2,314,542 2,314,542 Amounts due from related parties 22 2,045,640,887 2,084,564,715 1,738,484,959 2,778,275,204 2,572,205,851 Reinsurance contracts 23 269,446,132 233,434,948 210,619,258 Other Financial Investments 24 197,713,454 151,539,822 154,359,639 Cash and cash equivalents 25 334,021,785 426,983,884 765,761,706 131,689,080 188,715,523 Total current assets 4,684,862,499 4,623,149,746 4,553,718,431 4,051,050,629 3,714,916,833 Total assets 7,696,561,472 7,738,045,063 7,053,258,887 6,340,945,893 6,205,708,600 85 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION Group Company Note 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 1/1/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR (restated*) MVR (restated*) MVR MVR EA36:A70 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 26 56,345,500 56,345,500 56,345,500 56,345,500 56,345,500 Share premium 26 27,814,500 27,814,500 27,814,500 27,814,500 27,814,500 Claim equalization reserve 26 42,720,880 41,780,914 33,212,779 Currency translation reserve 26 334,411 334,411 334,411 General reserve 26 691,440,305 688,557,932 646,301,585 682,158,495 679,276,122 Fair value reserve 26 (9,291,806) 3,400,000 125,000 (13,541,806) Retained earnings 1,206,355,381 1,681,156,269 1,637,361,960 1,237,356,454 1,489,221,295 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent Company 2,015,719,171 2,499,389,526 2,401,495,735 1,990,133,143 2,252,657,417 Non-controlling interest 27 19,713,145 18,452,871 15,433,179 Total equity 2,035,432,316 2,517,842,397 2,416,928,914 1,990,133,143 2,252,657,417 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Loans and borrowings 28 537,386,287 638,050,105 946,220,775 382,018,412 490,047,705 Deferred income 31 38,737,260 36,650,274 14,509,955 51,668,360 53,599,214 Deferred tax liability 11 1,278,575 1,594,499 1,934,903 Deﬁned Beneﬁt Obligation 29 45,900,671 40,232,300 30,761,082 32,462,393 28,430,575 Total non-current liabilities 623,302,793 716,527,178 993,426,715 466,149,165 572,077,494 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION Group Company Note 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 1/1/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR (restated*) MVR (restated*) MVR MVR Current liabilities Loans and borrowings 28 1,790,183,648 1,118,325,333 813,982,346 1,363,598,745 727,959,247 Trade and other payables 30 2,427,726,476 2,542,627,073 2,108,481,971 2,166,391,226 2,157,115,964 Deferred income 31 8,467,181 7,831,218 6,427,811 1,930,854 1,930,854 Insurance contracts 32 477,819,571 426,110,542 364,694,640 Current tax liabilities 33 29,403,793 15,771,010 15,685,739 22,653,351 13,082,671 Amounts due to related parties 34 84,055,993 125,654,193 128,721,517 189,217,524 342,943,083 Bank overdras 25 220,169,701 267,356,119 204,909,234 140,871,885 137,941,870 Total current liabilities 5,037,826,363 4,503,675,488 3,642,903,258 3,884,663,585 3,380,973,689 Total liabilities 5,661,129,156 5,220,202,666 4,636,329,973 4,350,812,750 3,953,051,183 Total equity and liabilities 7,696,561,472 7,738,045,063 7,053,258,887 6,340,945,893 6,205,708,600 * Refer Note No. 43 e consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group and separate ﬁnancial statements of the Company set out on pages 92 to160. e Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages 78 to 83. ese consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by; Mohamed MIhad Husein Amru Mohamed Rasad Amir Mansoor Chief Financial Oﬃcer CEO & Managing Director Audit Committee Chairman 87 23rd April 2019 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2018 Attributable to owners of the Company Share Share Claim Currency General Fair value Retained Total NonTotal GROUP capital premium equalization translation reserve reserve earnings controlling reserve reserve interest MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR As at 1st January 2017, as Previously Reported 56,345,500 27,814,500 33,212,779 334,411 646,301,585 125,000 1,641,852,151 2,405,985,926 15,548,263 2,421,534,189 Less: Impact Due to Restatement net of tax (Note 43.1.1) (4,490,191) (4,490,191) (115,084) (4,605,275) Restated Balances as at 1st January 2017 56,345,500 27,814,500 33,212,779 334,411 646,301,585 125,000 1,637,361,960 2,401,495,735 15,433,179 2,416,928,914 Restated proﬁt for the year 154,653,269 154,653,269 4,008,083 158,661,352 Other comprehensive income Net change in fair value of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets net of tax 3,275,000 3,275,000 3,275,000 Remeasurement of deﬁned beneﬁt liability net of tax (2,562,068) (2,562,068) 11,609 (2,550,459) Total comprehensive income for the year (restated) 3,275,000 152,091,201 155,366,201 4,019,692 159,385,893 Transfer to / (from) during the year general reserve (Note 26.4) 42,256,347 (42,256,347) claim equalization reserve (Note 26.6) 8,568,135 (8,568,135) Transactions with owners of the Company Dividends (Note 26.3) (57,472,410) (57,472,410) (1,000,000) (58,472,410) Total transaction with owners of the Company (57,472,410) (57,472,410) (1,000,000) (58,472,410) As at 31st December 2017 56,345,500 27,814,500 41,780,914 334,411 688,557,932 3,400,000 1,681,156,269 2,499,389,526 18,452,871 2,517,842,397 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2018 Attributable to owners of the Company Share Share Claim Currency General Fair value Retained Total NonTotal GROUP capital premium equalization translation reserve reserve earnings controlling reserve reserve interest MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR As at 1st January 2018, as previously reported 56,345,500 27,814,500 41,780,914 334,411 688,557,932 3,400,000 1,681,156,269 2,499,389,526 18,452,871 2,517,842,397 Adjustment due to Initial Application of IFRS 9 (Note 5(ii)) (6,809,148) (255,270,393) (262,079,541) (32,745) (262,112,286) Tax impact on transitional adjustment of IFRS 9 (Note 5(ii)) 30,519,859 30,519,859 30,519,859 Adjusted balance As at 1st January 2018 56,345,500 27,814,500 41,780,914 334,411 688,557,932 (3,409,148) 1,456,405,735 2,267,829,844 18,420,126 2,286,249,970 Proﬁt for the year (182,148,061) (182,148,061) 1,844,806 (180,303,255) Other comprehensive income Net change in fair value of Equity Investments at FVOCI (5,882,658) (5,882,658) (5,882,658) net of tax Remeasurement of deﬁned beneﬁt liability net of tax (2,099,904) (2,099,904) 3,769 (2,096,135) Total comprehensive income for the year (5,882,658) (184,247,965) (190,130,623) 1,848,575 (188,282,048) Transfer to / (from) during the year general reserve 2,882,373 (2,882,373) claim equalization reserve 939,966 (939,966) Transactions with owners of the Company Dividends (Note 26.3) (61,980,050) (61,980,050) (555,556) (62,535,606) Total transaction with owners of the Company (61,980,050) (61,980,050) (555,556) (62,535,606) As at 31st December 2018 56,345,500 27,814,500 42,720,880 334,411 691,440,305 (9,291,806) 1,206,355,381 2,015,719,171 19,713,145 2,035,432,316 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 89 e consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group and separate ﬁnancial statements of the Company set out on pages 92 to 160. e Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages 78 to 83. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2018 Share Share General Fair Value Retained Total capital premium reserve reserve earnings COMPANY MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Balances as at 1st January 2017 56,345,500 27,814,500 637,019,775 1,379,605,058 2,100,784,833 Proﬁt for the year 211,281,737 211,281,737 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (1,936,743) (1,936,743) Total comprehensive income for the year 209,344,994 209,344,994 Transfer to / (from) during the year general reserve 42,256,347 (42,256,347) Transactions with owners of the Company Dividends (Note 26.3) (57,472,410) (57,472,410) Total transaction with owners of the Company (57,472,410) (57,472,410) As at 31st December 2017 56,345,500 27,814,500 679,276,122 1,489,221,295 2,252,657,417 As at 1st January 2018, as previously reported 56,345,500 27,814,500 679,276,122 1,489,221,295 2,252,657,417 Adjustment due to Initial Application of IFRS 9 (Note 5(ii)) (6,809,148) (234,874,035) (241,683,183) Tax impact on transitional adjustment of IFRS 9 (Note 5(ii)) 36,252,477 36,252,477 Restated Balance as at 1st January 2018 56,345,500 27,814,500 679,276,122 (6,809,148) 1,290,599,737 2,047,226,711 Proﬁt for the year 14,411,864 14,411,864 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (6,732,658) (2,792,724) (9,525,382) Total comprehensive income for the year (6,732,658) 11,619,140 4,886,482 Transfer to / (from) during the year general reserve 2,882,373 (2,882,373) Transactions with owners of the Company Dividends (Note 26.3) (61,980,050) (61,980,050) Total transaction with owners of the Company (61,980,050) (61,980,050) As at 31st December 2018 56,345,500 27,814,500 682,158,495 (13,541,806) 1,237,356,454 1,990,133,143 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. e consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group and separate ﬁnancial statements of the Company set out on pages 92 to 160. e Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages 78 to 83. 91 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) Group Company CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 2018 2017 2018 2017 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2018 Note MVR MVR MVR MVR (restated) Cash ﬂows from operating activities (Loss) / Proﬁt before tax (129,768,846) 211,048,759 41,566,471 236,112,001 Adjustments for: Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 13 170,039,808 122,584,771 102,689,935 59,688,083 Depreciation on investment properties 14 2,886,104 1,477,196 2,886,104 1,477,196 Amortization of intangible assets 15 4,673,069 4,880,612 1,782,805 2,205,879 Capital working progress written oﬀ 13 445,501 2,624,206 445,499 2,475,347 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8 (3,252,068) (1,721,240) (3,252,068) (1,721,240) Loss on disposal of intangible assets 15 24,563 Provision for impairment of investment in subsidiaries 10 4,961,754 Provision for impairment of investment in hulhumale hotel 14 209,894,959 209,894,959 Provision for impairment of capital work-in progress 10 48,534,315 Provision for impairment of receivables 10 65,818,485 49,806,888 24,042,049 12,841,675 Provision / (reversal) of impairment for slow moving inventories 20.1 (7,981,640) 2,175,715 (6,126,086) (934,369) Provision for deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 29 3,228,421 6,492,837 746,260 2,521,961 Receivable written oﬀ 10 4,764,390 5,536,271 3,780,430 2,185,275 Share of proﬁt of equity accounted investees, net of tax 18 (11,024,686) (11,555,770) Interest expense 9 201,294,757 136,956,140 175,647,721 98,737,502 Interest income 9 (6,880,559) (6,251,219) (5,587,308) (5,937,749) Dividend income 9 (4,968,185) (3,243,004) (43,109,833) (42,099,866) Operating proﬁt before working capital changes 499,194,073 569,346,477 510,368,692 367,551,695 Working capital changes Change in inventories (93,667,191) 49,309,175 (83,804,805) 107,602,168 Change in trade and other receivables (342,460,194) (146,608,464) (97,682,659) (82,668,200) Change in amount due from related parties 96,082,770 (438,240,214) (417,893,410) (789,072,635) Changes in reinsurance contracts (36,011,184) (22,815,690) Changes in deferred revenue 2,722,949 23,543,726 (1,930,854) 55,530,068 Change in amount due to related parties 25,233,715 (3,067,324) (86,893,644) 110,228,476 Change in trade and other payables (166,547,877) 386,333,107 (42,372,018) 320,716,214 Changes in insurance contracts 51,709,029 61,415,902 Cash generated from operating activities 36,256,090 479,216,695 (220,208,698) 89,887,786 Interest paid (201,294,757) (136,956,140) (175,647,721) (98,737,502) Income tax paid 33 (52,866,689) (52,439,249) (35,253,604) (28,251,758) Net cash generated from operating activities (217,905,356) 289,821,306 (431,110,023) (37,101,474) Cash ﬂows from investing activities Purchase and construction of property, plant and equipment 13 (328,120,108) (511,708,192) (159,486,432) (393,183,442) Purchase and construction of investment properties 14.1 (49,323,573) (44,267,460) (51,676,665) (46,620,552) Purchase of intangible assets 15 (6,053,732) (3,200,177) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 16,645,805 4,958,473 16,342,086 3,690,854 Purchase of investments in equity intruments 19 (30,000,000) Purchase of other ﬁnancial instruments 24 (590,964,071) (654,911,895) Proceeds from other ﬁnancial instruments 24 544,790,439 657,731,712 Interest received 6,880,559 6,251,219 5,587,308 5,937,749 Lease prepayments 16 (117,654,599) Dividend received 17,968,185 16,243,004 43,109,833 42,099,866 Net cash used in investing activities (388,176,496) (676,557,915) (146,123,870) (388,075,525) Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities Loans and borrowings obtained 28 4,245,630,792 751,438,045 4,176,220,894 743,243,013 Repayments of borrowings 28 (3,674,436,295) (755,265,728) (3,648,610,689) (737,991,166) Dividend paid (10,888,326) (10,660,415) (10,332,770) (9,660,415) Net cash (Used in) / generated from ﬁnancing activities 560,306,171 (14,488,098) 517,277,435 (4,408,568) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (45,775,681) (401,224,707) (59,956,458) (429,585,567) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 159,627,765 560,852,472 50,773,653 480,359,220 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 25 113,852,084 159,627,765 (9,182,805) 50,773,653 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. e consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group and separate ﬁnancial statements of the Company set out on pages 92 to160. e Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages 78 to 83. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. REPORTING ENTITY 1.1 Corporate Information State Trading Organization PLC (the “Company”) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the Republic of Maldives as a public limited liability company since 2001 and presently governed under the Companies’ Act No. 10 of 1996 with its registered oﬃce at Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Maafannu, Male’ 20345, Republic of Maldives. 1.2 Consolidated Financial Statements e consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group for the year ended 31st December 2018 include the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group” and individually as “Group entities”) and the Group’s interest in its joint venture. e ﬁnancial statements of all companies in the Group have a common ﬁnancial year which ends on December 31st.State Trading Organization PLC is the ultimate parent of the Group. ere were no signiﬁcant changes in the nature of the principal activities of the Group during the ﬁnancial year under review. 1.3 Principal Activities and Nature of Operations Entity Principal business activities State Trading Organization PLC (“STO”) e Company is involved in the business of local and foreign trading. Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited (“FSM”) FSM is in the business of supplying oil, gasoline and kerosene in Maldives. Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited (“LAFARGE”) LAFARGE imports cement and distributes in Maldives MNOC is directly responsible for the development of oil and gas industry processes Maldives National Oil Company Private Limited (“MNOC”) in the Maldives and overseas. STOHR is involved in the business of Hotel and Leisure sector, however the Company STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited (“STOHR”) has not commenced commercial operations as at 31st December 2018 Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited ALLIED is involved in the business of providing Insurance services in Maldives. (“ALLIED”) e company's line of business includes the wholesale distribution of petroleum and STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited (“STOS”) petroleum products. MSSP’s main objective is producing steel rooﬁng products and related accessories Maldives Structural Products Private Limited (“MSSP”) and supply to the Maldives market. MGPL delivers cooking gas, supplies liqueﬁed petroleum bottles gas cylinders and Maldives Gas Private Limited (“MGPL”) sells a range of products from gas stoves to regulators and other LPG equipment's. MIFCO’s main activity is centered on the purchase, process and value addition of Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited (“MIFCO”) tuna and the subsequent sale and exporting of tuna, tuna products, reef ﬁsh and other ﬁshery products. 93 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION 2.1 Statement of compliance e consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). is is the ﬁrst set of the Company’s / Group’s annual consolidate and separate ﬁnancial statements on which IFRS 15 – “Revenue from contracts with customers” and IFRS 9 –“Financial Instrument” have been applied. Changes to the signiﬁcant accounting policies are disclosed in the respective notes to the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements. 2.2 Basis of measurement e consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following item, which is measured on an alternative basis on each reporting date. Items Measurement basis Equity Securities at FVOCI Fair Value 2.3 Functional and presentation currency ese consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements are presented in Maldivian Ruﬁyaa, which is the functional currency. All ﬁnancial information presented in Maldivian Ruﬁyaa has been rounded to the nearest Ruﬁyaa. 2.4 Use of estimates and judgements e preparation of consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that aﬀect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may diﬀer from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods aﬀected. Information about signiﬁcant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most signiﬁcant eﬀect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements are included in the respective notes. 2.5 Basis of consolidation (i) Business combinations e Group accounts for business combination is prepared using the acquisition method when control is transferred to the Group. e consideration transferred in the acquisition is generally measured at fair value, as are the identiﬁable net assets acquired. Any goodwill that arises is tested annually for impairment. Any gain on a bargain purchase is recognized in proﬁt or loss immediately. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, except if related to the issue of debt or equity securities. e consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre – existing relationship. Such amounts are generally recognized in proﬁt or loss. Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classiﬁed as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognized in proﬁt or loss. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION (Continued) 2.5 Basis of consolidation (Continued) (ii) Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain beneﬁts from its activities. e ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. (iii) Interests in equity accounted investees e Group’s interest in equity accounted investees comprise interests in associates and joint venture. Associates are those entities in which the Group has signiﬁcant inﬂuence, but not control or joint control, over the ﬁnancial and operating policies. A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities. Interest in the associates and the joint venture are accounted for using the equity method. It is recognized initially at cost, which include transaction costs. Subsequently to initial recognition, the consolidated ﬁnancial statement include the Group’s share of the proﬁt or loss and other comprehensive income (OCI) of equity accounted investees, until the date on which signiﬁcant inﬂuence or joint venture ceases. (iv) Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealized income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Unrealized gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealized losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealized gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. (v) Non-controlling interest Non-controlling interests represent the portion of proﬁt or loss and net assets not held by the Group and are presented separately in the consolidated income statement and within equity in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position, separately from parent shareholders’ equity. Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transaction. (vi) Common control transactions A business combination involving entities or business under Common Control is a business combination in which all the combining entities or businesses ultimately are controlled by the same party or parties both before and aer the combination and control is not transitionary. Acquisitions under common control transactions in the Group are accounted applying book value accounting on the basis that the investment simply has been moved from one party of the Group to another. (vii) Loss of control When the Group losses control over a subsidiary, it derecognizes the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, and any related non-controlling interest (NCI) and other components of equity. Any resulting gain or loss is recognized in proﬁt or loss. Any interest retained in the former subsidiary is measured at fair value when control is lost. 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES e accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements, by the Group / the Company. 3.1 Foreign currency (i) Transactions in foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to Maldivian Ruﬁyaa at the exchange rate ruling at the date of transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Maldivian Ruﬁyaa at the exchange rate ruling at the reporting date. Foreign exchange diﬀerences arising on translation are recognized in the proﬁt or loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities, which are measured at historical cost, denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Maldivian Ruﬁyaa at the exchange rates ruling at the dates of transactions. Non monetary assets and liabilities, which are stated at fair value, denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Maldivian Ruﬁyaa at the exchange rates ruling at the dates the values were determined. 95 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) (ii) Foreign operations e assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into Maldivian Ruﬁyaa at the exchange rate ruling at the reporting date. e income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into Maldivian Ruﬁyaa at the average exchange rate. Foreign currency diﬀerences are recognised in other comprehensive income (OCI) and accumulated in the translation reserve, except to the extent that the translation diﬀerences is allocated to non-controlling income (NCI). When a foreign operation is disposed of in it’s entirely or partially such that control, signiﬁcant inﬂuence or joint control is lost, the cumulative amount in the translation reserve related to that foreign operation is reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal. (iii)Foreign operations (Continued) If the Group / Company disposes of part of its interest in a subsidiary but retain control, then the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to NCI. When the Group / Company disposes of only part of an associate or joint venture while retaining signiﬁcant inﬂuence or joint control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss. If the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned not likely to occur in the foreseeable future, then foreign currency diﬀerences arising from such item from part of the net investment in the foreign operation. Accordingly, such diﬀerences are recognised in OCI and accumulated in the translation reserve. 3.2 Financial instruments (i) Financial assets (non-derivatives other than insurance receivables) Accounting Policy Applied before 1st January 2018 e Group and the Company initially recognizes trade and other receivables and deposits on the date that they are originated. All other ﬁnancial assets are recognized initially on the trade date at which the Group and the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. e Group and Company derecognizes a ﬁnancial asset when the contractual rights to the cash ﬂows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash ﬂows on the ﬁnancial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the ﬁnancial asset are transferred. Any interest in transferred ﬁnancial assets that is created or retained by the Group and Company is recognized as a separate asset or liability. Financial assets and liabilities are oﬀset and the net amount presented in the statement of ﬁnancial position when, and only when, the Group and Company has a legal right to oﬀset the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. e Group and Company has the following ﬁnancial assets (non-derivative): • Available for sale ﬁnancial assets • Loans and receivables • Cash and cash equivalents • Held – to – maturity ﬁnancial assets Available for sale ﬁnancial assets e Group’s investment in equity securities were classiﬁed as available for sale ﬁnancial assets. Subsequent to initial recognition, they were measured at cost less impairment loss since the fair value cannot be ascertained using the appropriate valuation techniques. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables were ﬁnancial assets with ﬁxed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Such assets were recognized initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, receivables were measured at amortized cost using the eﬀective interest method, less any impairment losses. Receivables comprised trade and other receivables, re-insurance contracts and amounts due from related parties. Trade and other receivables, re-insurance contracts and amounts due from related parties are initially recognized at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortized cost, using the eﬀective interest rate method. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and cash in hand. For the purpose of cash ﬂows, the cash and cash equivalent is shown net of bank overdra. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.2 Financial instruments (Continued) Held – to – maturity ﬁnancial assets ese assets are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the eﬀective interest method. Accounting policy applied aer 1st January 2018 Classiﬁcation and initial measurement On initial recognition, a ﬁnancial asset is classiﬁed as measured at: amortized cost, Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (“FVOCI”) – Debt investment, FVOCI – equity investment or FVTPL. Financial assets are not classiﬁed subsequent to their initial recognition unless the Company changes its business model for managing ﬁnancial assets. In which case all aﬀected ﬁnancial assets are classiﬁed on the ﬁrst day of the ﬁrst reporting period following the change in the business model. A ﬁnancial asset is measured at amortized cost if it meets both of the following conditions and is not designated as at FVTPL: • It is held within a business model whose objectiv e is to hold assets to collect contractual cash ﬂows; and • Its contractual terms give rise on speciﬁed dates to cash ﬂows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. • Debt instruments that are held within a business model whose objective is to collect the contractual cash ﬂows, and that have contractual cash ﬂows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, are measured subsequently at amortised cost; • Debt instruments that are held within a business model whose objective is both to collect the contractual cash ﬂows and to sell the debt instruments, and that have contractual cash ﬂows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, are measured subsequently at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI); • All other debt investments and equity investments are measured subsequently at fair value through proﬁt or loss (FVTPL). Despite the foregoing, the Group / the Company may make the following irrevocable election/designation at initial recognition of a ﬁnancial asset: Business Model Assessment e Group / Company makes an assessment of the objective of the business model in which a ﬁnancial asset is held at a portfolio level because this best reﬂects the way the business is managed and information is provided to the management. Transfers of ﬁnancial assets to third parties in transactions that do not qualify for de-recognition are not considered sales for this purpose, consistent with the Group’s / Company’s continuing recognition of the assets. Financial assets that are held for trading or are managed and whose performance is evaluated on a fair value basis are measured at FVTPL. Assessment Whether the Cash ﬂows are Solely Payment of Principal and Interest For the purposes of this assessment, ‘principal’ is deﬁned as the fair value of the ﬁnancial asset on initial recognition. ‘Interest’ is deﬁned as consideration for the time value of money and for the credit risk associated with the principal amount outstanding during a particular period of time and for other basic lending risks and costs as well as a proﬁt margin. Subsequent measurement e following accounting policies apply to the subsequent measurement of ﬁnancial assets. ese assets are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the eﬀective interest rate method. e amortized cost is reduced by impairment losses. Interest Financial assets at amortized cost income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognized in proﬁt or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognized in proﬁt or loss. ese assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Dividends are recognized as income in proﬁt or loss unless the dividend clearly represents a recovery of part of Equity investments at FVTOCI the cost of the investment. Other net gains and losses are recognized in OCI and are never reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss. • e Group / the Company may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value of an equity investment that is neither held for trading nor contingent consideration recognised by an acquirer in a business combination in other comprehensive income; and • e Group / the Company may irrevocably designate a debt investment that meets the amortised cost or FVTOCI criteria as measured at FVTPL if doing so eliminates or signiﬁcantly reduces an accounting mismatch. 97 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.2 Financial instruments (Continued) In the current year, the Group / the Company has not designated any debt investments that meet the amortised cost or FVTOCI criteria as measured at FVTPL. When a debt investment measured at FVTOCI is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassiﬁed from equity to proﬁt or loss as a reclassiﬁcation adjustment. When an equity investment designated as measured at FVTOCI is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is subsequently transferred to retained earnings. Debt instruments that are measured subsequently at amortised cost or at FVTOCI are subject to impairment. De-recognition e Group / Company de-recognizes a ﬁnancial asset when the contractual rights to the cash ﬂows from the ﬁnancial asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash ﬂows in a transaction in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of the ownership of the ﬁnancial asset are transferred or in which the Group / Company neither transfers nor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and it does not retain control of the ﬁnancial asset. e Company enters into transactions whereby it transfers assets recognized in its statement of ﬁnancial position, but retains either all or substantially all of the risks and rewards of the transferred assets. In these cases, the transferred assets are not de-recognized (ii) Financial assets (insurance receivables) Premium receivables Premium receivables are recognized when due and measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Subsequent to initial recognition, insurance receivables are measured at amortized cost, using the eﬀective interest rate method. Premium receivables are derecognized when the de-recognition criteria for ﬁnancial assets have been met. Reinsurance receivables Reinsurance assets represent balances due from reinsurers. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the outstanding claims provision or settled claims associated with the reinsurer’s policies and are in accordance with the related reinsurance contract (iii) Financial liabilities (non-derivative other than reinsurance liabilities) Accounting policy applied before 1st January 2018 e Group and the Company initially recognized debt securities issued and subordinated liabilities on the date that they are originated. All other ﬁnancial liabilities were recognized initially on the trade date at which the Group / Company became a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. e Group / Company derecognized a ﬁnancial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled or expired. Financial assets and liabilities were oﬀset and the net amount presented in the statement of ﬁnancial position when, and only when, the Group / Company had a legal right to oﬀset the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. e Group / Company had non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities such as loans and borrowings, amounts due to related party, insurance contracts, trade and other payable and bank overdras. ese ﬁnancial liabilities were recognized initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, these ﬁnancial liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the eﬀective interest method. Accounting policy applied aer 1st January 2018 e Group / Company initially recognizes debt securities issued and subordinated liabilities on the date that they are originated. All other ﬁnancial liabilities are recognized initially on the trade date at which the Group / Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. e Group / Company derecognizes a ﬁnancial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled or expire. Financial assets and liabilities are oﬀset and the net amount presented in the statement of ﬁnancial position when, and only when, the Group / Company has a legal right to oﬀset the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. e Group / Company non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities consist of loans and borrowings, amounts due to related parties and trade and other payables. Such ﬁnancial liabilities are recognized initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, these ﬁnancial liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the eﬀective interest method. A ﬁnancial liability is derecognized when its contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled, or expire. e Group / Company also de-recognizes a ﬁnancial liability when its terms are modiﬁed and the cash ﬂows of the modiﬁed liability are substantially diﬀerent, in which case a new ﬁnancial liability based on the modiﬁed terms is recognized at fair value. On de-recognition of a ﬁnancial liability, the diﬀerence between the carrying amount extinguished and the consideration paid (including non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed) is recognized in proﬁt or loss. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) (iv) Reinsurance Liabilities Reinsurance liabilities represent balances due to reinsurance companies. Amounts payable are estimated in a manner consistent with the related reinsurance contract. Premiums and claims are presented on a gross basis for both ceded and assumed reinsurance. Reinsurance assets or liabilities are derecognized when the contractual rights are extinguished or expire. 3.3 Share capital Ordinary shares Ordinary shares are classiﬁed as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are recognized as a deduction from equity. 3.4 Property, plant and equipment (i) Recognition and measurement Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. e cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the assets to a working condition for their intended use, the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located and capitalized borrowing costs. Purchased soware that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalized as part of that equipment. When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have diﬀerent useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment. Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment, and are recognized net within other income in proﬁt or loss. ii) Subsequent Costs Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment that is accounted for separately, including major inspection and overhaul expenditure, is capitalized. Other subsequent expenditure is capitalized only if it’s probable that the future economic beneﬁts embodied with the item will ﬂow to the Group/ Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other costs are recognized in the income statement as an expense as incurred. (iii) Depreciation Depreciation is calculated over the depreciable amount, which is the cost of an asset, or other amount substituted for cost, less its residual value. Depreciation is recognized in proﬁt or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment, since this most closely reﬂects the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic beneﬁts embodied in the asset. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably certain that the Group / Company will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. e estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows: Leasehold buildings Over the lease period or 20 years, whichever is lower. All the assets except leasehold buildings are depreciated over the following estimated useful live Freehold buildings 5 20 Years Vessels and ﬂeet 5 15 Years Motor vehicles 4-5 Years Plant and machinery 3 20 Years Air conditioners 3-4 Years Oﬃce equipment 3-5 Years Furniture and ﬁxtures 3-5 Years Other Assets 3-5 Years Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each ﬁnancial year-end and adjusted if appropriate. e charge for the depreciation commences from the month in which the property, plant and equipment is commissioned for commercial operation. (iv) Capital workin -progress Capital workinprogress is stated at cost and includes all development expenditure and other direct costs attributable to such projects including borrowing costs capitalized. Capital work in progress is not depreciated until its completion of construction, and the asset is put into use upon which the cost of completed construction works is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment. 99 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.5 Investment property Investment property are properties held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes. Investment properties are measured at cost on initial recognition and subsequently cost less accumulated depreciation. However, if there is an impairment in value, other than of a temporary nature, the carrying amount is reduced to recognize the decline. Depreciation on investment properties is recognized on a straight line basis over the following estimated useful lives. Leasehold buildings and structures 20 to 25 years On the disposal of an investment property, the diﬀerence between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is charged or credited to the proﬁt or loss. 3.6 Intangible assets Capital workinprogress is stated at cost and includes all development expenditure and other direct costs attributable to such projects including borrowing costs capitalized. Capital work in progress is not depreciated until its completion of construction and the asset is put into use upon which the cost of completed construction works is transferred to the appropriate category of investment property. (i) Recognition and measurement Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group / Company, which have ﬁnite useful lives, are measured at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identiﬁable and unique soware products by the Group / Company are recognized as intangible assets. Expenditures that enhance and extend the beneﬁts of computer soware program beyond their original speciﬁcations and lives are recognized as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the soware. ii) Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure is only capitalized if costs can be measured reliably, the product is technically and commercially feasible, future economic beneﬁts are probable and the Group / Company has suﬃcient resources to complete development and to use the asset. (iii) Amortization Amortization is recognised in proﬁt or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill, from the date that they are available for use. e estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows: Computer soware 3 to 10 Years iv) Capital work in progress Capital workinprogress is stated at cost and includes all development expenditure and other direct costs attributable to such projects including borrowing costs capitalized. Capital work in progress is not amortized until its completion of development and the asset is put into use upon which the cost of completed construction works is transferred to intangible assets. 3.7 Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. e cost of inventory item is based on the weighted average method except in Maldives Gas Private Limited, which is on a ﬁrstin-ﬁrst-out method. Cost of inventories includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing location. In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. 3.8 Impairment (i) Financial assets (including insurance receivables) Accounting policy applied before 1st January 2018 A ﬁnancial asset not carried at fair value through proﬁt or loss, including an interest in an equity accounted investee are assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired. A ﬁnancial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred aer the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative eﬀect on the estimated future cash ﬂows of that asset that can be estimated reliably. e Group / Company considers evidence of impairment for receivables at both a speciﬁc asset and collective level. All individually signiﬁcant receivables are assessed for speciﬁc impairment. All individually signiﬁcant receivables found not to be speciﬁcally impaired are then collectively assessed for any impairment that has been incurred but not yet identiﬁed. Receivables that are not individually signiﬁcant are collectively assessed for impairment by grouping together receivables with similar risk characteristics. An impairment loss in respect of a ﬁnancial asset measured at amortized cost is calculated as the diﬀerence between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash ﬂows discounted at the asset’s original eﬀective interest rate. Losses are recognized in proﬁt or loss and reﬂected in an allowance account against receivables. Interest on the impaired asset continues to be recognized through the unwinding of the discount. When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through proﬁt or loss. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.8 Impairment (Continued) (i) Financial assets (including insurance receivables) (Continued) Accounting policy applied aer 1st January 2018 e Group / Company accounts for expected credit losses and changes in those expected credit losses at each reporting date to reﬂect changes in credit risk since initial recognition of the ﬁnancial assets. Speciﬁcally, the Group / Company recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses on: 01. Debt investments measured subsequently at amortised cost or at FVTOCI; 02. Trade receivables; 03. Cash and bank balances; and 04. Contract assets; In particular, the Group /Company measures the loss allowance for a ﬁnancial instrument at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses (ECL) if the credit risk on that ﬁnancial instrument has increased signiﬁcantly since initial recognition, or if the ﬁnancial instrument is a purchased or originated credit-impaired ﬁnancial asset. However, if the credit risk on a ﬁnancial instrument has not increased signiﬁcantly since initial recognition (except for a purchased or originated credit-impaired ﬁnancial asset), the Group / Company measures the loss allowance for that ﬁnancial instrument at an amount equal to 12-months ECL. e Group / Company applies a simpliﬁed approach for measuring the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime ECL for trade receivables and contract assets. e Group / Company assumes that the credit risk on a ﬁnancial asset has increased signiﬁcantly if it is more than 30 days past due. e Group / Company considers a ﬁnancial asset to be in default when, • e borrower in unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Group / Company in full • e ﬁnancial asset is more than 90 days past due. Loss allowances for ﬁnancial assets measured at amortized cost are presented by deducting from the gross carrying amount of the asset. e gross carrying amount of a ﬁnancial asset is written oﬀ when the Group / Company has no reasonable expectations of recovering a ﬁnancial asset in its entirety or a portion thereof. ii) Non-ﬁnancial Assets e carrying amounts of the Group’s / Company’s non-ﬁnancial assets are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For intangible assets that have indeﬁnite useful lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated each year at the same time. e recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of it's value in use and it's fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inﬂows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inﬂows of other assets or groups of assets (the “cash-generating unit, or CGU”). For the purposes of goodwill impairment testing, CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are aggregated so that the level at which impairment is tested reﬂects the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal reporting purposes. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of CGUs that are expected to beneﬁt from the synergies of the combination. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognized in proﬁt or loss. Impairment losses recognized in respect of CGUs are allocated ﬁrst to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units, and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro rata basis. An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognized in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortization, if no impairment loss had been recognized 101 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.9 Insurance and investment contracts IFRS 4 – Insurance contracts, require contracts written by insurer to be classiﬁed as either “Insurance” or “Investment” depending on the level of insurance risk transferred. Product classiﬁcation Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are contracts under which the Group (the Insurer) accepts signiﬁcant insurance risk from another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to compensate the policyholder if a speciﬁed uncertain future event (the insured event) adversely aﬀects the policyholder. Signiﬁcant insurance risk exists if an insured event could cause an insurer to pay signiﬁcant additional beneﬁts. Insurance contracts can also transfer ﬁnancial risk. e classiﬁcation of contracts identiﬁes both the insurance contracts that the Group issues and reinsurance contracts that the Group holds. Insurance contracts can also transfer ﬁnancial risk. Subsequent classiﬁcation Once a contract has been classiﬁed as an insurance contract, it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, even if the insurance risk reduces signiﬁcantly during this period, unless all rights and obligations are extinguished or expired. Investment contracts can, however, be reclassiﬁed as insurance contracts aer inception if insurance risk becomes signiﬁcant. Product portfolio of the Group All insurance product sold by the Group are insurance contracts and therefore, classiﬁed as insurance contracts thus the Group does not have any investment contract within its portfolio as at the reporting date. 3.10 Liabilities and provision A provision is recognized in the reporting date when the Group / Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outﬂow of economic beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation. 3.11 Insurance contract liabilities (i) Insurance contract liabilities – life insurance Measurement / de recognition Life insurance liabilities are recognized when contracts are entered into and premiums are charged. e liability is determined as the sum of the discounted value of the expected future beneﬁts, less the discounted value of the expected future premiums that would be required to meet the future cash outﬂows based on the valuation assumptions used. e minimum mandated amounts, which are to be paid to policyholders plus any declared/ undeclared additional beneﬁts, are recorded in liabilities. e liability is derecognized when the contract expires, is discharged or is cancelled. Liability adequacy test (LAT) At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the recognized life insurance liabilities are adequate by using an existing liability adequacy test as laid out under IFRS 4. e liability value is adjusted to the extent that it is insuﬃcient to meet future beneﬁts and expenses. In performing the adequacy test, current best estimates of future contractual cash ﬂows, including related cash ﬂows such as claims handling and policy administration expenses, policyholder options and guarantees, as well as investment income from assets backing such liabilities, are used. A number of valuation methods are applied, including discounted cash ﬂows to the extent that the test involves discounting of cash ﬂows, the interest rate applied based on management’s prudent expectation of current market interest rates. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) (ii) Insurance contract liabilities – Non life insurance Measurement Non-life insurance contract liabilities include the outstanding claims provision (reserve for gross outstanding and incurred but not reported, and incurred but not enough reported IBNR / IBNER) and the provision for unearned premium and the provision for premium deﬁciency. e outstanding claims provision is based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the reporting date, whether reported or not, together with related claims handling costs and reduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries. Delays can be experienced in the notiﬁcation and settlement of certain types of claims, therefore, the ultimate cost of these cannot be known with certainty at the reporting date. e liability is calculated at the reporting date using a range of standard actuarial claim projection techniques, based on empirical data and current assumptions that may include a margin for adverse deviation. e liability is not discounted for the time value of money. No provision for equalization or catastrophe reserves is recognized. At each reporting date, the Group reviews its unexpired risk and a liability adequacy test is performed in accordance with IFRS. iii)Reserve for unearned premiums (UPR) e reserve for unearned premiums represents that portion of premiums received or receivable that relates to risks that have not yet expired at the reporting date. e provision is recognized when contracts are entered and is brought to account as premium income over the term of the contract in accordance with the pattern of insurance service provided under the contract. Provision for unearned premium is calculated on a 1 /24 basis except for marine / cargo class which is subject to 1/6 basis. 3.12 Revenue 3.12.1 Sale of goods and rendering of services (other than insurance) Type of product Nature and timing of satisfaction of Revenue recognition under IFRS 15 Revenue recognition under IAS 18 performance obligations, including (applicable from 1st January 2018) (applicable before 1st January 2018) signiﬁcant payment terms Sale of Goods e performance obligation is satisﬁed Revenue from the sale of goods is Revenue from the sale of goods is when the goods are handed over to recognized when the Company satisﬁes recognized when the signiﬁcant risks and customers. its performance obligation towards the rewards incidental to the ownership of customer. the goods are transferred to the buyer. e Group has credit periods varying from 30 – 90 days depending on the contract Services Rendered e performance obligation relating Revenue from the services rendered is Revenue from the services rendered to the rendering of services is satisﬁed recognized with reference to the time of is recognized when the performance when the services are consumed by the services rendered. obligation relating to the same is satisﬁed customer 3.12.2 Gross written premium (GWP) (i) Non life insurance GWP Gross written premiums comprise the total premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided by contracts entered into during the accounting period. ey are recognized on the date on which the policy commences. Rebates that form part of the premium rate, such as no-claim rebates, are deducted from the gross written premium. 103 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.12 Revenue (Continued) 3.12.2 Gross written premium (GWP) (Continued) (ii) Unearned premium reserve (UPR) Unearned premiums are those proportions of premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk aer the reporting date. UPR represents the portion of the premium written in the year but relating to the unexpired term of coverage. Unearned premiums are calculated on the 1/24 basis except for the marine and title policies which are computed on a 1/6 basis. e proportion attributable to subsequent periods is deferred as a provision for unearned premiums. e proportion attributable to subsequent periods is deferred as a provision for unearned premiums which is included under Insurance contract liabilities Non life. (iii) Life insurance GWP Gross recurring premiums on life are recognized as revenue when receivable from the policyholder. For single premium business, revenue is recognised on the date on which the policy is eﬀective. (iv) Reinsurance premium Gross reinsurance premiums on life are recognized as an expense on the earlier of the date when premiums are payable or when the policy becomes eﬀective. Gross reinsurance premiums written for non-life comprise the total premiums payable for the whole cover provided by contracts entered into the period and are recognized on the date on which the policy incepts. Premiums include any adjustments arising in the accounting period in respect of reinsurance contracts incepting in prior accounting periods. (v) Unearned reinsurance premium Unearned reinsurance premiums are those proportions of premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk aer the reporting date. Unearned reinsurance premiums are deferred over the term of the underlying direct insurance policies for risks-attaching contracts and over the term of the reinsurance contract for losses occurring contracts. Unearned reinsurance premiums are calculated on the 1/24 basis except for the marine policies which are computed on a 1/6 basis. e proportion attributable to subsequent periods is deferred as a provision for unearned premiums which is included under Insurance contract liabilities Non life. (vi) Fees and commission income Reinsurance commission income on outwards reinsurance contracts are recognized as revenue when receivable. Subsequent to initial recognition, reinsurance commission income on outwards reinsurance contracts are deferred and amortized on the 1/24 basis except for the marine policies which are computed on a 1/6 basis. (vii) Investment income Interest income is recognized in the income statement as it accrues and is calculated by using the eﬀective interest rate method. Fees and commissions that are an integral part of the eﬀective yield of the ﬁnancial asset or liability are recognized as an adjustment to the eﬀective interest rate of the instrument. 3.13 Beneﬁts, claims and expenses recognition 3.13.1 Gross beneﬁts and claims (a) Non life insurance Gross claims expense include all claims occurring during the year, whether reported or not, related internal and external claims handling costs that are directly related to the processing and settlement of claims, a reduction for the value of salvage and other recoveries, and any adjustments to claims outstanding from previous years. Claims outstanding are assessed by review of individual claim ﬁles and estimating changes in the ultimate cost of settling claims. Gross claims expense includes gross claims expense reported but not yet paid, incurred but not reported claims (IBNR). e provision in respect of IBNR is actuarially valued to ensure a more realistic estimation of the future liability based on past experience and trends. Actuarial valuations are performed on an annual basis. While the Directors consider that the provision for claims is fairly stated on the basis of information currently available, the ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent information and events. is may result in adjustment to the amounts provided. Such amounts are reﬂected in the ﬁnancial statements for that period. e methods used and the estimates made are reviewed regularly STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.13 Beneﬁts, claims and expenses recognition (Continued) 3.13.1 Gross beneﬁts and claims (Continued) (b) Life insurance Gross beneﬁts and claims for life insurance contracts include the cost of all claims arising during the year including internal and external claims handling costs that are directly related to the processing and settlement of claims. Death claims and surrenders are recorded on the basis of notiﬁcations received. Maturities and surrenders payments are recorded when due. 3.13.2 Reinsurance claims Reinsurance claims are recognized when the related gross insurance claim is recognized according to the terms of the relevant contract. 3.14 Acquisition cost Commission on acquisition of insurance contracts are recognized as an expense when incurred. 3.15 Operating expenses All expenditure incurred in the running of the business and in maintaining the capital assets in a state of eﬃciency has been charged to the revenue in arriving at proﬁt or loss for the year. Expenditure incurred for the purpose of acquiring, expanding or improving assets of a permanent nature by means of which to carry on the business or for the purpose of increasing the earning capacity of the business has been treated as capital expenditure. 3.16 Finance income and ﬁnance costs Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested. Interest income is recognized as it accrues in proﬁt or loss. Finance cost comprises interest expense on borrowings and foreign exchange losses. Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis. 3.17 Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, except to the extent where borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the construction of an asset that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale, are capitalized as part of that asset. 3.18 Tax expense Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax is recognized in proﬁt or loss. Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognized in respect of temporary diﬀerences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for ﬁnancial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary diﬀerences when they reverse, based on the tax rate enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are oﬀset if there is a legally enforceable right to oﬀset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on diﬀerent tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realized simultaneously. Tax loss A deferred tax assets is recognized for unused tax losses, tax credits deductible temporary diﬀerence to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁts will be available against which they can be utilized. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it no longer probable that the related tax beneﬁts will be provided. Transfers of tax losses between group companies for no payments are eliminated in the Consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements. 105 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 3.19 Lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognized in proﬁt or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognized as an integral part of the total lease expense, over the term of the lease. At inception of an arrangement, the Group determines whether such an arrangement is or contains lease. An arrangement conveys the right to use the asset if the arrangement conveys to the Group the right to control the use of the underlying asset. At inception or upon reassessment of the arrangement, the Group separates payments and other consideration required by such an arrangement into those for the lease and those for other elements on the basis of their relative fair values. 3.20 Deferred expenses (i) Deferred acquisition costs (DAC) Deferred acquisition costs comprise commissions and other variable costs directly connected with acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts, are deferred to the extent that these costs are recoverable out of future premiums. All other acquisition costs are recognized as an expense when incurred. DAC is amortized over the period in which the related revenues are earned. e re-insurers share of deferred acquisition costs is amortized in the same manner as the unearned premium reserve is amortized. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic beneﬁts embodied in the asset are accounted for by changing the amortization period and are treated as a change in an accounting estimate. An impairment review is performed at each reporting date or more frequently when an indication of impairment arises. DAC is reviewed for recoverability based on the proﬁtability of the underlying insurance contracts and when the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized in the statement of income. DAC are derecognized when the related contracts are either settled or disposed. (ii) Reinsurance commissions unearned commission Reserve (UCR) Commissions receivable on outwards reinsurance contracts are deferred and amortized on a straight line basis over the term of the expected premiums payable. 3.21 Employee Beneﬁts (a) Deﬁned contribution plans A deﬁned contribution plan is a post-employment beneﬁt plan under which the Company pays ﬁxed contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. e Company contributes 10% of members’ salary into the scheme with an additional, minimum, 4% of salary being contributed by the members. (b) Deﬁned beneﬁt plans A deﬁned beneﬁt plan is a post-employment beneﬁt plan other than a deﬁned contribution plan. e Company’s net obligation in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt plans is calculated by estimating the amount of future beneﬁt that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods and discounting that amount to determine its present value. e calculation is performed by the Company / Group internally using the projected unit credit method. (c) Short-term beneﬁts Short-term employee beneﬁt obligations of the Company are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided. A liability is recognized for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus if the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. 3.22 Events occurring aer the reporting date e materiality of the events occurring aer the reporting date has been considered and provisions have been made in the separate ﬁnancial statements where necessary 4. DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUES A number of the Group’s / Company’s accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of fair value, for both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. Fair values have been determined for measurement and / or disclosure purposes based on the following methods. When applicable, further information about the assumptions made in determining fair values is disclosed in the notes speciﬁc to that asset or liability. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4. DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUES (CONTINUED) (i) Trade and other receivables e fair value of trade and other receivables is estimated as the present value of future cash ﬂows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date. is fair value is determined for disclosure purposes. (ii) Financial liabilities (non-derivative) Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash ﬂows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date. 5. CHANGES IN SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES e Group/Company has initially adopted IFRS 15 “Revenue from contract with customers” and IFRS 9 – “Financial Instruments” on 1st January 2018. Under the transition method chosen, comparative information has not been restated to reﬂect the requirements of the new standards. e impact of initially applying these standards are summarized below. (i) IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognized. It replaced IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and related interpretations. Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of the goods or services. Determining the timing of the transfer of control at a point in time or over time – requires judgment. IFRS 15 did not have a material impact on the balances presented as at 1st January 2018. (ii) IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 sets out requirements for recognizing and measuring ﬁnancial assets, ﬁnancial liabilities and some contracts to buy or sell non-ﬁnancial items. is standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. As result of the adoption of IFRS 9, the Group / Company has adopted consequential amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, which require impairment of ﬁnancial assets to be presented in a separate line item in the statement of proﬁt or loss. Previously, the Group / Company's approach was to include the impairment of trade, other and related party receivables in Selling and Marketing Expenses. Consequently, the Company and the Group reclassiﬁed impairment losses amounting to MVR 12,841,676/and MVR 49,806,888/respectively recognized under IAS 39, from Selling and Marketing Expenses to impairment loss on trade, other and related party receivables in the statement of proﬁt or loss and other comprehensive income for the year ended 31st December 2017. e following table summarizes the impact, net of tax, of transition to IFRS 9 on the opening balances of Retained Earnings and Non-controlling Interest. Company Decrease / (Increase) Note Amount MVR Retained Earnings 241,683,183 b Recognition of Provision for Impairment under IFRS 9 (36,252,477) Related Tax Impact c (6,809,148) Reclassiﬁcation of Provision for Impairment on Investment at FVOCI Net Impact 198,621,558 Group Decrease / (Increase) Note Retained Non-controlling Total Earnings Interest MVR MVR MVR Recognition of Provision for Impairment under IFRS 9 262,079,541 32,745 262,112,286 b Related Tax Impact (30,519,859) (30,519,859) Reclassiﬁcation of Provision for Impairment on Investment at FVOCI (6,809,148) (6,809,148) c Net Impact 224,750,534 32,745 224,783,279 107 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5. CHANGES IN SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) (ii) IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (Continued) a. Classiﬁcation and measurement of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities e table below summarizes the original classiﬁcation of ﬁnancial assets under IAS 39 and the new classiﬁcation under IFRS 9. Group / Company Financial statement Caption Original classiﬁcation under IAS 39 New classiﬁcation under IFRS 9) Investment in Equity Instruments Available for Sale FVOCI Amounts Due from Related Parties Loans and Receivables AC Trade and Other Receivables Loans and Receivables AC Reinsurance Contracts Loans and Receivables AC Other Financial Investments Held to Maturity AC FVOCI – Financial Assets classiﬁed as Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income AC – Financial Assets measured at Amortized Cost e above re-classiﬁcations have not changed the carrying amounts of the ﬁnancial assets reported previously. IFRS 9 largely retains the existing requirements in IAS 39 for the classiﬁcation and measurement of ﬁnancial liabilities. e adoption of IFRS 9 has not had a signiﬁcant eﬀect on the Company's / Group’s accounting policies related to ﬁnancial liabilities. b. Impairment of ﬁnancial assets IFRS 9 replaces the 'incurred loss' model in IAS 39 with an 'expected credit loss' (ECL) model. e new impairment model applies to ﬁnancial assets measured at amortized cost, contract assets, and debt investments classiﬁed as FVOCI but not to the investments in equity instruments. “Under IFRS 9, credit losses are recognized earlier than under IAS 39. e Company / Group has determined that the application of IFRS 9's impairment requirements at 1st January 2018 results in an additional allowance for impairment is recognized as follows. Charge / (Reversal) Group Company MVR MVR Loss allowance as at 31st December 2017 under IAS 39 391,564,847 240,153,184 Additional impairment recognized as at 1st January 2018 on; Trade and other receivables 48,078,119 (24,094,437) Amounts Due from Related Parties 214,034,167 265,777,620 Loss allowance as at 1st January 2018 under IFRS 9 653,677,133 481,836,367 Additional information about how the Company measures the allowance for impairment is described in ﬁnancial instruments and risk management note. c. Changes in fair value of Equity Investments e Group / Company has reclassiﬁed the previously recognized impairment on the equity investments from retained earnings to fair value reserves as at 1st January 2018. 6. NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS A number of new standards and amendments are eﬀective for annual periods beginning aer 1st January 2019 and early application is permitted. However, except as mentioned below the Group / Company has not early adopted the following new or amended standards in preparing these ﬁnancial statements. (i) International Financial Reporting Standard 9 “Financial Instruments” Temporary Exemption from IFRS 9 for Subsidiary, Allied Insurance Company of Maldives Private Limited IFRS 9 addresses the accounting for ﬁnancial instruments and is eﬀective for annual periods beginning on or aer 1st January 2018. However, for an insurer that meets the criteria in paragraph 20B of IFRS 4 it provides a temporary exemption that permits, but does not require, the insurer to apply IAS 39 rather than IFRS 9 for annual periods beginning before 1st January 2021. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6. NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS (CONTINUED) (i) International Financial Reporting Standard 9 “Financial Instruments” (Continued) Temporary Exemption from IFRS 9 for Subsidiary, Allied Insurance Company of Maldives Private Limited (Continued) An insurer may apply the temporary exemption from IFRS 9 if, and only if: (a) it has not previously applied any version of IFRS 9, other than only the requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on ﬁnancial liabilities designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c), 5.7.7 – 5.7.9, 7.2.14 and B5.7.5 –B5.7.20 of IFRS 9; and (b) its activities are predominantly connected with insurance, as described in paragraph 20D, at its annual reporting date that immediately precedes 1st April 2016, or at a subsequent annual reporting date as speciﬁed in paragraph 20G of IFRS 4. Since Allied Insurance Company of Maldives Private Limited predominantly connected with Insurance activities, having considering the above criteria, the Company has elected to continue to apply IAS 39 rather than IFRS 9 up to annual periods beginning before 1st January 2021. However, the ﬁnancial statements of Allied Insurance Company of Maldives Private Limited has been prepared in line with IFRS 9 for the preparation of consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group. (ii) International Financial Reporting Standard 16 – “Leases” IFRS 16 replaces existing leasing guidance, including IAS 17 “Leases”, IFRIC 4 “Determining whether an arrangement contains a Lease”, SIC 15 “Operating Leases – Incentives” and SIC 27 “Evaluating the substance of Transactions involving the legal form of a Lease”. IFRS 16 introduces a single, on balance sheet lease accounting model for lessees. A lessee recognizes a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments. ere are recognition exemptions for short term leases and leases of low value items. Lessor accounting remains similar to the current standard. e Group is required to adopt IFRS 16 “Leases” form 1st January 2019. e Group / Company has assessed the estimated impact that initial application of IFRS 16 will have on its consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements, as described below. a. Leases in which Group / Company is a lessee e Group / Company will recognize new assets and liabilities for its operating leases of telecommunication towers. e nature of expenses related to those leases will now change because the Group / Company will recognize a depreciation charge for right-of-use asset and interest expense on lease liabilities. Previously, the Group / Company recognized operating lease expense on straight-line basis over the term of the lease, and recognized assets and liabilities only to the extent that there were a timing diﬀerence between actual lease payments and the expense recognized. (iii) Other standards e following amended standards are not expected to have a signiﬁcant impact on the Group’s / Company’s ﬁnancial statements. • IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Tax Treatment. • Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation (Amendments to IFRS 9) • Long – term interest in Associates and Joint Venture (Amendments to IAS 28) • Plan Amendment, Curtailment or settlement ( Amendments to IAS 19) • Annual Improvement to IFRS Standards 2015 -2017 Cycle – various standards. • Amendments to reference to conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards 109 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 6 OPERATING SEGMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 A.Basis of segmentation e Group has the following four strategic divisions, which are its reportable segments. ese divisions oﬀer diﬀerent products and services, and are managed separately because they are subject to risk and returns that are diﬀerent from those of other business segments. e following summary describe the operations of each reportable segment. e following summary describe the operations of each reportable segment. Reportable segments operations Buying and selling of consumable goods, construction material, home improvement, electronic Trading goods and medical related supplies Gas Buying and selling of liqueﬁed petroleum gas (LPG) and medical and industrial oxygen production Insurance service Providing general & life insurance services Fuel, lubricant & crude oil Importing & selling of petroleum products Fishery Buying & selling of ﬁsh and ﬁsh related products e Group's managing director reviews the internal management reports of each division at least quarterly. Other operations include the development and operation of a tourist hotel, tourism related and other services. is segments does not meet the quantitative thresholds for a reportable segment in 2018 and 2017. ere are varying level of integration between insurance service, fuel and lubricant & gas segment. is integration include providing insurance and other inter-connected services. Inter segment pricing is determined on an arm's length basis. B. Information about reportable segments Information related to each reportable segment is set out below. A segment's proﬁt before tax is used to measure performance because management believe that this information is the most relevant in evaluating the result of the respective segments relative to other entities that operate in the same industries. FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2018 Reportable segments Trading Gas Insurance Fuel, lubricant Fishery Total reportable Other Total MVR MVR service & crude Oil MVR segments segments MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Gross revenue 2,684,075,605 232,528,697 281,335,365 10,331,951,241 1,358,287,601 14,888,178,509 25,291,980 14,913,470,489 Inter-segment revenue (22,386,404) (9,914,740) (36,080,813) (3,951,046,645) (15,868,720) (4,035,297,322) (5,001,761) (4,040,299,083) Segment revenue 2,661,689,201 222,613,957 245,254,552 6,380,904,596 1,342,418,881 10,852,881,187 20,290,219 10,873,171,406 Segment proﬁt before (26,036,074) 22,498,785 105,995,117 200,851,645 (198,595,681) 104,713,792 (24,587,679) 80,126,113 tax Interest income 5,587,308 9,998,495 15,585,803 15,585,803 Interest expense (6,891,664) (673,842) (168,756,057) (28,980,679) (205,302,242) (205,302,242) Depreciation & (65,278,183) (17,225,405) (9,808,257) (58,024,917) (27,262,219) (177,598,981) (177,598,981) amortization Share of loss of 1,081,713 1,081,713 1,081,713 associate Share of proﬁt of joint 9,942,973 9,942,973 9,942,973 venture Segment assets 1,259,889,520 242,880,198 740,484,717 4,134,013,734 729,065,854 7,106,334,023 558,928,284 7,665,262,307 Equity accounted 31,299,165 31,299,165 31,299,165 investees Capital expenditure 127,757,509 30,245,782 6,295,667 84,626,009 113,721,538 362,646,505 25,518,542 388,165,047 Segment liabilities (1,082,251,123) (47,267,505) (567,159,526) (3,055,422,231) (781,442,522) (5,533,542,907) (127,586,249) (5,661,129,156) STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 6 OPERATING SEGMENTS (Continued) B. Information about reportable segments (continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2017 Reportable segments Trading Gas Insurance Fuel, lubricant Fishery Totalreportable Other Total MVR MVR service & crude Oil MVR e segments segments MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Gross revenue 2,590,988,057 232,072,191 274,684,391 7,664,255,252 1,333,090,966 12,095,090,857 18,306,014 12,113,396,871 Inter-segment revenue (24,218,477) (22,257,827) (37,252,442) (2,895,561,912) (29,690,194) (3,008,980,852) (4,568,747) (3,013,549,599) Segment revenue 2,566,769,580 209,814,364 237,431,949 4,768,693,340 1,303,400,772 9,086,110,005 13,737,267 9,099,847,272 Segment proﬁt / (loss) (25,340,602) 47,376,306 53,657,596 212,902,543 (52,971,112) 235,624,731 (24,575,972) 211,048,759 Interest income 5,937,749 6,807,457 12,745,206 12,745,206 Interest expense (3,348,061) (2,494,161) (95,389,441) (37,047,770) (138,279,433) (138,279,433) Depreciation & (56,325,665) (14,802,638) (9,695,778) (21,547,058) (26,571,440) (128,942,579) (128,942,579) amortization Share of proﬁt of 1,838,697 1,838,697 1,838,697 Share of proﬁt of joint 9,717,073 9,717,073 9,717,073 venture Segment assets 1,129,485,373 234,838,358 685,863,770 4,069,313,077 774,151,475 6,893,652,053 811,118,531 7,704,770,584 Equity accounted 33,274,479 33,274,479 33,274,479 Capital expenditure 97,032,223 37,562,733 17,079,124 346,842,873 48,992,036 547,508,989 16,334,474 563,843,463 Segment liabilities (906,478,979) (56,000,940) (520,644,872) (2,768,240,498) (817,059,803) (5,068,425,092) (151,777,574) (5,220,202,666) C. Reconciliations of information on reportable segment to IFRS measures 2018 2017 MVR MVR i Revenue Total revenue for reportable segments 14,888,178,509 12,095,090,857 Revenue for other segments 25,291,980 18,306,014 Elimination of inter segment revenue (4,040,299,083) (3,013,549,599) Consolidated revenue 10,873,171,406 9,099,847,272 ii Proﬁt before tax Total proﬁt before tax for reportable segments 104,713,792 235,624,731 Proﬁt / (loss) before tax for other segments (24,587,679) (24,575,972) Elimination of inter-segment proﬁt 1,975,314 1,444,230 Dividend received from joint venture (13,000,000) (13,000,000) Share of proﬁt of equity accounted investees 11,024,686 11,555,770 Consolidated proﬁt before tax from continuing operations 80,126,113 211,048,760 iii Assets Total assets for reportable segment 7,106,334,023 6,893,652,053 Assets for other segments 558,928,284 811,118,531 Equity -accounted investees 31,299,165 33,274,479 Consolidated total assets 7,696,561,472 7,738,045,063 iv Liabilities Total liabilities for reportable segment 5,533,542,907 5,068,425,092 Liabilities for other segments 127,586,249 151,777,574 Consolidated total liabilities 5,661,129,156 5,220,202,666 111 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 6 OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED) C. Reconciliations of information on reportable segment to IFRS measures (Continued) v. Other material items Reportable Adjustment Consolidated FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 segment totals totals MVR MVR MVR Interest income 15,585,803 (2,536,926) 13,048,877 Interest expense (205,302,242) 4,007,485 (201,294,757) Capital expenditure 362,646,505 362,646,505 Depreciation and amortization (177,598,981) (177,598,981) Impairment losses on non ﬁ nancial assets (4,668,915) 1,470,559 (3,198,356) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2017 Interest income 12,745,206 (1,323,293) 11,421,913 Interest expense (138,279,433) 1,323,293 (136,956,140) Capital expenditure 547,508,989 547,508,989 Depreciation and amortization (128,942,579) (128,942,579) Impairment gain on non ﬁ nancial assets 293,032,183 293,032,183 D. Geographic information e trading, gas, insurance segments are operated in Male & other Islands of Maldives. Fuel, lubricant and crude oil segment is operated in Male, other islands of Maldives and Singapore. e geographic information below analyzes the Group's revenue and non-current assets by the Group's diﬀerent operating geographical areas. In presenting the following information, segment revenue has been based on the geographic location of customers and segment assets were based on the geographic location of the assets. 2018 2017 MVR MVR i. Revenue Male 9,772,814,465 8,285,250,187 ilafushi 502,560,232 299,537,035 Hulhumale' 209,899,433 234,499,812 Other Islands 3,287,926,498 3,087,827,573 Overseas 1,140,269,861 206,282,264 Less : Inter-company transactions (4,040,299,083) (3,013,549,599) 10,873,171,406 9,099,847,272 2018 2017 MVR MVR ii. Non current assets Male 1,713,600,230 1,711,925,309 ilafushi 120,131,865 134,491,709 Hulhumale' 533,811,737 763,840,188 Other Islands 644,126,013 504,380,489 Overseas 29,128 35,445 3,011,698,973 3,114,673,140 E. Major customer Revenue from one customer of the Fuel, lubricant and crude oil segment represented approximately MVR 1,544,239,434 (2017: MVR 1,263,220,213) of the Group's total revenues. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 Group Company 7 REVENUE 2018 2017 2018 2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Retail and wholesale 2,661,689,201 2,566,769,580 2,635,875,265 2,516,795,828 Insurance 245,254,552 237,431,949 Gas 222,613,957 209,814,364 Fuel and lubricants 6,380,904,596 4,768,693,340 6,755,244,250 4,980,948,600 Fishery 1,342,418,881 1,303,400,772 Other services 20,290,219 13,737,267 12,994,971 7,479,413 10,873,171,406 9,099,847,272 9,404,114,486 7,505,223,841 Group Company 8 OTHER INCOME 2018 2017 2018 2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Proﬁt on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3,252,068 1,721,240 3,252,068 1,721,240 Income from vessels and ﬂeets 4,690,401 5,124,959 4,670,116 4,920,651 Fines and claims received 10,139,483 10,778,022 8,133,761 9,236,232 Rent income 30,827,447 18,643,774 36,269,754 23,799,331 Discounts received 242,749 3,663,534 242,749 3,663,534 Reversal of provision for slow moving inventories 7,981,640 6,126,085 934,369 Agency fee 3,193,367 1,200,794 1,304,175 1,200,794 Miscellaneous income 20,281,865 36,778,560 4,461,130 9,108,754 80,609,020 77,910,883 64,459,838 54,584,905 Group Company 9 NET FINANCE COSTS 2018 2017 2018 2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Finance income Interest income on loans granted 1,293,251 313,470 Interest income on Government credit scheme 5,587,308 5,937,749 5,587,308 5,937,749 Foreign exchange gain 1,491,218 147,241 Dividend income 4,968,185 3,243,004 43,109,833 42,099,866 Discounts on treasury bills 6,168,318 5,170,694 Other Finance income 6,523,882 7,442,023 26,032,162 22,254,181 48,697,141 48,037,615 Finance costs Interest on bank borrowings (39,096,935) (46,922,399) (23,146,777) (24,295,516) Interest on bank overdras (27,132,362) (22,456,663) (13,427,999) (5,541,615) Interest on other borrowings (135,065,460) (67,577,078) (139,072,945) (68,900,371) Foreign exchange loss (2,382,343) (1,088,888) (2,060,016) (640,041) (203,677,100) (138,045,028) (177,707,737) (99,377,543) Net ﬁnance costs (177,644,938) (115,790,847) (129,010,596) (51,339,928) 113 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 Group Company 10 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 2018 2017 2018 2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Proﬁt before tax is stated aer charging all the expenses including the following; Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 170,039,808 122,584,771 102,689,935 59,688,083 Depreciation on investment properties 2,886,104 1,477,196 2,886,104 1,477,196 Amortization of intangible assets 4,673,069 4,880,612 1,782,805 2,205,879 Rental expenses 35,094,835 35,702,748 17,745,596 14,560,116 Directors' remuneration 8,512,041 6,959,445 1,151,656 1,161,500 Transportation 60,041,575 45,810,079 37,906,232 30,304,958 Audit fees 2,133,523 1,720,037 701,610 693,173 Receivable write oﬀ 4,764,390 5,536,271 3,780,430 2,185,275 Provision for Impairment of investment in hulhumale hotel 209,894,959 209,894,959 Provision for impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment 48,534,315 Provision for impairment of investment in subsidiaries 4,961,754 Provision for impairment of trade, other and related party receivable 65,818,485 49,806,888 24,042,049 12,841,675 Bank charges 22,981,038 9,813,970 19,822,773 7,093,396 Repair and maintenance 96,125,155 86,649,134 42,202,963 32,485,378 Advertisement and sales promotion expenses 56,707,178 61,938,973 26,945,332 36,789,516 Utilities 43,266,067 40,551,589 31,045,035 29,158,623 Personnel costs (Note 10.1) 718,039,617 666,607,927 357,661,050 340,800,010 10.1 Personnel costs Salaries and wages 353,337,523 321,252,395 122,989,001 114,431,037 Staﬀ welfare 63,440,289 53,167,631 19,688,853 18,131,033 Employer's contribution to government pension fund 15,182,749 14,393,076 7,479,954 7,116,455 Bonus, overtime and allowances 265,332,050 249,428,144 194,684,380 184,894,989 Employee retirement beneﬁts 5,622,396 9,112,497 3,011,030 4,980,752 Staﬀ training expenses 7,958,379 10,566,031 4,801,743 4,869,819 Other staﬀ related expenses 7,166,231 8,688,153 5,006,089 6,375,925 718,039,617 666,607,927 357,661,050 340,800,010 11 INCOME TAX EXPENSE Group Company Items recognized in profit or loss 2018 2017 2018 2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR (Restated) 11.1 Current tax expense Current tax expense (Note 11.2) 60,992,044 52,418,255 39,316,856 33,408,493 Under provision in respect of prior years 5,507,428 106,265 5,507,428 66,499,472 52,524,520 44,824,284 33,408,493 Deferred tax expense Deferred tax asset reversed / (recognized) (Note 11.3) (15,649,139) 203,291 (17,669,677) (8,578,229) Deferred tax liability reversed (Note 11.4) (315,924) (340,404) Income tax expense 50,534,409 52,387,407 27,154,607 24,830,264 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 11 INCOME TAX EXPENSE (continued) Group Company 11.2 Reconciliation between accounting proﬁt and taxable income: 2018 2017 2018 2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR (Loss) / Proﬁt before tax (129,768,846) 211,048,759 41,566,471 236,112,001 Loss of subsidiary which is not subject to tax 228,249,370 77,435,500 Results of associate reported net of tax (1,081,713) (1,838,697) Results of joint venture reported net of tax (9,942,973) (9,717,073) Aggregate disallowable items 730,481,604 309,692,832 551,177,103 215,008,564 Aggregate allowable items (411,047,029) (234,478,260) (330,568,698) (225,923,532) Loss of subsidiary claimed during the year (2,411,244) (2,411,244) Tax free allowance (276,787) (276,787) (62,500) (62,500) Total taxable income 406,613,626 349,455,030 262,112,376 222,723,289 Income Tax @ 15% 60,992,044 52,418,255 39,316,856 33,408,493 In accordance with the provisions of the Business Proﬁt Tax Act No. 5 of 2011 and subsequent amendments and regulations thereto, the Group / the Company is liable for income tax on its taxable proﬁts at the rate of 15%. 11.3 Deferred tax asset Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 1/1/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR (Restated) (Restated) Opening balance 55,704,943 56,080,312 55,877,222 60,325,618 51,405,611 Impact Due to Restatement (Note 43.1.1) 203,090 Adjustment due to Initial Application of IFRS 9 30,519,859 36,252,477 (Note 5 (ii)) Deferred tax asset recognized / (reversed) during the 15,649,139 (203,291) 17,669,677 8,578,229 year Deferred tax asset recognized / (reversed) in OCI 1,381,931 (172,078) 1,680,950 341,778 Closing balance 103,255,872 55,704,943 56,080,312 115,928,722 60,325,618 11.4 Deferred tax liability Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 1,594,499 1,934,903 Deferred tax liability reversed during the year (315,924) (340,404) (Note 11.7) Closing balance 1,278,575 1,594,499 115 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 11 INCOME TAX EXPENSE (continued) 11.5 e Recognized Deferred tax asset is attributable to the following; Group 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 1/1/2017 Temporary Temporary Temporary diﬀerence Tax eﬀect diﬀerence Tax eﬀect diﬀerence Tax eﬀect MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) Property, plant and equipment 296,172,745 44,425,912 219,864,116 32,979,617 261,335,708 39,200,356 Intangible assets (2,653,193) (397,979) (4,734,916) (710,237) (6,904,798) (1,035,720) Fair value reserve 2,920,774 438,116 (4,000,000) (600,000) Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 40,174,012 6,026,102 35,857,216 5,378,582 24,984,024 3,747,604 Provisions on trade, other and related party 351,758,142 52,763,721 124,379,870 18,656,981 94,453,813 14,168,072 receivable 688,372,480 103,255,872 371,366,286 55,704,943 373,868,747 56,080,312 Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Temporary Temporary diﬀerence Tax eﬀect diﬀerence Tax eﬀect MVR MVR MVR MVR Property, plant and equipment 264,060,719 39,609,108 181,660,427 27,249,064 Intangible assets (1,782,804) (267,421) Fair value reserve 7,920,774 1,188,116 Deﬁned Beneﬁt Obligation 32,462,393 4,869,359 28,430,575 4,264,586 Provisions on trade, other and related party receivable 468,414,259 70,262,139 193,862,592 29,079,389 772,858,145 115,928,722 402,170,790 60,325,618 11.6 Un-Recognized Deferred Tax Asset e Group has the following unrecognized deferred tax assets attributable to the subsidiaries. 11.6.1 Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 1/1/2017 Temporary Temporary Temporary diﬀerence Tax eﬀect diﬀerence Tax eﬀect diﬀerence Tax eﬀect MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) Property, Plant and Equipment 56,828,946 8,524,342 68,207,780 10,231,167 80,409,849 12,061,477 Intangible Assets 3,193 479 12,037 1,806 Accumulated Tax Losses 204,608,535 30,691,280 5,488,970 823,346 7,265,721 1,089,858 Deﬁned Beneﬁt Obligation 5,726,659 858,999 4,375,084 656,263 3,454,434 518,165 267,164,140 40,074,621 78,075,027 11,711,255 91,142,041 13,671,306 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 11 INCOME TAX EXPENSE (continued) 11.6.2 Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Temporary Temporary diﬀerence Tax eﬀect diﬀerence Tax eﬀect MVR MVR MVR MVR Provisions on trade, other and related party receivable 161,068,617 24,160,293 76,400,848 11,460,127 e above deferred tax assets are not recognized since the management is not certain whether these Companies will have suﬃcient taxable proﬁts in the future against which these beneﬁts could be claimed. 11.7 e Recognized Deferred tax liability is attributable to the following; Group 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Temporary Temporary diﬀerence Tax eﬀect diﬀerence Tax eﬀect MVR MVR MVR MVR Property, plant and equipment 8,523,834 1,278,575 10,629,992 1,594,499 12 BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE e calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on proﬁt for the year attributable to the ordinary shareholders and weighted number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year and calculated as follows. Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 (Restated) Proﬁt for the year attributable to the ordinary shareholders MVR (182,148,061) 154,653,269 14,411,864 211,281,737 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,126,910 1,126,910 1,126,910 1,126,910 Basic and diluted earnings per share MVR (161.63) 137.24 12.79 187.49 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2018 13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 13.1 Group Freehold Freehold Leasehold Plant and Vessels Motor Air Oﬃce Furniture Other Total Total land buildings buildings machinery and ﬂeet vehicles conditioners equipment and ﬁxtures assets 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Cost Opening balance 767,354,400 735,161,599 82,189,698 562,755,525 644,277,440 157,452,365 11,324,090 142,900,314 20,151,493 109,937,857 3,233,504,781 3,079,302,527 Additions during the year 18,535,964 20,773,639 51,066,453 23,077,759 1,377,269 10,384,332 1,018,031 22,680,052 148,913,499 61,171,401 Disposal during the year (104,274) (64,969) (18,541,881) (82,409) (1,190,946) (606,449) (435,828) (21,026,756) (11,453,787) Transferred from capital work in progress 6,832,353 73,157,323 9,362,835 155,814,004 273,038,618 16,562,063 4,740,714 111,885 29,254 539,649,049 104,484,640 Reclassiﬁcation 1,480,250 (1,480,250) Closing balance 774,186,753 826,750,612 91,552,533 740,758,449 949,840,630 197,092,187 17,359,664 152,205,585 20,563,075 130,731,085 3,901,040,573 3,233,504,781 Accumulated depreciation Opening balance 558,027,968 35,287,549 394,360,397 534,309,045 109,437,928 7,425,930 119,505,634 12,403,033 47,291,808 1,818,049,292 1,703,681,075 Charge for the year 32,517,425 5,791,195 28,318,424 48,477,853 21,296,567 2,834,519 12,529,843 2,043,348 16,230,634 170,039,808 122,584,771 Disposals during the year (6,952) (61,919) (5,601,193) (76,257) (1,123,578) (359,550) (403,570) (7,633,019) (8,216,554) Reclassﬁcation 1,480,250 (1,480,250) Closing balance 590,538,441 41,078,744 424,097,152 577,185,705 130,734,495 10,184,192 130,911,899 14,086,831 61,638,622 1,980,456,081 1,818,049,292 Net carrying value As at 31st December 2018 774,186,753 236,212,171 50,473,789 316,661,297 372,654,925 66,357,692 7,175,472 21,293,686 6,476,244 69,092,463 1,920,584,492 As at 31st December 2017 767,354,400 177,133,631 46,902,149 168,395,128 109,968,395 48,014,437 3,898,160 23,394,680 7,748,460 62,646,049 1,415,455,489 Capital work in progress (Note 13.1.1) 203,585,158 564,473,099 Total 2,124,169,650 1,979,928,588 117 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2018 13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued) 13.1.1 Capital work in progress Opening balance 564,473,099 271,338,027 Additions during the year 179,206,609 450,536,791 Transferred to property, plant and equipment (539,649,049) (104,484,640) Write-oﬀ during the Year (445,501) (2,624,206) Provision for Impairment (48,534,315) Transferred to Investment Property (CWIP) (1,621,708) Transferred to Intangible assets (CWIP) (136,850) Closing balance 203,585,158 564,473,099 13.1.2 Borrowings from Nations Trust Bank Plc, Bank of Maldives Plc and Habib Bank Limited are secured on STO Trade Center building, super market warehouse and home improvement land & building of the Company, respectively. 13.1.3 Borrowings of MIFCO from Bank of Maldives Plc are secured on leasehold right of land & commercial plot, buildings, plant, machineries and equipments at ﬁsheries complex and vessels of MIFCO. 13.1.4 During the year, the group has capitalised borrowing costs amounting to MVR 10,611,323 (2016: MVR 29,292,033) on qualifying assets. Borrowing costs were capitalised at the rate of 5.25% 8.5%. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2018 13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued) 13.2 Company Freehold Plant and Vessels Motor Air Oﬃce Furniture Other Total Total land Buildings machinery and ﬂeet vehicles conditioners equipment and ﬁxtures assets 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Cost Opening balance 767,354,400 424,893,601 66,695,014 188,273,722 104,806,271 10,006,304 73,752,903 6,923,883 11,607,133 1,654,313,231 1,603,674,037 Additions during the year 18,535,964 11,583,162 19,481,753 17,374,562 1,329,629 6,504,135 459,991 18,209,135 93,478,331 23,641,261 Disposal during the year (104,274) (58,869) (18,541,881) (82,409) (748,553) (89,630) (348,438) (19,974,054) (8,332,949) Transferred from capital work in progress 6,832,353 61,479,959 121,564,184 268,950,741 16,562,063 4,740,714 76,693 29,254 480,235,961 35,330,882 Closing balance 774,186,753 504,805,250 199,783,491 458,164,335 138,742,896 15,994,238 79,585,178 7,294,244 29,497,084 2,208,053,469 1,654,313,231 Accumulated depreciation Opening balance 296,196,232 62,531,376 153,785,631 65,925,385 6,399,064 60,874,835 5,745,653 11,607,133 663,065,309 609,740,561 Charge for the year 26,519,496 7,764,352 35,977,392 17,852,360 2,593,544 7,220,818 828,378 3,933,595 102,689,935 59,688,083 Disposals during the year (6,952) (58,869) (5,601,193) (76,257) (705,030) (87,297) (348,438) (6,884,036) (6,363,335) Closing balance 322,708,776 70,236,859 184,161,830 83,777,745 8,916,351 67,390,623 6,486,734 15,192,290 758,871,208 663,065,309 Net carrying value As at 31st December 2018 774,186,753 182,096,474 129,546,632 274,002,505 54,965,151 7,077,887 12,194,555 807,510 14,304,794 1,449,182,261 As at 31st December 2017 767,354,400 128,697,369 4,163,638 34,488,091 38,880,886 3,607,240 12,878,068 1,178,230 991,247,922 Capital work in progress (Note 13.2.1) 16,972,406 16,972,406 431,645,765 Total 1,466,154,667 1,466,154,667 1,422,893,687 119 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2018 13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued) Total Total 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR 13.2.1 Capital work in progress Opening balance Additions during the year 431,645,765 101,531,521 Transferred to property, plant and equipment 66,008,101 369,542,181 Write-oﬀ during the Year (480,235,961) (35,330,882) Transferred to Investment Property (CWIP) (445,499) (2,475,347) Closing balance (1,621,708) 16,972,406 431,645,765 13.2.2 Borrowings from Nations Trust Bank Plc, Bank of Maldives Plc and Habib Bank Limited are secured on STO Trade Center building, super market warehouse and home improvement land & building of the Company, respectively. 13.2.3 During the year, the company has capitalised borrowing costs amounting to MVR 7,973,676 (2017: MVR 28,334,250) on qualifying assets. Borrowing costs were capitalised at the rate of 5.25%. 121 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 14 INVESTMENT PROPERTY Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Cost Opening balance 103,377,595 56,228,691 103,377,595 56,228,691 Transferred from capital work in progress 51,138,676 47,148,904 51,138,676 47,148,904 Closing balance 154,516,271 103,377,595 154,516,271 103,377,595 Accumulated depreciation Opening balance 56,395,652 54,918,456 56,395,652 54,918,456 Depreciation for the year 2,886,104 1,477,196 2,886,104 1,477,196 Closing balance 59,281,756 56,395,652 59,281,756 56,395,652 Net carrying amount 95,234,515 46,981,943 95,234,515 46,981,943 Capital work in progress (Note 14.1) 414,410,665 688,285,008 414,410,665 688,285,008 Total 509,645,180 735,266,951 509,645,180 735,266,951 14.1 Capital work in progress Opening balance 688,285,008 684,877,110 688,285,008 684,877,110 Additions during the year 53,991,207 48,935,094 53,991,207 48,935,094 Transferred from property, plant and equipment (CWIP) 1,621,708 1,621,708 Transfers to Investment Property (51,138,676) (47,148,904) (51,138,676) (47,148,904) Waive oﬀ of lease rent payable (Note 14.3) (66,831,915) (66,831,915) Provision for impairment of investment in hulhumale hotel (209,894,959) (209,894,959) Closing balance 414,410,665 688,285,008 414,410,665 688,285,008 14.2 Provision for impairment of investment in hulhumale hotel Provision for the year 209,894,959 209,894,959 Closing balance 209,894,959 209,894,959 Due to continous delay in completing the construction of the hotel in Hulhumale', the Board of Directors of the Company has decided to test the property in progress for impairment and recognized an impairment lossof MVR 209,894,959/-. e recoverable value of this investment property was based on fair value less cost to disposal estimated using discounted cash ﬂows. e discounted rate of 4.5% is used in the estimation of the recoverable amount.e fair value of the Investment Properties are derived based on the recent market data available and is estimated at MVR 132,382,623 (2017: MVR 89,426,691) and the fair value of the investment properties which are classiﬁed under capital work in progress is MVR 414,410,665 (2017: MVR 688,285,008) as at 31st December 2018. 14.3 Hulhumale' Development Corporation Limited has decided to waveoﬀ a lease rental payable amounting to MVR 66,831,915/on the land used to construct the hotel in Hulhumale'. is amount is reversed during the year ended 31st December 2018. 14.4 Investment property comprises a number of commercial properties that are leased to third parties and proportion under the construction with the purpose of leasing to third parties. 14.4 Capital work in progress includes the construction of a tourist hotel in Hulhumale Island. 14.5 During the year, the company has not capitalized any borrowing costs (2017: MVR 7,756,142) on qualifying assets relating to investment property. 14.6 Income earned from Investment Property e rental income from and direct expenses in relation to investment properties are as follows; Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Rent income 30,827,447 18,643,774 36,269,754 23,799,331 Direct expenses (14,168,055) (6,482,416) (14,168,055) (6,482,416) STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 15 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Group Company 15.1 GROUP Goodwill Computer Total Total Consolidation soware 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Cost Opening balance 3,155,217 94,356,643 97,511,860 94,583,186 Additions during the year 3,158,232 3,158,232 Transferred from capital work In progress (Note 15.3) 640,156 640,156 2,928,674 Retirement during the year (6,511,847) (6,511,847) Closing balance 3,155,217 91,643,184 94,798,401 97,511,860 Accumulated amortization Opening balance 85,133,377 85,133,377 80,252,765 Amortization during the year 4,673,069 4,673,069 4,880,612 Retirement during the year (6,487,284) (6,487,284) Closing balance 83,319,162 83,319,162 85,133,377 Net carrying value 3,155,217 8,324,022 11,479,239 12,378,483 Capital work in progress (Note 15.3) 5,643,197 3,387,853 Total 17,122,436 15,766,336 15.2 COMPANY Computer soware 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR Cost Opening balance 63,847,243 63,847,243 Closing balance 63,847,243 63,847,243 Accumulated amortization Opening balance 62,064,439 59,858,560 Amortization for the year 1,782,805 2,205,879 Closing balance 63,847,243 62,064,439 Net carrying value 1,782,804 Group Company 15.3 Capital working progress 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 3,387,853 2,979,500 Additions during the year 2,895,500 3,200,177 Transferred from property, plant and equipment 136,850 (CWIP) Transferred to intangible assets (640,156) (2,928,674) Closing balance 5,643,197 3,387,853 123 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 15 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Continued) 15.4 Impairment test of goodwill e recoverable amount of goodwill is determined based on the value in -use calculation. e key assumptions used given below. 2018 2017 Business growth 16.14% 6.88% Inﬂation 1.20% 2.30% Discount rate 10.00% 10.00% Margin 4.62% 5.17% 16 PREPAID LEASE RENT Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 149,055,245 36,068,280 33,753,738 36,068,280 Additions during the year 117,654,599 Amortization during the year (4,667,634) (4,667,634) (2,314,542) (2,314,542) Closing balance 144,387,611 149,055,245 31,439,196 33,753,738 Analysis of lease rent Current 4,667,634 4,667,634 2,314,542 2,314,542 Non-current 139,719,977 144,387,611 29,124,654 31,439,196 144,387,611 149,055,245 31,439,196 33,753,738 e Group / the Company has entered in to an agreement on 31 July, 2007 with Hulhumale Development Corporation Ltd, to lease a land located at Hulhumale to construct a ﬁve hundred bed ﬁve star hotel. e Group / the Company has paid MVR 57,863,550 as advance lease rent as per the agreement which allows the advance payment to be deducted from each of the quarterly installments of lease payments due for the ﬁrst ten years. However, as per the second amendment to the initial agreement made on 27 June 2011, the above advance lease rent had been considered as an acquisition fee and agreed that the amount should not be deducted from future lease payments. Accordingly, the above advanced lease payment has been amortized over the lease period. 17 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR Maldive Gas Private Limited 61,200,000 61,200,000 Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited 807,000 807,000 STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited 1,459,750 1,459,750 Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited 42,783,185 42,783,185 Maldives National Oil Company Limited 10,000,000 10,000,000 STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited 999,900 999,900 Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited (MIFCO) (Note 17.2) Provision for impairment of investment in subsidiaries (Note 17.1) (4,961,754) 112,288,081 117,249,835 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 17 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (Continued) 17.1 Provision for impairment of investment in subsidiaries Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR Provision made during the year 4,961,754 Closing balance 4,961,754 Due to the continuous losses incurred by the subsidiaries, Maldives National Oil Company Private Limited ( MNOC ) and STO Hotels and Resorts Private Limited ( STOHR ), the Board of Directors of the Company has assessed the recoverable value of the investment in those subsidiary Companies and recognized an impairment of MVR 4,961,774/as follows, STOHR MNOC Total MVR MVR MVR Cost of the Investment in Subsidiary 999,900 10,000,000 10,999,900 Estimated Recoverable Value (6,038,146) (6,038,146) Provision for Impairment 999,900 3,961,854 4,961,754 e recoverable value of these investments have been derived by calculating the estimated recovery of the investment without considering an improvement in the business of the subsidiaries. 17.2 During the year 2016, the group has acquired 100% control of Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited (MIFCO) pursuant to the decision made by the cabinet of the Government of Maldives. e Government transferred the control of assets and management of MIFCO to the Group on 30th September 2016 without a consideration with a commitment from the Government of Maldives to inject a capital of MVR 333,632,560 in cash to MIFCO. 125 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 18 EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Interest in associates (Note 18.1) 9,438,027 8,356,314 10,567,267 10,567,267 Interest in joint venture (Note 18.3) 21,861,138 24,918,165 4,700,000 4,700,000 31,299,165 33,274,479 15,267,267 15,267,267 Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR 18.1 Investment in Associates Opening balance 8,356,314 6,517,617 10,567,267 10,567,267 Share of proﬁt for the year (net of tax) 1,081,713 1,838,697 Closing balance 9,438,027 8,356,314 10,567,267 10,567,267 Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited State Trading Organization PLC has acquired 10,567,267 shares, at the price of MVR 1/each on 8 of January 2002 in Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited which represents 25% of the shareholding of that company. e principal activity of the company is trading of cement. 18.2 e summarized ﬁnancial information of the associate, which is incorporated in the Republic of Maldives and unlisted, is as follows. Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR Percentage of ownership 25% 25% Non current assets 19,499,716 23,171,577 Current assets 83,894,561 117,454,092 Current liabilities (65,642,169) (107,200,413) Net assets (100%) 37,752,108 33,425,256 Group's share of net assets 9,438,027 8,356,314 Carrying amount of interest in associates 9,438,027 8,356,314 Revenue 103,969,797 106,094,313 Proﬁt and other comprehensive income 4,326,852 7,354,789 Group's share of proﬁt and other comprehensive income 1,081,713 1,838,697 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 18 EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES (Continued) 18.3 Investment in joint venture Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 24,918,165 28,201,092 4,700,000 4,700,000 Share of proﬁt for the year (net of tax) 9,942,973 9,717,073 Dividend received (13,000,000) (13,000,000) Closing balance 21,861,138 24,918,165 4,700,000 4,700,000 Maldives Structural Products Private Limited State Trading Organization PLC has acquired 47,000 shares at the price of MVR 100/each on 31 December 2001 in Maldives Structural Products Private Limited which represents 50% of the shareholding of the company. Maldives Structural Products Private Limited is engaged in the business of manufacturing and trading of structural products. e summarized ﬁnancial information of the joint venture, which is incorporated in Republic of Maldives and unlisted, is as follows. Maldives Structural Products Private Limited 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR Investment in joint venture Percentage of ownership 50% 50% Non current assets 988,238 1,179,923 Current assets 66,676,019 62,872,850 Current liabilities (23,941,982) (14,216,445) Net assets (100%) 43,722,275 49,836,328 Group's share of net assets 21,861,138 24,918,164 Carrying amount of interest in joint venture 21,861,138 24,918,164 Revenue 82,349,740 83,259,006 Depreciation and amortization (161,828) (200,433) Interest expense (1,265,129) (2,923,779) Income tax expense (3,292,406) (3,366,778) Proﬁt and other comprehensive income 19,885,945 19,434,145 Group's share of proﬁt and other comprehensive income 9,942,973 9,717,073 Dividend received by the Group (13,000,000) (13,000,000) 127 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 19 INVESTMENT IN EQUITY INSTRUMENTS Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 56,740,800 22,865,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 Investments made during the year 30,000,000 Net change in fair value (6,920,774) 3,875,000 (7,920,774) Closing balance 49,820,026 56,740,800 4,820,026 12,740,800 Determining the fair value Marketable equity securities are measured at fair value annually at the close of business on 31 December. For investments traded in active markets, fair value is determined by reference to Stock exchange quoted bid prices. Other investments (unlisted securities) are measured at fair value based on the adjusted net assets of the investee company. Equity investments are classiﬁed as noncurrent assets, unless they are expected to be realized within twelve months of the reporting date or unless they are intended to be sold to raise operating capital. 19.1 Movement in investment in equity instruments Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR G.Dh Atoll Rayyithunge Cooperative Society 4,500,000 4,500,000 Maldives Stock Exchange Company Private Limited (Note 19.2) 2,240,800 3,840,800 2,240,800 3,840,800 Madivaru Holdings Private Limited (Note 19.3) 709,148 709,148 Maldives Security Depository 500,000 500,000 Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC (Note 19.4) 10,000,000 10,000,000 Ooredoo Maldives PLC (Note 19.5) 35,000,000 34,000,000 Addu International Airport Private Limited (Note 19.6) 2,579,226 10,000,000 2,579,226 10,000,000 49,820,026 63,549,948 4,820,026 19,549,948 Provision for Impairment Opening balance 6,809,148 6,809,148 Adjustment due to Initial Application of IFRS 9 (Note 5 (ii)) (6,809,148) (6,809,148) Impairment for the year 6,809,148 6,809,148 Closing balance 6,809,148 6,809,148 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 19 INVESTMENT IN EQUITY INSTRUMENTS (Continued) 19.2 Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Cost G.Dh Atoll Rayyithunge Cooperative Society 4,500,000 4,500,000 4,500,000 4,500,000 Maldives Stock Exchange Company Private Limited (Note 19.3) 3,840,800 3,840,800 3,840,800 3,840,800 Madivaru Holdings Private Limited (Note 19.4) 709,148 709,148 709,148 709,148 Maldives Security Depository 500,000 500,000 500,000 500,000 Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC (Note 19.5) 10,000,000 10,000,000 Ooredoo Maldives PLC (Note 19.6) 30,000,000 30,000,000 Addu International Airport Private Limited (Note 19.7) 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 Provision for Impairment (6,809,148) (6,809,148) 59,549,948 52,740,800 19,549,948 12,740,800 Net change in fair value Opening balance 4,000,000 4,000,000 Adjustment due to Initial Application of IFRS 9 (Note 5 (ii)) (6,809,148) (6,809,148) Net change in fair value for the year (6,920,774) (7,920,774) Closing balance (9,729,922) 4,000,000 (14,729,922) Net Fair Value 49,820,026 56,740,800 4,820,026 12,740,800 19.3 e Company has purchased 8,000 no of shares of Maldives Stock Exchange Private Limited. 19.4 e Company has purchased 16,117 no of shares of Madivaru Holdings Private Limited. 19.5 e Company has purchased 125,000 no of shares of Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC. 19.6 e Group has purchased 1,000,000 no of shares of Addu International Airport Private Limited. 19.7 e Group has purchased 20,000 no of shares of Ooredoo Maldives PLC. 20 INVENTORIES Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Food stock 75,067,506 78,247,424 75,067,506 78,247,424 Fuel and lubricants 198,711,878 205,985,959 132,007,861 152,312,238 Home improvement and electronics 53,905,434 61,339,467 52,421,870 59,677,314 Construction materials 72,515,676 63,094,027 72,515,676 63,094,027 Pharmaceuticals 225,655,064 219,320,199 225,655,064 219,320,199 Fish & processed ﬁsh products 134,264,867 146,818,899 Spare parts 115,947,076 106,185,972 15,207,483 19,089,839 Retail shops 67,430,245 47,593,354 66,057,190 46,441,718 Others 35,765,448 26,985,906 33,810,209 25,032,352 Goods in transit 180,477,134 110,501,928 118,991,004 44,713,948 Less: provision for slow and non moving inventories (Note 20.1) (75,588,111) (83,569,751) (36,673,330) (42,799,416) 1,084,152,217 982,503,384 755,060,533 665,129,643 129 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 20 INVENTORIES (Continued) 20.1 Provision for slow moving and non moving inventories Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 83,569,751 81,394,036 42,799,416 43,733,785 Provision made / (reversal) during the year (7,981,640) 2,175,715 (6,126,086) (934,369) Closing balance 75,588,111 83,569,751 36,673,330 42,799,416 In 2018, inventories of MVR 8,204,144,154 (2017: MVR 6,563,756,392) were recognized as an expense during the period and included in 'cost of sales' of the Company. In 2018, inventories of MVR 9,014,831,540 (2017: MVR 7,347,644,542) were recognized as an expense during the period and included in 'cost of sales' of the Group. e Group reversed MVR 7,981,640 of a previous inventory provision in December 2017. e Company has sold all the goods that were considered for the provision to independent retailers in Maldives. e amount reversed has been included in ‘other income’ in the statement of proﬁt or loss. e inventories of the Group and the Company are partly secured against to the loans obtained from Nations Trust Bank PLC and the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Maldives branch. 21 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Trade receivables 774,008,459 730,793,118 219,732,479 213,850,967 Due from policyholders 82,544,718 96,490,764 Less : provision for impairment loss (Note 21.1) (445,737,414) (321,486,380) (102,396,183) (90,385,315) 410,815,763 505,797,502 117,336,296 123,465,652 Advances, prepayments and deposits 233,700,125 136,835,081 200,540,067 100,019,804 Government employee credit scheme 58,825,534 55,757,655 58,825,534 55,757,655 Staﬀ advances and other loans 7,679,881 6,934,606 7,679,881 6,913,360 Advances paid for custom duty 5,163,828 8,488,188 5,163,828 8,488,188 Miscellaneous receivable 80,192,852 86,057,121 37,639,066 50,884,470 Less : unmatured interest (2,504,126) (2,739,944) (2,504,126) (2,739,944) Less : provision for impairment loss (Note 21.2) (44,653,467) (57,674,850) (40,969,276) (56,237,911) 338,404,627 233,657,857 266,374,974 163,085,622 Total trade and other receivable 749,220,390 739,455,359 383,711,270 286,551,274 21.1 Provision for Impairment of trade receivables Opening balance 321,486,380 284,395,990 90,385,315 86,751,950 Adjustment due to Initial Application of IFRS 9 (Note 5 (ii)(b)) 62,757,737 (9,414,819) Written oﬀ during the Year (2,411,029) Provision made during the year 61,493,297 39,501,419 21,425,687 3,633,365 Closing balance 445,737,414 321,486,380 102,396,183 90,385,315 21.2 Provision for impairment of other receivables Opening balance 57,674,850 46,604,046 56,237,911 42,521,210 Adjustment due to Initial Application of IFRS 9 (Note 5 (ii)(b)) (14,679,618) (14,679,618) Written oﬀ during the Year (3,743,056) Provision made / (reversed) during the year 1,658,235 14,813,860 (589,017) 13,716,701 Closing balance 44,653,467 57,674,850 40,969,276 56,237,911 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 22 AMOUNTS DUE FROM RELATED PARTIES Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited 29,530,359 22,888,721 Maldive Gas Private Limited 3,056,514 9,172,834 Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited 1,244,709,947 817,701,084 Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited 481,140 17,517,714 Maldives National Oil Company Limited 10,224 345,610 Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited 103,368,848 55,965,500 STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited 203,001,212 202,654,780 Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited 2,798 758,035 754,954 Maldives Structural Product Private Limited 4,000,000 4,000,000 Ministry of Health 142,162,482 97,406,963 142,162,482 97,406,963 Ministry of Finance and Treasury 94,340,203 222,428,432 94,340,203 132,884,248 State Electric Company Limited (STELCO) 115,285,751 137,611,973 115,196,654 137,566,183 Fenaka Corporation 748,025,278 528,611,638 89,439,223 121,762,710 Indira Gandi Memorial Hospital 268,476,909 180,209,881 268,476,909 180,209,881 Maldives Road Development Corporation 62,850,523 62,410,221 62,248,626 61,788,564 Addu International Airport Private Limited 217,749,797 198,012,292 216,155,826 196,418,321 Aasandha Private Limited 192,416,025 232,611,736 192,416,025 232,611,736 Hulhumale Hospital 27,146,295 27,428,065 27,146,295 27,428,065 Maldives Airport Company Limited 54,233,628 200,741,654 54,233,628 200,741,654 Ministry of Housing and Infrastructure 103,166,559 96,828,714 103,166,559 96,828,714 Ministry of Tourism G.Dh Atoll Rayyithunge Cooperative Society 831,492 831,492 831,492 831,492 Rainbow Enterprises Private Limited 616,410 5,800,267 616,410 5,800,267 Champa Oil and Gas Company Private Limited 71,852 Marine Maldives Products Private Limited 13,010,881 12,378,778 Ukulas Private Limited 1,056,179 1,056,179 E-Biz Maldives Private Limited 4,447 4,447 Other Government entities 266,042,320 185,667,693 222,867,491 140,353,347 2,311,413,530 2,190,870,312 3,177,456,067 2,759,637,789 Less : provision for impairment loss (Note 22.1) (229,104,737) (12,403,617) (362,512,957) (93,529,958) Less : unmatured interest (1,239) (76,371) (1,239) (76,371) Total amount due from related parties 2,082,307,554 2,178,390,324 2,814,941,871 2,666,031,460 Non current 36,666,667 93,825,609 36,666,667 93,825,609 Current 2,045,640,887 2,084,564,715 2,778,275,204 2,572,205,851 2,082,307,554 2,178,390,324 2,814,941,871 2,666,031,460 22.1 Provision for impairment of amounts due from related parties Opening balance 12,403,617 16,920,508 93,529,958 98,038,349 Adjustment due to Initial Application of IFRS 9 (Note 5 (ii)(b)) 214,034,167 265,777,620 Written oﬀ during the Year (8,500) Provision made / (reversed) during the year 2,666,953 (4,508,391) 3,205,379 (4,508,391) Closing balance 229,104,737 12,403,617 362,512,957 93,529,958 Receivables from Maldives Industrials Fisheries Company Limited includes loan receivable of MVR 34,460,148 granted at an interest rate of 7.5% per annum. 131 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 23 REINSURANCE CONTRACTS Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Reinsurers' share of insurance liabilities 147,541,346 109,545,885 Reinsurance share of paid claim and prepaid reinsurance 24,504,035 28,583,782 Reinsurance share of incurred but not reported claims 6,945,008 5,728,610 Unearned premium 99,437,420 98,558,348 Gross receivables from reinsurance 278,427,809 242,416,625 Less : Provision for Re-insurance Receivables (Note 23.1) (8,981,677) (8,981,677) Net receivables from reinsurance 269,446,132 233,434,948 23.1 Provision for Re-insurance Receivables Opening balance 8,981,677 6,017,453 Provision made during the year 2,964,224 Closing balance 8,981,677 8,981,677 24 OTHER FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Investment in treasury bills 132,488,652 100,275,410 Corporate bonds 42,412,050 50,908,196 Investment in term deposit 22,812,752 356,216 197,713,454 151,539,822 Opening balance 151,539,822 154,359,639 Purchased during the year 590,964,071 654,911,895 Matured during the year (544,790,439) (657,731,712) Closing balance 197,713,454 151,539,822 e Group has invested MVR 130,666,536 (2017: MVR 99,792,885) in treasury bills issued by the Maldives Monetary Authority for a maturity value of MVR 100,840,000 (2016: MVR 100,840,000) at the rate of interest ranging from 3.5% to 4.6% per annum (2017: 3.5% to 4.6% per annum) with the maturity period of 30 days to 364 days (2017: 30 days to 364 days). During the year, the Group has made an investment of MVR 41,000,000 (2017: MVR 50,000,000) in the short term corporate bonds issued by Housing development ﬁnance corporation PLC at the interest rate of 6.5% 7.5% (2017: 6.25%) per annum. e Group has also made an investment of MVR 22,000,000 (2017: MVR 322,337) in term deposit at a rate of interest 4.6% 4.7% (2017: 2.3%) with a maturity period of 364 days (2017: 91 364 days). Group Company 25 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Favorable balances Cash in hand 23,458,795 38,673,204 13,116,856 9,966,224 Balances at banks 310,562,990 388,310,680 118,572,224 178,749,299 334,021,785 426,983,884 131,689,080 188,715,523 Unfavorable balances Bank overdras (220,169,701) (267,356,119) (140,871,885) (137,941,870) Cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of cash ﬂow statement 113,852,084 159,627,765 (9,182,805) 50,773,653 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 26 SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES A. SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM 26.1 Authorized e authorized share capital comprises 2,000,000 (2017: 2,000,000) ordinary shares of par value of MVR 50 per share. Issued and fully paid e issued and fully paid share capital comprises 1,126,910 (2017: 1,126,910) ordinary shares at a par value of MVR 50 per share (2017: MVR 50 per share) e above mentioned 1,126,910 shares include 26,040 shares issued at a premium of MVR 250 per share in year 2001 and 60,870 shares issued at a premium of MVR 350 in year 2003. 26.2 Dividends and voting rights e holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the Shareholders' meetings of the Company. 26.3 Dividends per share At the Annual General Meeting held on 30th May 2018, a dividend in respect of 2017 of MVR 55 per share (2017: declared dividend MVR 51 per share in respect of 2016) amounting to a total of MVR 61,980,050 (2017: declared MVR 57,472,410) was declared and approved by the shareholders and accounted for in shareholders' equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 December 2018. B. RESERVES 26.4 General reserve General reserve balance will be utilized for any purpose decided by the Board of Directors. 26.5 Fair value reserve e fair value reserve comprises the cumulative net change in the fair value of equity investments until the assets are derecognized. 26.6 Claim equalization reserve Reserve for claim equalization represents 12% of the operating proﬁt of Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited before taking into account other operating income of the current year . e reserve was created to meet abnormally high claims in future by the Group. 26.7 Currency translation reserve e currency translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange diﬀerences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements of foreign subsidiaries. Group 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 1/1/2017 MVR MVR MVR (Restated) (Restated) Opening balance 18,452,871 15,433,179 15,548,263 Impact Due to Restatement (Note 43.1.1) (115,084) Adjustment due to Initial Application of IFRS 9 (Note 5 (ii)(b)) (32,745) Share of proﬁt of subsidiary 1,844,806 4,008,083 Share of proﬁt of Other comprehensive income of subsidiary 3,769 11,609 Dividend paid to non controlling interest (555,556) (1,000,000) Closing balance 19,713,145 18,452,871 15,433,179 133 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 28 LOANS AND BORROWINGS Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 1,756,375,438 1,760,203,121 1,218,006,952 1,212,755,105 Loans obtained during the Year 4,245,630,792 751,438,045 4,176,220,894 743,243,013 Repayments during the year (3,674,436,295) (755,265,728) (3,648,610,689) (737,991,166) Closing balance 2,327,569,935 1,756,375,438 1,745,617,157 1,218,006,952 28.1 Sources of Finance Secured loans 1,486,134,756 823,847,634 1,034,867,773 377,584,357 Unsecured loans 400,685,795 412,105,208 270,000,000 320,000,000 Corporate bond (Note 28.8) 440,749,384 520,422,595 440,749,384 520,422,595 2,327,569,935 1,756,375,437 1,745,617,157 1,218,006,952 28.2 Non Current Bank borrowings 29,207,774 93,516,520 49,298,318 Other borrowings 151,368,249 103,784,198 25,208,148 Corporate bond 356,810,264 440,749,387 356,810,264 440,749,387 537,386,287 638,050,105 382,018,412 490,047,705 28.3 Current Bank borrowings 1,025,891,670 349,156,732 1,000,407,622 328,286,040 Other borrowings 680,352,855 689,495,394 279,252,000 320,000,000 Corporate bond 83,939,123 79,673,207 83,939,123 79,673,207 1,790,183,648 1,118,325,333 1,363,598,745 727,959,247 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 Group Company 28 LOANS AND BORROWINGS (Continued) Carring value Carring value 28.4 Terms and repayment schedule 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Source of ﬁnance Nominal interest rate Year of maturity Security MVR MVR MVR MVR Nation Trust Bank PLC 7.50% Revolving Trade center building 52,121,858 56,063,793 52,121,858 56,063,793 Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation 8.5% + LIBOR Revolving Government guarantee 132,977,137 83,391,360 132,977,137 83,391,360 Bank of Maldives PLC 10.00% 2019 Backed by STO's assets 38,915,705 74,311,096 38,915,705 74,311,096 Habib Bank Limited 8.50% Revolving Backed by Government guarantee, MVR & STO's assets 8,541,755 8,541,755 Habib Bank Limited 6.00% 2018 Backed by MVR 16,884,650 16,884,650 Ministry of Finance and treasury Proﬁt Share 65 : 35 2019 Un-secured. 150,000,000 150,000,000 150,000,000 150,000,000 Ministry of Finance and treasury Proﬁt Share 70 : 30 2019 Un-secured. 50,000,000 50,000,000 Ministry of Finance and treasury Proﬁt Share 60 : 40 2019 Un-secured. 120,000,000 120,000,000 120,000,000 120,000,000 Ministry of Finance and treasury 7.50% 2023 MIFCO assets procured / constructed under the facility 34,460,148 6,987,451 34,460,148 6,987,451 Maldives Islamic Bank 8.5% mark-up on cost 2019 Assignement of receivables from a customer 5,753,716 23,018,633 5,753,716 23,018,633 International Islamic Trade ﬁnance corporation 2.9% + LIBOR 2019 Letter of comfort from Ministry of Finance and treasury 770,639,209 108,385,619 770,639,209 108,385,619 Listed corporate bond 5.25% 2023 Government guarantee 440,749,384 520,422,595 440,749,384 520,422,595 Ministry of Finance and treasury (IDB Tsunami) 6.00% 2020 Government guarantee 66,296,583 63,239,985 Ministry of Finance and treasury 6.00% 2023 Government guarantee 94,881,915 91,505,239 Ministry of Finance and treasury 6.00% N/A Government guarantee 235,396,663 226,429,159 Ministry of Finance and treasury 4.00% 2022 Un-secured. 50,000,000 Ministry of Finance and treasury Interest free Revolving Un-secured. 52,155,792 52,155,792 Ministry of Fisheries and agriculture Interest free 2028 Un-secured. 5,964,804 7,035,411 Ministry of Fisheries and agriculture Interest free 2024 Un-secured. 12,395,709 12,395,709 Bank of Maldives PLC 8.00% 2019 Leasehold rights of commercial plots & MIFCO assets 1,145,269 Bank of Maldives PLC 8.00% 2020 USD lien, leasehold rights of commercial plots & MIFCO assets 24,478,190 37,636,794 Bank of Maldives PLC 8.00% 2023 Leasehold rights of commercial plots & MIFCO assets 9,562,984 12,402,185 Bank of Maldives PLC 9.75% 2021 MIFCO vessels and government guarantee 10,452,298 13,904,647 Habib Bank Limited 9.00% N/A MIFCO vessels 10,198,350 Green World Private Limited 5.00% 2019 Un-secured. 13,432,804 3 years from Loan received from World Wise Interest free Un-secured. 10,169,490 7,085,492 shipment BL 2,327,569,935 1,756,375,438 1,745,617,157 1,218,006,952 28.5 Bank borrowings of the Group / Company will mature by September 2028 and bear an average interest rate of 6.00% annually (2017: 6.05% annually). 28.6 Bank borrowings of the Group / Company are secured by deposits in Maldivian Ruﬁyaa, inventories, receivables, vessels, buildings, leasehold rights of commercial plots and guarantee from the Government of Maldives. 28.7 As at the reporting date the Group / Company has pledged MVR Nil (2017: MVR 18,573,115) as collateral for the US$ loans taken from banks. 28.8 During the year 2015, the Company issued listed corporate bonds amounting to MVR 539,700,000 with a maturity period of 8 years, carrying interest of 5.25% per annum. 135 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 29 DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 1/1/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR (Restated) (Restated) Opening Balance 40,232,300 30,761,082 25,952,717 28,430,575 23,630,093 Impact Due to Restatement (Note 43.1.1) 4,808,365 Current Service Cost 3,851,237 7,610,570 1,738,445 3,893,768 Interest Cost 1,771,159 1,501,926 1,272,585 1,086,984 Deﬁcit for the Year 2,439,950 2,978,381 3,285,558 2,278,521 48,294,646 42,851,959 30,761,082 34,727,163 30,889,366 Less: Payments During the Year (2,393,975) (2,619,659) (2,264,770) (2,458,791) Closing Balance 45,900,671 40,232,300 30,761,082 32,462,393 28,430,575 29.1 Following amounts are recognized in proﬁt or loss and Other comprehensive income during the year in respect of retirement beneﬁt obligation Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 1/1/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR (Restated) (Restated) Amount Recognized in Proﬁt or Loss Current Service Cost 3,851,237 7,610,570 1,738,445 3,893,768 Interest Cost 1,771,159 1,501,926 1,272,585 1,086,984 5,622,396 9,112,496 3,011,030 4,980,752 Amount Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income 2,439,950 2,978,381 3,285,558 2,278,521 Deﬁcit for the Year 2,439,950 2,978,381 3,285,558 2,278,521 29.2 e retirement beneﬁt obligation of the Company and the subsidiary Maldives Gas Private Limited is estimated based on the calculation performed by the Management. e subsidiaries, Allied Insurance Company of Maldives Private Limited and Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited have engaged a qualiﬁed actuary to estimate the retirement beneﬁt obligation. e projected unit credit method is used to determine the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation. Key assumptions used in the calculation are as follows, Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 1/1/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Expected Salary Increment 1.88% 4.22% 1.88% 3.69% 1.88% 3.69% 4.22% 3.69% Discount Rate 4% 4.6% 4% 4.6% 4% 4.6% 4.60% 4.60% Staﬀ Turnover Factor 1% 17.35% 1% 17.35% 1% 17.35% 7.21% 7.00% STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 30 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Trade payables 1,800,963,851 1,992,639,058 1,698,376,035 1,776,090,272 Accrued expenses 42,846,793 34,108,435 30,983,926 25,601,151 Lease rent accrual 46,875,156 33,072,169 2,465,556 10,867,369 Dividend payable 299,766,167 248,118,887 297,116,167 245,468,887 Other payable 237,274,509 234,688,524 137,449,542 99,088,285 2,427,726,476 2,542,627,073 2,166,391,226 2,157,115,964 31 DEFERRED INCOME Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 44,481,492 20,937,766 55,530,068 Received during the year 11,480,242 31,444,033 57,677,788 Recognized during the year (8,757,293) (7,900,307) (1,930,854) (2,147,720) 47,204,441 44,481,492 53,599,214 55,530,068 Analysis of deferred income Realization within one year 8,467,181 7,831,218 1,930,854 1,930,854 Realization Aer one year 38,737,260 36,650,274 51,668,360 53,599,214 47,204,441 44,481,492 53,599,214 55,530,068 31.1 Deferred revenues related to the rent received in advance from tenants and registration fees received from customers for the initial purchase of gas cylinders. Rent advances are initially recognized in liabilities as deferred income and credited to proﬁt or loss as revenue over the period to which rent advances are related to. On receipt of the registration fees, they are included in liabilities as deferred revenue and are credited to proﬁt or loss as revenue on a straight line basis over 5 years. 32 INSURANCE CONTRACTS Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Claims reported and loss adjustment 240,052,242 188,733,187 Claim incurred but not reported (IBNR) 12,215,519 10,073,178 Provision for unearned premiums 180,308,904 185,317,211 Unappropriated policyholders fund 18,356,230 13,724,133 Provision for unearned reinsurance commission 26,886,676 28,262,833 Total insurance liabilities, gross 477,819,571 426,110,542 137 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 33 CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Opening balance 15,771,010 15,685,739 13,082,671 7,925,936 Tax provision for the year 60,992,044 52,418,255 39,316,856 33,408,493 Tax paid during the year (52,866,689) (52,439,249) (35,253,604) (28,251,758) Adjustment in respect of prior years 5,507,428 106,265 5,507,428 Closing balance 29,403,793 15,771,010 22,653,351 13,082,671 34 AMOUNTS DUE TO RELATED PARTIES Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited 102,130,493 Maldive Gas Private Limited 10,743,595 Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited 226,860 228,132 Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited 105,536,078 63,291,321 Maldives National Oil Company Limited 365,173 Maldives Industrials Fisheries Company Limited 41,489,869 STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited 180,846 Lafarge Maldives Cement Private Limited 31,188,044 40,786,574 31,188,044 40,786,574 Maldives Structural Product Private Limited 26,818,102 16,423,494 26,818,102 16,423,494 Addu International Airport Private Limited 24,904 290,289 24,904 290,289 Ministry of Housing and Infrastructure 329,932 299,932 329,932 299,932 Maldives Pension Administration Oﬃce 1,258,569 1,201,164 1,258,569 1,201,164 Fenaka Corporation Limited 4,303,483 556,158 4,303,483 556,158 Housing Development Corporation Limited 9,937,604 58,265,519 9,937,604 58,265,519 Rainbow Enterprises Private Limited 66,632 70,281 66,632 70,281 Champa Oil and Gas Company Private Limited 555,556 1,000,000 Other Government entities 9,573,167 6,760,782 9,527,316 6,620,243 84,055,993 125,654,193 189,217,524 342,943,083 Payable to Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited includes the demand loan of MVR 48,119,710 at an interest rate of 5% per annum. e amount due to related parties are unsecured, interest free, and have no ﬁxed repayment period. Accordingly, these amounts have been determined to be payable on demand and classiﬁed as a current liabilities. 35 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT e Group's objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the group's ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide return for shareholders and beneﬁts for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to Shareholders, return capital to Shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including borrowings, trade and other payables and current tax liabilities as shown in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position) less cash and cash equivalents. Total capital is calculated as 'equity' as shown in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position plus net debt. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 35 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT (Continued) Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Total liabilities 5,661,129,156 5,220,202,666 4,350,812,750 3,953,051,183 Less: Cash and cash equivalent (334,021,785) (426,983,884) (131,689,080) (188,715,523) Net debt 5,327,107,371 4,793,218,782 4,219,123,670 3,764,335,660 Total equity 2,035,432,316 2,517,842,397 1,990,133,143 2,252,657,417 Total capital employed 7,362,539,687 7,311,061,179 6,209,256,813 6,016,993,077 Gearing 72.35% 65.56% 67.95% 62.56% e increase in gearing ratio of the Group during the 2018 is primarily due to increase in net debt of the group as a result of increase in liabilities of State Trading Organization PLC. 36 COMMITMENTS Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted as of the reporting date but not yet 312,020,031 354,028,786 312,020,031 354,028,786 incurred Shares subscribed as of the reporting date but not yet paid 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 322,020,031 364,028,786 322,020,031 364,028,786 36.1 ere were no other material capital commitments outstanding at the reporting date which require disclosure in the ﬁnancial statements. 139 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 36 COMMITMENTS (Continued) 36.2 Operating Leases Leases as lessee e Group / Company has entered into an agreement with Housing Development Corporation Limited on 31st July 2007 for developing, operating and managing a ﬁve star tourist hotel in Hulhumale. e lease rental commitment of the said project has been included in operating lease commitments. Pursuant to the settlement agreement dated on 10th January 2017, a lease agreement was signed between STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited and Ministry of Tourism for the lease of Ekulhivaru island (located in Noonu atoll) with a lease period 50 years for the development and operation of resort. e lease rental commitment payable for the Island has been included in operating lease commitments. e Group leases various retail outlets, oﬃces and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. e lease terms are between 5 and 25 years, and the majority of lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate. Future minimum lease payment Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Non-cancellable operating lease rentals payable for future years are as follows; Less than one year 63,577,281 47,028,071 32,808,409 38,706,518 1 to 5 years 234,738,751 228,691,532 111,001,206 105,715,408 More than 5 years 1,225,517,149 1,193,374,437 96,178,624 33,715,804 1,523,833,181 1,469,094,040 239,988,239 178,137,730 Amount recognized in proﬁt or loss Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Lease expense 35,094,835 35,702,748 17,745,596 14,560,116 Leases as lessor e Group / Company leases out some properties which have been obtained under operating leases. Amount recognized in proﬁt or loss Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Non-cancellable operating lease rentals receivable for future years are as follows; Less than one year 41,837,342 24,537,720 43,287,350 29,744,036 1 to 5 years 83,674,685 53,319,124 86,574,701 68,938,071 125,512,027 77,856,844 129,862,051 98,682,107 Amount recognized in proﬁt or loss Group Company 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Rent income 30,827,447 18,643,774 36,269,754 23,799,331 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 37 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES (i) State Trading Organization PLC has issued corporate guarantees to Bank of Maldives for the facilities obtained by Maldives Structural Products Private Limited. 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR Type of facilities • overdra 3,855,000 3,855,000 • letter of credit 15,420,000 15,420,000 19,275,000 19,275,000 (ii) Whiteline Private Limited has ﬁled suit in High Court claiming for invoice amount of MVR 113,035.64 along with ﬁne amount of MVR 47,475,000 which was not accepted by State Trading Organization PLC. e Civil Court of Maldives delivered a verdict against the claimant (in favor of STO) stating that the claimant has no suﬃcient evidence against STO to prove the case. e claimant appealed the case at High Court of Maldives. is case is in progress. In the event the Court holds in favor of the customers, the Group and the Company will need to recognize a liability in respect of this claim. (iii) A customer has ﬁled suit in Civil Court claiming compensation for damage amounting to MVR 3,149,792 which was not accepted by State Trading Organization PLC. is case is in progress. In the event the Court holds in favor of the customers, the Group and the Company will need to recognize a liability in respect of this claim. (iv) is case concerns a claim relating to damages suﬀered by Alidhoo Resort( owned by Yacht Tours Maldives Private Limited) purportedly due to bad weather. Yacht Tours Maldives Private Limited is claiming an amount of US$ 22,784,838/59 under the Insurance policy No. 101/2014/617 from the Company. this case was reintroduced at the Civil Court following the decision of the High Court of Maldives in case 2016/HC-A/299, ordering the Civil Court to decide on the subject of the Claim. e Civil Court( Case No. 1794/Cv-C/2015) by Yacht Tours Maldives Pvt. Ltd.e decision was appealed by the Yacht Tours Maldives Pvt. Ltd. as the High Court of Maldives where the High Court ruled in favour of the Yacht Tours Maldives Pvt. Ltd. however the Company appealed the decision of the High Court at the Supreme Court of Maldives. the company's lawyers believe that the Company would prevail in the above litigation at the Supreme Court of Maldives. ere were no other material contingent liabilities which require disclosure in the consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements as at the reporting date other than those disclosed above. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT A. Accounting Classiﬁcations and fair values e following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities, including their level in the fair value hierarchy. AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2018 Carrying amount Fair value Group Amortized Other ﬁnancial Financial assets measured at fair value FVTPL FVOCI Cost liabilities Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Investment in Equity Instruments 49,820,026 49,820,026 46,000,000 3,820,026 49,820,026 49,820,026 46,000,000 3,820,026 Financial assets not measured at fair value Other ﬁnancial investments 197,713,454 197,713,454 Trade and other receivables 749,220,390 749,220,390 Amounts due from related parties 2,082,307,554 2,082,307,554 Reinsurance contracts 269,446,132 269,446,132 Cash and cash equivalents 334,021,785 334,021,785 3,632,709,315 3,632,709,315 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Bank overdra 220,169,701 220,169,701 Loans and borrowings 2,327,569,935 2,327,569,935 Amounts due to related Parties 84,055,993 84,055,993 Insurance contracts 477,819,571 477,819,571 Trade and other payables 2,427,726,476 2,427,726,476 5,537,341,676 5,537,341,676 141 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) A. Accounting Classiﬁcations and fair values(Continued) AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2017 Carrying amount Fair value Group Designated at Held to Available for Loans and Other ﬁnancial Financial assets measured at fair value fair value maturity sale receivables liabilities Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Investment in Equity Instruments 56,740,800 56,740,800 44,000,000 12,740,800 56,740,800 56,740,800 44,000,000 12,740,800 Financial assets not measured at fair value Other ﬁnancial investments 151,539,822 151,539,822 Trade and other receivable 739,455,359 739,455,359 Amounts due from related parties 2,178,390,324 2,178,390,324 Reinsurance contracts 233,434,948 233,434,948 Cash and cash equivalents 426,983,884 426,983,884 151,539,822 3,578,264,515 3,729,804,337 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Bank overdra 267,356,119 267,356,119 Loans and borrowings 1,756,375,438 1,756,375,438 Amounts due to related parties 125,654,193 125,654,193 Insurance contracts 426,110,542 426,110,542 e Group has not disclosed the fair values for ﬁnancial instruments when their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of fair value. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) A. Accounting Classiﬁcations and fair values (Continued) e following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities, including their level in the fair value hierarchy. AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2018 Carrying amount Fair value Company Amortized Other ﬁnancial Financial assets measured at fair value FVTPL FVOCI Cost liabilities Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Investment in Equity Instruments 4,820,026 4,820,026 4,820,026 4,820,026 4,820,026 4,820,026 Financial assets not measured at fair value Trade and other receivables 383,711,270 383,711,270 Amounts due from related parties 2,814,941,871 2,814,941,871 Cash and cash equivalents 131,689,080 131,689,080 3,330,342,221 3,330,342,221 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Bank overdra 140,871,885 140,871,885 Loans and borrowings 1,745,617,157 1,745,617,157 Amounts due to related parties 189,217,524 189,217,524 Trade and other payables 2,166,391,226 2,166,391,226 Insurance contracts 4,242,097,792 4,242,097,792 Trade and other payables 2,427,726,476 2,427,726,476 5,537,341,676 5,537,341,676 143 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) A. Accounting Classiﬁcations and fair values(Continued) AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 2017 Carrying amount Fair value Company Designated at Available for Loans and Other ﬁnancial Financial assets measured at fair value fair value sale receivables liabilities Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR MVR Investment in Equity Instruments 12,740,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 12,740,800 Financial assets not measured at fair value Trade and other receivables 286,551,274 286,551,274 Amounts due from related parties 2,666,031,460 2,666,031,460 Cash and cash equivalents 188,715,523 188,715,523 3,141,298,257 3,141,298,257 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Bank overdra 137,941,870 137,941,870 Loans and borrowings 1,218,006,952 1,218,006,952 Amounts due to related parties 342,943,083 342,943,083 Trade and other payables 2,157,115,964 2,157,115,964 3,856,007,869 3,856,007,869 e Company has not disclosed the fair values for ﬁnancial instruments when their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of fair value. 145 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) b. Measurement of fair value i. Valuation techniques and signiﬁcant unobservable input e following tables show the valuation techniques used in measuring level 2 and level 3 fair values, as well as the signiﬁcant unobservable inputs used. Financial Instruments measured at fair value Type Valuation Techniques Signiﬁcant unobservable input Inter relationship between signiﬁcant unobservable inputs and fair value measurement Equity Investments Adjusted net asset Investees ﬁnancial data NA method C. Financial Risk Management (i) Overview e Group / the Company has exposure to the following risks from its use of ﬁnancial instruments: • Credit risk • Liquidity risk • Market risk is note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s / the Company's objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s / the Company's management of capital. Further, quantitative disclosures are included throughout these group’s / the Company's ﬁnancial statements. (ii) Risk management framework e Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s / the Company's risk management framework. (iii) Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of ﬁnancial loss to the Group / the Company if a customer or counterparty to a ﬁnancial instruments fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s / the Company's receivables from customers, investment in debt securities and deposits with banks. Comparative information under IAS 39 e carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. e maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Group Carrying Company Carrying amount amount 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Trade and other receivables 749,220,390 739,455,359 383,711,270 286,551,274 Amounts due from related party 2,082,307,554 2,178,390,324 2,814,941,871 2,666,031,460 Reinsurance contracts 269,446,132 233,434,948 Other ﬁnancial investments 197,713,454 151,539,822 Balances with banks and short term deposits 310,562,990 388,310,680 118,572,224 178,749,299 3,609,250,520 3,691,131,133 3,317,225,365 3,131,332,033 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) (iii) Credit Risk (Continued) Trade and other receivables e Group’s exposure to credit risk is inﬂuenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. ere is no concentration of credit risk geographically. e management has established a credit policy under which each new customer is analyzed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s / Company's standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are oﬀered. e Group / Company establishes a provision for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables. e provision for impairment represents the speciﬁc loss component that relates to individually signiﬁcant exposures. Impairment losses 31/12/2017 Gross Impairment Group MVR MVR e aging of trade, other receivables and related party receivables at the reporting date was: Not Past Due 1,165,666,652 1,732,459 Past Due 31-90 days 298,651,163 880,114 Past Due 91-180 days 245,927,763 1,418,604 Past Due 181-365 days 476,130,427 3,428,809 Past Due more than 365 days 1,123,034,525 384,104,860 Past Due more than 365 days 3,309,410,530 391,564,847 Impairment losses 31/12/2017 Gross Impairment Company MVR MVR e aging of trade, other receivables and related party receivables at the reporting date was: Not Past Due 1,471,800,580 106,898 Past Due 31-90 days 376,207,940 236,614 Past Due 91-180 days 187,395,601 663,586 Past Due 181-365 days 222,697,850 1,158,926 Past Due more than 365 days 934,633,947 237,987,160 3,192,735,918 240,153,184 Provision for impairment in respect of trade, other receivables and related party receivables is given in Note 21 and 22 to the consolidated / separate ﬁnancial statements. e Group / the Company believes that the unimpaired amounts that are outstanding are still collectible, based on historic payment behavior. Based on historic default rates, the group believes that, apart from the above, no provision for impairment is necessary. Other ﬁnancial investments e Group / the Company limits its exposure to credit risk by investing only in liquid debt securities and only with counterparties that have a good credit rating. Guarantees e Group / the Company policy is to provide ﬁnancial guarantees only to subsidiaries, joint venture and associates. As at 31 December 2018, the Company has issued corporate guarantees to Bank of Maldives PLC for the facilities obtained by Maldives Structural Products Private Limited. e details of corporate guarantees are disclosed in note 37. 147 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) (iii) Credit Risk (Continued) Expected credit loss assessment under IFRS 9 e Group/ Company uses an allowance matrix to measure the ECLs of trade, other receivables and related party receivables. Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experience over past years. ese rates are multiplied by scalar factors to reﬂect diﬀerence between economic condition during the period over which historical data has been collected, current condition and company's view of economic condition of expected lives of the receivables. Scalar factors are based on actual and forecast GDP growth rates and normalized average GDP use for ECL assessment. Measurement of ECL e key inputs into the measurement of ECL are the term structure of the following variables: Probability of default (PD) Loss given default (LGD) Exposure at default (EAD) The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade, other receivables and related party receivables as at 31st December 2018. Group Company 31st December 2018 Weighted Gross Loss Weighted Gross Loss Average Carrying Allowance Average Carrying Allowance Loss Rate Amount US$ Loss Rate Amount US$ US$ US$ Not past due or 1–30 days past due 2.2% 1,018,281,322 22,851,569 1% 1505079877 17718966 31–90 days past due 2.7% 377,449,863 10,220,424 1% 606378975 5043525 91 180 days past due 9.1% 283,603,847 25,794,245 8% 100674270 7676796 181-365 days past due 9.6% 546,036,514 52,357,757 9% 275721445 23502734 Above 365 days past due 45.9% 1,325,652,016 608,271,623 37% 1216676990 451936395 3,551,023,562 719,495,618 3,704,531,557 505,878,416 Group Company 1st January 2018 Weighted Gross Loss Weighted Gross Loss Average Carrying Allowance Average Carrying Allowance Loss Rate Amount US$ Loss Rate Amount US$ US$ US$ Not past due or 1–30 days past due 4% 1,165,666,652 40,882,611 2% 1,471,800,580 30,657,078 31–90 days past due 7% 298,651,163 20,020,023 1% 376,207,940 4,316,411 91 180 days past due 8% 245,927,763 20,325,922 5% 187,395,601 8,807,848 181-365 days past due 7% 476,130,427 35,334,700 8% 222,697,850 17,827,617 Above 365 days past due 48% 1,123,034,525 537,113,877 45% 934,633,947 420,227,413 3,309,410,530 653,677,133 3,192,735,918 481,836,367 Gross carrying amount and loss allowance comprise the trade, other receivables and related party receivables. e Company believes that the unimpaired amounts are still collectible, based on historic payment behavior. Based on historic default rates, the Company believes that, apart from the above, no provision for impairment is necessary in respect of trade, other and related party receivables. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) (iv) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group / the Company will encounter diﬃculty in meeting the obligations associated with its ﬁnancial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another ﬁnancial asset. e Group’s / the Company's approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have suﬃcient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s / the Company's reputation. e followings are the contractual maturities of ﬁnancial liabilities as at the reporting date. 31st December 2018 Carrying amount 0-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years More than 5 MVR MVR MVR MVR years Group MVR Financial liabilities (Nonderivative) Trade and other payables 2,427,726,476 2,427,726,476 Loans and borrowings 2,327,569,935 1,790,183,648 195,750,762 340,717,863 917,662 Amounts due to related parties 84,055,993 84,055,993 Insurance contracts 477,819,571 477,819,571 Bank overdras 220,169,701 220,169,701 Total 5,537,341,676 4,999,955,389 195,750,762 340,717,863 917,662 31st December 2017 Carrying amount 0-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years More than 5 MVR MVR MVR MVR years Group MVR Financial liabilities (Nonderivative) Trade and other payables 2,542,627,073 2,542,627,073 Loans and borrowings 1,756,375,438 1,118,325,333 207,355,250 427,770,943 2,923,912 Amounts due to related parties 125,654,193 125,654,193 Insurance contracts 426,110,542 426,110,542 Bank overdras 267,356,119 267,356,119 Total 5,118,123,365 4,480,073,260 207,355,250 427,770,943 2,923,912 It is not expected that the cash ﬂows included in the maturity analysis could occur signiﬁcantly earlier, or at signiﬁcantly diﬀerent amounts. 31st December 2018 Carrying amount 0-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years More than 5 MVR MVR MVR MVR years Company MVR Financial liabilities (Nonderivative) Trade and other payables 2,166,391,226 2,166,391,226 Loans and borrowings 1,745,617,157 1,363,598,745 97,685,448 284,332,964 Amounts due to related parties 189,217,524 189,217,524 Bank overdras 140,871,885 140,871,885 Total 4,242,097,792 3,860,079,380 97,685,448 284,332,964 149 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) (iv) Liquidity risk (Continued) 31st December 2017 Carrying amount 0-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years More than 5 MVR MVR MVR MVR years Company MVR Financial liabilities (NonDerivative) Trade and other payables 2,157,115,964 2,157,115,964 Loans and borrowings 1,218,006,952 727,959,247 133,237,441 356,810,264 Amounts due to related parties 342,943,083 342,943,083 Bank overdras 137,941,870 137,941,870 Total 3,856,007,869 3,365,960,164 133,237,441 356,810,264 (v) Market risk Market risk is the risk of changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates that aﬀect the Group’s / the Company's income or the value of its holdings of ﬁnancial instruments. e objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimizing the return. (a) Interest rate risk Proﬁle At the reporting date, the interest rate proﬁle of the Group’s / the Company's interest-bearing ﬁnancial instruments were: Group Company Carrying amount Carrying amount 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Variable rate instruments Financial Assets 80,000,000 120,000,000 80,000,000 120,000,000 Financial liabilities (482,274,953) (488,746,236) (402,977,137) (403,391,360) (402,274,953) (368,746,236) (322,977,137) (283,391,360) Fixed rate instruments Financial assets 254,034,862 212,878,565 90,781,556 60,005,162 Financial liabilities (2,615,777,837) (2,490,531,264) (2,083,332,747) (1,949,540,643) (2,361,742,975) (2,277,652,699) (1,992,551,191) (1,889,535,481) Cash ﬂow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments A reasonably possible change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased / (decreased) equity and proﬁt or loss by the amount shown below. is analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency exchange rates, remain constant. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) (v) Market risk (Continued) Proﬁt or loss Equity net of tax Group 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 31 st December 2018 increase decrease increase decrease Variable rate instruments (4,022,750) 4,022,750 (3,419,337) 3,419,337 31 st December 2017 Variable rate instruments (3,687,462) 3,687,462 (3,134,343) 3,134,343 Proﬁt or loss Equity net of tax Company 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 31 st December 2018 increase decrease increase decrease Variable rate instruments (3,229,771) 3,229,771 (2,745,306) 2,745,306 31 st December 2017 Variable rate instruments (2,833,914) 2,833,914 (2,408,827) 2,408,827 (b) Currency Risk Exposure to currency risk Group e Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts: 31/12/2018 US$ Euro SGD Cash and cash equivalents 6,200,961 3,583 36,225 Trade, amount due from related parties and other receivables 39,812,464 20,639 Reinsurance contracts 18,056,278 Trade, amount due to related parties and other payables (108,592,526) (105,860) (888,495) Loans and borrowings (95,995,417) Bank overdras (13,062,774) Net currency exposure (153,581,013) (102,277) (831,631) 151 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) (v) Market risk (Continued) Exposure to currency risk (Continued) Group 31/12/2017 e Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on US$ Euro SGD notional amounts: Cash and cash equivalents 8,496,356 6,764 26,620 Trade, amount due from related parties and other receivables 36,770,870 1,836 8,831 Reinsurance contracts 15,720,923 Trade, amount due to related parties and other payables (124,060,034) (381,652) (1,204,273) Loans and borrowings (62,968,988) Bank overdras (13,690,532) Net currency exposure (139,731,405) (373,052) (1,168,822) Company 31/12/2018 e Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based US$ Euro SGD on notional amounts: Cash and cash equivalents 1,014,651 3,583 Trade, amount due from related parties and other receivables 34,972,828 218,299 3,703 Trade, amount due to related parties and other payables (105,521,078) (105,889) (857,906) Loans and borrowings (93,087,114) Bank overdras (9,135,661) Net currency exposure (171,756,373) 115,993 (854,203) Company 31/12/2017 e Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based US$ Euro SGD on notional amounts: Cash and cash equivalents 3,105,462 3,772 Trade, amount due from related parties and other receivables 28,770,781 183,484 4,332 Trade, amount due to related parties and other payables (124,956,754) (382,947) (1,186,025) Loans and borrowings (56,290,588) Bank overdras (8,945,647) Net currency exposure (158,316,746) (195,691) (1,181,693) STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) (v) Market risk (Continued) Exposure to currency risk (Continued) Average Rate Reporting date spot rate 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 e following signiﬁcant exchange rate were applied during the year: 1 US$ : MVR 15.42 15.42 15.42 15.42 1 Euro : MVR 18.01 17.25 17.65 18.36 1 SGD : MVR 11.40 11.08 11.29 11.51 Sensitivity analysis A reasonably possible strengthening (weakening) of the USD, EURO, SGD against all other currencies at 31 December would have aﬀected the measurement of ﬁnancial instruments denominated in a foreign currency and aﬀected proﬁt or loss by the amount shown below. e analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any impact of forecasted sales and purchases. Proﬁt or Loss Group Strengthening Weakening 31 st December 2018 USD 5% movement (118,410,961) 118,410,961 EURO 5% movement (90,255) 90,255 SGD 5% movement (469,425) 469,425 (118,970,641) 118,970,641 31 st December 2017 USD 5% movement (107,732,913) 107,732,913 EURO 5% movement (342,490) 342,490 SGD 5% movement (672,760) 672,760 (108,748,163) 108,748,163 Company 31 st December 2018 USD 5% movement (132,424,164) 132,424,164 EURO 5% movement 102,358 (102,358) SGD 5% movement (482,166) 482,166 (132,803,972) 132,803,972 Proﬁt or Loss Company Strengthening Weakening 31 st December 2017 USD 5% movement (122,062,211) 122,062,211 EURO 5% movement (179,659) 179,659 SGD 5% movement (680,168) 680,168 (122,922,038) 122,922,038 153 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 38 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) 39 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE Subject to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, the Board of Directors recommends a First and Final dividend of MVR.58/per Ordinary share for the year ended 31st December 2018. e dividend payable has not been accounted for until it is approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Other than above, no circumstances have arisen since the reporting date which require adjustments to or disclosure in the consolidated / separate ﬁnancial statements. 40 DIRECTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY e Board of Directors of the Group / the Company is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements. 41 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES e Company is the parent company for the following subsidiary companies Country of incorporation No of shares Shareholding 2018 2017 2018 2017 Maldive Gas Private Limited (Note 41.1) Republic of Maldives 61,200 61,200 90.00% 90.00% Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited ( 41.2) Republic of Maldives 299,998 299,998 99.99% 99.99% STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited (Note 41.3) Singapore 200,000 200,000 100.00% 100.00% Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited (Note 41.4) Republic of Maldives 15,299 15,299 99.99% 99.99% Maldives National Oil Company Limited (Note 41.5) Republic of Maldives 99,999 99,999 99.99% 99.99% STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited (Note 41.6) Republic of Maldives 9,999 9,999 99.99% 99.99% Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited (MIFCO) (Note 41.7) Republic of Maldives 1,439,725 1,439,725 99.99% 99.99% 41.1 Maldive Gas Private Limited e main business activity of the company is distributing Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) ,Medical and Industrial oxygen production. 41.2 Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Private Limited e company’s main business activity is providing the general & Life insurance service. 41.3 STO Maldives (Singapore) Private Limited e main business activity of the company is trading Oil & Gas. 41.4 Fuel Supplies Maldives Private Limited e main business activity of the company is distributing Oil products which are imported by STO. 41.5 Maldives National Oil Company Limited e main business activity of the company is developing of Oil and Gas exploration processes and trading Oil related products. 41.6 STO Hotels & Resorts Private Limited e company was engaged in the operation of an airport. 41.7 Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited (MIFCO) e principal activities are export of frozen ﬁsh, Canned tuna, Katsubishi, ﬁsh meal, retail sales in the local market by the name Fasmeeru products. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 42 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 42.1 Group Balance outstanding due Name of the related party Relationship Nature of the transaction Amount from / (to) 2018 2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Maldives Structural Joint venture Sale of goods 64,830 63,642 (22,818,102) (16,423,494) Product Private Purchase of goods (57,150,129) (56,665,368) Limited Dividend received 13,000,000 13,000,000 Payment received (9,064,830) (13,072,573) Payment made 46,755,521 61,989,036 Lafarge Maldives Associate Purchase of goods (85,987,763) (104,556,727) (31,185,246) (40,028,539) Cement Private Payment made 99,266,619 93,974,395 Limited Transportation charges paid (3,909,818) Rebate received 229,492 Sales of goods 316,140 254,251 Payment received (1,071,377) (538,277) Rent received 238,111 Ministry of Finance Majority Food subsidy income 294,066,756 188,739,703 94,340,203 222,428,432 and Treasury shareholder Fuel subsidy 548,457,805 71,136,176 Sale of goods 74,685 345,068 Payment received (970,687,475) (387,443,764) Ministry of Health Aﬃliate Sale of goods 213,620,111 149,552,122 142,162,482 97,406,963 company Payment received (168,864,592) (168,522,607) State Electric Aﬃliate Service obtained (19,620,448) (18,928,401) 115,285,751 137,611,973 Company ( STELCO) company Payment made 19,351,683 20,148,801 Payment received (1,048,266,611) (969,083,325) Sale of goods and fuel 1,026,209,154 1,010,003,660 Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital Aﬃliate Sale of goods 356,030,197 325,658,612 268,476,909 180,209,881 company Payment received (267,763,169) (288,536,230) Service obtained (utility bills) (267,625) Payment Made 244,212 Rainbow Enterprises Aﬃliate Purchase of goods (575,485) (426,278) 549,778 5,729,986 Private Limited company Sale of goods 2,781,725 7,799,021 Payment made 579,134 368,864 Interest 713,237 (9,182) Payment received (8,678,819) (2,681,894) Maldives Road Aﬃliate Sale of goods 460,062 50,194,852 62,850,523 62,410,221 Development Corporation company Fine charged Payment received (19,760) (2,694,924) Hulhumale Hospital Aﬃliate Sale of goods (62,920) 1,325,836 27,146,295 27,428,065 company Payment received (218,850) (231,503) 155 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 42 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) 42.1 Group (Continued) Balance outstanding due Name of the related party Relationship Nature of the transaction Amount from / (to) 2018 2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Ministry of Housing Aﬃliate Sale of goods 22,229,680 62,941,732 102,836,627 96,528,782 and Infrastructure company Service obtained (183,810) (162,230) Payment made 153,810 165,230 Payment received (15,891,835) (41,077,177) Fenaka Corporation Limited Aﬃliate Sale of goods and fuel 634,349,385 507,853,184 743,721,795 528,055,480 company Sale of foreign currency Service obtained (7,361,651) (9,470,643) Interest received 8,313,346 Payment made 3,614,325 9,442,280 Payment received (423,249,090) (319,519,797) Maldives Airport Aﬃliate Sale of goods 906,406 1,425,034 54,233,628 200,741,654 Company Limited company Sale of fuel 1,547,119,022 1,268,663,113 Payment received (1,694,533,454) (1,149,849,109) Addu International Aﬃliate Sale of goods 25,532,192 32,548,699 217,749,797 198,012,292 Airport Private Limited company Payment received (5,794,687) (4,905,428) Aasandha Private Limited Aﬃliate Sale of goods 326,413,727 306,230,283 192,416,025 232,611,736 company Services provided 101,927 101,927 Payment received (366,711,365) (170,125,309) 42.1.1 Transactions with Key Management Personnel e Board of Directors and Managing Director of the Group are the members of the key management personnel. Key management personnel compensation comprised the following. 2018 2017 MVR MVR Short term employee beneﬁts 10,690,377 8,682,390 42.1.2 Collectively, but not individually, signiﬁcant transactions. e Government of Maldives is the major shareholder of the parent Company. e Group has transactions with entities directly or indirectly controlled by the Government of Maldives through its authorities, agencies, aﬃliations and other organizations, collectively referred to as government entities. e Group has transactions with other government related entities including but not limited to sales, purchases, rendering of services, lease of assets and use of public utilities. STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 42 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) 42.2 COMPANY Balance outstanding due Name of the related party Relationship Nature of the transaction Amount from / (to) 2018 2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Allied Insurance Subsidiary Sale of goods 184,972 250,899 (105,054,938) (45,773,607) Company of the Service obtained (29,786,377) (29,784,349) Maldives Private Advance received (51,889,168) Limited Interest paid (2,536,924) (1,323,293) Payment made 41,967,712 21,379,772 Claims received 3,701,527 2,932,581 Payment received (47,120,260) (22,887,812) Rent received 1,087,354 1,910,780 Transferred to deferred 32,523,615 income Dividend received 25,109,833 20,099,866 Maldive National Subsidiary Expense Reimbursement 29,787 1,999 10,224 (19,563) Oil Company Limited Service obtained Maldive Gas Subsidiary Sale of goods 1,694,402 2,483,597 3,056,514 (1,570,761) Private Limited Purchase of goods (8,516,028) (22,688,817) Dividend received 5,000,000 9,000,000 Rent received 1,632,672 1,552,665 Payment made 30,055,123 26,070,837 Advance paid (514,500) Payment received (25,238,894) (12,863,730) Fuel Supplies Maldives Subsidiary Sale of fuel 3,295,667,224 2,250,525,094 1,244,483,087 817,472,952 Private Limited Purchases of fuel (455,151,052) (323,258,487) Payment made 699,044,693 363,695,953 Service obtained (219,645) (2,198,036) Rent received 3,818,709 2,651,458 Rebate paid on fuel sales (28,095,161) (7,044,673) Payment received (2,872,852,056) (1,994,379,759) Receivables transferred (120,000,000) Government subsidy (210,200,816) (26,738,770) payable Transportation charges paid (5,001,761) (4,457,258) STO Maldives Subsidiary Purchases of fuel (165,618,412) 29,530,359 (79,241,772) ( Singapore ) Purchases of goods (7,704,699) (13,675,994) Private Limited Service obtained (2,822,102) Service provided 11,838,232 10,610,837 Payment made 118,929,144 84,264,471 Interest (1,470,561) Payments received (12,819,985) (4,549,566) 157 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 42 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) 42.2 COMPANY (Continued) Balance outstanding due Name of the related party Relationship Nature of the transaction Amount from / (to) 2018 2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Maldives Industrial Subsidiary Sale of goods 12,802,331 7,807,987 103,368,848 14,475,631 Fisheries Company Loan given 27,472,697 6,987,451 Limited Purchase of goods (14,334,084) (57,902,725) Capital commitment payable 129,860,466 (40,316,282) Payment made 588,787,585 727,459,086 Payment received (13,452,779) (6,788,624) Purchase of foreign currency (642,242,999) (681,564,000) STO Hotels & Resorts Subsidiary Expense Reimbursement 346,432 1,552,094 203,001,212 202,654,780 Private Limited Maldives Structural Joint venture Purchase of goods (57,150,129) (56,665,368) (22,818,102) (16,423,494) Product Private Dividend received 13,000,000 13,000,000 Limited Payment received (9,000,000) (13,008,931) Payment made 46,755,521 61,989,036 Lafarge Maldives Associate Purchase of goods (85,987,763) (104,532,389) (31,188,044) (40,031,620) Cement Private Limited Payment made 99,266,619 93,950,057 Transportation charges paid (3,909,818) Rebate received 229,492 Sales of goods 40,651 Payment received (754,954) (295,593) Rent received 238,111 Ministry of Finance Majority Food subsidy income 294,066,756 188,739,703 94,340,203 132,884,248 and Treasury Shareholder Fuel subsidy 548,457,805 71,136,176 Sale of goods 74,685 345,068 Payment received (881,143,291) (193,355,388) Ministry of Health Aﬃliate Sale of goods 213,620,111 149,552,122 142,162,482 97,406,963 company Payment received (168,864,592) (168,522,607) State Electric Aﬃliate Service obtained (17,723,642) (16,815,830) 115,196,654 137,566,183 Company ( STELCO) company Payment made 17,454,876 18,362,105 Payment received (1,046,886,193) (968,369,411) Sale of goods and fuel 1,024,785,430 1,009,303,987 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 42 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) 42.2 COMPANY (Continued) Balance outstanding due Name of the related party Relationship Nature of the transaction Amount from / (to) 2018 2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 MVR MVR MVR MVR Indira Gandhi Memorial Aﬃliate Sale of goods 356,030,197 325,658,612 268,476,909 180,209,881 Hospital company Payment received (267,763,169) (288,536,230) Service obtained (utility bills) (267,625) Payment made 244,212 Rainbow Enterprises Aﬃliate Purchase of goods (575,485) (426,278) 549,778 5,729,986 Private Limited company Sale of goods 2,781,725 7,799,021 Payment made 579,134 368,864 Interest 713,237 (9,182) Payment received (8,678,819) (2,681,894) Maldives Road Aﬃliate Sale of goods 460,062 49,573,195 62,248,626 61,788,564 Development Corporation company Fine charged Payment received (2,694,924) Hulhumale Hospital Aﬃliate Sale of goods (62,920) 1,325,836 27,146,295 27,428,065 company Payment received (218,850) (231,503) Fenaka Corporation Aﬃliate Sale of foreign currency 85,135,740 121,206,552 Limited company Sale of goods 2,871,300 5,117,192 Service obtained (7,361,651) (9,358,162) Receivables transferred 120,000,000 Interest received 8,313,346 Payment made 3,614,325 9,329,799 Payment received (43,508,132) (3,354,482) Maldives Airport Aﬃliate Sale of goods 906,406 1,425,034 54,233,628 200,741,654 Company Limited company Sale of fuel 1,547,119,022 1,268,663,113 Payment received (1,694,533,454) (1,149,849,109) Addu International Aﬃliate Sale of goods 25,183,966 32,144,820 216,155,826 196,418,321 Airport Private Limited company Transferred from Gan Airport Payment received (5,446,461) (4,412,520) Ministry of Housing Aﬃliate Sale of goods 22,229,680 62,941,732 102,836,627 96,528,782 and Infrastructure company Service obtained (183,810) (162,230) Payment made 153,810 165,230 Payment received (15,891,835) (41,077,177) Aasandha Private Limited Aﬃliate Sale of goods 326,413,727 306,230,283 192,416,025 232,611,736 company Payments received (366,609,438) (170,023,382) 42.2.1 Transactions with key management personnel e Managing Director and a board of director of the Company are the members of the key management personnel. Key management personnel compensation comprised the following. 2018 2017 MVR MVR Short term employee beneﬁts 3,329,992 2,884,445 42.2.2 Collectively, but not individually, signiﬁcant transactions. e Government of Maldives is the major shareholder of the parent company. e Company has transactions with entities directly or indirectly controlled by the Government of Maldives through its authorities, agencies, aﬃliations and other organizations, collectively referred to as government entities. e Company has transactions with other government related entities including but not limited to sales, purchases, rendering of services, lease of assets and use of public utilities. 159 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 43 RESTATEMENT OF COMPARATIVE BALANCES 43.1 GROUP As per the contractual arrangement the subsidiary, Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited (MIFCO) has with the employees at Kooddoo Fisheries Complex and Felivaru Fisheries Complex and the staﬀ handbook of the subsidiary Maldive Gas private Limited, the two companies are liable to pay a lump sum amount to their employees at their retirement. is policy is required to be reported in the ﬁnancial statements as per International Accounting Standard 19 Employee Beneﬁts . However, the two Companies have not recorded this liability in the past. is error is now corrected by restating the amounts presented as at 1st January 2017 and 31st December 2017 as required by the IAS 8 Changes in Accounting Policies, Estimates and Errors . e following note summarizes the impacts on the ﬁnancial statements of the Companies due to the restatements and reclassiﬁcations made by the Company during the year ended 31st December 2018. 43.1.1 As at 1st January 2017 a. Statement of Financial Position Group As Previously Restated Reported Adjustments Balance MVR MVR MVR Impact on Retained Earnings 1,641,852,151 (4,490,191) 1,637,361,960 Impact on Non-controlling interest 15,548,263 (115,084) 15,433,179 Impact on Total Equity 2,421,534,189 (4,605,275) 2,416,928,914 Impact on Deﬁned Beneﬁt Obligation 25,952,717 4,808,365 30,761,082 Impact on Total Non Current Liabilities 988,618,350 4,808,365 993,426,715 Impact on Deferred Tax Assets 55,877,222 203,090 56,080,312 Impact on Total Non Current Assets 2,499,337,366 203,090 2,499,540,456 43.1.2 31st December 2017 a. Statement of Financial Position Group As Previously Restated Reported Adjustments Balance MVR MVR MVR Impact on Retained Earnings (Note A) 1,686,664,450 (5,634,081) 1,681,030,369 Impact on Total Equity 2,523,476,478 (5,634,081) 2,517,842,397 Deﬁned Beneﬁt Obligation (Note A) 34,376,042 5,856,258 40,232,300 Impact on Total Non Current Liabilities 710,670,920 5,856,258 716,527,178 Impact on Deferred Tax Asset 55,482,766 222,177 55,704,943 Impact on Total Non Current Assets 3,114,673,140 222,177 3,114,895,317 Note A Group 1/1/2017 31/12/2017 Total MVR MVR MVR Recognition of Deﬁned Beneﬁt Obligation 4,808,365 1,047,893 5,856,258 Recognition of Deferred Tax Asset (203,090) (19,087) (222,177) 4,605,275 1,028,806 5,634,081 STATE TRADING ORGANIZATION PLC (INCORPORATED IN THE REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER 2018 43 RESTATEMENT OF COMPARATIVE BALANCES (Continued) 43.1 GROUP (Continued) b. Statement of Comprehensive Income Group As Previously Restated Reported Adjustments Balance MVR MVR MVR Proﬁt or Loss for the Year Administrative Expenses (579,853,722) (1,058,902) (580,912,624) Tax Expense for the Year (52,426,980) 39,573 (52,387,407) 87,407) Impact on Proﬁt for the Year 159,680,681 (1,019,329) 158,661,352 661,352 Other Comprehensive Income Deﬁcit for the Year (2,989,390) 11,009 (2,978,381) 78,381) Recognition of Deferred Tax Asset 448,408 (20,486) 427,922 Impact on Other Comprehensive Income 734,018 (9,477) 724,541 Impact on Total Comprehensive Income 160,414,699 (1,028,806) 159,385,893 85,893 Earnings per share 138.12 (0.90) 137.22 c. Statement of Cash Flows Group As Previously Restated estated Reported Adjustments Balance MVR MVR MVR Operating proﬁt before working capital changes 568,287,575 1,058,902 346,477 569,346,477 44 Comparative ﬁgures of the consolidated / the separate ﬁnancial statements have been reclassiﬁed wherever appropriate to conﬁrm with current year's presentation. 161 7 Executive Team Profile Executive Team Executive team a b c a. Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Managing Director b. Mohamed Mihad Executive Director / Chief Financial Oﬃcer c. Dr. Ibrahim Mahfooz Chief Internal d e Auditor d. Ahmed Shifan Senior General Manager e. Aishath Shaﬀana Rasheed General Manager / Company Secretary f. Musthafa Azmy Chief Information Oﬃcer f g g. Mariyam Nuzla General Manager 163 h i k j h. Mariyam Paruveen Abdul Faththah Executive Secretary i. Hussain Sobah General Manager j. Mohamed Murad General Manager l k. Abdul Wahid Moosa General Manager l. Mohamed Nizam General Manager Executive Team Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Ltd. a.Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director c.Dr. Ibrahim Mahfooz Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad was appointed as the Chief Executive Oﬃcer and Managing Director of the Company on Chief Internal Auditor Dr. Ibrahim Mahfooz joined STO in 1996 and worked in 30th November 2018. Accounting and Finance Department until 1999. From then, he He currently serves at the Board of various STO Group moved to Internal Audit and has been the Chief Internal Auditor Companies, including position of Chairman of Maldives of the Company since July 2010. Dr. Mahfooz is a member of the Industrial Fisheries Company Ltd and Lafarge Maldives Cement Association of Certiﬁed Fraud Examiners (CFE) USA and a fellow Pvt Ltd. He is also a Board of Director of Addu International of the Association of Chartered Certiﬁed Accountants (FCCA) Airport Pvt Ltd representing STO shareholdings in the Company. UK. From mid-2003 to mid-2004, he worked at Ernst and Young where he worked at various assignments at diﬀerent companies Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad has held the position of Chief in the Maldives and in Sri Lanka. Executive Oﬃcer of Maldives Transport and Contracting Company PLC from September 2010 till February 2012. In Dr. Mahfooz obtained his Doctorate in Business Administration addition to that he has served the Government in positions from the University of Newcastle, Australia, Master of Business such as Deputy Under-Secretary of Economic Development Administration from the Charles Stuart University, Australia and Unit at the President’s Oﬃce and was a member of Privatization Bachelor of Arts with Honours in Accounting and Finance from Committee formed by President’s Decree in 2018. the Oxford Brookes University, UK. He has also had various key positions in the ﬁeld of Politics, as the Chairperson of 100 days Committee during the transition period d.Ahmed Shifan in 2018 and played a major role in development of the 100 days Senior General Manager action plan for the ﬁrst 100 days of the current Government. Ahmed Shifan joined STO in the year of 2003 and is currently He is currently a member of National Council and Economic the Head of Department of Medical Services. Prior to this he Committee of the Ruling Party of Maldives. Furthermore, he is a had served in many key positions of the Company such as the successful entrepreneur. Head of Department for Supermart, Regional Sales, Home Improvement, Electronics, Store Operations, Information He holds a Master of Business Administration from International Communications Technology, and Administration & Human Islamic University, Malaysia and has a Bachelor of Science in Resource Department. Computer Science from University of Sunderland, through Binary University College Malaysia. He was also involved in the key role of the SAP HCM implementation project of the Company, as the Project Manager. He has served as the Chairman of the STO Recreation b.Mohamed Mihad Club (STORC) from 2014 to 2017. Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer Mohamed Mihad joined STO in 2009 as an accountant, He currently serves as the Chairman of Maldive Gas Pvt Ltd, continuing onto gaining experience and knowledge in the ﬁeld Managing Director of STO Hotel & Resorts Pvt Ltd, as well as a of ﬁnance and audit, resulting in the designation of the post of board director of Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt Ltd (FSM). Apart Chief Financial Oﬃcer of the Company. He was appointed to from this he has served as a member of the Board of Advisors the Board of Directors as an Executive Director on 28th March for the SAP Asia Paciﬁc Japan Regional Services Board. He has 2016. He also played a key role in the ERP implementation also served as a Board Director of Maldives Structural Products project of the Company, acting as a core team lead of the SAP Pvt Ltd (MSP) in the past. ERP ﬁnance module and has also served as a Senior Auditor Shifan holds a Master of Business Administration with Honours for 4 years. Mihad is a member of the Chartered Institute of from Auckland University of Technology (AUT), New Zealand and Management Accountants. He was the Chairman to the Board a Bachelor of Science with Joint Honours (First Class) in Business of Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt Ltd and currently is a Director at Information Systems and Business Studies from Middlesex 165 University, UK. He is also a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Gas h.Mariyam Paruveen Abdul Faththah Engineers (RIGE), Singapore since 2016. Executive Secretary Mariyam Paruveen Abdul Faththah is the Executive Personal e. Aishath Shaffana Rasheed Assistant to the Managing Director and the Head of Managing General Manager / Company Secretary Directors Bureau, where she also oversees the public relations Aishath Shaﬀana Rasheed joined STO in 2004. She serves as and media function of the Company. the Company Secretary of the Company since 2007. Shaﬀana is She joined STO in the year 1998 aer working in the Ministry also the head of department for Company Secretariat and Legal of Construction and Public Works from 1995 till 1997. During Aﬀairs. her 20 years of service in STO she has ﬁlled positions as Oﬃcer Shaﬀana holds a Master of Business from the Cardiﬀ in Administration and later worked as Head of Department Metropolitan University, UK and a Bachelor of Business of STO Supermart. Paruveen holds a BA Honours in Business (Marketing and Management) from Edith Cowan University of Administration in collaboration with University of Hertfordshire, Australia. UK. She is also Board Director of Maldive Gas Pvt Ltd. f.Musthafa Azmy i.Hussain Sobah General Manager General Manager Musthafa Azmy joined STO in the year of 1994 and is currently Hussain Sobah joined STO in the year of 2003 and has since the Chief Information Oﬃcer and the Head of Department for been involved in many important projects of the Company, Information & Communications and Technology. such as the All Island Pharmacy Project in 2014 and the takeover of IGMH stock management in the year of 2010. Currently Sobah Azmy served in the Board of Directors of Allied Insurance serves as the Head of Department for People’s Choice, which Company Pvt. Ltd previously and is the current Chairman of include functioning of home improvement, supermart, regional Maldives Structural Products Pvt. Ltd. He is also a Board Director sales and staple foods segment of the Company. of Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited. Azmy holds a BSc from London Metropolitan University and is also a certiﬁed Sobah holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Business (Marketing and SAP ABAP and HCM Associate Consultant. Management) from the Edith Cowan University, Australia. g.Mariyam Nuzla j.Mohamed Murad General Manager General Manager With experience accumulated from various positions of the Mohamed Murad joined STO in the year of 1998 and has company, Mariyam Nuzla has served STO for 19 years. She is hence acquired substantial knowledge and experience in currently the Head of Department for Human Resources and strategic leadership and operational knowledge with over 15 Administration, having held prior positions as the Head of years of experience in the Company. He served as the Head Department for Corporate and Legal Aﬀairs and as Personal of Department for Home Improvement and Electronics is Assistant to the Managing Director, as well as the Head of currently the Head of Department of Risk Management. Department of Procurement General. Murad is Presently serving as a Board Director of Maldive Gas Nuzla is also a board director for Allied Insurance of the Maldives Pvt. Ltd. Murad holds a BTEC Higher National Diploma in Spatial Pvt Ltd. She served as a Board Member at Maldive Gas Pvt Ltd Design from the Academy of Design, Northumbria University, from 2013 to 2016. Nuzla holds a Master’s in Business from the UK. Cardiﬀ Metropolitan University, UK and a Bachelor of Business (Marketing and Management) from Edith Cowan University, Australia. Executive Team k.Abdul Wahid Moosa General Manager Hussain Abdul Wahid Moosa joined the Company in the year of 2009.He has a vast array of knowledge and experience in the ﬁeld of construction, maritime studies, chartering and shipping management. Wahid served as the Head of Department for Construction Materials / Transport for years and he is currently the Head of Department to Fuel, Logistics and Construction of the Company. He the current Chairman of the Board of Director for Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Ltd and Lafarge Maldives Cement Pvt Ltd. Wahid holds a bachelor’s degree of Business (Management and Marketing) from the Edith Cowan University, Australia. He has also completed various maritime related courses such as the Certiﬁcate to conduct ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System Audit from the Bureau VERITAS, French Classiﬁcation Society in Singapore. l.Mohamed Nizam General Manager Mohamed Nizam previously served as the Chief Risk Oﬃcer (CRO) of the Company, until early 2019, when he was appointed the Head of Department for Procurement. He joined the Company in the year 2010 as Finance Manager and prior to joining Risk Management, he was a Senior Information System Manager of ICT department, responsible for core business soware management ent and enhancement. He is presently a Director of Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives and Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Limited. Nizam am also was a former director and acting Managing Director of Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt Ltd. He also represented STO at Maldives Stock ock Exchange and Maldives Securities Depository until 2017. dmini tra Nizam holds a master’s degree in Business Administration, tion atio n, ssp ialize ial ed in ﬁ pecialize specialized ﬁn an al management nancia m man manag ge nancial alia from University of Ballarat, Australia and Bachelor of Arts (Honours) degree e in Fin n Fina ance ce an Finance anddA Acccounting untin Accounting n frfrom Unniv rom Univers University L off East Lo ty o n London, UK. A professional memberr of io ione e s (I Institute of Enterprise Risk Practitioners ER (IERP), certi RP), a c tiﬁed certiﬁ En rpr prrise nterpr Ente d Enterprise Ris A rise Risk dviso dv o (E Advisor ERA H ERA) (ERA). He is a so alsoo a ce rt ed associate consultantt in rtiﬁ certiﬁ ng SAP Finance and Controlling. 167 8 General Information General Informations Name of company Committees as at 01.04.2019 State Trading Organization plc. Audit & Risk Committee Amir Mansoor (Chairman) Company registration number Aishath Fazeena (Member) C-186/2001 Corporate Governance & Compliance Committee Legal form Aishath Fazeena (Chairperson) A Public Listed Company with limited liability. Initially incorporated as a Government Company, Athireemaafannu Mariyam Zaahiya (Member) Trading Account (ATA), on 20th December 1964. Renamed as State Trading Organization on 9th June 1979. Changed to a Nomination & Remuneration Committee public listed company on 14th August 2001. Mariyam Zaahiya (Chairperson) Stock exchange listing Amir Mansoor (Member) Ordinary shares of the Company are listed at the Maldives Auditors Stock Exchange Company Pvt. Ltd. KPMG, Board of Directors as at 31.12.2018 Mialani, 2nd Floor, Henveiru Hussain Salim Mohamed (Chairman) Sosun Magu Ahmed Shaheer (Managing Director until 15.11.2018) Malé Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad (Managing Director from 30.11.2018) Republic of Maldives Mohamed Mihad (Executive Director / Chief Financial Oﬃcer) Bankers Amir Mansoor (Non-Executive, Independent Director) Bank of Ceylon, Malé Dr. Aishath Raﬁyya (Non-Executive, Independent Director) Bank of Maldives plc, Malé Mariyam Zaahiya (Non-Executive, Independent Director) Habib Bank Limited, Malé Mohamed Farshath (Non-Executive, Independent Director HSBC, Hong Kong until 30.05.2018) Maldives Islamic Bank, Malé Aishath Fazeena (Non-Executive, Independent Director from Nations Trust Bank, Colombo 30.05.2018) State Bank of India, Malé Board of Directors as at 01.04.2019 e Mauritius Commercial Bank (Maldives) Private Limited Husen Amru Mohamed Rashad (Managing Director) International Islamic Trade Finance Corporation Mohamed Mihad (Executive Director / Chief Financial Oﬃcer) Amir Mansoor (Non-Executive, Independent Director) Mariyam Zaahiya (Non-Executive, Independent Director) Aishath Fazeena (Non-Executive, Independent Director) 169 Registered address State Trading Organization plc. Kan’baa Aisa Rani Hingun, Maafannu, Malé 20345 Republic of Maldives Call Centre: +960334333 Fax: +9603344533 Email: info@stomaldives.net Website: www.sto.mv Share details Public 18.4% Government Number of shares 81.6% 207,041 Number of shares @ MVR 50/919,869 10,352,050 @ MVR 50/45,993,450 horiz auutho nau horized riz i ca UUnauthorized thorized taal ccapital appital Pai Paid-up idd-uupp capital capita itital Pr Premium remi miumm 100,000,000 100 000,0 000,0 000,000 ,0000 56,345,500 56 6,3434 ,345 345,500 5,500 5,50 00 27,814,500 27 227,8 7,88144,5 4,50 500 500 Group of Companies Group of companies Name of company: Maldive Structural Products Pvt.Ltd. Name of company: Fuel Supplies Area of business: Roofing materials Maldives Pvt.Ltd. manufacturer Area of business: Fuel distribution Incorporated in: Maldives Incorporated in: Maldives Operated in: Maldives Operated in: Maldives Shareholders: STO 50% Shareholders: STO 99.99% Rainbow Investment 50% MNOC 0.01% Name of company: Lafarge Maldives Cement Pvt.Ltd. Name of company: Maldive Gas Pvt.Ltd. Area of business: Cement manufacturer Area of business: Gas distribution Incorporated in: Maldives Incorporated in: Maldives 2000 t Operated in: Maldives 23rd Oc Operated in: Maldives 18 Shareholders: STO 25% Shareholders: STO 90% 1993rd Oct 2000th Dec Jan Lafarge(Zurich) 75% Champa Oil and Gas 10% 7th 9 2002 Name of company: STO Maldives Name of company: Maldives 30th Nov 6th Oct (Singapore) Pte.Ltd. Area of business: Trading 1997 2003 National Oil Company Ltd. Area of business: Fuel trader Incorporated in: Singapore v 7th Incorporated in: Maldives No Operated in: Singapore 1st 3 20 Feb Operated in: Singapore Shareholders: STO 100% 199 1st Nov 1984 12 Shareholders: STO 99.99% Allied 0.01% Name of company: Maldives Name of company: STO Hotels & Industrial Fisheries Company Ltd. Resorts Pvt.Ltd. Area of business: Fish canning and its Name of company: Allied Area of business: Tourism sector by-product manufacturer Insurance Company of Incorporated in: Maldives Incorporated in: Maldives Maldives Operated in: Maldives Operated in: Maldives Area of business: Insurance Shareholders: STO 99.99% Shareholders: STO 99.99% Incorporated in: Maldives FSM 0.01% Allied 0.01% Operated in: Maldives Shareholders: STO 99.99% MGPL 0.01% 171 Allied Insurance Company of the Maldives Maldives Structural Products Pvt. Ltd. Pvt. Ltd. G. Marline Spike Building, 2/10 City Square, 3rd ﬂoor Alikilegefaanu Magu, Malé 20117 Chaandhanee Magu, Malé 20156 Maldives Maldives T: +960 3337720 T: +960 334 1001 F: +960 3337721 F: +960 332 5035 E: msroof@dhivehinet.net.mv E: info@allied.mv Website: www.allied.mv Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Ltd. MIFCO Head Oﬃce Building Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt Ltd Hilaalee Magu, Malé 389 STO Aifaanu Building, Block A, Maldives 4th Floor, T: +960 3323923 +960 3323955 Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Malé E: info@mifco.com.mv 20026, Website: www.mifco.com.mv Maldives T: +960 3336655 STO Hotels & Resorts Pvt. Ltd. F: +960 3313881 HOTELS & RESORTS STO Head Oﬃce Building, 6th Floor, E: info@fuelmaldives.net Kan’baa Aisa Rani Hingun, Malé 20345 Website: www.fuelmaldives.com Maldives T: +960 3344388 +960 3344374 Maldive Gas Pvt. Ltd. F: +960 3344599 #02-21 STO Trade Centre, 2nd Floor, E: hotels@stomaldives.net Orchid Magu, Malé 20188, Maldives STO Maldives (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. T: +960 333 5614 #39-10 International Plaza, F: +960 3335615 10 Anson Road 079903, E: info@maldivegas.com Singapore Website: www.maldivegas.com T: (65) 6324 4668 E: stosing@stomaldives.com.sg Maldives National Oil Company Ltd. STO Head Oﬃce Building, 7th Floor Kan’baa Aisa Rani Hingun, Malé 20345, Maldives T: +960 3344300 F: +960 3344533 E: info@mnoc.com.sg Website: www.mnoc.com.mv 5 Year Group Financial Review 5 Year Group financial review MVR, Million 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Earnings Revenue 10,873 9,100 6,939 7,313 9,171 Gross Proﬁt 1,509 1,435 1,375 1,505 1,390 Operating Proﬁt 247 315 578 678 761 Proﬁt before tax** 80 211 490 520 573 Proﬁt/Loss for the year ** 30 159 429 435 480 Share Data Price per share, at year end, MVR 400 350 500 500 400 Earnings per share, MVR ** 25 137 377 382 424 Dividend per share, MVR* 58 55 51 57 76 Net assets per share, MVR 1,807 2,234 2,145 1,946 1,651 No. of shares 1,126,910 1,126,910 1,126,910 1,126,910 1,126,910 Key Ratios Return on equity, % (7.9) 6.4 18.6 21.5 29.2 Return on capital employed (ROCE) 3.4 4.3 9.2 13.5 15.9 Equity/asset ratio, % 26.4 32.5 34.3 38.4 34.1 Net debt/equity ratio 2.6 1.9 1.6 1.3 1.6 Interest coverage ratio 1.2 2.3 5.1 4.5 4.5 Dividend yield, at year end, % 14.50 15.71 10.20 11.40 19.00 Financial Position and Cash Flow Total assets 7,697 7,738 7,053 5,715 5,461 Equity 2,035 2,518 2,417 2,193 1,860 Non-current liabilities 623 717 993 845 404 Trade, other and related party receivables 2,832 2,918 2,388 1,946 1,857 Inventories 1,084 983 1,034 706 706 Trade, other and related party payables 2,512 2,668 2,237 1,681 1,751 Net Operating cash ﬂow (218) 290 616 381 19 * Proposed dividend for 2018 ** Unadjusted for Hulhumale' Hotel impairment for 2018 1773 173 Remuneration Report State Trading Organization plc. Kan’baa Aisa Rani Hingun, Maafannu, Malé 20345, Republic of Maldives, Call Centre: +960334333, Fax: +9603344533 Email: info@stomaldives.net Website: www.sto.mv
