annual report / financials / responsibility / corporate governance RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX CONTENT Responsibility at Elisa.................................. 3 Governance, goals and performance.........7 Financial responsibility................................ 8 Elisa’s corporate responsibility report is part of Digital responsibility................................... 11 Social responsibility.....................................16 Elisa’s annual report. The corporate responsibility Customer interaction and customer communication...........................................18 report consists of two parts: a verified Environmental responsibility......................21 responsibility report and an annual review. Description of the report.......................... 23 GRI index.....................................................27 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Responsibility at Elisa We promote sustainable and safe digitalisation, and have a major role in the functionality of society in Finland and Estonia. As a pioneer in telecommunications and digital services in Finland, we continuously develop our services to improve their reliability, security and availability, as well as to reduce their climate impact. 3 Our vision is to become a brand of excellence, which is why our strategy focuses on developing the customer experience and quality. Our corporate responsibility is based on our strategy, values and business model. Our core markets are Finland and Estonia. We also provide digital services for the international market. Our business segments are Consumer and Corporate customer business units and we serve public administration, business and consumer customers. Our business is guided by persistent development of quality and internal operations. Elisa has more than 2.8 million customers and we provide a responsible and reliable digital environment for the users of our services in Finland and Estonia. It is important for us that we provide added value to our customers and society, and conduct ourselves responsibly, ethically and lawfully in all situations. A common Code of Conduct promotes sustainable, ethical and successful business and deepens our stakeholders’ trust in us. Our corporate responsibility is based on our We are committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact. In addition to the Global Compact, Elisa’s own Code of Conduct guides the work of each Elisa employee. Together with strategy, values and business model. Elisa’s information security, anti-corruption, human rights and contract agreement principles they form a set of guidelines that we use to ensure ethical business, and a secure, anti-bribery and equal corporate culture. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX All Elisa’s public commitments, policies and indexes can be We enable safe We act responsibly, found on the corporate responsibility website. We act with empathy digital environment ethically and promote wise Global megatrends that influence Elisa’s business and the and promote equality business model are described under Annual Review 2018 in for everyone resource usage the annual report. Together with our stakeholders, we have determined Elisa’s key responsibility themes, which we measure with a scorecard. These themes allow us to best work to implement the UN Sustainability Goals either through our own actions (footprint) We co-operate with We do activities to We improve our energy or through services developed for our customers and other stakeholders to make ensure especially youth effiency in networks and digital environment safe. and senior people working environments. stakeholders (handprint). incluusion in digital We increase awareness of environment. We use carbon free 4 digital safety. electricity. We support workforce We do co-creative adaption to digital We make economic service design to ensure workplace. contributions to society accessible and safe through investments, servicecs. We do responsible sales taxes, employment, and customer sponsoring and charity. communication. We recycle devices safely. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Key topics and stakeholders In recognising Elisa’s material corporate responsibility aspects, we have taken into account the most important financial, social and environmental effects of our operations, products and services, as well as other significant trends affecting the industry. We have also applied the GRI reporting guidelines. The determination of material aspects is based on an extensive stakeholder survey that was carried out in 2017 as part of the work on the corporate responsibility strategy. In 2018, the determination of material aspects was revised based on our quarterly responsibility survey and other feedback from stakeholders. Elisa’s material corporate responsibility issues and key focus areas that we report: • Data security and privacy protection 5 • Financial responsibility • Availability, safety and accessibility of services • Responsible employer • Energy efficiency and climate change • Ensuring operational reliability in society • Responsible customer communications Our most important stakeholders are our personnel, customers, owners, social operators and partners. Stakeholder for the survey. It is one of the indicators in Elisa’s scorecard. Our stakeholders can report suspected breaches of law assessment is performed annually in connection with the Furthermore, we have added responsibility as one of the or the Elisa Code of Conduct via our reporting channels. We update of the materiality analysis by Elisa’s Executive Board. themes in the customer satisfaction surveys of the Elisa Viihde continued to develop our notification channel procedure We engage in active dialogue with our stakeholders to service, for example. in 2018, and we will launch an anonymous whistleblowing develop our business and our responsibility. We regularly In 2018, we launched a tool for Elisa’s key responsibility channel on our website in early 2019. Notifications are arrange meetings and systematically implement a variety of indicators on our investor website. Stakeholders can use the investigated using specified processes. We address violations surveys and studies to obtain feedback. As of the beginning of tool to study our performance in the different aspects of of law or the Code of Conduct by appropriate means. 2018, we have measured our success quarterly in responsibility responsibility. issues and as a social actor with an independent study (IRO Research, Omnibus). There are 1,000 respondents Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Indexes and commitments • Risks associated with personnel arrangements, outsourcing In addition to the UN Global Compact, we have made the in particular; discrimination risks and risks associated with following international and national commitments: working conditions or equal pay • UN Women’s Empowerment Principles • Risks associated with the safety of products and services • Science Based Targets • Occupational health and safety risks, particularly those • Commitment 2050 influencing personnel wellbeing and coping at work, as well as indirect occupational health and safety risks in the case of • Energy efficiency agreement maintenance or installation work done via subcontracting The key indexes and independent assessments are updated on both our investor and our corporate responsibility webpages. • Potential human rights violations, such as violations In 2018, we were one of the first organisations to join FIBS pertaining to privacy protection, freedom of speech and Pro, Finland’s leading promoter of sustainable business. workers’ rights, discrimination, child labour or forced labour in the supply chain More information on stakeholder dialogue as well as • Risks associated with corruption or bribery, particularly in a description of corporate responsibility management relation to the supply chain and customer relations and external initiatives can be found on our corporate responsibility website. • Risks associated with customer communication, including Elisa the first Finnish telecom 6 erroneous or insufficient communication During 2018, we continued to develop our compliance operator to join the Science Risks Risk management, including that of responsibility risks, is programs, including: Based Targets initiative, and integrated into Elisa’s business and management. We identify • We published a separate anti-corruption policy • We prepared a human rights policy as part of due diligence committed to the goals of the all risks influencing our business, measure their significance and influence them in compliance with our risk management • We prepared the publication of a new whistleblowing Paris Agreement. process. We have identified the following key responsibility channel risks: To identify data protection risks on our IT systems we performed a systematic investigation, prepared a development For more information on Elisa’s risk management, • Risks associated with information security and privacy action plan and launched a continuous monitoring model. We please see our investor pages. The management of protection; leaks of personal data, phishing and information operate our own network and carry out security audits for all risks associated with corporate responsibility is described in our security breaches involving personal data, in particular critical equipment device suppliers. In the identification and corporate responsibility management principles and policies. • Climate risks that can influence the operational reliability of There is more information about these principles and policies updating of climate risks, we used the Task Force on Climateservices, especially if extreme weather conditions become on our corporate responsibility website. related Financial Disclosures (TFCD). more common Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Governance, goals and performance Corporate responsibility aspects are regularly Topic Target Target year Performance 2018 discussed and approved by the Elisa Corporate citizenship Corporate Responsibility Executive Board, the • We enable a safe digital environment for everyone Elisa Executive Board and the Board’s audit Trustworthy and human • We act with empathy and promote equality Continuous 3,4/5 committee. The responsibility report is signed corporate citizenship • We act responsibly, ethically and promote wise resource usage by Elisa’s Board of Directors. Economic Corporate responsibility is one of Elisa’s strategic goals that is measured with a scorecard Sustainable value for the and that each Elisa employee can choose as Elisa’s medium term financial targets 2021 www.elisa.com/investors society 7 their target. We have also determined corporate Digital responsibility goals and indicators that we Information security and 78% 100% of Elisa employees have completed dataprotection training Continuouns annually report in our responsibility report. privacy Safeguarding functioning Cyber security Continuouns 54% society, accessibility and ease of use of our services Reducing the number of disturbances 2020 50% Social Responsible employer and 100% share of teams having employee satisfaction higher personnel well-being 2021 90% than ≥ 3.5 Responsible customer 95% Customer satisfaction 2019 communication Ethical business and antiAll 100% of Elisa employees have conducted Code of Conduct Continuouns 65% corruption trainings CSR audits; subcontractor Sustainable supply chain Development of sustainable supply chain Continuouns OHS reporting development Environment Environmental responsibility Science Based Target (T1) 2025 100% and climate change mitigation CO2 emissions savings 2018 99% Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Financial responsibility Securing financial profitability and Financial effects 2018 (2017), EUR million competitiveness, and taking into account our financial impact on society, are important parts of our responsible Net sales operations. 1,832 (1,787) 8 A key part of Elisa’s revenue goes back to Finnish society in the form of investments, salaries, taxes, dividends paid to our owners and payments made to our partner network. We also participate in the persistent development of society through Suppliers Salaries Dividends and Corporate taxes Capital our active research and startup cooperation. and partners paid interests paid expenditure investments Continuous investments in networks and services We annually invest some 12 per cent of our revenue in 890 311 288 66 254 (881) (304) (263) (65) (246) networks and services in our main market areas, Finland and Estonia. With these continuous investments, we build and maintain a comprehensive fixed network and mobile network, and introduce latest technologies to meet the needs of our digitalising society. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX In 2018, our capital expenditure investments totalled Important employer and taxpayer share is divided among Finnish municipalities in relation to EUR 254 (246) million. The capital expenditure investments We employ thousands of people in Finland and internationally. the number of Elisa employees working in each municipality. were targeted at the development of networks, IT systems In 2018, we paid EUR 311 (304) million in salaries and social Due to our extensive network of offices, we are one of the and customer terminal devices. We also invest in digital security costs. most important payers of corporate income taxes in many services in Finland and internationally. We are one of Finland’s largest taxpayers, and we paid locations. More than 30 per cent of the corporate income tax In addition, we are a producer, financier and distributor most (more than 76 per cent) of the taxes paid by all the we pay goes to almost 40 municipalities outside the Helsinki of Finnish cultural content. We produce unique Finnish Finnish telecoms operators during the tax year 2017. By metropolitan area. original productions in our Elisa Viihde service. In 2018, we paying taxes and other public levies, we participate in the We comply with all laws and regulations and ensure launched five new series and two new sequel series. In 2018, development of society as a whole. According to the compliance with laws and regulations through the direct our calculated cultural footprint amounted to some EUR 40 confirmed tax information for 2017, Elisa was the tenth largest and indirect taxes we pay in all the countries in which we do million (including direct content purchases mainly from Finnish payer of corporate income tax. business. In 2017, we paid EUR 408 (383) million in taxes, parties and payments to producers, authors and copyright Elisa’s performance has an impact on the entire country in of which EUR 65 (60) million was Finnish corporate income organisations). the form of the municipal share of corporate income tax. This tax according to the confirmed tax information for 2017. In Estonia, a company must only pay corporate income tax if it pays dividends to its owners. Elisa’s subsidiaries in Estonia have not paid any dividends to the parent company. 9 Elisa’s capital expenditure 2018 Elisa's taxes EUR million 13 13 12 207 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 250 215 236 2018(* 246 254 200 2017 2016 193 202 191 196 204 183 190 150 171 93 94 100 60 101 65 66 50 12 11 19 20 16 16 0 Corporate Value-added tax Income tax and Public fees Other taxes and 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 tax withholding tax public fees Capital expenditure, EUR million CAPEX/revenue, % *)Unconfirmed tax information 2018 Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Our owners and partners benefit from our results In addition, through the HPY Research Foundation, we A key part of Elisa’s profit goes in dividends to our owners and support scientific research, teaching and development work in to our comprehensive network of suppliers and subcontractors. Finnish telecommunications technology, telecommunications Elisa has some 186,000 owners, half of which are Finnish and data communications. By 2018, the HPY Research households and institutions. Our largest owner is Solidium Oy, Foundation had granted a total of EUR 1,049,000 in a company owned by the state of Finland. According to Elisa’s scholarships, mainly to researchers preparing dissertations distribution policy, profit distribution is 80–100 per cent of in different universities. The library of the HPY Research the previous fiscal year’s net profit. In 2018, we paid EUR 1.65 Foundation consists of 119 (109) dissertations. (1.50) per share, or a total of EUR 264 (240) million, in dividends to our owners. Renewal through startup partnerships In 2018, we paid EUR 890 (881) million in fees to our Over the years, we have launched many innovations together suppliers and subcontractors. with startups. In 2018, Elisa had more than 90 Finnish and international startup partners whose success we supported Research and development through these partnerships. We at Elisa believe that successful and sustainable services and digital society can be built through collaboration between We continuously collect feedback from startups, and most of them would recommend Elisa to other startups, because In 2018, we also arranged the Elisa Artificial Intelligence 10 startups and academia. Elisa is an easily approachable and agile partner. We aim for Co-Creation Challenge to study the opportunity to In 2018, Elisa cooperated with more than a hundred business that benefits both parties, in which we can act as an change information into business. We built prototypes researchers from a dozen countries, carrying out 16 research early-phase customer for startups or distribute their products with the 13 teams that participated in the competition. The projects. We partnered up with the Finnish Center for Artificial and services through our effective sales channels. teams resolved problems in Elisa’s different business areas: Intelligence and its founding members – Aalto University, the This year, we held the Elisa Innovation Challenge for the entertainment, Industrial IoT, operators’ business processes, University of Helsinki and VTT Technical Research Centre fourth time to encourage both companies and private persons digital health care and customer service. of Finland – to develop our expertise in advanced machine in creating new products and services with the help of new learning with the help of research collaboration. network technology. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Digital responsibility Important part of Elisa’s corporate responsibility is to ensure that everybody in Finland and Estonia has an equal opportunity to utilise digital services. Combined with the comprehensive and functional network, Elisa’s speed-based service model has made it possible for Finns to use more data than any other nation in the world. 11 As the world becomes more digital and more and more activities are handled electronically, cybersecurity becomes even more important. We are doing our part in building a safer digital environment. Privacy protection and information security Our business operations are based on the trust of our customers, the functionality of our services and information security. Digitalisation has exposed us to online crime. As everything takes place online, an ever-increasing number of people are being subjected to more varied and professional malfeasance. Ethical principles guide all our operations. For instance, we strive to protect children in the digital environment. Customers, legislation and our business impose information security requirements, and information security is a key part of our operations and the quality of our services. Furthermore, digitalisation and implementation of the new EU General Data Protection Regulation emphasise the significance of data protection. Elisa’s built-in data protection not only minimises risks and their consequences, but also maintains customers’ trust in companies. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX In our information security policy and safety management also consider the interests of our customers in our work to model, we define the principles, roles and responsibilities ensure applicability of our communication to them. that we follow in the development, maintenance and Customers can automatically access their data through monitoring of security and data protection. The policies of the OmaElisa service. They can use the simple user interface the different sectors are binding on employees of Elisa, on our to manage the consents they have given. Elisa received over subsidiaries and, via agreements, also on Elisa’s suppliers and 11,000 personal data inquiries in 2018. subcontractors. We specified the role of data protection administration in Elisa’s operations by naming persons responsible for data For more information about information security protection for Elisa and separately for Elisa’s operations in management, please see our corporate responsibility Estonia. We maintain and promote Elisa’s competence at the website. unit level with a Data Protection Ambassador organisation. We have developed the data protection operations of our partners Privacy protection in cooperation with them, utilising agreements, training and We guarantee a high level of data protection in all our technical tools. operations. We process personal data of our customers, employees and partners, which is why data protection and Nearly 80 per cent of Elisa employees have completed GDPR training. 12 confidential communication are of utmost importance. We commented on UNICEF’s data protection rights We have made GDPR as simple We have introduced data protection principles into all the recommendations for businesses, which will be included as possible for our customers stages of all of our operations that require the processing of personal data. Our employees and partners have received as part of a publication by the Ministry of Education and Culture on children’s rights and data protection. In addition, who can automatically access training on how to take data protection into account in their we participated in a workshop where children in the 9th grade work, and we are all obligated to process as confidential any of comprehensive school familiarised themselves with data their data through the OmaElisa information included in the scope of privacy protection. protection and developed the privacy policy of Elisa Viihde The EU’s new General Data Protection Regulation from the perspective of the rights of children and adolescents. service. (GDPR) entered into force on 25 May 2018. The We made a decision on filtering child pornography implementation of the GDPR emphasised the significance of websites in Elisa’s network and on setting-up required practices. data protection and clarified the data protection requirements concerning the processing of personal data. In 2018, we updated our data protection principles to comply with the requirements of the amended legislation. We Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Information security minimise damage to the customer. This way, we can offer our Information security is a key part of our operations and the customers more versatile opportunities to handle their cyber quality of our services. Information security certifications are an security. indication of Elisa’s investments, competence and commitment To ensure that information security vulnerabilities are in the development of information security. Elisa Dialog detected and information security is improved, we launched Information Security Management System, Capacity Services a Bug Bounty programme through which we allow hackers to of Elisa’s Production IT Platform & Hosting Services, and Elisa’s search vulnerabilities from our digital services. Anybody who Security Control are are certified according to ISO 27001. finds a vulnerability receives a reward. Elisa Videra, which operates in 100 countries all around the Phishing and the spreading of malware have increased. world, and Elisa’s service operation in Santa Monica received Over the course of the year, some of our customers were their information security certification (ISO/IEC 27001:2013) subjected to both phishing and emails that contained malware. in 2018. According to our practices, we immediately notified our To assist our customers in resolving information security customers of these incidents with instructions on what to do. issues raised by the GDPR, we continued to invest in our We maintain instructions on our customer service website. information security competence and the products we offer to our customers in 2018. We introduced a strong user identification system on which telecoms operators made a joint agreement for 13 verification of the identity of customers at our stores. For more information about modern cyber security In 2018, we arranged both general and targeted management, click here. information security training for all our employees. For The Elisa Cyber Security Centre is a service independent example, our employees were trained with the help of simulated risk scenarios to act in the correct manner in The latest mobile technology of operators and hardware manufactures that handles situations involving information security threats or phishing. 5G means a faster, more reliable information security events in the manner requested by the A total of 5,600 Elisa employees from different Elisa units customer. We promoted the operations of the Elisa Cyber participated in the simulation training. and more energy efficient data Security Centre by starting collaboration with F-Secure. F-Secure’s detection service identifies attackers, malware and transfer. other abnormal behaviour online. Once a threat has been identified, the Elisa Cyber Security Centre responds to it to Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Functional network and services The latest mobile technology 5G means a faster, more Development of our fixed network continued. We renewed Continuously developing digital services require a reliable reliable and more energy efficient data transfer. our optical cable trunk network, utilising micro-trenching, which and faster communications network. Some of our key tasks In the everyday lives of our customers, this means a better speeds up the work and reduces the disturbance to residents in Finland and Estonia include ensuring comprehensive customer experience when downloading or watching movies and traffic. and reliable connections and doing our part in securing the and video, for example. Different types of remote measuring Elisa’s experts ensure that the services for our customers operational reliability of society. services enable the measuring of large entities and reliable are functional 24 hours a day, every day of the year. On As in past years, most of our investments in 2018 were data transfer. The faster response time introduced by the 5G weekdays we ensure that hardware and connections remain targeted at improving the reliability, energy efficiency and technology will also promote safer remotely controlled and functional by means of active monitoring, by repairing faults, by availability of our fixed and mobile networks. In addition to self-controlled data traffic. performing preventive maintenance, and by dismantling old expanding the networks, we investigated and tested new Furthermore, we established an NB-IoT (Narrowband systems. During on-call hours, we focus on anticipating threats technologies to assist our customers in developing and Internet of Things) network. The new technology allows and failures, repairing faults and performing modifications. launching new digital services. connecting a huge number of sensors with data directly to a For a long time now, we have been able to reduce both the In the mobile network, we especially invested in 5G mobile network, energy efficiently and easily. NB-IoT is also total number of faults and the number of major disturbances, readiness in Finland and Estonia. We set up the world’s first prebeing utilised in a research programme called MegaSense regardless of the fact that our service volume has increased in commercial 5G networks in Helsinki, Tampere and Tallinn. We also added 5G readiness at several locations of our network to where we, together with the University of Helsinki, assist improving the air quality in cities. The idea is to cover densely both Finland and Estonia. In 2018, there were two extensive data traffic disturbances in Elisa’s networks. The root causes of 14 ensure that we were able to utilise the 5G frequency, that was populated urban areas with a network of air quality sensors that the disturbances were identified, the operations were improved granted in 2018, already at the beginning of 2019. can detect pollution sources. The current research cities are and anticipation was improved. Helsinki and Beijing. When we detect a disturbance, we will begin communicating with customers as soon as possible and For more information, please see the environmental continue the communication until the fault has been repaired. responsibility section. In 2018, we also continued our investments in proactive, Elisa network incident management development comprehensive communication about disturbances. 300,000 90 For more information about network management 250,000 75 and the safety of the mobile network, please see our corporate responsibility website. 200,000 60 150,000 45 100,000 30 50,000 15 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Incidents, pcs Preventive incidents, % Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Availability, safety and accessibility of services The Elisa Etämittaus remote measuring application in Elisa’s bullying and harassment. To promote the rights of children in The increased level of digitalisation brings with it not only fast network allows health care professionals to reliably perform digital services, in January we arranged an event called Talkoot huge opportunities, but also challenges for society. People’s remote measurements and remotely diagnose patients. It together with UNICEF and a team of international experts behaviour is changing, because in the future, customers will is possible to create a programme to monitor people with in the field. After the event, principles of supporting children’s have to operate between the digital world and the real world. asthma, high blood pressure, diabetes or abnormal blood INR rights in digital services were published. The development work Meetings and presence are different in the digital world than in levels, for example. The remote measuring service reminds was done by a large group of experts in design, psychology, genuine social situations. the patient about the need to measure, saves time for all the education, neuroscience and children’s rights. The principles We continuously develop our products and services to parties involved and reduces the need to travel. On a broader were used in the design of the digital services offered at the suit our customers’ needs based on feedback from customers scale, digitalisation boosts treatment processes, improves the New Children’s Hospital in Helsinki. and stakeholders. Key goals include accessibility, security, balance of patient care and allows health care professionals to We maintain a website that offers parents information and profitability and experiences. We aim to design services based provide services in broader geographical areas. support for online parenting. on the needs of the most challenging customer in order to In 2018, remote measuring research was conducted ensure that the services are accessible to everybody (Design and remote measuring was developed together with Roche For more information on service design management for All). Diagnostics at several health care service points all around and Elisa’s service design principles, please see our our To develop the different service channels and understand the customers’ varied needs, we have studied the ways in Finland. An assessment of the environmental benefits of remote services was launched. The remote monitoring of corporate responsibility website. 15 which customers use our services, and we have analysed patients receiving anticoagulation treatment (remote INR the challenges and problems of a multi-channel service monitoring) is being assessed, for example. environment (phone, online, stores). We have obtained more Elisa provided digital solutions for the New Children’s information and increased our understanding by, for example, Hospital, which opened in Helsinki in September. Together interviewing customers of different ages (18–70+) at our with Nokia, we donated to the hospital a mobile network that stores to allow them to participate in the development of the covers all of the indoor premises. services. We continued our collaboration with the CleverHealth Network company ecosystem coordinated by the Hospital Benefits of digitalisation in health care District of Helsinki and Uusimaa. Digitalisation makes people less dependent on their physical location, which offers new opportunities to provide services. Safe digitalisation for children One of the most important development areas is remote Lately, the negative effects of digital services on their users health care, which Elisa is developing together with other have been discussed, especially in the case of children and parties active in the industry, health care providers and other adolescents. We conducted a survey among Finnish youth health care companies. aged bedween 15 to 17 years about the severity of online Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Social responsibility For Elisa, social responsibility means caring for our customers, employees and partners. Key issues include the protection of human rights, equality, diversity, good management, wellbeing at work and security. Kun elämä kutsuu, työ vastaa. Responsible employer Elisa is an important employer: we employ thousands of discussions one-to-one between supervisors and employees are key parts of management at Elisa. 16 professionals in Finland and abroad. We are a pioneer in We are committed to the UN Women’s Empowerment flexible working methods, which are a key part of our working Principles. We determinedly promote equality and nonculture that we call Ideal Work. Furthermore, we want to act discrimination, and we regularly monitor the achievement of responsibly also in other issues pertaining to work and to work our goals. together to make Elisa the best workplace in Finland. Equality is an important value for Elisa, and we want to be New ways of working allow for flexible working and involved in the promotion of equal society and working life. alternation between work and leisure, as well as saving time We participated in the nationwide campaign Work Does Not and help to protect the environment. In working life, this Discriminate – a Campaign for Workplace Equality. Equally Elämä on jääräpää. Vaikka kuinka yrität suunnitella, aikatauluttaa ja varautua, elämä tulee aina ilmoittamatta. Se ei neuvottele tai tottele aikoja yksin. Että olet läsnä kun vanhempien kunto heikkenee tai elämä heittää kärrynpyöriä. requires continuous development, taking care of one’s own treating applicants during recruitment is also important, which kalenterikutsuja, vaan pöllähtää eteiseen karmit kaulassaan juuri kun Onnelliset ihmiset tekevät parempaa työtä, ja siksi olemme luoneet maan pullat ja kahvit on siivottu pois. johtavan kulttuurin joustavan työn tekemiselle. Meillä työ on elämäsi Meille on tärkeää, että kun elämä kutsuu, työ vastaa. Haluamme, että muotoista. wellbeing, trust, open interaction and clearly defined goals. In is why we removed questions about age and gender from olet vastassa kun ekaluokkalainen tulee ensimmäistä kertaa koulusta kotiin. Ettei Bruno-koiran tarvitse viettää päivittäin kohtuuttomia Tutustu elisalaisten työelämäntarinoihin, joustavan työn periaatteisiin ja avoimiin positioihin osoitteessa: elisa.fi/rekry the autumn, we published a campaign called Kun elämä kutsuu, Elisa’s job application forms. työ vastaa (“When life calls, work answers”) where we provide We improved Elisa’s diversity management skills and more information on the flexibility of work at Elisa. tools by offering diversity management training based on the #elisalainen Elisa’s management principles are based on shared values methods of value-based leadership in collaboration with the and objectives, clearly defined goals and coaching leadership Guides and Scouts of Finland. approach. Daily management and regular development Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX We assess the achievement of the equality and bear their responsibility for the working community. We have We offer high-quality health care with services non-discrimination goals with an annual equality and a zero-tolerance approach to workplace harassment and considerably in excess of the Finnish statutory requirements. non-discrimination survey. The result of the equality analysis discrimination. To support our staff in taking care of their wellbeing, we offer improved again in 2018 to 4.52 (4.47) on a scale of one We promote wellbeing at work and occupational sports activities and hobbies. to five. More than 90 per cent of Elisa employees feel that health and safety by means of daily management and early In 2018, we introduced as one of our employer Elisa treats people equally. Trust in supervisory work has been intervention. Furthermore, we cooperate with our partners responsibility focus areas the employability of our employees. an important factor in achieving this status. Continuously and other companies in the industry to improve our own We want people to retain and develop their professional skills developed areas include empathy and cooperation between occupational health and safety and the occupational health when they are working at Elisa. different people. Equality assessments also improved in the and safety of the entire industry, especially in maintenance 2018 personnel survey and Great Place to Work survey. tasks related to data communication. For more information, please see the personnel In addition, Elisa has been evaluated to be a responsible review section of our annual report and the corporate employer in many indexes and studies on responsibility. responsibility website. Equileap’s international Gender Equality Global Report investigates equality at 3,000 listed companies in 23 Elisa personnel in Finland and Estonia countries. Elisa was among the best 200 companies in the world, as well as the best Finnish company in the (31 December 2018, FTE) * 17 communications sector and one of the top four Finnish Northern Finland 148 companies overall. Eastern Finland 400 Our employees and partners have the right to work in a Central Finland 90 Western Finland 124 healthy and safe working environment, and an obligation to Ostrobotnia 362 Häme 538 Southern Finland 2,155 Elisa personnel internationally Estonia 905 (31 December 2018, headcount) *Parent company and subsidiaries Finland 4,321 Singapore 2 Estonia 1,035 Italy 2 Spain 57 Canada 1 Great Britain 23 Norway 1 Russia 10 France 7 Sweden 5 Hong Kong 4 Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Customer interaction and customer communication Our customers include more than 2.8 million consumers, companies and public administration organisations in Finland, Estonia and around the world. A profound understanding of our customers’ needs is a prerequisite for the continuous development of our service quality and our ability to react to changing needs. Customer orientation is one of our guiding values, and customer satisfaction is an important factor in steering our on developing a customer-contact model, ease of consumer contact and quality of customer encounter. 18 operations. We have achieved good results by simplifying processes, We care for our customers and aim to be fair and just. adding expertise, clarifying instructions and improving Successful customer interaction and secure services that the processing of feedback offered by customers who are easy to use are key issues in developing the customer contact us. We corrected our proactive marketing of 5G experience. telephone subscriptions due to a caution from the Consumer In order to develop our services and operations, we Ombudsman. continuously request feedback from our customers with the The positive development was reflected in our customer help of customer satisfaction surveys. We also use regional satisfaction indicator NPS (Net Promoter Score). Elisa’s NPS panels operating in Finland. They consist of representatives score improved from previous year to 25.4 (21.1). of our stakeholders and offer us valuable feedback for the In the Sustainable Brand Index 2018, Finnish consumers development of our operations. determined Elisa as the most responsible company in the In 2018, following topics from the customer feedback industry. The index lists Finland’s most responsible companies We care for our customers and were taken for further development the ease of operation, the based on the responsibility principles of the UN Global functionality and reliability of Elisa’s network, fast connections, Compact. aim to be fair and just. suitable products and pricing, improved customer care of existing customers and ease of deployment. The feedback For more information about customer interaction was analysed and further transferred into development plans management, please see our corporate responsibility and implementation for Elisa’s business. In 2018, we focused website. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Partners procurement principles and human rights policy, such as We cooperate with more than 5,700 suppliers and working conditions and labour law, environmental issues, subcontractors. They are an important part of the bribery, human rights and compliance. development of Elisa’s responsible business operations. We Over the cource of the year no partners were rejected purchase most of our services, materials and products from the due to CSR audits. No serious observations were found in EU, but some also from outside the EU. Active cooperation the audits. The milder development targets were related to ensures that the quality and responsibility goals are reached in occupational health, working time, and pay. We have agreed the different parts of the supply chain. on development actions for the development areas with the Over the course of the year, we introduced a shared suppliers and agreed together a schedule for implementing supplier management system that allows integration of them. responsibility and better management of supplier information as a whole. We tested the system with a self-assessment For more information on responsible procurement, survey sent to a targeted group of suppliers. please see our corporate responsibility website. We use subcontractors in the building of networks in Finland and Estonia. Our partners have the right to work in Cooperation projects 19 a healthy and safe working environment. We collaborate Elisa’s corporate responsibility includes supporting social with other parties in the industry to improve the conditions, projects and involvement in long-term cooperation with instructions and regulations. projects. Participation in social dialogue and collaboration In 2018 as in the previous years, operation of the We also work together with our subcontractors to with partners who comply with our values, are linked to our ShedHelsinki Foundation, which we established, culminated in improve occupational health and safety at our worksites. operations and address a broad target group are important for a musical theatre performance. The play, Seikkailu Jouluyönä, Over the course of the year 34 accidents were notified in Elisa. was realised in cooperation with Shed and the Helsinki City our construction and maintenance work by our main partners, We have been engaged in long-term work towards the Theatre. More than 130 young people between the ages resulting 31 absent days. wellbeing of young people for several years. We work in of nine and 19 participated in the preparation of the musical A corporate responsibility audit that is performed close cooperation with Children of the Station to prevent theatre performance. For the first time, the unique experience for all new suppliers from high-risk countries covers the marginalisation. In addition, we have made major investments was also interpreted into Finnish sign language. issues specified in Elisa’s general Code of Conduct, ethical in the Tukikummit Foundation and ShedHelsinki. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX We continued arranging our highly popular digital schools Our employees have the option of donating their birthday MARIIEVERONICA Radiojuontaja ja vloggaaja for children at 13 locations and at Elisa Kulma. Several other and anniversary bonuses to charity. In 2018, the donations events were also arranged at Elisa Kulma over the course went to the Tukikummit Foundation. A Christmas drive where of the year. A workshop realised by the Millennial Board Elisa employees could purchase a present for a child or young and Vamos identified methods and created solutions for person named by the association was arranged together with the prevention of marginalisation of adolescents. As in the the Hope Association. previous years, we also participated in Red Nose Day by In the autumn of 2018, we realised an anti-bullying project, arranging a TV broadcast from Elisa Kulma and a virtual #sananvastuu, on social media. According to a survey we collection box, Elisa Nettilipas. commissioned, even a single mean word can leave a lifelong Based on our collaboration with the Football Association mark on the victim and deteriorate their quality of life. The of Finland, we added Women’s League matches to Elisa Viihde Sport. Elisa believes that broadcasting live Women’s project aimed at promoting discussion on the severity and effects of online bullying and harassment. Our goal was to 20 League matches alongside the men’s Ykkösliiga will encourage emphasise to adolescents and their parents how important a women and girls to consider football as a potential sports problem online bullying is and ask them to take responsibility option. for what they say, also online. Elisa’s employees continued with their Pidetään yhtä (“Stay SANAT JÄTTÄVÄT JÄLJEN Connected”) projects, where they can replace one working For more information on Elisa’s cooperation projects, day with voluntary work. A total of 180 Elisa employees please see our website. participated in the project by doing voluntary work at the #sananvastuu Walkers Cafes of Children of the Station, in events of the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare, at clothes sorting stations of the Hope Association and assisting with the arrangements of Pride parades, for example. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Environmental responsibility Our persistent environmental responsibility work focuses on climate and energy. We want to promote the achievement of a carbon-neutral society. The reduction of carbon dioxide emissions has been part of Elisa’s strategy since 2009. We offer sustainable digital services that assist our customers in using natural 21 resources in a smarter and more climate-friendly manner. Mitigating climate change The ICT industry is a key player in the mitigation of climate change and in making the operating methods of society more environmentally friendly. Due to digitalisation, the volume of data will increase enourmously. The new 5G technology enables faster transfer of larger volumes of data in mobile networks. The growing volume of data means that more energy will be consumed. We have systematically worked on reducing Elisa’s climate impact. We determined our carbon footprint goals in compliance with the requirements of the Science Based Targets initiative and confirmed that they are in line with the goals agreed at the Paris Climate Change Conference. We are committed to aiming for carbon neutrality by 2050. The first milestone is to reduce the carbon footprint of our energy consumption by 50 per cent from the 2016 level by 2025. We have also signed Commitment 2050 and are involved in Finland’s energy efficiency agreement. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Through new technology and the optimisation of its We help customers to reduce their carbon footprint by Recycling and other environmental effects mobile networks, Elisa has succeeded in reducing its electricity offering services that enable them to operate efficiently and in A significant part of the ICT industry’s environmental impact consumption. Our electricity consumption per bit has reduced an environmentally friendly manner. The greatest savings were comes from the manufacture of devices. As a service provider, by 50% (from the 2015 level). achieved by online interactive solutions and cloud services. Elisa can reduce the environmental impact of devices by We continuously optimise and renew our network, and We annually report our carbon footprint with the CDP effectively and properly recycling decommissioned devices. we purchase zero-emission energy to make our own carbon questionnaire aimed at international investors. We achieved a WEEE recycling is available at our services, and we footprint as small as possible. Our carbon footprint (Scopes 1 result Ain CDP climate change assessment. Thousands of have prepared videos on how to recycle devices. We also and 2) has decreased about 60 per cent since 2016. Almost companies from all around the world participate in the annual encourage people to recycle by offering them compensation all of the electricity we use comes from carbon-neutral, CDP climate reporting. for their old phones through our Kapulanvaihto campaigns. renewable sources. Our sales personnel are provided with additional training We were able to increase the utilisation of waste heat The calculation basis of Elisa’s CO2 emission indicators on recycling, and we have started to switch in stages to at our server rooms. In our mobile networks, we continued and additional information are available on our website. environmentally friendly paper bags at our stores. We handle emission savings through modernisation and energy-saving our producer liability obligations in cooperation with the ICT properties. Producer Co-operative and Finnish Packaging Recycling We are currently studying with Nokia and Efore the opportunity to utilise the heat generated by access points in RINKI Ltd. 22 the heating of buildings. Utilisation of the heat could allow us For more information on Elisa’s environmental policy to reduce our CO2 emissions and our energy costs. and environmental management system, please see our corporate responsibility website. Elisa's carbon footprint Energy efficiency of tCO₂ mobile data transfer kWh/GB 51,629 0.8 0.6 0.5 13,142 0.4 9,480 0.3 4,811 5,544 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Description of the report Elisa’s annual report consists of four parts: financial statements, The starting point for the reporting is the same scope as The previous reports are available at www.elisa.com/ annual review, corporate governance statement and for the financial reports (the Elisa Group). For some indicators, investors. Before 2013, we compiled an index describing responsibility report. The annual report is published in Finnish the scope has been limited due to a lack of reliable information. responsibility measures based on the GRI’s sustainable and English at www.elisa.fi/vuosikertomus. The different Any deviations from the limitation are indicated in connection development reporting guidelines in 2011 and 2012. The sections can be downloaded as interactive PDF files. with the indicators. We will continue to develop the coverage publication date of the 2018 report is 12 March 2019. This is Elisa’s sixth verified responsibility report that is published as part of the annual report. The responsibility report of our reporting in these respects. The financial information is from the consolidated financial statements, and it complies Contact information 23 is also a statement of Elisa’s non-financial information. It has with IFRS accounting principles. Elisa Corporation been prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative With regard to environmental indicators, the most Minna Kröger, Director, Corporate Responsibility GRI G4 Core requirements and the Nasdaq Nordic ESG significant environmental effects of the parent company and Tel. +358 50 572 7620 Reporting Guide has also been taken into account when its subsidiaries have been calculated in accordance with the firstname.lastname@elisa.fi preparing it. The reporting period is the calendar year 2018. GRI guidelines. The calculation of carbon dioxide emissions is The Global Reporting Initiative index for 2018 is part of this based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard Corporate responsibility website: report. (www.ghgprotocol.org). The figures for Scope 3 are reported http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility Elisa’s management has decided to have the responsibility according to the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain report verified by a third party. The 2018 corporate standard. The reporting of Scope 2 emissions takes into Investor relations: responsibility report is verified by EY. The verification covers account GHG Protocol Scope 2 instructions. http://corporate.elisa.com/investors/investor-relations the responsibility section of Elisa’s 2018 annual report. The For a description of the calculation method, please see reporting of key aspects covers all of the business units our corporate responsibility website. With regard to personnel, and subsidiaries included in Elisa’s consolidated financial figures for both the parent company and subsidiaries are statements: Consumer Customers, Corporate Customers, included. Structural changes in the Group are presented in Production, Support Services and the subsidiaries. more detail in the annual report. The responsibility report is published annually. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Independent Assurance Report At the request of the Management of Elisa Oyj (hereafter responsibility information has been prepared, in all material TO THE MANAGEMENT OF ELISA OYJ Elisa) we have performed a limited assurance engagement respects, in accordance with the reporting principles. on the information presented for the reporting period 1.1.–31.12.2018 in Elisa’s Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Assurance Provider’s independence (hereafter corporate responsibility information). and quality assurance We comply with the independence and other ethical Management’s responsibility requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional The Management of Elisa is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the corporate responsibility information in Accountants issued by the IESBA (International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants). We apply ISQC 1 24 accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly 2016, and Elisa’s internal reporting guidelines (hereafter the maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including reporting principles). documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and Assurance Provider’s responsibility applicable legal and regulatory requirements. It is our responsibility to present an independent conclusion on the corporate responsibility information based on our work Limitations of the Engagement performed. We do not accept nor assume responsibility to In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering anyone else except to Elisa for our work, for the assurance procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance report and for the conclusions that we have reached. engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures We have conducted the assurance engagement in accordance selected depend on the Assurance Provider’s judgment, with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements including an assessment of the risks that the corporate (ISAE) 3000 ‘Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or responsibility information would not, in all material respects, Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. The ISAE 3000 comply with the reporting principles. We have planned and standard requires compliance with ethical requirements as performed our engagement to obtain sufficient appropriate well as planning and performing the assurance engagement evidence on which to base our conclusion. to obtain limited assurance on whether the corporate Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX We have performed, among others, the following procedures: Conclusion Based on our work described in this report, nothing has come a. An update of our knowledge and understanding of Elisa’s to our attention that causes us to believe that the corporate material sustainability reporting topics, organisation and responsibility information has not been prepared, in all material activities, respects, in accordance with the reporting principles, or that b. An assessment of suitability and application of the reporting the Information is not reliable, in all material respects, based on principles regarding the stakeholders’ needs for information, the reporting principles. c. Interviews with senior management to understand Elisa’s 25 corporate responsibility leadership, d. Interviews with personnel responsible for gathering and Helsinki, 7 March 2019 consolidation of the corporate responsibility information to understand the systems, processes and controls related to Ernst & Young Oy gathering and consolidating the information, e. Reviewing corporate responsibility data from internal and external sources and checking the data to reporting Terhi Mäkinen information on a sample basis, Partner, Authorized Public Accountant f. Performing recalculation of information and reviewing the underlying data which is the basis of narrative disclosures related to the data. Jani Alenius g. Visited two sites and reviewed reporting practices Leader of Climate Change and Sustainability Services Our assurance report should be read in conjunction with the inherent limitations of accuracy and completeness for corporate responsibility information. This independent assurance report should not be used on its own as a basis for interpreting Elisa’s performance in relation to its principles of corporate responsibility. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Signatures to the corporate responsibility and non-financial report Helsinki, 6 March 2019 Raimo Lind Clarisse Berggårdh Petteri Koponen Chairman of the Board of Directors 26 Leena Niemistö Seija Turunen Anssi Vanjoki Antti Vasara Veli-Matti Mattila President and CEO Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Content GRI content index 2018 Elisa Oyj Name Boundary UN Global Compact Internet page: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (GRI 102, 2016 standard) 1. Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Accounting principles Elisa Corporation x 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Elisa in brief Elisa Corporation x 102-3 Location of headquarters Basic information on the Group Elisa Corporation x 102-4 Location of operations CEO's review, Responsible employer , CSR report Elisa Corporation x 102-5 Ownership and legal form Shares and shareholders, CSR report Elisa Corporation x 102-6 Markets served Notes to the financial statements 1. Elisa Corporation x 102-7 Scale of the organization The report of the board of directors; Notes to the financial Elisa Corporation statements 1. x 27 102-8 Information on employees and other workers GRI data, CSR report Elisa Corporation x 102-9 Supply chain Partners Elisa Corporation x 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Notes to the financial statements 2. Elisa Corporation x 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach GRI data Elisa Corporation 102-12 External initiatives Responsibilty at Elisa; Policies and guidelines; Indices and Elisa Corporation commitments; Management and targets 102-13 Membership of associations Stakeholder dialogue Elisa Corporation 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO's review Elisa Corporation x 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Responsibility at Elisa; Risks ; GRI data Elisa Corporation x 3. Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Responsibility at Elisa; Code of conduct Elisa Corporation x 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Key topics and stakeholders; Stakeholder dialoque Elisa Corporation x 4. Governance 102-18 Governance structure Governance structure; Management and targets Elisa Corporation x 102-19 Delegating authority Governance structure; Management and targets Elisa Corporation x 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Management and targets Elisa Corporation x 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Key topics and stakeholders; Customer interaction and Elisa Corporation customer communications; Management and targets x Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX UN Global Content Name Boundary Compact 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Governance structure Elisa Corporation x 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Governance structure Elisa Corporation x 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Governance structure Elisa Corporation x 102-25 Conflicts of interest Governance structure Elisa Corporation x 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Charter of the Board of Directors Elisa Corporation x 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Governance structure Elisa Corporation x 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Governance strucuture Elisa Corporation x 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes III Descriptions of internal control procedures and main Elisa Corporation features of risk management systems. x 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Key topics and stakeholders, Economic topics CSR report Elisa Corporation x 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Signatures to the corporate responsibility and non-financial Elisa Corporation report x 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Internal auditing Elisa Corporation x 102-35 Remuneration policies Remuneration statement Elisa Corporation x 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Remuneration statement Elisa Corporation x 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Remuneration statement Elisa Corporation x 5. Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder dialoque; Key topics and stakeholders Elisa Corporation x 28 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements GRI data Elisa Corporation x 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Key topics and stakeholders Elisa Corporation x 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder dialoque; Customer interaction and customer Elisa Corporation communications, CSR report 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Key topics and stakeholders; Customer interaction and Elisa Corporation customer communications; Partners, CSR report x 6. Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Description of the report Elisa Corporation 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Foundation; Description of the report Elisa Corporation 102-47 List of material topics Key topics and stakeholders; GRI data Elisa Corporation 102-48 Restatements of information Description of the report Elisa Corporation 102-49 Changes in reporting Description of the report Elisa Corporation 102-50 Reporting period Description of the report Elisa Corporation x 102-51 Date of most recent report Description of the report Elisa Corporation x 102-52 Reporting cycle Description of the report Elisa Corporation x 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Reporting and contact information Elisa Corporation x 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Description of the report Elisa Corporation x 102-55 GRI content index GRI index Elisa Corporation x 102-56 External assurance Description of the report ; GRI index Elisa Corporation x Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX UN Global Content Name Boundary Compact TOPIC SPECIFIC CONTENT GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH (GRI 103, 2016 standard) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Key topics and stakeholders; Description of the report; GRI Elisa Corporation index 103-2; 103-3 The management approach and its components; Evaluation of the management approach Indirect economic impacts, DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach) Foundation; Financial responsibility; Research and Elisa Corporation development; Management and targets x Energy, DMA Foundation; Environmental responsibility ; Management and Elisa Corporation targets x Emissions, DMA Foundation; Environmental responsibility; Management and Elisa Corporation targets x Products and services, DMA Foundation; Environmental responsibility ; Management and Elisa Corporation targets x Effluents and waste, DMA Foundation; Environmental responsibility ; Management and Elisa Finland targets x Compliance, DMA Foundation; Responsibility at Elisa, Code of Conduct Elisa Corporation x Marketing Communications , DMA Foundation; Customer interaction and communication ; Ease of use; Management and targets Elisa Corporation x 29 Customer privacy, DMA Foundation; Digital responsibility; Data security and privacy; Elisa Corporation Management and targets x Customer Health and Safety , DMA Foundation; Functional network and services Elisa Corporation x Employment, DMA Foundation; Responsible employer; Management and targets Elisa Corporation x Diversity and Equal Opportunity , DMA Foundation; Responsible employer; Management and targets Elisa Corporation x Occupational Health and Safety , DMA Foundation; Personnel review; Management and targets Elisa Corporation x Training and Education , DMA Foundation; Personnel review; Management and targets Elisa Corporation x Non-discrimination , DMA Foundation; Responsible employer; Code of conduct; Elisa Corporation Management and targets x Security Practices, DMA Foundation; Data security and privacy; Management and Elisa Corporation targets x DMA, Anti-corruption Foundation; Partners ; Code of conduct; Anti-corruption Elisa Corporation policy; Management and targets x Public Policy, DMA Foundation; Stakeholder dialogue; Code of conduct Elisa Corporation x GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (GRI 201, 2016 standard) 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed GRI data Elisa Corporation 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change GRI data Elisa Corporation GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS (GRI 203, 2016 standard) 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported GRI data Elisa Corporation 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Research and development; Responsible employer; Networks Elisa Corporation Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX UN Global Content Name Boundary Compact GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION (GRI 205, 2016 standard) 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI data Elisa Corporation x 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken GRI data Elisa Corporation x GRI 302: ENERGY (GRI 302, 2016 standard) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization GRI data Elisa Corporation x 302-2 Indirect Energy consumption by primary source GRI data Elisa Corporation x 302-3 Energy intensity GRI data Elisa Corporation x 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption GRI data Elisa Corporation x 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services GRI data Elisa Corporation x GRI 305: EMISSIONS (GRI 305, 2016 standard) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GRI data Elisa Corporation x 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GRI data Elisa Corporation x 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions GRI data Elisa Corporation, A more detailed description at the context of the indicator x 305-4 GHG emissions intensity GRI data Elisa Corporation x 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE (GRI 306, 2016 standard) GRI data Elisa Corporation x 30 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method GRI data Elisa Finland x 306-3 Significant spills GRI data Elisa Finland x GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE (GRI 307, 2016 standard) 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations GRI data Elisa Corporation x GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT (GRI 401, 2016 standard) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover GRI data Elisa Corporation x 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partGRI data Elisa Corporation time employees GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (GRI 403, 2016 standard) 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety GRI data Elisa Corporation committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, GRI data Elisa Corporation, excluded and number of work-related fatalities Fonum Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX UN Global Content Name Boundary Compact GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION (GRI 404, 2016 standard) 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee GRI data Elisa Corporation x 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Personnel review Elisa Corporation, excluded Enia, Hong Kong ja LNR kommunications Oy 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development GRI data Elisa Corporation reviews x GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (GRI 405, 2016 standard) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees GRI data Elisa Corporation x GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION (GRI 406, 2016 STANDARD) 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI data Elisa Corporation x GRI 410: SECURITY PRACTICES (GRI 410, 2016 standard) 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures GRI data Elisa Finland x GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY (GRI 415, 2016 standard) 415-1 Political contributions GRI data Elisa Corporation x GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY (GRI 416, 2016 standard) 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services GRI data Elisa Corporation 31 GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING (GRI 102, 2016 standard) 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications GRI data Elisa Corporation GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY (GRI 418, 2016 standard) 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of GRI data Elisa Corporation customer data Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Economic responsibility indicators 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2016 2017 2018 Net sales, EUR million 1,647 1,787 1,832 Suppliers and partners 802 881 890 Personnel remuneration 275 304 311 Dividends and interests 248 263 288 Taxes and other public oblications 60 65 66 Capital expenditure investments (2 204 246 254 Taxes, EUR, million Corporate tax 383 60 408 65 439 66 32 Value-added tax 207 215 236 Income tax and withholding tax 93 94 101 Public fees 12 19 20 Other taxes and public fees 11 16 16 1) Incl. financial incomes 2) Capital expenditure investments differs from GRI definition and doesn't include investments in licenses. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Risk Description Impact assesment Risk management/opportunity International The New Paris agreement strive for limit average temperature Estimated cost for Elisa of carbon pricing is EUR 100,000We have set Science based target, which is in line with Paris agreements to 1.5°C and to update national targets every five years to keep 200,000. Estimated implications are less than 1% of operational agreement´s targets. We use renewable energy so that our raising ambition costs customers could use low-carbon connections. Fuel/energy taxes and Changes caused either directly or indirectly by climate change in Average electricity price in Europe is expected to grow 18% Elisa manages the risk with group wide energy/carbon footprint regulations the taxation of electricity, taxation of transmission of electricity and to 2030 compared to 2010 levels mainly due regulation e.g. management system. Work is managed by energy efficiency any carbon dioxide tax requirements concerning renewal energy production shares. 18% working group. Our customers can act more energy efficient way increase in Elisa´s electricity cost is about EUR 4 million. by using our services. For example based our studies, one virtual server is even 95% energy efficient than physical server. General environmental In Finland ´s new national Climate change act came into force in It will potentially increase the need for even more detailed We are constantly working on better measurement and regulations 6.1.2015 The law provides for climate policy planning system and measurement and monitoring of energy consumption. This also calculations, using renewal energy and we we have set more monitoring the achievement of climate change goals adds pressures to more ambitious carbon target setting and carbon ambitious middle – and long term target to our carbon footprint. pricing. Our customers can reduce their own carbon footprint by using digital services for example our virtual meeting services. Based our calculations one virtual meeting will save 25 kgCO2 per meeting. Extreme Climate change causes extreme weather phenomena that are a The increase in the number of disruptions causes higher personnel Elisa has in place a real-time, comprehensive monitoring weather threat for Elisa's mobile networks. Storms cause power failures and costs and costs incurred in replacing broken equipment.Estimated system for network disturbances. This enables identification phenomena interruptions in Elisa's services. costs are based on one actual severe disruption event. Cost may vary from 200,000 to 500,000 EUR, depending on overall circumstances. of disturbances and rapid repairs. The demand for real-time measurement and monitoring services will increase in the future. 33 Changes in Rising average temperatures and heat waves will increase the need Costs will increase due to the increased electricity consumption Elisa has a data centre in Espoo that uses heat loss energy average for cooling in Elisa's telecommunications and data centres and incurred from investments in cooling devices.We estimate that the generated by the data centre servers for district heating in the temperature facilities. implication could be about 1% growth in electricity consumption region. We have increased our heat loss energy usage also in our which equals about EUR 96,000 (EUR 36/MWh). office environments. Growing Climate change increases the environmental awareness of Elisa's The risk impacts to the demand of Elisa´s services. According to Elisa's services make it possible to build a lower carbon society. environmental stakeholder groups. Reporting to stakeholders is increasing, as are Sustainable Brand Index report 2017 33% of the consumers are Growth in Elisa's business and may also create new business awareness the requirements for climate-friendly operations. willing to pay 10% more for sustainable products and services. If operations. For example our new Elisa remote measurement of our stakeholders Elisa fails to take advance of that potential, that could result 3.3 % service to asthma patients could save CO2 emissions 12% decline in future consumer business revenue (approximately it is meanwhile monetary savings compared to old process are 20%. EUR 33 million). Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX 203-1 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 2016 2017 2018 Capital expenditure, EUR million (1 204 246 254 CAPEX/revenue, % 12 13 12 1) Investments are mainly commerical investments Social responsibility Own indicator :Mobile works solutions and CO2 savings in Elisa 34 2016 2017 2018 Virtual meetings 227,556 268,586 289,380 Distance working days/person/year 77 75 72 Carbon dioxide savings (tCO2) 5,101 5,606 6,338 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 416-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes One incident under investigation in 2018. 417-3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Individual inquiries from the Data Protection Ombudsman. No formal comments on direct marketing. 418-1 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Two requests for clarification which have been responded in 2018. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK 102-8 Total Number of Employees by Employment Contract, Employment Type, Region and Gender 2016 2017 2018 Personnel in total, 31.12.2017 4,781 5,152 5,468 Permanent contract 4,475 5,008 5,335 Finland 3,838 4,009 4,236 Estonia 506 888 989 Other countries 131 111 110 Men 2,962 3,283 3,572 Women 1,513 1,725 1,763 Temporary contract 306 144 133 Finland 189 70 85 Estonia 112 71 46 35 Other countries 5 3 2 Men 192 80 65 Women 114 64 68 Fulltime employees 3,926 4,291 4,464 Finland 3,236 3,302 3,427 Estonia 563 888 936 Other countries 127 101 101 Men 2,570 2,773 2,924 Women 1,356 1,518 1,540 Part-time employees 855 861 1,004 Finland 791 777 895 Estonia 55 80 99 Other countries 9 4 10 Men 584 590 713 Women 271 271 291 Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX 102-41 Percentage of Total Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements 2016 2017 2018 82% 78% 77% 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region (1 2016 2017 2018 New employee hires 1,224 1,396 1,517 Finland 922 1,123 1,138 Estonia 258 232 338 Other countries 44 41 41 Men 815 989 1034 Women 409 407 483 Under 30 years 902 843 976 30-39 years 207 415 357 40-49 years 75 98 138 Over 49 years 40 40 36 46 Terminated employments 1,271 1,433 1,418 Finland 950 966 1,095 Estonia 201 400 310 Other countries 120 67 13 Men 807 863 883 Women 464 570 535 Under 30 years 748 832 851 30-39 years 276 316 256 40-49 years 125 164 165 Over 49 years 122 121 146 1) Elisa has reported the indicator its own way: Empolyee turnover is missing. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Based on collective agreements our occupational health, insurance, parental leave or pension benefits are not dependent on the duration or part-time nature of employment. 403-1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs 2016 2017 2018 97% 98% 98% 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender (1 2016 2017 2018 Injury rate (IR) Finland Commuting injuries n/a 8.00 6.2 37 Working time injuries n/a 3.92 4.5 Estonia Commuting injuries n/a 0.00 0.0 Working time injuries n/a 0.00 0.0 Other countries Commuting injuries n/a 6.28 0.0 Working time injuries n/a 0.00 5.7 Lost day rate (LDR) Finland n/a 98.1 39.6 Estonia n/a 0.0 0.0 Other Countries n/a 0.0 0.0 Occupational diseases rate (ODR) Finland n/a 0.2 0.0 Estonia n/a 0.0 0.0 Other Countries n/a 0.0 0.0 Absentee rate (AR) Finland 3.6% 3.7% 2.6% Estonia n/a 7.8% 6.2% Other Countries n/a 0.5% 0.1% Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX 2016 2017 2018 Commuting injuries 48 40 Finland n/a 47 40 Estonia n/a 0 0 Other Countries n/a 1 0 Work time injuries 23 30 Finland n/a 23 29 Estonia n/a 0 0 Other Countries n/a 0 1 Occupational diseases 1 0 Finland n/a 1 0 Estonia n/a 0 0 Other Countries n/a 0 0 Lost day incidents 72 34 Finland n/a 72 34 38 Estonia n/a 0 0 Other Countries n/a 0 0 Absentees 50,416 42,193 Finland n/a 32,055 26,435 Estonia n/a 18,258 15,743 Other Countries n/a 103 15 Work relate fatalities 0 0 Finland n/a 0 0 Estonia n/a 0 0 Other Countries n/a 0 0 1) Reporting covers 96% of the Group’s personnel. We will improve our reporting. For more information, see Description Of The Report chapter. 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 2016 2017 2018 Gender Men 13 9 19 Women 16 9 20 Employee category Senior management 15 9 35 Middle management 20 15 17 Other employees 13 7 19 Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category 2016 2017 2018 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 78% 76% 70% Men 2,488 2,282 2,508 Women 1,223 1,304 1,340 Senior management 169 124 121 Middle management 757 754 802 Other employees 2,785 2,708 2,925 1) Reporting covers 91% of the Group’s personnel. We will improve our reporting. For more information, see Description Of The Reportchapter. 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 2016 2017 2018 Elisa's Executive Board Women 9 2 10 2 10 2 39 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30-39 years 0 0 0 40-49 years 3 3 3 Over 49 years 6 7 7 Board of Directors 7 7 7 Women 3 3 3 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30-39 years 0 0 0 40-49 years 2 1 1 Over 49 years 5 6 6 Management teams of business units 79 75 84 Women 32 27 33 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30-39 years 8 11 10 40-49 years 42 37 46 Over 49 years 29 27 28 Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX 2016 2017 2018 Managerial board for corporate responsibility 10 9 9 Women 4 4 4 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30-39 years 1 1 2 40-49 years 6 5 4 Over 49 years 3 3 3 Breakdown of personnel by gender Men 66.0% 65.3% 66.5% Women 34.0% 34.7% 33.5% Breakdown of personnel by age Under 30 years 25.9% 26.3% 26.0% 30-39 years 31.5% 31.3% 33.3% 40-49 years 25.0% 24.8% 23.9% Over 49 years 17.5% 17.6% 16.8% HUMAN RIGHTS 40 406-1 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No incidents in 2018 410-1 Precentage of security personnel trained in the oraganization´s human right policies or prosedures that are relevant to operations All security personnel working permanently in Elisa (100 %) have conducted statutory training according to Finnish law and in addition they have been trained to Elisa Code of Conduct. 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 2016 2017 2018 Code of conduct training (share of employees who have conducted training) 79% 72% 65% 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents in 2018. SOCIETY 415-1 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary We have not made any political contributions in 2018. Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX Environmental reponsibility indicators G4-14 Whether and How the Precautionary Approach or Principle is Addressed by the Organization The precautionary principle has been taken into account in accordance with statutory requirements 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization (GJ, total) Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 2016 2017 2018 Usage of diesel and petrol 2,261 2,174 1,830 Usage of oil 3,435 3,596 4,264 Total 5,696 5,770 6,094 Purchased renewal energy 0 0 0 41 302-2 Indirect energy consumption by primary sources 2016 2017 2018 Electricity 964,550 963,845 1,056,010 Heating 59,671 53,331 48,201 Cooling 18,021 23,977 41,233 Total 1,042,242 1,041,153 1,145,444 Carbon free electricity(1 880,920 901,620 975,600 1) 59% nuclear power, 41% water power 302-3 Energy intensity 2016 2017 2018 Mobile networks electricity consumption of transferred Gigabyte (kWh) 0.5 0.4 0.3 Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX 302-4 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements (GJ) (1 2016 2017 2018 Ideal work office spaces (electricity and heating) 52,286 56,830 71,176 Energy efficiency in server environments (electricity) 37,955 47,421 52,588 Reuse of server generated heat (electricity) 17,950 18,669 41,234 Energy efficiency in mobile networks (electricity) 24,630 23,666 29,946 Total 132,821 146,585 183,590 1) Additional information, calculation principles and baselines for Elisa’s environmental responsibility report are available at: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility/environmental-responsibility 302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of product and services (GJ) (1 2016 2017 2018 Transfer to virtual servers (electricity) 73,975 75,799 77,277 1) Additional information, calculation principles and baselines for Elisa’s environmental responsibility report are available at: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility/environmental-responsibility 305-1 and 305-2 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (tCO2)(1 2016 2017 2018 42 Scope 1, Direct greenhouse gas emissions 391 409 433 Scope 2, Indirect greenhouse gas emissions, market based 12,751 4,402 5,111 Scope 2, Indirect greenhouse gas emissions, location based 79,271 71,225 68,957 1) Additional information for Elisa’s environmental responsibility report are available at: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility/environmental-responsibility Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX 305-3 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (tCO2, tonnes of carbon diokside)(1 Sources of Scope 3 emissions 2016 2017 2018 Description: Figure includes: Purchased good and services 85,195 73,431 72,991 Relevant, Elisa Finland and Elisa Estonia , paperand calculated e-bills and office paper; Elisa Oyj: purchased products to sell and services Capital goods 17,289 35,631 30,797 Relevant, Elisa Finland, Purchased basestations and other calculated network equipments Fuel-and energyrelated activities 5,787,3 3,146 3,134 Relevant, Elisa Finland and Elisa Estonia: Emissions of fuel calculated production of electricity used Upstream transportation and distribution 1,456 1,022 680 Not relevant, Transportation of goods to Elisa and to our calculated customers Waste generated in operations 868 683 720 Not relevant, Elisa Finland waste, Elisa sewage water calculated Business travel 1,998 1,201 1,194 Relevant, Elisa calculated Employee commuting 2,541 3,186 4,523 Relevant, Elisa calculated Upstream leased assets, 0 0 0 Not relevant, explanation provided Consumption in rented sites is calculated in Scope 2. 43 Downstream transportation and distribution 0 0 0 Not relevant, Not relevant, Elisa is not selling transportation explanation services provided Processing of sold product 0 0 0 Not relevant, Not relevant, No processing of products explanation provided Use of sold product 13,935 8,211 7,886 Relevant Energy consuption of customer´s devices. calculated Electricity consuption of services is reported in Scope 2. End-of-life treatment of sold products 624 305 306 Relevant End of life treatment of Elisa´s sold products calculated Downstream leased assets 0 0 0 Not relevant, Consumption of leased operators is calculated explanation in Scope 2. We purchase renewal electricity. provided Franchises 0 0 0 Not relevant, Not relevant, No franchies explanation provided Investment 0 0 0 Not relevant, Not relevant, No significant credit management explanation provided 1) Additional information for Elisa’s environmental responsibility report are available at: http://corporate.elisa.com/ responsibility/environmental-responsibility Responsibility report 2018 RESPONSIBILITY AT ELISA FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI INDEX 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 and 2 emissions per revenue (KgCO2/EUR) 0.008 0.003 0.003 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions(1 (tCO2) 2016 2017 2018 Emission reductions in service production 118,560 121,067 115,070 Ideal work solutions, scope 3 5,101 5,606 6,338 Computer rooms, scope 2 5,197 6,336 374 Reuse of products, scope 3 1,939 1,210 295 Electronic invoicing, scope 3 937 1,121 1,208 Emission savings in mobile network, scope 2 2,756 2,268 2,670 Usage of carbon free electricity, scope 2 102,630 104,526 104,185 1) Additional information, calculation principles and baselines for Elisa’s environmental responsibility report are available at: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility/environmental-responsibility 2) Purchased carbon free electricity 44 59% nuclear power, 41% water power 306-2 The overall weight of waste by type and disposal method (tonnes) (1 2016 2017 2018 Total waste amount(2 1,339 1,017 1,070.0 Hazardous waste(2 257 177 208.4 WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment)(2 397 302 338.8 Recycling % 93% 99% 94% Recovery % 7.2% 0.7% 1.9% Landfill % 0.2% 0.0% 0.7% 1) Elisa has used its own waste breakdown 2) Amounts not available for Elisa Estonia 306-3 Total number and volume of significant spills No spills in 2018. 307-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No non-compliances in 2018. Responsibility report 2018
