CSR at Clipper Clipper Group CSR Report 2018 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO statement  3 Sustainable Development Goals  4 Clipper Business Model 5 Dry Bulk Ro-ro Key CSR risks at Clipper CSR activities and reporting at Clipper  7 Human rights and labor standards  7 Working in Clipper offices Workplace assessment survey results Diversity / Women in management Female board members Trainee education Employee retention rate Working on vessels Responsible ship recycling 11 Environment and climate 12 Improved vessel performance with COACH Fuel efficiency Seatruck Ferries BWT installation Review of speed percentage Consumption of electricity on vessels Climate Policy by Danish Shipping Ballast Water Management Convention Sulphur Cap 2020 Anti-corruption14 Clipper Group CSR Goals 2015-18 15 2 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 CEO STATEMENT For Clipper, sustainability and ethical principles are an integral part of our daily operations, business strategy and organizational culture. Our CSR activities are rooted in our CSR Policy and participation in the UN Global Compact. We continue to support the UN Global Compact and are committed to the initiative and its principles. We strive to make a positive impact and have set up specific goals to track progress. In last year’s report, I mentioned that our 2018-2020 CSR Strategy was under development. 2018 turned out to be an eventful and busy year, filled with overseeing the implementation of several organizational changes. Among others, we wrapped up the final details of the partnership between Clipper Fleet Management and Dania Ship Management and consolidated our business into two main areas: bulk and ro-ro. Unfortunately, handling all these changes has meant that we were not able to develop a new CSR Strategy as planned. We have, therefore, decided to extend our 2015-2017 strategy to 2018 as well, and allocate proper time and resources in 2019 to develop a 2019-2021 CSR Strategy. There are a few major changes in the content of the current report. For the first time, we include an introduction of Seatruck, our freight ferry services provider on the Irish Sea. Seatruck will be a permanent addition to our CSR reports going forward allowing us to set goals we can start tracking and reporting on from 2019 onwards. Clipper’s 2019-2021 CSR strategy is under development. It will reflect on our ongoing efforts to make a positive impact as a globally operating shipping company. Peter Norborg Group CEO Clipper Group This report is our statutory reporting on CSR, cf.§99a and §99b of the Danish Financial Statemernts Act, and our communication of progress to UN Global Compact for year 2018. 3 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Shipping is an international industry with a large impact on the environment and societies around the world. As an industry leader in dry bulk shipping, we acknowledge our impact and strive to contribute to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted in 2015. We believe that the following goals are particularly relevant to us. While we do not report specifically on each of the four goals, we see them as within the scope of our business model and current CSR strategy. Goal no. 2 – End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. Agro products such as grain are among our most important cargo types, and we actively participate in facilitating world trade and global development. In 2018, agricultural products and fertilizers accounted for about 45% of the cargo we transported. Goal no. 9 – Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable economic industrialization and foster innovation. As a shipping company dealing with raw materials and global trade, this goal is highly relevant to us. On the one hand, we are part of building the world’s infrastructure at sea. On the other hand, we transport products like steel and cement used in the building and production industries. Steel products accounted for 11% of the cargo we transported in 2018. Goal no. 13 – Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. Although shipping is the most environmentally friendly mean of mass transportation when it comes to CO2 emissions per transported ton, our industry stands for about 2-3% of global CO2 emissions. Clipper supports the climate policy developed by Danish Shipping, which takes an ambitious CO2 approach for the global shipping sector. Goal no. 14 – Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development. This is a highly relevant goal to a shipping company and closely related to our general climate approach. We follow the Ballast Water Management Convention and actively work towards installing BWT systems on our ro-ro vessels. 4 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 CLIPPER GROUP BUSINESS MODEL Our core business areas are dry bulk and ro-ro. CLIPPER DRY BULK Clipper Group operates around 130 handysize and Our customers benefit from our strong focus on risk supramax vessels. Long-term partnerships with clients, management and cost effective coverage. With an investors, technical and commercial managers and many increased focus on short term contracts and spot others support our broad base of competencies, and we fixtures, we monitor the market closely and use analytics take pride in the fact that many of our partnerships go to support our decision making. Governed by our strong back more than 20 years. values, our talented people focus on relationships and data to make the best market calls and deliver reliable Clipper’s customer base spans from large commodity and dedicated services. houses to single commodity producers and end users. VALUE CHAIN COMMODITY COMMODITY TRANSPORT CLIPPER TRANSTRANSPORT END PRODUCERS HOUSES AT LAND PORT AT SEA AT LAND USERS COMMODITIES ALUMINA L CE EE ST ME NT COMMODITIES LO CO GS AL GRAIN 5 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 RO-RO Seatruck Ferries operates high quality freight-only ferry road mileage and environmental benefits compared to the services on the Irish Sea, with three routes operating 78 more traditional road transit through Scotland or Wales. departures per week. Seatruck specializes in the movement of unaccompanied trailers, which allows their ownSeatruck invested in seven newly built vessels, all designed ers to make more efficient use of their equipment and specifically for Irish Sea trade, allowing us to provide drivers. Using Seatruck provides customers with significant efficient and quality services to our customers. VALUE CHAIN PRODUCERS TRANSPORT SEATRUCK TRANSPORT DISTRIBUTORS END AT LAND TRANSPORT AT LAND USERS AT SEA KEY CSR RISKS AT CLIPPER CSR RISKS CLIPPER’S APPROACH • CO2 emissions As a global shipping company, we recognize our Environment Policy. impact on the environment and CO2 emissions. Danish Shipping Climate Policy. • Working conditions at shipyards Ship Recycling Policy. There are concerns related to the safety and Close cooperation with technical managers working conditions of workers at shipyards. responsible for dry-docking Clipper operated vessels. • Corruption at ports The Captain and/or our agents may have difficulties Anti-corruption policy, including anti-corruption dealing with local authorities and may be asked for training of staff. Active member of MACN, taking part bribes or other small payments for the vessel to be in several anti-corruption initiatives. allowed through. • Seafarers’ human rights Include a clause in our Charter Party agreement stipulaAs operator, Clipper may not be aware of potential ting fair working conditions and respecting the seafarers’ human rights violations or poor working conditions human rights in accordance with IMEC (International for the crews onboard our operated vessels. Maritime Employers’ Council), ITF (International Transport Workers’ Federation) or similar organizations. • Suppliers It is important for Clipper to conduct business with Create a Supplier Code of Conduct. ethically minded business partners. 6 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 CSR ACTIVITIES AND REPORTING AT CLIPPER We build our CSR activities upon our CSR Policy and our participation in the UN Global Compact. We describe our CSR activities and set our goals in our CLIPPER CSR POLICY CSR Strategy. In this year’s report we cover employee satisfaction, measures to reduce our environmental As a significant player in the maritime industry impact and comply with international regulations, as well with a global presence at sea and on shore, as anti-corruption training. In the following, we will report we recognize our social and environmental and comment on our progress within these areas. responsibility: The present report covers the four main areas of the 10 • We never compromise the safety of our UNGC principles, which make up the structure of our CSR employees at sea or ashore Strategy: Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Climate and Anti-Corruption. In our strategy, we have merged the • We recognize our responsibility towards the areas Human Rights and Labor as we see these areas as environment, and endeavor to constantly very much interconnected. Our CSR Strategy for 2019reduce our environmental footprint 21 is currently being prepared and we expect to focus further on supply chain management among other topics. HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR STANDARDS Clipper supports and respects the protection of human Towards the end of 2018, Clipper employed 240 people rights, on board our vessels, in our offices and in society in our offices in 8 countries. Of these, 95 worked at our in general. Human rights are an integrated part of our Copenhagen headquarters. decision making and it is vital for us that our employees’ human rights are protected. This is especially relevant in Group guideline and lokal working conditions the shipping industry when it comes to safety, the right to Clipper has a global working guideline that applies to join trade unions, reasonable limitation of working hours, all employees and local working conditions for the holidays with pay, and protection against discrimination. several offices across the world. These documents serve as a code of conduct for all Clipper employees, with the purpose of aligning employees to Clipper’s way of doing WORKING IN OFFICES business, also expressed through our four values: Dynamic, Dependable, Innovative, and Hands-on. It is important It is important for Clipper to be an attractive workplace. to us that our employees adopt the same responsible We do our utmost to secure fair working conditions in mindset and are involved in our sustainability efforts. all our locations and benchmark this at least once a year. In many countries we offer more holiday than is Data privacy our legal obligation as this is one of the areas where We take our employees’ right to privacy very seriously. we want global alignment. We have been following the GDPR requirements closely and work constantly on ensuring we are compliant. It is Our employees appreciate Clipper’s working culture, important to us that our employees know we take evwhich offers them empowerment and responsibility ery measure we can to protect their personal data from from day one. We also focus on professional developbeing misused. We have developed several informational ment and all Clipper employees have annual appraisals materials to create awareness around the GDPR and the with their managers to secure continuous professional measures we take in order to be compliant, which have development. been shared with our employees. 7 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 Workplace assessment survey results We focus on the attraction and retention of highly skilled CLIPPER DIVERSITY POLICY and motivated staff. To make our ambitions credible and effective, we need to know the opinion of our employees, • We believe that diversity at all levels of the and strive to measure our employee satisfaction in sevorganization gives us the largest possible eral ways. We continuously maintain a close contact berecruitment base and creates an innovative tween managers and HR to always know the temperature and inclusive work environment of the different teams worldwide. • We always take diversity into account when In 2018, we conducted a workplace assessment survey recruiting and promoting employees (the Danish APV) in our Copenhagen office. Although we • Encouraging diversity is also about providing did not have a group-wide organizational survey, the equal opportunities for all candidates and staff in our Danish office make up a large percentage of ensuring that the right person is always chosen our employees worldwide and we therefore deem it relefor the job, based on his/her capabilities and vant to share the results in this report. The workplace aswithout taking his/her gender, sexual orientasessment survey did not follow the same structure as the tion, nationality, religion, race or political previous organizational surveys we have executed, which opinion into consideration is why we do not report on areas like satisfaction, loyalty, engagement, and reputation as we previously have. This time the questions concerned day-to-day work life, relationship with the team and direct manager, and the has not been reached yet, but the score of 8.5 indicated physical work environment. no grave problems with equal gender opportunities in Clipper. We continue to follow our action plan for increasThe overall results of our 2018 workplace assessment ing the number of women in shipping. survey have been very positive. We have scored well above 8.5 on main indicators such as responsibility, team Diversity / Women in management work, relationship with direct manager and the ability to To us, diversity is good business. By applying diversity at carry out one’s tasks. We are content to be able to keep all levels of the organization, we ensure that we utilize a highly motivated and dedicated staff, despite a numthe potential in both current and coming employees. We ber of organizational changes throughout 2017 and 2018. provide equal opportunities for everyone and ensure that We expect to continue to monitor employee satisfaction, a position is always filled with the best candidate, based as it is very important for Clipper to remain an attractive on her or his capabilities. workplace. One of the questions concerned “equal career opportunAs a global shipping company, we especially pride ourities regardless of gender”. Our goal 9.0 (on a 1-10 scale) selves in our international mindset when it comes to talent ACTION PLAN: ACTION PLAN: CHARTERING & ACTION PLAN: TRAINEES OPERATION MANAGERS MANAGERS & LEADERS Goal Goal Goal • Take in the same number of male • Create a critical mass of female • Percentage of female managers and female trainees, on average. Chartering/Operations Managers. should equal percentage of female employees. Attraction Attraction • Wording and visuals in job ads etc. • Wording and visuals in job ads etc. Attraction less masculine. less masculine. • When recruiting for management or • When recruiting, at least one female board positions, at least one female Retention candidate should be invited to first candidate should be invited to first • Present an alternative to locker room interview. interview. culture: Team up female trainees with other female employees (same floor/ Retention Retention office), until critical mass is obtained • Kill the myth: Shipping is a business • Mentoring scheme. • Introduce alternative staff club for (true) men. • Active role models (when such exist). events. • Present an alternative to locker room • Provide female trainees with female culture: Hook up female trainees with mentors other female employees, until critical mass is obtained. • Introduce alternative staff club events. 8 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 engagement and acquisition. We encourage candidates with different backgrounds and of different nationalities to join Clipper, as we recognize that in our current globalSEATRUCK ized world, talent is no longer confined by physical borders. Workplace flexibility Flexibility in the workplace is becoming an importFor the last three years, we have worked on increasing ant value for employees worldwide. Recognizing the the number of women in management, but always with need for flexibility, Seatruck offers flexible working an eye to our above belief, that a position should be filled conditions for its administrative staff, trusting them with the best candidate based on her or his capabilities to do their jobs when and how they know best. The and not gender. We have therefore secured that in all reonshore team at Seatruck counts around 20 emcruitment processes, we select relevant female and male ployees, which makes it easier to promote remote candidates for interviews. We also strive to ensure that working and flexible working hours. there are no barriers within Clipper that hinder women from joining or being promoted due to their gender. Female underrepresentation is however a challenge not only for Clipper, but for the entire shipping industry. Trainee education Clipper participates in the shipping trainee education manWe had set the ambitious goal that 25% of our people aged by the Danish Shipping Academy under Danish Shipmanagers shall be female by the end of 2018, but did ping, and we are represented on the steering committee not see progress, and the share of female people manof the Academy. In September 2018, we took in three new agers in Clipper is 11.1%. This should be compared to trainees, who are now following a rotation program in the overall share of female employees in Clipper, which various departments in Clipper as well as their education end 2018 was 31% (an increase from 30.1% in 2017) within the Danish Shipping Academy. across the organization, including traditionally maledominated departments such as operations, chartering, In addition to our first and second year Shipping Trainees, and tonnage procurement. we had in 2018 an intern from the Bachelor in International Shipping & Trade at Copenhagen Business School doing his As a company currently with only little growth, we have internship at Clipper, as well as a finance trainee and two IT few natural changes at management level, and it was not trainees following trainee programs similar to the shipping possible for us to achieve our goal by end 2018. We will retrainees with rotations and school. Of our nine trainees in vise this goal in our 2019-2021 CSR Strategy, so it provides 2018, three were female and six male. a more realistic account in line with the current company status. We will continue to focus on increasing the number of female employees at entry level positions, includSEATRUCK & LOCAL ing trainees, where one of three hired shipping trainees in 2018 is female. COMMUNITIES OUTREACH Female board members Seatruck is an active member of the UK Chamber of In accordance with Danish legislation, the shareholders and Shipping, as well as a member of Newry and Mourne board of Clipper Group A/S have set the goal that one female Chamber of Commerce. Seatruck CEO, Alistair board member shall be appointed before the end of year 2016. Eagles, is a member of the Lancaster Chamber of The board currently consists of 4 male board members. The Commerce promoting the local area and working goal has not been fulfilled as there has not been a need to towards increasing business in the area. Additionally, replace any of the 4 board members during the target period. Seatruck is an active member of Mersey Maritime, focusing on promoting employment in the maritime sector. Clipper Group A/S adopted a recruitment policy for board members in 2016. The policy states that the Chairman shall Besides the business-oriented communities, propose at least one female candidate for vacant board poSeatruck is also involved in several social and local sitions. The chairman of the board has throughout the target interest groups, such as the Newry Historic Ships period had meetings with potential female candidates in orgroup. Seatruck also supports the Lancaster homeder to be better able to propose a female candidate for the less shelter and Newry Hospice. In addition, we are shareholders once a board position becomes vacant. involved with planning local school trips for GCSE (General Certificate of Secondary Education) and The shareholders and the board of Clipper Group A/S have A-level business studies students and sponsor the decided that the target period for appointing 1 female board East Coast Adventure youth development mountain member shall be extended to the end of 2019. bike team. 9 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 Employee retention rate Bulk A/S. Going forward Clipper will therefore only have Retention rate is another important measure of employee internal technical management for our ro-ro vessels. satisfaction and engagement. It can vary quite substantially from month to month, team to team and country to This transition, however, does not affect our care and country. In December 2018, Clipper’s overall retention rate commitment to the safety and rights of the crew memwas 86.4%, meaning that 13.6% of our employees chose to bers onboard Clipper operated vessels. We continue to leave in 2018. This is a slight increase from 2017 (90.9%), follow international regulations concerning human rights but still satisfactory. and expect the same from our partners. The retention rate measures the percentage of employees still working for Clipper after 12 months, and thereby how GOING FORWARD: at sea and on shore large a part chooses to resign. • Continue to comply with international regulations WORKING ON VESSELS Clipper’s fleet consists of vessels that are either owned, • Report on Seatruck chartered or managed by Clipper Group. • Work closer with employee engagement In late 2017, Clipper and Dania Ship Management, part of V.Group, entered a strategic partnership between • Involve more employees and leaders in the local Clipper Fleet Management and Dania Ship Management. communities in all of our offices by participating in The partnership became effective on December 19, 2017 charity or volunteering events and continued under the name Dania Ship Management 10 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 Responsible ship recycling We wish to ensure that any recycling of Clipper’s vessels is done in a responsible way safeguarding the environment and the workers working on the recycling. Following our experience with the recycling of the multi-purpose vessel M/V Clipper Concord in 2015, we formulated a Recycling Policy in December 2015 for future reference. The policy is available on clipper-group.com. We do not expect to recycle any more vessels in the near future. 11 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE Although shipping is the eco-friendliest form of mass Consumption of electricity on vessels long-distance transportation, we do acknowledge our enBy monitoring the daily electrical load on board our vironmental impact and recognize that the global challenge vessels, we can train the crew to switch off equipment of climate management and CO2 emissions for the shipping when not needed. This is a tangible way to involve our industry requires a global approach. Clipper fully supports staff in reducing a vessel’s environmental footprint. the measures and efforts of the United Nations InternaIn Clipper, we use COACH Solutions to monitor excess tional Maritime Organization, IMO. We strive to constantly electricity consumption. increase energy and fuel efficiency for our fleet and follow the international environmental regulations closely. Improved vessel performance with COACH Solutions We use COACH Solutions vessel performance moniCOACH SUSTAINABILITY TIPS: toring to track performance and to monitor individual Stop the over lubrication of cylinders vessels with the purpose of improving fuel consumption. In 2017, COACH Solutions implemented a new reporting tool, By continuously monitoring the key performance inMicrosoft Power BI, into its online portal. This makes it dicators, COACH Solutions can observe unusually high possible for us to get an even quicker overview of our fleet cylinder lubrication oil consumption in the large 2-stroke and any issues needing action. main engines. Fuel efficiency If too little lubrication oil is injected in the cylinders, the engine is naturally in danger of overheating and wear The fuel used for propulsion is the single largest contributhat can result in expensive stoppage time. However, tor to a vessels’ environmental footprint. It is our aim overlubrication is an even bigger problem as cylinder that our vessels operate at optimal speed at all times, i.e. lubrication oil causes pollution, cylinder liner wear and consuming as little fuel as possible while taking cost vs. loss of fresh unused lubrication oil, which is expensive to available time into consideration. Our vessels’ speed and purchase. consumption are closely monitored by COACH Solutions, which is installed on a vast majority of the vessels in With help from COACH Solutions, it’s possible to keep Clipper’s commercial management and pools. Apart from the lubrication oil consumption at optimum level, for the speed and consumption, many additional parameters are benefit of both the environment and the vessel. COACH monitored in COACH Solutions, allowing us to identify Solutions also helps in creating a culture where both the abnormally high energy use and take appropriate actions. crew and superintendents can discard the old belief that it’s better to lubricate too much than too little. Weather Routing We use COACH Solutions’ Voyage Optimization tool to obtain full control over planning, budgeting and performing voyages. The Voyage Optimization tool uses forecasted weather, TCE and the vessel’s actual performance to Climate Policy by Danish Shipping calculate the optimal route, resulting in a much more We fully support the Danish Shipping Climate Policy. The accurate calculation of ETA and thus using as little fuel as policy is based on a detailed study on “CO2 Emissions from possible, minimizing our environmental footprint. Global Shipping – possible reduction targets and their associated pathways”, commissioned by Danish Shipping Review of speed percentage and undertaken by the London-based consultancy agency By monitoring the daily reporting of speed and consumpUMAS. tion (speed percentage), we can ensure that we note and can react upon any deviations in a vessel’s performance. According to this policy, international shipping must reSuch deviations can for example be an indication of a duce its absolute CO2 emissions in pace with the rest of the fouled hull or a misaligned engine. global economy. Shipping’s emissions should be reduced sufficiently, thereby contributing with its “fair share” to A new or newly dry-docked vessel has a speed percenthe Paris Agreement’s goal of staying below a 2-degree tage of 100%, and the closer the speed percentage is to temperature rise. It should be the task of IMO (Interna100%, the better the vessel is performing. In Clipper, we tional Maritime Or ganization within the UN) to ensure the use COACH Solutions to monitor speed percentage. regulation and enforcement of this goal. 12 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 SEATRUCK & ENVIRONMENT Seatruck’s business model places environment at its core. By promoting long sea unaccompanied freight services on the Irish Sea, Seatruck contributes to reducing road mileage and carbon emissions, when compared with transit through Wales and Scotland. To inspire an environmentally conscious mindset to its staff, Seatruck has introduced a ‘Cycle to Work’ scheme, encouraging employees to reduce their environmental footprint by embracing an environmentally friendly alternative to commuting to work. In 2018, we have successfully implemented the new EU reporting system for CO2 emission, MRV (Monitoring, Reporting, Verifying), as well as the IMO DCS (Data Collection System) for the vessels in Clipper’s pools. As such, the 2018 emission data has been validated and successfully audited by an independent verifier in March 2019. The 2018 audited data will be uploaded on EU’s website THETIS by end of April 2019. Starting 2019 and onwards, the EU MRV, SEEMP I (Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan Part I) & SEEMP II (Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan Part II) plans will be issued by V.Group company, V Insight, and approved by the classification society and LRQA (Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance). Ballast Water Management Convention Apart from the CO2 emission goals, ballast water treatment continued to be at the top of the environmental agenda in shipping in 2018. The latest developments in the IMO Ballast Water Management Convention basically expected to be ready by spring 2019 and potential modimean that all vessels should have Ballast Water Treatment fications to be done afterwards. All vessels are expected (BWT) systems installed in connection with a dry-docking to comply with the Sulphur Cap 2020 by Q4 2019. taking place after September 2019 to minimize the global spreading of invasive species. So far only a few BWT systems have been approved both by the IMO and the US Coast Guard, and future investGOING FORWARD ments are considerable. BWT systems have already been installed on most of our ro-ro vessels. • Continue to invest in smarter shipping technology, as it has been proven that this Sulphur Cap 2020 is not only good for the environment, but for A Ship Implementation Plan is being developed for each the bottom line too Clipper vessel to prepare for the new 0.5% global Sulphur cap on fuel content enforced by IMO starting January 1st, • Keep complying with national and international 2020. The plan will assist in deciding on bunker agreeregulations. ments for each vessel and tests for fuel tank cleaning by chemicals are being conducted. It is expected that • Promote environmentally-friendly local all tanks will be cleaned in this manner, in order to be initiatives in Clipper offices. prepared for the Low Sulphur Fuel Oil and Low Sulphur Marine Gasoil prior to January 1st, 2020. The plans are 13 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 ANTI-CORRUPTION As an international shipping company, we are exposed to requests for facility payments and other corrupt practices. Our anti-corruption policy adopted in 2012 confirms that we have a zero tolerance towards traditional bribery such as kickbacks. Facility payments (small payments for servicMACN COLLABORATION IN THE es that the company is already entitled to) are a separate FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION challenge, and given some of the areas we operate in, we are not yet able to implement a zero-tolerance policy in this As an active member of MACN, Clipper regard. In some areas of the world, facility payments are an supports its initiatives and efforts in fighting integrated part of the social structure and a zerotolerance corruption and bribery. We can mention two policy would create several irresolvable deadlock situations. of its projects, in Argentina and India respectively, that Clipper endorsed. Anti-corruption training program We have chosen to actively fight facility payments in whatRegulatory framework for dry bulk ever form or shape those appear. In 2015, we commenced a shipping global anti-corruption training program for all our employees In 2017, MACN announced that its collecon shore as well as Senior Officers. The training material and tive action in Argentina had resulted in the an online test were developed by the Maritime Anti-Corrupsuccessful adoption of a new regulatory tion Network (MACN), of which Clipper continues to be an framework for dry bulk shipping. During 2018, active member. according to MACN data submitted by members of MACN, corruption incidents in ArgenAnti-corruption training continued in 2018. Although we tina had decreased by more than 90 percent. trained only a small number of onshore employees, we are This decrease is a clear consequence of the glad to be able to report that we have now overall trained work done by MACN and its members. 41% of the Group’s staff. We will continue our training efforts going forward; despite no longer having an in-house Port Integrity Campaign technical management team, it is important to us that our MACN prepared to launch a pilot project called commercial departments receive anti-corruption training too. “Port Integrity Campaign” in India during December 2018 to fight increasing incidents involving corrupt behavior from authorities. MACN representatives will visit governments, embassies, and national associations, and aim to have a toolkit ready the week after these visits. The toolkit will be piloted in the Mumbai region initially, but MACN aims to expand the campaign throughout India. This Indian pilot project will continue during 2019. GOING FORWARD • Continue anti-corruption training • Collaborate further with MACN and other relevant organizations on anti-corruption projects • Include an anti-corruption clause in our charter party agreements. 14 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 CLIPPER GROUP CSR GOALS 2015-18 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Sign up for UN Global Compact during 2015. 2015: Participation prepared 2016: Joined Jan 2016 2017: UNGC Participant 2018: Prepare format for and file annual communication on progress in 2015, 2016 and 2017 2015: Format prepared 2016: Filed May 2017 2017: Filed May 2018 2018: Filed May 2019 WE SUPPORT HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS DIVERSITY/WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION 33% of all employees shall be female (end 2018). Carry out organizational surveys in 2015, 2016 2017, and 2018. 2015: 32% 2016: 28% 2015: Carried out Sep 2015 2017: 30,1% 2016: Carried out Sep 2016 End 2018: 31% 2017: No survey 25% of all people managers shall be female (end 2018). 2018: Carried out in Denmark 2015: 14% Maintain ratings of above 8.0 on all 4 objective indicators. 2016: 12% In 2018, the survey had different indicators as focus 2017: 12,5% areas. End 2018: 11.1% 2015 / 2016 / 2017  2018 1 female member shall be nominated to the Board of Clipper Group A/S by the end of 2019. Satisfaction 8.2 / 8.3 / n/a n/a 2014 / 2015 / 2016 / 2017 : 0 female members Loyalty 8.2 / 8.3 / n/a n/a End 2018:  0 Engagement 9.1 / 9.0 / n/a n/a In Organizational Survey, rating of question “In Clipper, we have equal career opportunities regardless of gender” Reputation 8.5 / 8.5 / n/a n/a shall increase to 9.0 end 2017 (overall). In addition, the gap between male and female rating of this question shall decrease. RETENTION RATE ON SHORE 2015 / 2016 / 2017  2018 All employees 8.4 / 8.3 / n/a 8.5 On shore employee retention >90 in 2015, 2016, 2017 & 2018. Female 8.1 / 7.0 / n/a  n/a 2015: 93.8% 2016: 91.1% Male 8.5 / 8.5 / n/a  n/a 2017: 90.9% End 2018:  86.4% 15 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2018 TRAINEE EDUCATION Hire min. 2 shipping trainees/year of which min. 1 female. All admitted shipping trainees must graduate. 2015: None hired in 2015 2015: 1 of 2 trainees graduated Sep 2015 2016: 3 hired, 1 female 2016: 3 of 3 trainees graduated Sep 2016 2017: 2 hired, 1 female 2017: 0 of 0 trainees graduated Sep 2017 2018: 3 hired, 1 female 2018: 3 out of 3 ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION REVIEW OF SPEED PERCENTAGE ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING Continue to monitor, analyze and take action on Carry out training of all employees on shore and senior deviations in the speed percentage at any time. officers on vessels in our technical management. 2015: 96.4% 2015: 33 on shore 2016: 95.0% 2016: 42 on shore, 22 senior officers 2017: 94.0% 2017: 15 on shore, 152 senior officers n/a 41%  2018:  2018:  of all staff trained CONSUMPTION OF ELECTRICITY MACN MEMBERSHIP Average consumption of electricity on vessel to decrease Continue active membership of MACN. for each of the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. 2015: Active membership 2015: 2.2% reduction 2016: Active membership 2016: 1.1% increase 2017: Active membership 2017: 0.3% increase Active membership 2018:  n/a 2018:  16
