UN Global Compact CoP 2018 TCM Group is committed to ensuring that our business is principles, we encourage our suppliers and business conducted in all respects according to rigorous ethical, partners to conduct their businesses according to the 10 professional and legal standards. We believe that social principles. This section constitutes our Communication responsibility and sustainability are key elements in the on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact and covers continued development and success of our business. We the statutory statement by the Danish Financial Statetherefore work with social responsibility and sustainabilments’ Act 99a and 99b. ity in a number of areas: Human rights • Our employees are one of the company’s most TCM Group strongly support and promote the principles important assets. We therefore strive to create a safe, regarding human rights outlined in the UNGC principles, creative and stimulating working environment. and it is of utmost importance to us that we comply with • We consider the earth’s unique resources as vulnethese principles at any point in time. The primary risks rable and limited, and our products should therefore we face in connection to human rights incompliance are originate from sustainable sources. discrimination of employees and cases where specific • The environmental effect of our production and districonditions at our suppliers do not comply with the bution should be minimized. human rights principles. TCM Group takes specific meas• The use of our products should not cause harm or daures to ensure that no incompliance with human rights mage and environmental impact should be minimized. principles takes place within the company or via our suppliers. The measures are e.g. implementation of a whistle TCM Group’s business model and strategy are described blower system and conducting arbitrary supplier audits. in section “Strategy and financial targets”. Both measures will be further outlined in sections “Whistle Blower System” and “Supplier Management”. Furthermore, our Chief Executive confirms TCM Group’s ongoing commitment to being a member of the UN TCM Group can firmly state that no products sold in 2018 Global Compact and thereby conduct our business or in previous years were developed or produced using according to the 10 UN Global Compact principles(UNGC): child labor. Human rights Labour and working conditions 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally In TCM Group, we acknowledge that our employees are proclaimed human rights one of our most important assets. Hence, the welfare of 2. Make sure that TCM Group is not complicit in human our employees is important to us, and we continuously rights abuses strive to create a working environment, which is characLabour terized by a high focus on safety and a good collegial unity. 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining The physical workplace is one of our key focus areas. We 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour have formed multiple working groups throughout the 5. Effectively abolish child labour entire organization each with clear areas of responsibility 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment such as introduction of new employees to safety policies and occupation and procedures, prioritizing potential risk areas, suggestEnvironment ing concrete solutions and influencing the safety culture 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental on a daily basis. Furthermore, we conduct regular examichallenges nations of our workplace, by asking all employees to rate 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environReported near-by work accidents mentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including 2018 2017 2016 extortion and bribery # of reported near-by work accidents in TCM Group 780 627 619 Besides ensuring our own compliance with the 10 UNGC 28 | TCM group Annual report 2018 their working conditions and encourage them to give their recommendations and ideas on how we can improve our working environment. As a natural part of ensuring a Safety First culture Furthermore, TCM Group is throughout the company, we have a high focus on reporting near-by work accidents and mitigating the committed to work within the underlying root causes as a means of increasing safety awareness and preventing accidents. The number of framework of the 10 UN Global reported near-by accidents has increased to 780 reported near-by work accidents in TCM Group in 2018, whereas Compact principles. 627 near-by accidents were reported in 2017, indicating increased safety awareness. Sickness and absence is another one of our key focus areas, and especially absence related to work accidents. understand the reasoning behind their absence. In our From 2017 to 2018 the absence ratio related to work acciinternal occupational health and safety organization we dents increased from 1.4‰ to 1.7‰, which is not satiscontinuously try to increase the knowledge and compefactory. The increase in the absence ratio was negatively tence level in order to support our employees in the best affected by a few incidents with a relatively long absence way possible. period following the incidents. Health and safety is a key focus area in 2019 in all parts of the organization. The TCM Group is determined to support the education of our TCM Group motto is that “one work accident is one too next generation workforce. We do so by hiring apprenmany”. Safety has top management attention and we have tices in our production and some of our staff functions. launched specific initiatives in order to reduce the number From 2017 to 2018 the number of apprentices in TCM of work accidents, e.g. improved education of new Group has increased from 12 to 14. Gender diversity Sickdays and absence TCM Group is determined to promote diversity and achieve a sensible gender diversity in both the Board of 2018 2017 2016 Directors and the Executive Management based on a desire to strengthen the versatility, gathering competen# of sickdays caused cies and better decision-making processes within the by work accidents 184 128 157 company. It is the Board’s goal that its members should Absence ratio related complement each other as far as age, background, to work accidents (‰) 1.7 1.4 2.3 nationality, gender etc. are concerned. We identify and assess new candidates for the Board based on these conditions, and nomination of candidates is always based on employees on health and safety topics, introducing “safety an assessment of candidates’ competencies, their match first” meetings at the start of each shift in production and generally increase the focus on safety in the organization. Gender diversity Overall, the sickness related absence (excl. absence due to (# of underrepresented gender) sick children and maternity leave) in TCM Group was at 3.5% in 2018 versus 2.5% in 2017. A major reasoning behind this increase is the high number of new hires in 2018 2017 2016 the production, due to sales growth, especially on our evening shift. The average absence level in the industry is Board of Directors 1 of 5 1 of 5 1 of 3 3.1% according to Dansk Arbejdsgiverforening (2017). Mgmt. (Executive mgmt. and Middle mgmt.) 2 of 12 1 of 9 1 of 9 In 2018, TCM Group has launched specific initiatives in order to reduce the absence ratio. We offer light duty jobs for employees who are temporarily ill and we have a continuous dialogue with employees who have an with the needs of the group and contributions to the absence level higher than the standard, in order to Board’s overall effectiveness. TCM Group has a target for the Board of Directors that Apprentices in TCM Group both genders are represented by at least 20%. As of 31 December 2018, the distribution is 20% women and 80% men, which means that the target is met. 2018 2017 2016 # of apprentices In terms of the Executive Management and the managein TCM Group 14 12 11 ment group below, the goal is to have a management TCM group | 29 VALUE CHAIN Sale of TCM Group products Product Production of Transport of Production of Transport of Use of Waste and development raw materials raw materials to TCM Group finalized products TCM Group recycling production site products to end-customer products Directly controlled Directly controlled by TCM Group by TCM Group group that complement each other in all aspects. When Environment and climate impact recruiting management group members internally or TCM Group is committed to reduce the environmental externally, the selection is always based on the candiimpact of our production processes. In order to do so and dates’ competencies and whether they match the requireto create transparency on the progress of our pollution ments of TCM Group. TCM Group does not allow disreduction initiatives, we have started to measure our CO2 crimination of any kind e.g. regarding age, nationality, emissions, by following the GRI standards G4-EN15 gender, religion, sexual orientation, disability etc. If the (Scope 1) and G4-EN16 (Scope 2). Scope 1 implies the required competencies are present, we will assure that direct emissions of our business activities whereas Scope the final pool of candidates is diversified. 2 measures the indirect emissions via our electricity and heat consumption. We are not yet measuring our other As of 31 December 2018, the gender distribution in the indirect emissions (Scope 3), but TCM Group is currently management group is 17% women and 83% men. evaluating whether to start measuring Scope 3 in the near future. This also means that we are not measuring the In 2019, we will consider the need to initiate specific emissions related to our distribution processes, as the actions to promote a higher level of gender diversity in distribution has been outsourced and is thereby not within the management group compared to TCM Group requirescope 1 or 2. Further information about the GRI standards ments and taking the Group’s size, industry, geography is available at www.globalreporting.org/standards. etc. into consideration. 2017 emissions 2018 emissions Total Percent Total Percent [ton CO2] of total [ton CO2] of total Scope 1 (GRI: G4-EN15) 1,237 46% Scope 1 (GRI: G4-EN15) 1,360 47% Scope 2 (GRI: G4-EN16) 1,433 54% Scope 2 (GRI: G4-EN16) 1,523 53% Total 2,669 100% Total 2,883 100% In 2017, our total scope 1+2 emission was 2,669 ton CO2. In 2018, our total scope 1+2 emission has increased to This means that our emission was 3.3 ton CO2 per 1 2,883 ton CO2, mainly due to the increased activity level mDKK net revenue. in our production facilities. Our emission was 3.2 ton CO2 per 1 mDKK net revenue, whereby our emission has decreased by 0.1 ton CO2 per 1 mDKK net revenue. 2017 key figures 2018 key figures Total (ton) Unit Total (ton) Unit Emission per 1 mDKK ton CO2e/ Emission per 1 mDKK ton CO2e/ net revenue 3.3 mDKK net revenue 3.2 mDKK 30 | TCM group Annual report 2018 The main sources of emission are our electricity and heat The production process in TCM Group is mainly characconsumption, which are mainly related to our production terized by woodworking, gluing and painting / lacquerfacilities. In 2017, our electricity consumption was 53% ing. Throughout our entire production process we have a of our total scope 1+2 emissions whereas our heat conhigh focus on reducing the amount of waste material. As sumption was 40%. The remaining 7% was emission an example, the waste wood from our cutting of chiprelated to transport activities (company cars and vehicles board is returned to our suppliers and re-used in their at our production facilities). In 2018, electricity and heat production of new chipboard. consumption was 53% and 41% respectively, whereas 6% of our emission was related to transport activities. Approximately 95% of our purchased chipboards are produced using 70% waste wood from Danish industry proTCM Group has set a target to reduce the electricity conduction, incl. TCM Group. sumption with 25% per kDKK revenue in 2020, from 19.2 kWh in 2011 to 14.4 kWh in 2020. In 2018, the electricity In order to ensure that our handling and usage of paint consumption was 12.4 kWh per kDKK revenue, whereby and glue during the production process has as minimal our 2020 target has already been achieved. However, we an environmental impact as possible, we ensure that the stay committed to continue reducing our electricity conapplication of paint and glue only takes place in approsumption ratio. priate and closed surroundings within our factory, and we handle all waste products with care. Electricity consumption In 2010, TCM Group was FSC® certified and in 2015 our FSC® certificate was renewed until 2020. In 2017, Netto2018 2017 2016 line A/S also received a FSC® certification. TCM Group only produce massive wooden table tops, which are FSC® Electricity certified. The certification ensures sustainability by guarconsumption (kWh) per 1.000 sales ratio 12.4 12.5 14.3 anteeing that no more trees are being trapped than the amount of trees the respective forest is able to reproduce. Furthermore, the FSC® certificate guarantees that vegetaWe continuously focus on reducing the energy consumption and animals are protected and that the employees of tion of our products by actively using and promoting LED the forest plantations are properly educated, use proper instead of Halogen-lighting. As an example, our new protective equipment and are paid fairly during their Svane Køkkenet S19 product introduction provides our employment. Further information about FSC® is available customers with the opportunity to integrate LED-lighting at www.ic.fsc.org. systems in their kitchen, bath and wardrobe. Distribution of CO 2 emissions 7% 6% 2017 2018 40% 41% 53% 53% TRANSPORT (CARS, TRUCKS) HEATING (NATURAL GAS, OIL, DISTRICT HEATING) ELECTRICITY TCM group | 31 Whistle blower system In 2018, TCM Group decided to implement an internal whistle blower system, which allows our employees to report any concerns or witnessed activities regarding non-compliance with our Human Rights, Labour, Environmental or AntiAnti-Corruption corruption rules and regulations. TCM Group is exposed to non-compliance with anti-corruption rules and regulations via our employees, suppliAll TCM Group employees, customers, suppliers, ers, franchisees and dealers. Our policy is to comply with advisors and other individuals with connection to all applicable regulations and to promote an anti-corrupthe company are able to access the whistle blower tion behavior to all our business relations. system through an externally hosted website. The system is anonymous and all communication In TCM Group, no employee may receive or solicit any is encrypted, which means that TCM Group is not services, gifts or payments that may be considered an able to trace any specific whistle blower report attempt to obtain benefits for themselves or the comback to the reporting individual. Furthermore, pany. Violations of these rules will have disciplinary conthe supplier of the whistle blower system sequences for the employees involved. ­complies with GDPR. There has been no incidents violating the anti-corruption Implementation of the whistle blower system policy in 2018. started during December 2018. 32 | TCM group Annual report 2018 In 2010, TCM Group was FSC® certified and in 2015 our FSC® certificate was renewed until 2020. In 2017, Nettoline A/S also ­received a FSC® certification. TCM Group only produce massive wooden table tops, which are FSC® certified. Supplier management 2016. All of our primary suppliers have signed our TCM Group intends to influence suppliers via a Code-ofCode-of-Conduct. Conduct, which broadly covers all aspects of the principles outlined by the UN Global Compact. The total share of TCM Group’ purchasing, covered by our Code-of-Conduct was approximately 95% in 2018 TCM Group suppliers are primarily located in Europe. and cover all suppliers from non-EU countries. However, some of our suppliers use sub-suppliers located in Asia. TCM Group management is aware that producDuring 2018, TCM Group has requested all of our supplition in Asia implies risks in terms of social responsibility ers, which use sub-suppliers in Asia, to conduct audits and supplier management, and that our stakeholders on their sub-suppliers. These audits have shown no signs expect us to actively ensure that these sub-suppliers are of non-compliant behavior from our suppliers or fulfilling regulations in terms of working conditions and sub-suppliers. However, TCM Group will continue to environmental-friendly production. monitor all suppliers in 2019 and conduct arbitrary audits, though with special attention on the suppliers TCM Group’ Code-of-Conduct was developed and doing business in Asia. approved by the Board in 2011, and further improved in TCM group | 33
