Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SHAPING TOMORROW, TODAY: FORGING A POSITIVE PATH INTO OUR FUTURE The Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) has significantly stimulated economic development and job creation in the City of Cape A FUTURE-FIT BUSINESS Town since it first opened its doors 16 years ago. In that time, we have Our triple-bottom-line approach ensures that all areas of the business generated 130 465 jobs, cultivated community development, acted as interconnect, not only internally but externally, to create a conscientious a catalyst for the Foreshore and made significant contributions to the and sustainable business. Focused on people, planet and profit, we Western Cape’s GGP (R39.6bn) and South Africa’s GDP (R47.3bn). We invested R1.6m in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives and a are building a sustainable legacy that will serve the City of Cape Town’s further R8m in water-saving technology, bringing our reverse osmosis citizens well into the future. plant online to allow us to go ‘off grid’. We continue to provide an inspiring platform for people to connect, As a leading state-owned enterprise, we influence and are shaped by share and collaborate around ideas. Through these engagements, we our clients, delegates, stakeholders, communities and staff, as well as drive innovation and the knowledge economy, shaping the future of environmental and economic factors. Our understanding of these business tourism, our city, our province and the South African economy. symbiotic interactions is what allows us to be an inspiring and recognised In essence, every event, job, community and environmental initiative business leader. leaves an enduring impression on the hundreds of thousands of people who engage with us every year: clients, delegates, stakeholders and staff. For our delegates and stakeholders, this might be in the form of new business, technological advancements and partnerships, while for staff, this could be career development and personal growth – contributions that will serve them well into their futures and, ultimately, support and grow their communities and the country’s economy. In speaking to these visionary contributions, the theme of this report is ‘Shaping tomorrow, today’. The document outlines where we positively influence an outcome and, therefore, make our mark on the future. To illustrate this, we have used a fingerprint, encompassing an embedded map of Africa, with biometric markers running through the design to symbolise the waves of innovation we stimulate. We have created 130 465 jobs in 16 years, and made a cumulative contribution to the national DRIVING SUSTAINABLE JOB CREATION economy of over R47.3bn. Since our inception, we have consistently and extensively contributed to job creation in the region and beyond. 14 620 jobs were created over the past financial year alone. We contributed a total of R4.5bn to the Western Cape GGP and R6.5bn to the South African GDP in the 2018/19 financial year. These contributions are achieved through a fierce commitment to commercial viability and consistent strategic alignment with the City of Cape Town and the Western Cape Government. We focus on growth and investment areas identified by the Western Cape Government, which are further augmented by the City of Cape Town’s catalytic sectors. Consequently, our daily commitment to excellence influences the future of our economy and every person who comes in contact with us. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ABOUT THIS REPORT: ITS SCOPE AND PARAMETERS This report is compiled annually and contains data for the 2018/19 financial year, which runs from 1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019. As at the end of 30 June 2019, the CTICC consists of two operational buildings (CTICC 1 and CTICC 2) and the report reflects on the performances of both. The most recent previously compiled report was made available at our Annual General Meeting on 11 December 2018 and contained information from the previous financial year, 1 July 2017 – 30 June 2018. The contact person for questions regarding this report is Olivia Bruce (olivia@cticc.co.za), who is contactable on the following number: +27 (21) 410 5000. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report CONTENTS PAGE 3 HIGHLIGHTS 2018/19 3 Economic Impact 3 Operations & Finance 4 Environmental Footprint 29 CTICC EVENTS 4 Social Contribution Making Memories and Forging 4 Awards & Accreditations New Connections 30 Review of events hosted in 2018/19 5 FOREWORDS 31 How We Influence Our Industry: The 6 Message from the Executive Mayor of Cape Important Figures Town 33 Event Highlights: Reaching into the 7 Message from the Premier of the Western Future Cape 40 A Spotlight on Our Performance This Year 8 Message from the Chairperson of Convenco 40 Our 2018/19 Event Calendar Accomplishments 9 Review by the Chief Executive Officer 53 Space and Technology: Hosting the Fourth Industrial Revolution 11 ABOUT THE CTICC Always Facing Forward 55 ECONOMIC IMPACT: 12 Our Purpose, Mission and Values: Our Shaping Our Economic Future Business Blueprint 56 CTICC’s Economic Impact: Growth and 13 Our Strong Foundation: Shareholders, Services Performance and Facilities 59 Our Stamp of Approval: Key 16 Our Future Builders: Our Markets, Our Performance Indicators Clients, Our Staff and Our Stakeholders 62 Impacting Lives: B-BBEE and SMME 21 Saluting Our Winners: Certifications and Supplier Stories Awards 65 Capital Expenditure Projects: Ensuring 23 Transformative Future Partnerships: We’re Future-Fit Associations and Memberships 66 Our New Old Pier Café: A Fresh Eating Option Built on History 25 OUR LEGACY Increasing Our Potential, Today and for the Future 26 Building a Legacy Through Job Creation 26 Growing the Knowledge Economy: Influential Events 27 Caring for Our Communities: Advancing Community Development 27 People That Move Us Forward: Investing in the Future 1 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report 67 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 119 GOVERNANCE: Building Better Tomorrows Enduring Ethical Leadership 68 Creating Opportunities for 120 Corporate Governance Report Communities 122 Directorate and Administration 69 Helping Hands: Our Community 124 Board Committees Partners 127 Stakeholder Engagement Review: 73 Impacting Change: Community Partnerships That Take Us Forward Activations 129 How We Reach Our Stakeholders and 75 Venue Sponsorships Shareholders 77 People, Passion and Possibilities 129 Partners in Success 77 Our People and Their Potential: 130 Staff Engagements: Shaping Our Working Towards Better Futures Performance Today and Tomorrow 77 Our Current Training Focus 135 Client and Stakeholder Engagements: 80 Long-Term Training Building a Better Future Together 82 Short-Term Training 84 External Staff Training 143 FUTURE-PROOFING 85 Promotions: Rising Stars Forging Ahead Fearlessly 93 Two Tales of Determination 145 Building Transatlantic Business Tourism: 95 Long Service Awards Multiplying our Potential 96 Hajira Essop: An Institution, a Friend 148 Setting Food Trends: Innovative and a Stalwart Culinary Experiences 97 Forging Bright Futures: Student and 148 Our Cashless System Graduate Programmes 149 Our Environmental Strategy 101 Comments From Our Students and 149 Embracing the Fourth Industrial Revolution Graduates 151 Our Larger Complex: Redefining Our 103 Staff Wellness Programme Meeting Places 104 In Touch With Our Clients: Customer 151 Future Revenue Streams: Exploring New Feedback Possibilities 154 Our Future Book 105 SUSTAINABILITY: Securing Our Tomorrow, Today 157 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 107 The NOW Team 109 A Complete Water Solution: What It 223 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL Means to the CTICC, Our Clients and the Planet COMPACT INDEX 111 Food for Thought: Sourcing Local to Reduce Our Carbon Footprint 112 Optimising Energy Efficiencies: Protecting Our Future 113 Innovative Waste Management 114 Green Initiatives 116 Case Study: Investing in African Mining Indaba 2019 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 2 HIGHLIGHTS 2018/19 HIGHLIGHTS 2018/19 In the past financial year, we achieved a turnover of R277m, an impressive 11% growth in revenue compared to the previous financial year. We have continued to make substantial economic, environmental and social contributions, including the generation of 14 620 jobs. We are also consistently upskilling our employees, delivering excellent customer service and uplifting locally-based suppliers. ECONOMIC IMPACT R6.5bn R4.5bn R47.3bn Contribution to SA Contribution to Cumulative contribution National GDP Western Cape GGP to SA National GDP R39.6bn 14 620 87% Cumulative Total jobs created Of total procurement contribution to in 2018/19 financial spend with locally-based Western Cape GGP year suppliers 112 out of 217 (52%) Women employed in the business OPERATIONS & FINANCE 560 R277m R57.5m Total events (25 EBITDA Revenue (including events above the (R49.5m or 622% above other income) target of 535) the target of R8m) 84% Customer Satisfaction Index (4% above the target of 80%) 3 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report HIGHLIGHTS 2018/19 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 86% R1.6m Waste diverted from landfill Corporate Social (6% above the target of 80%) Responsibility spend AWARDS Winner: 2018 Lilizela Winner: 2018 Lilizela Winner: Finance Winner: Finance Tourism Awards Tourism Awards Monthly Award Monthly Award Regional Lilizela National Lilizela 2018 CEO Award Game Changers Finance Universal Accessibility Universal Accessibility Monthly Award Award Award Winner: AIPC Winner: Meetings Winner: MEA Markets Named: Top 40 Innovation Award Africa 2019 – Event Africa Business Women in MICE Award 2019 Greening Forum Excellence Awards 2019 Olivia Bruce, Adele Eloff 2019 Delegate Choice Medium Stand Award African Business Centre and Arnolette Freeks Award for Innovation of the Year 2019 Qualified: Top Qualified: Top Performing Companies Women Leaders & Public Sector 2019 Top Gender 2019 Leading Performer Empowered Company ACCREDITATIONS ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 22000 (Quality Management) (Environmental (Occupational Health & (Food Safety Management) Safety Management) Management) Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 4 FOREWORDs 5 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report FOREWORDS Message FROM THE EXECUTIVE MAYOR OF CAPE TOWN The CTICC has grown into an iconic and world-class conference centre on the Foreshore, one of Cape Town’s busiest tourism hubs, and sets a shining example of the City of Cape Town’s commitment to local economic growth and the creation of jobs. DAN PLATO Executive Mayor of Cape Town My personal thank you, therefore, to the CTICC and its hard working team. Not only do you create a place where ideas can be shared and implemented, but you are also shaping an environment where we can all make a difference and positively inform the future. Thank you for keeping our city flag flying high and proud. Figures from the Western Cape Convention Bureau show that the value The increasing popularity of the CTICC has seen 71 international events of business events brought to the city and province was approximately already secured and scheduled to take place at the centre between R1bn in the first half of the 2018/19 financial year, reaffirming that Cape now and 2026. With a new direct flight from New York to Cape Town Town is indeed the most popular destination for conferences in Africa. starting later this year, I am sure we will be welcoming even more business and leisure tourism. As a catalyst for development on the Foreshore, the construction of the CTICC opened the door for new and commercial developments over 16 The CTICC and the events that it hosts provide critical leverage in our years ago. Today, the 2017 expansion of CTICC 2 reaffirms the centre’s quest to share Cape Town with the world, not only as a city or as a commitment to the City of Cape Town. This additional capacity has country, but as an African region. And as we continue to build a globally stimulated further business for the CTICC, reflected in the impressive competitive tourism and business destination, the CTICC plays an economic contribution that the centre has made to our province over the essential role as our strategic partner. last financial year, to the tune of R4.5bn. My personal thank you, therefore, to the CTICC and its hard working With Cape Town’s growing film industry, the CTICC has also featured team. Not only do you create a place where ideas can be shared and in a number of local and international film and television productions implemented, but you are also shaping an environment where we can all and continues to provide opportunities for production companies and make a difference and positively inform the future. Thank you for keeping filmmakers. our city flag flying high and proud. In 2019, the International Congress and Convention Association (ICCA) Dan Plato again confirmed Cape Town as the number one meetings destination Executive Mayor, City of Cape Town of choice in Africa and last year, the City of Cape Town was named the ‘World’s Leading Festival and Events Destination’ at the 2018 World Travel Awards, an accolade highly deserved. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 6 FOREWORDS Message FROM THE PREMIER OF THE WESTERN CAPE One of the Western Cape Government’s key priorities is to create an enabling environment in which the economy can grow, and we can create more jobs. The CTICC has, since its inception, been an important partner in helping us achieve our economic goals. ALAN WINDE Premier of the Western Cape We commend the CTICC and their staff for their excellence and commitment to the Western Cape Province and look forward to their positive contributions to the province, in the year ahead. The theme of this year’s annual report, ‘Shaping tomorrow, today’, Despite the low ebbs of our national economy and other economic ties into our government’s commitment to improving the lives of our headwinds, the CTICC has remained profitable year-on-year. residents by supporting the creation of new economic opportunities. Suffice to say, the CTICC continues to make extraordinary strides when In the last decade, the Western Cape has created more than 500 000 it comes to building a sustainable business and creating extraordinary jobs, which is why we have the lowest real unemployment rate in South experiences. By making travel simpler for tourists, doing business easier Africa. and faster, and offering conferencing that is seamless from arrival to departure, the centre is the perfect example of an innovative venue. The tourism sector has the ability to significantly grow our economy and the CTICC, as a world leader in conferencing and business tourism, We commend the CTICC and their staff for their excellence and plays a major part in the further development of tourism in our province. commitment to the Western Cape Province and look forward to their positive contributions to the province, in the year ahead. The City of Cape Town has been named the events capital of Africa and, as government, we are committed to maintaining that status. Alan Winde For me, this means creating a business-friendly environment that Premier of the Western Cape embraces innovation and all the technological advancements of the Fourth Industrial Revolution because once we do, there is tremendous room for development and further job creation in all catalytic sectors. The CTICC has not only been a driver for both direct and indirect job creation in our province but, by opening its supply chain to small businesses, has also contributed tremendously to the development of the SMME sector in our province. 7 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report FOREWORDS Message FROM THE CHAIRPERSON OF CONVENCO At its founding, the CTICC was intended to cement the reputation of Cape Town as the continent’s leading business tourism destination. We have not only achieved this goal but, each year, we surpass many of our stakeholders’ expectations, as well as exceed several of our KPI targets. In so doing, we are shaping a sustainable future, today. Deon Cloete Chairperson, Convenco Together, we are creating a template for the future of the meetings sector in our province. Again, thank you to all that make this possible. Since opening, we have made significant financial and economic Each year, we win a number of prestigious awards, and in the year under development contributions to the City of Cape Town, the Western Cape review, one of the most important of these was the 2019 Top 40 and South Africa as a whole. Our year-on-year revenue growth has Women in MICE Award for three outstanding managers at the CTICC increased by 11%, and the jobs we create, 14 620 of them in the last – Olivia Bruce, Head of Marketing and Public Relations, Adele Eloff, year, help to bring hope and make a difference in many people’s lives, Business Development Manager: National, and Arnolette Freeks, Event not only those in our employ. This, as you can imagine, has a knock-on Manager. These are the calibre of leaders at the CTICC who maintain effect. We are opening doors and helping build a brighter future for all. our reputation as a world-class MICE destination, so a heartfelt thank you to them. Our CSR projects also deliver real benefits to the communities we work with, going well beyond our core business and reaffirming our position After another extraordinary year, I’d like to thank our CEO, Julie-May, as a catalyst for development in the City of Cape Town. In the last and executive team, Rob, Tracy, Craig and Wayne, as well as every year, we contributed R1.6m to CSR, predominantly in the Khayelitsha, employee whose dedication ensures that we remain a beacon of Lavender Hill and Mitchell’s Plain areas. These are the legacies we are excellence in our city. Additionally, I want to thank our shareholders constructing, and I am very proud to chair an operation that fulfils this for their continued support, and the Board for their hard work and task with diligence and commitment. commitment. For a complex as big as ours, sustainability is a key focus for us, especially Together, we are creating a template for the future of the meetings in terms of water, so one of our proudest achievements in the last year sector in our province. Again, thank you to all that make this possible. is switching over to our reverse osmosis plant, which is able to produce 200 000 litres of drinking water in a 24-hour cycle. With an extra storage Deon Cloete capacity of 400 000 litres, we can cater for the centre’s maximum Chairperson, Convenco demand scenarios without having to tap into the municipal supply. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 8 FOREWORDS REVIEW BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Julie-May Ellingson Chief Executive Officer Here’s to many more years of building this outstanding business and creating an inspiring legacy for our beloved City of Cape Town, the Western Cape Province and South Africa. The year in review: the important figures In line with our ongoing commitment to support B-BBEE and womenowned businesses, we spent R328m or 86% of our total spend with 2018/19 was the first full year of operation for our expanded complex. B-BBEE suppliers. In addition, 39% of our suppliers are women-owned CTICC 2 has proven to be very popular with our clients and has allowed businesses, some of whom are highlighted in this year’s report (see us to host more events, significantly expand our venue offering, and pages 62 to 64). provide the necessary capacity for our clients to grow their events. These impressive figures are testament to the passionate and dedicated As in all businesses, the numbers tell the story. For the year under CTICC team, supportive clients, and the support and leadership of our review, our figures remain impressive. We hosted a total of 560 events in Board and shareholders. the 2018/19 year, welcoming almost 420 000 delegates and generating a total of 877 129 delegate and visitor days. Empowering our staff From a financial perspective, we generated revenues of R277m, which Our staff are the most important asset in our business and we remain represents an 11% growth compared to the previous year. We also committed to investing in their training and development. In the last achieved an operating profit (EBITDA) of R57.5m, which was R49.5m financial year, we spent a total of R3.6m (6% of total salary bill) on above our target of R8m, despite a full year of operating costs being training, and assisted 25 students and graduates to gain much-needed incurred for CTICC 2. on-the-job training and experience. Our ongoing economic contribution We are proud to see our staff grow within the company and are very pleased to report an increase in internal promotions, from eight in Most importantly, we created and sustained 14 620 direct and indirect 2017/18 to 15 in 2018/19, up by an impressive 88%. jobs, which represents a 71% increase over the last financial year, with our own staff complement growing by 19% from 182 staff members in We celebrate our staff’s achievements: they are a vital voice in our 2017/18 to 217 in 2018/19. Since opening our doors in 2003, we have business, and are dedicated to both uplifting themselves and those created and sustained 130 465 jobs. around them, as you will read on pages 85 to 96. In terms of our measurable economic contribution, the CTICC Saluting our clients and your feedback contributed R4.5bn to the Western Cape GGP and R6.5bn to the South Our clients are the centre of our business so we are very proud to African GDP. Our cumulative economic contributions over the past 16 have achieved an independent overall client satisfaction score of years stand at R39.6bn to the Western Cape GGP and R47.3bn to the 84% for the year under review. We sincerely appreciate our clients South African GDP. taking the time to provide feedback directly, and through our 9 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report FOREWORDS independent customer experience research company, N’Lighten. We are doing this are through the automation of CTICC 1, our tap-in-taprecognise that this feedback is vital to our continued success and is used out system, cashless cards, the continuous upgrades to our WiFi, and to actively address any shortfalls identified, as well as reaffirm what is of course, our new website, which integrates e-commerce and digitises being done right. Thank you for taking the time to ensure our some of the supply chain elements, including RFQ submissions. performance today can only get better tomorrow. Over the next five years, we are also planning to become more Uplifting communities and changing lives independent energy-wise by harnessing more solar energy and installing heat pumps: this will future-proof our energy usage. We will also strive The CTICC supports the City of Cape Town’s strategic focus to be an to improve on our own waste diversion from landfill rates, seeking to inclusive, caring and opportunity city. Our commitment extends beyond better our already impressive 2018/19 rate of 86%. financial support of deserving causes to creating opportunities for our staff to experience the immense personal growth that comes from A heartfelt thank you volunteering their time and talents in the service of others. In this my last review as CEO, I would like to take the opportunity to In the past financial year, we contributed R1.6m to Corporate Social thank a number of people who have made my time at the CTICC so Responsibility (CSR) activities. A significant portion of this funding is rewarding. invested in our local community partners, namely Abalimi Bezekhaya, Foundation for Alcohol Related Research (FARR), Ikhaya Le Themba, Firstly, to the incredible executive team, Robert Hatton-Jones, Tracy Mkhize, Journey of Enrichment, and Mothers Unite. Craig Barrington and Wayne De Wet. Thank you for your support, guidance and, most importantly, your great sense of humour. In addition to our community partners, we also support a number of other charities and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) working To the Manco, Leadership and CTICC staff who continue to go with the elderly, our youth and those at risk, including Jireh Community beyond the call of duty to ensure the delivery of exceptional Projects, Neighbourhood Old Age Homes (NOAH), Haven Night Shelter, the experiences for our clients, you are, and will remain, the heart and National Institute for Crime Prevention and Reintegration of Offenders soul of the CTICC. There is no doubt that our excellent results are (NICRO) and schools, such as Zeekoevlei High School in Lotus River. due to your unwavering passion and commitment, not only to the centre but also to the broader Cape Town community. You always Ensuring a sustainable future make sure we are not just on top of our game, but way ahead of it. Our commitment to environmental sustainability is well known. The To our Board (past and present) and shareholders, thank you for Nurture Our World (NOW) team, which is composed of representatives your support and direction over the past five years. Your guidance from across the company, continued their excellent work of informing, has been paramount to my own and the centre’s success, and I am driving and monitoring our sustainability initiatives. A key focus for incredibly appreciative of every opportunity you have afforded me. the year remained minimising our water and energy usage as much as possible: the drought may be receding but the risk remains. To our suppliers, whose efforts contribute immeasurably to our success story, we are forever grateful to you for working with us to deliver and One of the highlights for the year was the commissioning of our reverse exceed our clients’ expectations. osmosis plant, which has already proved to be a highly effective water-saving intervention. The plant produces 200 000 litres of purified To our clients, we thank you for choosing us. We know that you have and fully potable water in a 24-hour cycle and is able to supply sufficient choices, and we thank you for trusting us to successfully host your water to meet all of our needs. Importantly, we can now host events events. None of our achievements would have been possible without without placing any burden on the municipal water supply. your steadfast support. In this report, we also illustrate the importance of partnering with our Here’s to many more years of building this outstanding business and clients to divert waste from landfill to benefit our environment and our creating an inspiring legacy for our beloved City of Cape Town, the local communities. In our case study on the 2019 Investing in African Western Cape Province and South Africa. Mining Indaba, we provide insights into how, by collaborating with the Julie-May Ellingson event organisers, the ITE Group, we were able to successfully donate Chief Executive Officer all event wood to our partners, the Orion Organisation and Cabrico Genuine Clay Face Brick and Pavers, as well as pass on waste fabric to Sealand Gear. See pages 116 to 118 for the full story. Shaping tomorrow, today Looking to the future, the Fourth Industrial Revolution is upon us, and we need to keep ahead of technological developments to maintain our status as a state-of-the-art events destination. Some of the ways we Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 10 ABOUT THE CTICC 11 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ABOUT THE CTICC ALWAYS FACING FORWARD An iconic building on the Cape Town Foreshore, the CTICC is designed The centre is ideally located in the central business district of Cape Town to host international and local conferences, exhibitions and trade shows and is a 20-minute drive from Cape Town International Airport. It is close and, in the process, create jobs and drive the local economy – now and to a number of MyCiti bus stops, which offer efficient and safe public into the future. transport to both locals and visitors. Additionally, the conference centre is surrounded by a myriad of hotel options, countless restaurants and the Our complex consists of two buildings, CTICC 1 and CTICC 2, which internationally acclaimed V&A Waterfront, all within walking distance. are connected by a Skybridge. We offer a world-class venue for conferences, exhibitions, trade fairs, banquets, concerts, film shoots and stage productions. Additionally, we have large auditoria and exhibition halls, as well as state-of-the-art private boardrooms and cafés. OUR PURPOSE, MISSION AND VALUES: OUR BUSINESS BLUEPRINT Purpose Values Our values are founded on: “We connect people to create economic opportunities and jobs by attracting events • Passion – we live to go beyond; in key economic sectors and exceeding our • Integrity – we are transparent in everything we create; clients’ expectations.” • Innovation – our commitment gives us the edge; We impact lives through the creation of economic opportunities and jobs • Excellence – we create superior experiences; by providing a platform for events that connect people. This is achieved by strategically aligning ourselves with the Western Cape Government’s • Gratitude – we are appreciative of the opportunities provided by the trade and investment areas, which are further augmented by the City of CTICC, the City of Cape Town and the country we live in; Cape Town’s catalytic sectors. • Caring – we care for one another, our clients, our business, our As a result of this collaboration, the centre has consistently made building and our equipment. significant contributions to the Western Cape GGP and the South African GDP, created jobs, influenced the country’s knowledge economy, and grown business and leisure tourism. At the same time, we have built a reputation that sets the global standard for excellence in conscientious business practices, hospitality and event hosting, both locally and internationally. Mission Making our purpose a reality through: • Maximising economic spin-off and job creation; • Focusing on innovation and exceeding expectations; Built a reputation that set the • Service excellence by building capable and quality staff; global standard for excellence • Commitment to triple bottom line sustainability practices. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 12 Skybridge connecting CTICC 1 and CTICC 2 OUR STRONG FOUNDATION: SHAREHOLDERS, SERVICES AND FACILITIES The Cape Town International Convention Centre Company (Convenco) owns and manages the business of the CTICC, a complex made up of two facilities, namely CTICC 1 and CTICC 2. It is jointly owned by the City of Cape Town (71.4% shareholding), the Provincial Government of the Western Cape (23.2% shareholding) and SunWest International (Pty) Limited (5.4% shareholding). Our principal departments are Commercial and Business Development, Food and Beverage and Operations, Facilities and Operations, Finance, and Human Resources. We are primarily an event venue, offering event-related services required to hold any event or conference. A Skybridge links the CTICC 1 and CTICC 2 buildings, creating a seamless complex that can host a variety of events concurrently. International National Event Operational conference conference management services services services services Marketing and Food and Event-related services corporate beverage such as IT, audiovisual communication services and cleaning services 13 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ABOUT THE CTICC CTICC 1 facilities comprise: CTICC 2 facilities comprise: • Two modern raked auditoria, which can seat 1 516 and 612 guests • 10 000m2 of sub-divisible exhibition halls over two floors; respectively; • Seven meeting rooms varying in sizes that can host 130 to 320 • A sub-divisible, multifunctional ballroom of 2 000m2; people, and overlooks the city; • Over 11 339m2 of dedicated sub-divisible exhibition and trade show • Three meeting suites in differing sizes, with the ability to hold 25 to space; 50 people, looking out over the ground floor halls; • 33 breakout rooms varying in size and able to accommodate 25 to • An executive boardroom; 320 people; • Two rooftop terraces with breathtaking views of Table Mountain and • A roof terrace meeting room that seats 250 people banquet-style, the harbour; with an independent foyer and terrace; • An in-house coffee shop, Coffee on the Circle. • Three conservatories flooded with natural light and containing indigenous flora; • A Marshalling Yard of 5 000m2 with easy, drive-in access to exhibition halls; • Dedicated hot, cold and pastry kitchens, with 14 satellite kitchens; • An in-house coffee shop called Coffee on the Square; • Old Pier Café, a café-style restaurant. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 14 Mountain View Roof Terrace overlooking the city 15 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ABOUT THE CTICC OUR FUTURE BUILDERS: OUR MARKETS, OUR CLIENTS, OUR STAFF AND OUR STAKEHOLDERS We serve various markets based on seven key offerings: international conferences and events, national conferences, exhibitions, trade fairs, banquets, special events, film and photo shoots and other events. A total of 560 events were held during the past financial year, of which 34 were international conferences. This is the highest number of international conferences hosted in any city in Africa. In the 2018/19 financial year, we hosted events and clients from numerous geographic locations, including the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Australia, Belgium, Botswana, the Cayman Islands, China, Cote d’Ivoire, Germany, Kenya, Mauritius, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, and Switzerland. In total, we provided the platform that positively shaped the lives of almost half a million attendees over this period. EXECUTIVE TEAM Left to right: Craig Barrington, General Manager: Facilities & Operations, Tracy Mkhize, General Manager: Operations Food & Beverage, Julie-May Ellingson, Chief Executive Officer, Wayne De Wet, Chief Financial Officer, Robert Hatton-Jones, General Manager: Commercial & Business Development. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 16 11 Our incredible CTICC team Our people In 2018/19, we employed 217 employees (204 permanent and 13 temporary staff), as well as a fluctuating group of contract staff managed by additional service providers. The majority of our staff are skilled and semi-skilled, and our dedication to upskilling and training our staff is consistent and comprehensive. We are committed to maintaining a diverse staff complement that is representative of South African demographics, with a focus on historically disadvantaged individuals. Age groups Ethnic groups 98 African 64 98 46 9 84 Coloured 31 White 20 – 30 31 – 40 41 – 50 50+ 4 Years Years Years Years Indian 17 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ABOUT THE CTICC Gender breakdown Employment level 112 CEO Female Executive Management Middle TOTAL Management 217 Skilled Semi-skilled 105 Male Unskilled Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 18 ABOUT THE CTICC Creating jobs and optimising work conditions Our commitment to our people and the country is demonstrated in our Employment Equity and Training Committee (EE&TC) and Employee Relations Forum (ERF). These fora ensure that we are achieving equitable representation of employees from designated groups, and that we are empowering our staff with the abilities and opportunities they need in order to grow their careers and futures within the company. ERF and EE&TC Employee Relations Forum (ERF) The 2018 EE plan was submitted to the Department of Employment and Labour in December 2018 for the reporting period. In May 2019, the The Employee Relations Forum (ERF) consists of 10 employees drawn centre received communication from the Department of Employment from different departments and levels within the company. The ERF and Labour acknowledging receipt of the EE report for the 2018 reporting represents the interests of all employees regarding employment period and verifying that we would appear on the EE public register for conditions. The ERF continued to be proactive and solution-driven in the 2018 in terms of Section 21 of the EE Act No. 55 of 1998, as amended. 2018/19 financial year and ensured any concerns raised were addressed The WSP was submitted to the Culture, Arts, Tourism, Hospitality and and staff engagement remained high. Sports Sector Education and Training Authority (CATHSSETA) in April 2019. We received communication and confirmation from CATHSSETA Employment Equity & Training Committee (EE&TC) that the centre’s Mandatory Grant Application had been evaluated and was approved. The Employment Equity & Training Committee’s (EE&TC) mandate is to monitor employment equity across the company to ensure compliance As of the end of the 2018/19 financial year, 80% of our employees in with the EE Act, as well as oversee training and skills development, the three highest levels of management (including EXCO, MANCO and including reviewing and approving the Workplace Skills Plan (WSP). Leadership) were from the designated groups. In other words, 24 out of 30 employees, which is on par with the centre’s KPI target and complies The appointed EE senior manager completes the monthly workforce with our approved employment equity plan. profile, which is used to monitor under-represented groups in line with the Economically Active Population (EAP) of the Western Cape. 19 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Tranquil and spacious ground floor lounge at CTICC 2 Our planet A place where people connect We are dedicated to reducing the carbon footprint left by our daily We are not only a financially viable and sustainable business but one operations, meetings and events, and continually rethink the way we do that shapes the future. Clients from diverse communities from across business in order to minimise our imprint on the environment. the globe choose to converge at the CTICC in order to exchange ideas, knowledge and products. It is these collaborative meetings which facilitate Our profit and culminate in interconnected trading and capital injections that positively impact on our local community and economy. We are committed to running a profit-driven, transparent operation, with an emphasis on best business practice and maximising economic spin-off through innovation, and contributing to the economic strategies of the City of Cape Town and the Western Cape in a variety of ways. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 20 11 ABOUT THE CTICC SALUTING OUR WINNERS: CERTIFICATIONS AND AWARDS As a leader in the industry, it is important for us to benchmark ourselves We continue to maintain our ISO accreditation through the South African at an international level and, as such, we are actively aligned to the National Accreditation System (SANAS) certification body for the following United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles. We also operate an standards: Integrated Management System (IMS) through the application of the International Standards Organisation (ISO) to ensure that quality assurance • Quality Management System – ISO 9001; and sustainability management are regulated at an advanced level. • Environmental Management System – ISO 14001; The centre’s health and safety certification is of equal importance, • Occupational Health and Safety Management System BS – OHSAS demonstrating our commitment to our clients and visitors through 18001; adhering to the highest possible standards in food safety and preparation. • Food Safety Management System – ISO 22000. Not only do these strict standards ensure that we operate as a world-class establishment, but it also serves to illustrate to our delegates, clients, stakeholders and staff that we are committed to delivering top-quality service with a recognised stamp of approval. We are the first convention centre to achieve all of the following ISO certifications: 9001, 14001, 18001 and 22000. Continuing our 5-star Grading by Tourism Grading Council of South Africa (TGCSA) The Tourism Grading Council of South Africa (TGCSA) has once again classified the CTICC as a five-star establishment. This includes the retention of our Mobility Level 1 score for our commitment to ensuring accessible facilities in the centre. 21 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Awards won in 2018/19 AIPC Innovation Award, Delegate Choice Award for Innovation 2019 MEA Markets Africa Business Excellence Awards, African Business Centre of the Year 2019 Top 40 Women in MICE, for Olivia Bruce, Adele Eloff and Arnolette Freeks National Lilizela Universal Accessibility Award, 2018 Lilizela Tourism Awards Regional Lilizela Universal Accessibility Award, 2018 Lilizela Tourism Awards 2018 CEO Award, Julie-May Ellingson, Finance Monthly AWARDS WON IN 2018/19 Game Changers Finance Monthly Award, Finance Monthly Medium Stand Award, Meetings Africa 2019, Event Greening Forum Qualified as a Top Performing Companies & Public Sector, Leading Performer Qualified as a Top Women Leaders, Top Gender Empowered Company Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 22 ABOUT THE CTICC TRANSFORMATIVE FUTURE PARTNERSHIPS: ASSOCIATIONS AND MEMBERSHIPS Our membership to international and local associations is vital to remaining a global leader in the conferencing sector. During the year under review, we were a member of the following associations: 23 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Mountain View Roof Terrace Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 24 OUR LEGACY 25 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report CTICC: OUR LEGACY INCREASING OUR POTENTIAL, TODAY AND FOR THE FUTURE BUILDING A LEGACY THROUGH JOB CREATION Over the past 16 years, the CTICC has made economic and social contributions that we can be proud of. This includes the creation of almost 130 465 jobs since 2003, with nearly 15 000 of them generated during the 2018/19 financial year. We are consistently training and investing in the future workforce through our graduate and student programmes, providing 25 student and graduate opportunities in the past two 130 465 financial years. In 2018/19, our R3.6m investment in the training and upskilling of our own and external staff contributed to the success of the CTICC and the tourism sector as a whole – and the benefits of that investment are long-term. Jobs created since 2003 We continue to be a driver of the knowledge economy through the hosting of events in key economic sectors identified by the City of Cape Town and Western Cape Government. The City of Cape Town and the Western Cape Province also benefit in countless ways from the thousands of people who engage with us, be they conference delegates, clients, employees or service providers, as well as from the significant economic spin-offs that the centre generates in respect of local enterprise and employment. It is in these countless ways that we shape tomorrow, today. GROWING THE KNOWLEDGE ECONOMY: INFLUENTIAL EVENTS The CTICC is a place where people meet and exchange knowledge. For that reason, we aim to attract events aligned to the key catalytic sectors identified by the City of Cape Town and the Western Cape Government as priorities for trade and investment growth. 560 Total events at the CTICC The international conferences that the centre attracts related to these sectors serve as pivotal drivers of the knowledge economy. In 2018/19, we hosted a total of 560 events at the CTICC and welcomed almost 420 000 attendees, 31 277 of them being international delegates. All catalytic sectors were covered, which aligns with our aim of boosting 877 129 the knowledge economy and embracing the Fourth Industrial Revolution, through the successful delivery of the full ambit of events and retaining our position as a business leader in the City of Cape Town. Total delegate and visitor days in 2018/19 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 26 CTICC: OUR LEGACY CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES: ADVANCING COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT We have five local community partners (LCPs), namely, Abalimi Bezekhaya, Foundation for Alcohol Related Research, Ikhaya Le Themba, Mothers Unite, and Journey of Enrichment. We work together with our LCPs to support and develop the communities where they work, while our CSR activations and venue sponsorships are focused on empowering the disadvantaged and providing resources to vulnerable citizens and children. Through our partnership with these LCPs and surrounding communities, we are changing lives and shaping futures. In every moment spent and each donation we make, we are able to transfer skills and provide the raw materials and the support that they need to uplift themselves and others and, therefore, increase their ability to contribute positively to the economy. These transformative interactions have the power to impact their own communities and the country for years to come. PEOPLE THAT MOVE US FORWARD: INVESTING IN THE FUTURE Training and upskilling our people is a fundamental part of the CTICC’s mission, and has a direct and long-term impact not only on the individuals whose lives are affected but on the events and hospitality sector as a whole. Abalimi Bezekhaya Foundation for Alcohol The education and guidance provided better prepares our staff for their current and potential roles within the company and industry. Related Research We believe that we have a responsibility to empower our staff so that Ikhaya Le Themba they can grow in their own careers and deliver exceptional experiences Mothers Unite for our clients. Journey of Enrichment Additionally, investing in our internal and external staff training demonstrates that we value their contribution. We believe that nurturing our staff also has the ability to influence their journey – both personally and professionally. Ultimately, service is about people, and it is quality service that leaves an impression of the CTICC as a world-class, award-winning events destination, one that continually and increasingly attracts top-tier business events that, in turn, contribute to our local economy. 27 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Creating job opportunities one bead at a time Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 28 CTICC EVENTS 29 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report CTICC EVENTS MAKING MEMORIES AND FORGING NEW CONNECTIONS REVIEW OF EVENTS HOSTED IN 2018/19 34 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES 44 BANQUETS 31 277 18 310 45 NATIONAL CONFERENCES 85 22 161 SPECIAL EVENTS 560 Total events 96 069 14 EXHIBITIONS 323 417 070 Total ATTENDEES 162 856 FILM, PHOTO SHOOTS AND OTHER EVENTS 54 548 15 TRADE FAIRS 31 849 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 30 34th World Congress of Internal Medicine HOW WE INFLUENCE OUR INDUSTRY: THE IMPORTANT FIGURES In 2018/19, we hosted 560 events at the CTICC, growing the total Every one of our event attendees contributed to our economy in some number of events by 7% compared to the previous year. In terms of shape or form, either by visiting our centre or through additional spend international conferences, this equated to 34 international events, which while staying in the region. This continues to have a positive impact on represents a 6% increase on the prior year. the future of our centre, as well as South Africa. The CTICC attracted almost 420 000 attendees over the 2018/19 The following pages illustrate our performance for the year under review financial year, with 31 277 of them being international delegates. across the seven segments we use to record our event statistics. These include international conferences, national conferences, exhibitions, The number of events hosted at the CTICC resulted in a total of 877 129 trade fairs, banquets, special events, and, finally, other events and film delegate and visitor days. This figure represents the number of guests shoots. attending an event multiplied by the duration of the event and encompasses the additional days that guests spent in Cape Town, the Western Cape province or South Africa as a result of an event. Of the 34 international client events, six were hosted by the United States of America, four by the United Kingdom, and one each by the Cayman Islands, China, Cote d’Ivoire, Mauritius and Senegal. As Cape Town’s premier conferencing and events venue, we succeed in maintaining a steady stream of coveted international conferences and meetings. Our reputation, along with our facilities, allows us to secure exciting events, which confirms the CTICC as a world-class business tourism destination and positions Cape Town as a city to which to return. These figures allow us to boost the South African GDP and the Western Cape GGP, creating jobs and giving back to our environment and communities, all of which positively shapes tomorrow, today. 31 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report CTICC EVENTS International conferences Banquets Among the largest and most significant international conferences, Banquets are a growing segment due to the CTICC’s outstanding food contributing to the global knowledge economy and aligned to the key and beverage offering. A total of 44 banquets were hosted in 2018/19, growth sectors, were the World Congress of Internal Medicine 2018 attended by 18 310 guests, for corporate events like annual dinners, (WCIM); the 2019 YPO Global Leadership Conference (GLC); AfricaCom year-end functions and awards ceremonies, as well as weddings, sports 2018, Africa’s largest telecoms, media and technology event; African awards ceremonies and matric balls. Peace Summit; and the 2019 Investing in African Mining Indaba, which is the biggest mining investment conference in the world and is hosted The biggest banquets hosted in the year under review were the EOH by the CTICC every year. Mthombo Year End Function 2018, the PSI Hockey Awards banquet, and the 1 000 Women 1 Voice event, which supports social movements Other important topics covered in the international conferences segment for gender justice. were education, oil and power, nutrition, endocrinology, audiology and women in innovation and entrepreneurship. Special Events National conferences Special events are largely entertainment events, for example, concerts and festivals, as well as product launches, wine tastings and church services. The CTICC successfully hosted 45 national conferences, drawing 22 161 attendees. Again, a wide range of important sectors was represented In the last year, we hosted 85 special events and, as in years past, our in the national conferences, including pharmaceuticals, law, agriculture, biggest special event was the Cape Town International Jazz Festival, optometry, education, finance and investment, and technology. followed by the MTN Joyous Celebration 23 Live Recording. Overall, this sector brought in 96 069 visitors for what were mostly one-day events. The largest national conference was the WorldVentures Bootcamp, followed by Gartner IT Symposium/Xpo 2018 and the Actuarial Society 2018 Other Events and Film and Photo Shoots Convention. Other events and film and photo shoots, attracting 54 548 attendees, include Exhibitions a variety of roadshows, lectures, exams, breakfasts, AGMs and other one-day forums and meetings. Exhibitions attract thousands of visitors to the City of Cape Town and provide excellent platforms for a robust exchange of ideas between exhibitors and One of the larger events was the Amazon Web Services event. Other their customer bases, as well as the general public. events and film shoots, numbering 323, included nationally important proceedings, such as the State of the Nation breakfast, COSATU WC Almost 163 000 attendees visited exhibitions hosted at the CTICC over Proudly SA Conference and the National Empowerment Fund Annual the past financial year, enjoying the likes of the Old Mutual Two Oceans Business Expo. A total of 70 film and photo shoots took place, including Marathon Expo, Decorex Cape Town 2019, Cape Homemakers Expo, one for Amnesty International. Investec Cape Town Art Fair, and MamaMagic Baby Expo 2018. Trade Fairs Trade fairs are essential business-to-business (B2B) expos, and in the last year, 15 trade fairs were held, drawing 31 849 visitors. The largest trade fair was African Utility Week 2019, followed by Africa Travel Week and Cape Wine 2018. Other trade shows included Spar Trade Show; Future Energy Africa 2018, advancing future oil, gas and energy solutions for the African continent; the first Cape Automotive Forum; Source Africa; and ATF 2019, the premium sourcing event for textiles, apparel and footwear on the African continent. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 32 CTICC EVENTS EVENT HIGHLIGHTS: REACHING INTO THE FUTURE Thanks to the addition of CTICC 2, we were able to attract new events and continue to accommodate numerous large-scale events, including the Cape Town Ramadaan & Lifestyle Expo, the Property Buyer Show Cape Town, AfricaCom and African Utility Week. The CTICC is also looking forward to welcoming the International Congress of Human Genetics in 2021 with an expected 7 000 attendees, the 18th International Congress of Immunology in 2022 with over 8 000 attendees, and the General Assembly of the International Astronomical Union (2024), which will draw 2 500 attendees. Most importantly, many of our events are aligned with the trade and industry sectors identified by the Western Cape as priority future growth sectors, and further augmented by the City of Cape Town’s catalytic sectors: PRODUCTIVE SECTORS Oil and Gas Tourism Agro-processing Business Process Renewables Film Outsourcing ENABLING SECTORS Electricity Water ICT Logistics Finacial Services SOCIAL SECTORS Education Health 33 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report AfricaCom 2018 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 34 CTICC EVENTS HOSTING A WORLD-CLASS EVENT SUCCESSFULLY YEAR-ON-YEAR Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon Expo This year, the Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon (OMTOM) expo received nearly 40 000 visitors over Exhibition three days, and 102 companies exhibited, with 19 new exhibitors occupying a total of 174 stands. The CTICC venue offers an efficient framework in which to interface with runners, sponsors, stakeholders and exhibitors. Visitors are able to test and purchase the latest running gear on the market and meet up with friends. Dates: It is also at this event that the 30 000 runners who entered for the marathon, held on 20 April 2019, 17 – 19 April 2019 collected their race packs. Sector: Sport Visitors: 39 243 “We have a good relationship with the CTICC. Not only can the venue meet our visitor number requirements, but the space also has a certain look and feel that is perfect for such a high-profile event.” – Debra Barnes, OMTOM Chief Marketing Officer. 35 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report CTICC EVENTS Hearing the international voice of audiology for the first time World Congress of Audiology The World Congress of Audiology in 2018 provided a global platform to showcase clinical audiology International science from around the world. It created a unique opportunity to advocate and promote audiology conference and hearing health across the continent. The congress was held in association with the SA Society of Otorhinolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery and the World Congress on Cochlear Implantation in Emerging Countries, and attracted leading researchers, academics and clinicians from across the globe. Dates: 28 – 31 October 2018 The conference attracted around 1 100 delegates, of which 376 were from South Africa and other African countries. The organisers of the World Congress of Audiology, Eastern Sun Events, have hosted many national and international congresses at the convention centre. Sector: Medical Delegates: 1 085 “The CTICC is a top-class and well-maintained venue and the staff seamlessly deliver on our conference requirements. Furthermore, the CTICC is the most versatile venue in the city, particularly with the addition of CTICC 2.” – Denise Kemp, Eastern Sun Events. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 36 CTICC EVENTS THE FUTURE OF AFRICAN TOURISM – SEVEN YEARS IN A ROW Africa Travel Week Africa Travel Week embraces three travel industry events, which are co-located shows at the CTICC. They encompass Africa’s inbound and outbound markets for three sectors: general leisure tourism, luxury travel and the MICE/business travel sector. It is organised by Reed Travel Exhibitions and Reed Exhibitions. Trade Fair This show is a platform for local and international B2B travel professionals to connect and do business that, in turn, supports the tourism industry in Africa by encouraging business opportunities and business growth. Dates: This year, there were 738 exhibiting companies and 914 buyers, representing different companies. 10 – 12 April 2019 These numbers exclude private visitors and general admissions. Africa Travel Week has been hosted at the CTICC for six years, and the venue has become an integral part of its success. It has the required space and our team is equipped with the knowledge and skills to host it seamlessly. In pleasing confirmation of this, the CTICC has again been booked for WTM Sector: and IBTM Africa for 2020. Tourism The amount of business generated at these interlinked travel events is $442m, equivalent to R6.63bn, to date. African travel is big business. Delegates: 6 263 “We have learnt that it’s imperative to listen to the industry and our key players to understand what the market needs are so that we can keep improving and getting better.” – Reante Naidoo, marketing and hosted buyer GM, Reed Exhibitions. 37 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report CTICC EVENTS INVESTING IN THE INNOVATION AND ACHIEVEMENTS OF FUTURE LEADERS Sanlam Future Leaders Sanlam, a diversified financial group that is committed to putting their customers first, hosted their annual Future Leaders conference at the CTICC in June 2019. This conference was for internal staff and was attended by over 200 different businesses within the National conference Sanlam group from across the globe, with the aim of identifying and acknowledging individuals in the group for their leadership potential and excellent service delivery. The event has been hosted at the CTICC for the last five years, and this year, more than 300 delegates attended the event at CTICC 1. Dates: “Staff are eager to give us the best possible experience, they are very professional and are able to 13 – 14 June 2019 provide solutions to the challenges that sometimes arise during the execution of our events,” says Sanlam Events Manager, Maudé Hugo, who adds that the CTICC is one of the only large capacity venues in Cape Town that is able to accommodate unconventional requests, and its central location close to hotels is ideal. Sector: The Sanlam Future Leaders conference was African themed and, accordingly, the catering was unique for the event. “The chef researched and went to great efforts to ensure that the food matched the Financial services theme,” she said. “The presentation and quality of the food were well-received, and Sanlam gained great feedback in this regard.” An unconventional room layout was requested and the CTICC staff rose to the occasion. ”The best part Delegates: was working with the banqueting team.They really went out of their way to accommodate us and 300+ execute the event as effortlessly as possible,” Maudé says. The Sanlam Group has already booked the CTICC for next year’s conference, and some of the businesses in the Sanlam stable will also book events at the CTICC. “This year, we learnt that we could hold themed conferences with unusual and extraordinary food requests without a hitch. The CTICC delivered above our expectations and came up with suggestions for things we did not even consider.” – Maudé Hugo, Sanlam Events Manager. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 38 Partnership for Action on Green Economy (PAGE) Ministerial Conference 877 129 Total delegate and visitor DAYS in 2018/19 39 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report CTICC EVENTS A SPOTLIGHT ON OUR PERFORMANCE this year OUR 2018/19 Event calendar Accomplishments 34 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES 44 BANQUETS 45 NATIONAL CONFERENCES 85 SPECIAL EVENTS 14 560 EXHIBITIONS Total events 323 FILM, PHOTO SHOOTS AND OTHER EVENTS 15 TRADE FAIRS Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 40 Investing in African Mining Indaba 2019 34 Total events 6 050 Highest attendance Investing in African Mining Indaba 2019 41 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report CTICC EVENTS International Conferences JULY 2018 JANUARY 2019 20th International Congress of Linguists (ICL20) 2018 500 Partnership for Action on Green Economy (PAGE) 550 Ministerial Conference AUGUST 2018 Sanofi Pasteur Gulf & Middle East Conference 2019 94 ICAO Global Aviation Gender Summit 469 FEBRUARY 2019 SEPTEMBER 2018 Investing in African Mining Indaba 2019 6 050 Congress of the Liga Medicorum Homoeopathica AFWA Workshops 100 375 Internationalis (LMHI) 2018 5th International Faecal Sludge Managment 1 150 Africa Oil & Power 2018 400 Conference Conference of the International Union of Marine 391 Insurance (IUMI) 2018 MARCH 2019 YPO Edge & Global Leadership Conference 2 500 OCTOBER 2018 Bonds, Loans & Sukuk Africa 2019 482 GSA Sourcing Summit & Awards in Partnership With BPESA 220 Global Trade Review (GTR) Africa 2019 300 BIOMIN World Nutrition Forum 2018 730 International No-Dig South Africa 2018 200 APRIL 2019 World Congress of Internal Medicine (WCIM) 2018 2 000 4th Annual Meeting of the New Development Bank (NDB) 450 International Inorganic-Bonded Fiber Composites International Actuarial Association (IAA) Colloquium 2019 600 200 Conference (IIBCC) ISGE ESGE South African Conference 300 World Congress of Audiology (WCA) 2018 1 042 NOVEMBER 2018 MAY 2019 American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG) JODI Energy Data Transparency Workshop for 650 210 International Conference & Exhibition 2018 Sustainable Future 25th Africa Oil Week Conference 2018 1 350 SETAC Africa 9th Biennial Conference 60 4th Africa Women Innovation & Entrepreneurship Forum Society for Risk Analysis (SRA) 5th World Congress on Risk 600 329 (AWIEF) Development and Resilience AfricaCom 2018 2 200 World Law Group Conference 110 Africa Peace Summit 3 500 JUNE 2019 DECEMBER 2018 144th IATA Slot Conference 1 000 18th International Congress of Endocrinology (ICE) 2018 2 035 EOS Global Hackathon Grand Finale 130 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 42 CTICC EVENTS National Conferences JULY 2018 FEBRUARY 2019 Southern Africa Herbalife Leadership Development Weekend 407 Technical & MINMEC Conference 110 Roche Pharmaceuticals Oncology Conference 190 The World Bank Conference on Batteries, Energy 200 Storage & the Renewable Future SEPTEMBER 2018 MARCH 2019 Gartner IT Symposium/Xpo 2018 1 460 Knowledge Resources (KR) 2019 HR Directors 200 Coca-Cola Southern & East African Business Unit Conference 180 Leadership Conference 2018 SPF Senior Management Conference 110 Organisation for Economic Cooperation & DataCon Africa 2019 225 Development (OECD) & Western Cape Government (WCG) 250 eCommerce Africa 212 Behavioural Insights Conference 49th National Congress of the Ophthalmological FoodNext.Africa 82 1 000 Society of South Africa (OSSA) 2019 Herbalife Leadership Development Weekend 2019 750 OCTOBER 2018 Western Cape Education Department Future Focus Association for the Advancement of Black Accountants of 600 147 Education Conference Southern Africa (ABASA) National Convention 2018 Library and Information Association of South Africa (LIASA) 670 APRIL 2019 Annual Conference Santam Group Annual Leadership Conference 200 MoodleMoot Africa 2018 145 Cradle of Human Culture Launch 60 South African Planning Institute (SAPI) Planning Africa 500 Conference 2018 MAY 2019 Sanlam BlueStar Business Conference 2018 346 SingularityU South Africa Exponential Finance Summit 500 DigiCon Africa 2018 100 Smollan SA Service 334 JUNE 2019 Actuarial Society of South Africa Convention 2018 1 425 After School Game Changer 250 Specsavers Clinical Conference (SCC) 622 Sanlam Senior Leaders Conference 2019 346 Sanlam Future Leaders Conference 2019 209 NOVEMBER 2018 South African Property Owners (SAPOA) Annual 54th South African ENT Congress/4th World 800 455 Convention and Property Exhibition Congress on Cochlear Implants in Emerging Countries WorldVentures Bootcamp 6 650 Windaba 2018 230 JULY 2019 Aspen Pharmacare Global Conference 2019 350 43 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Windaba 2018 45 Total events 230 attendance Windaba 2018 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 44 African Utility Week 2019 14 Total events 15 Total events 39 233 Highest attendance 10 692 Highest attendance Old Mutual Two Oceans African Utility Marathon Expo 2019 Week 2019 45 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report CTICC EVENTS exhibitions JULY 2018 FEBRUARY 2019 Electronic & Gaming Expo (EGE) 4 880 Investec Cape Town Art Fair 2019 15 650 Mega Deals Expo 2018 1 500 APRIL 2019 SEPTEMBER 2018 The Property Show 2 000 Cape Homemakers Expo 2018 29 235 Cape Town Vape Festival 4 000 India Instyle Shopping Festival 5 000 Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon Expo 2019 39 233 OCTOBER 2018 MAY 2019 MamaMagic Baby Expo 2018 11 790 Decorex Cape Town 2019 37 768 DECEMBER 2018 Everything Beauty Cape Town 2018 1 200 Cape Town Natural Hair Fest 2018 1 600 trade fairs AUGUST 2018 JANUARY 2019 Spar Trade Show 500 Cape Premier Yearling Sale 2019 2 100 ViniMark Trade Fair 2018 500 MARCH 2019 SEPTEMBER 2018 Seamless Africa 1 270 Cape Wine 2018 3 200 APRIL 2019 OCTOBER 2018 Spar Trade Show 700 Future Energy Africa 2018 107 Africa Travel Week 2019 6 263 Cape Automotive Forum 350 MAY 2019 NOVEMBER 2018 African Utility Week 2019 10 692 International Apparel, Trade, Textile, Footwear Trade (ATF) 667 Exhibition JUNE 2019 African Agri Investment Indaba 2018 700 Sign Africa Expo 2019 2 000 Source Africa and ATF Expo 2019 2 500 EST Africa 2019 300 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 46 CTICC EVENTS Special Events JULY 2018 December 2018 Christ Embassy Cape Town Sunday Church Service 1 453 South Africa Hip Hop Dance Championships 1 500 Neha Kakkar Live in Cape Town 1 400 South African Open Dance Championships 800 BRICS Photographic Exhibit Launch 100 The Outlawz Motherland Tour 120 Atif Aslam Live in Concert 2 700 MTN Joyous Celebration 23 Live Recording 4 200 A Day With Ustadha Yasmin Mogahed 1 350 January 2019 August 2018 World Universities Debating Championships 2019 650 The Daily Music Show Launch 240 Jim Gaffigan 650 Mind Power Cape Town 400 Hope Church Graduation Ceremony 800 February 2019 Blacks Only Comedy Show Joke Appropriation Saudi Cultural Night in Cape Town 300 890 Without Compensation Shalimar Promotions Indian Idol Concert 1 500 Muhammad: How He Can Make You Extraordinary – Cultures of China: Festival of Spring 1 500 600 Dr Hesham Al-Awadi Sinai Indaba 850 Samsung Note 9 Launch 180 Airports Company South Africa (ACSA) Enterprise March 2019 400 Supplier Development (ESD) Meeting Blacks Only Comedy Show – Truth or Dare 900 Cape Town International Jazz Festival 2019 30 000 September 2018 Discovery Health and Vitality Launch 821 April 2019 Bonitas Product Launch 360 Cape Town Fashion Week 3 800 A Second Chance Theatre Production 360 June 2019 October 2018 Cape Town National Hip Hop & Performing Arts 1 500 Medihelp 2019 Product Launch 140 Championships 2019 Old Mutual National Choir Festival 1 500 African Grassroots Hoops Basketball Tournament 250 Veritas Public Tasting 670 International Pentecost Holiness Church Conference 800 Deloitte Veritas Wine Tasting 520 Cape Town Great Big Challah Bake 2018 1 500 November 2018 Calum Scott 1 350 47 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Cape Town International Jazz Festival 2019 85 Total events 30 000 Highest attendance Cape Town International Jazz Festival 2019 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 48 100 for the 100th and Mandela Rhodes Foundation 15 323 Total events 827 attendance 100 for the 100th and Mandela Rhodes Foundation 15 49 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report CTICC EVENTS Film, PHOTO SHOOTS AND other EVENTS JULY 2018 JANUARY 2019 Amazon Web Services 2 607 Barrier Film Shoot 50 100 for the 100th and Mandela Rhodes Foundation 15 827 Peugeot Shoot 50 Allan Gray Investment Summit 1 350 Garnier Ambre Solaire Film Shoot 40 COSATU Senior Citizens Day 800 VinPro Inligting Dag 2019 900 Queen Elizabeth I Passenger Turn Around 963 AUGUST 2018 Western Cape Post Indaba Stakeholder Engagement Event 500 Moonlighting Film Shoot 60 Lays TVC 30 FEBRUARY 2019 Daily Maverick’s The Media Gathering 800 Mr Price Still Shoot 15 Cape Winemakers Guild 800 Suunto Shoot 20 City of Cape Town Women In Leadership Seminar 400 BDO Budget Speech Event 850 9th Wood Conference: Modular Timber Construction 750 September 2018 Deep State Film shoot 107 MARCH 2019 Liberty Roadshow Challenge 900 Wavebreak – Media Still Shoot 30 Momentum Health Summit Launch 463 YPO Opening Event 1 100 National Empowerment Fund Annual Business Expo 317 OCTOBER 2018 Bloodshot Film Shoot 60 APRIL 2019 Moonlighting – Deep State Film Shoot 80 The Big Picture – Coke Mexico 50 Ethics 4 All Annual MPS Ethics Event 2018 1 750 Colgate Commercial Shoot 90 COSATU WC Proudly SA Conference 800 Queen Victoria II Passenger Turn Around 682 Jireh Community Projects 1 500 City of Cape Town Leadership Conference 700 NOVEMBER 2018 MAY 2019 Black Mirror Productions Film Shoot 130 DHL Stills Shoot 14 KITT Film Shoot 50 Funds At Work Launch 400 Discovery November Launch 621 Canon Student Roadshow 2019 400 Canon Roadshow 800 JUNE 2019 DECEMBER 2018 Kissing Booth Feature Film 30 Bonnet Road TVC Shoot 90 CFA Institute June Exams 2019 768 BMW M Town Commercial Shoot 33 Business Events Showcase Western Cape 500 VIP Suitcase TVC 32 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 50 CTICC EVENTS Banquets JULY 2018 november (cont.) 2018 Standard Bank 3 July WC Graduation 100 Transnet National Ports Authority Port Managers Awards 308 august 2018 December 2018 HomeChoice Mid-Year Awards 606 Good Hope Seminary High School Matric Ball 100 Table View High School Matric Dance 300 TNPA Port Managers Awards 290 ATB Group Conference 67 EOH Mthombo Year End Function 2018 1 966 Wedding Reception Dinner of Deeraj & Dakshita 95 PSI Hockey Awards Banquet 1 300 The South African Institute of Chartered Accountants OLX End of Year Event 58 325 (SAICA) Southern Region Annual Dinner 2018 January 2019 september 2018 TIA GCIP-SA Awards Ceremony & Gala Dinner 170 WWF South Africa 50th Anniversary Gala Dinner 300 Oasis Group 20th Anniversary Event 892 UCT College of Accounting PGDA Formal 362 Raging Bull Awards 360 Raymond Dyers 50th Birthday Celebration 70 ID Mkhize High School Matric Ball 100 february 2019 Symphony High School Matric Ball 2018 117 Presidential Golf Challenge Gala Dinner 400 Sinenjongo High School Matric Dance 100 march 2019 october 2018 AstraZeneca Near East Cycle Meeting Dinner 326 Sanlam 25 Year Club 900 South African B.A.R Awards 260 Veritas Wine Awards 2018 650 april 2019 University of Stellenbosch Business School Post Graduate 71 New Development Bank 4th Annual Meeting Country Host Diploma in Leadership 400 Dinner Blaahs Society Cape Town 40th Anniversary Gala Dinner 400 Western Cape Caterers Annual Graduation & Long Service 2018 149 Awards 2019 RCS JAG Dinner 180 LogixX Pharma Dinner Symposium 16 Woolworths CEO Awards 860 May 2019 november 2018 1 000 Women 1 Voice 2019 940 Walk Through Africa Tours Gala Dinner 250 Western Cape Educational Department Long Service Awards june 2019 492 2018 Ithuba Investment Bank Launch 90 Transnet National Port Authority Long Service Awards Event 270 Signing Ceremony of South Africa-China Trade Cooperation 350 RCS Group Year End Event 800 Projects Old Mutual Green Lantern Awards 360 Dell Technologies APJ & GC President’s Club 760 Kasselsvlei Comprehensive High School Matric Ball 2018 100 51 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report UCT College of Accounting PGDA Formal 44 Total events 362 attendance UCT College of Accounting PGDA Formal Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 52 eCommerce Africa SPACE AND TECHNOLOGY: HOSTING THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION Our second building, CTICC 2, officially opened in 2018, with a soft We also increased our focus on the Fourth Industrial Revolution in the opening in late 2017. CTICC 2 allowed us to host larger events and year under review as new technologies, such as artificial intelligence, more concurrent events, providing the necessary capacity for clients who robotics and self-driving cars, are fast evolving into ever-stronger wished to grow their events. economic drivers in the future. In the last year, we attracted various international events to the combined Among the conferences we hosted in this sector were AfricaCom, space created by CTICC 1 and CTICC 2, including AfricaCom and African BIOMIN World Nutrition Forum 2018, the Cryptocurrency Investor Utility Week, which drew approximately 12 800 delegates. Summit, eCommerce Africa and Amazon Web Services. The new facility has significantly strengthened Cape Town’s reputation as a global business events destination. This position was confirmed this year by ICCA, which ranked Cape Town as the number one host destination for international meetings in Africa. 53 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Serene sitting area at Bluebell Terrace Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 54 ECONOMIC IMPACT 55 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ECONOMIC IMPACT SHAPING OUR ECONOMIC FUTURE CTICC’S ECONOMIC IMPACT: GROWTH AND PERFORMANCE Despite an economy that is shedding jobs, our contribution to the Western Cape GGP and South African GDP, as well as job creation and local business development, remained impressive in the year under review. Comprehensive figures follow below. R39.6bn 575 898 Total number of Cumulative contribution additional room nights to Western Cape GDP generated R6.5bn R677m Total contribution to Net contribution to national GDP foreign exchange earnings R4.5bn R273m Contribution to Contribution to taxes Economic Western Cape GGP Contribution Performance 877 129 R1.2bn Visitor days across 560 Contribution to events household income 14 620 R47.3bn Total number of people Cumulative contribution employed because of to national GDP the CTICC Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 56 ECONOMIC IMPACT Our contribution to the South African Gross Job creation and community development Domestic Product (GDP) and Western Cape Gross We are committed to growing the employment rate in South Africa and Geographic Product (GGP) shaping the future of our country’s workforce. This can be clearly seen in the number of direct and indirect jobs we have created and sustained in GDP is the total value of all final goods and services produced in the a range of industries, including the wholesale, retail, trade, catering and country during a period of time, usually one year. It is most commonly accommodation services, as well as the construction sector, as a result of used to measure the economic activity and quality of life of all South the expenditure generated by the CTICC. African citizens. GGP refers to the economic contribution within the province only. We sustained approximately 14 620 temporary and/or permanent jobs in the South African economy in 2018/19 (8 754 direct and 5 866 indirect/ Our contribution to the Western Cape GGP was R4.5bn, while the induced). Of these, approximately 10 127 jobs were for people in the contribution to the South African GDP was R6.5bn, over the last financial Western Cape (6 063 direct and 4 063 indirect/induced). This is in part year, and since opening our doors in 2003, we have cumulatively thanks to the addition of the CTICC 2 building, which increased our contributed R39.6bn to the Western Cape GGP and R47.3bn to the permanent staff complement from 182 in 2017/18 to 217 in 2018/19. South African GDP. Impact on the tourism industry Over the past five years, revenues have grown by more than 30% from R172m in 2013/14 to R277m during the last financial year. We achieved We make a significant contribution to the tourism industry in that we an operating profit (EBITDA) of R57.5m in the year under review, which attract international delegates to South Africa, in particular, the Western was R49.57m above the target of R8m, representing a 69% increase Cape and the City of Cape Town. from the R35.4m achieved in 2013/14. It is estimated that we generated an additional 566 057 room nights in We were able to increase our revenue through the almost 420 000 the Western Cape and 575 898 in South Africa in 2018/19. The main bendelegates hosted over the 560 events, which contributed to the eficiaries of the additional room nights are the accommodation, food and sustainability of both the CTICC and the tourism sector as a whole. beverage, and retail sub-sectors. In the year under review, expenditure produced by delegates amounted to R1.7bn, 59% of which came from international delegate spend. Our foreign exchange earnings totalled R677m. Our contribution to government taxes was R273m. We also achieved a B-BBEE spend of R328m, which equated to 86% of total expenditure. Further to this, expenditure with women-owned businesses stood at R133m, which represents 39% of the total spend. Expenditure with SMMEs came in at a high of R229m, making up 60% of total expenditure. 566 057 Room nights generated 575 898 Room nights generated in Western Cape in South Africa 57 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ECONOMIC IMPACT Graph 1: Contribution to the South African GDP and the Western Cape GGP in 2018/19 R277m R277m CTICC revenue CTICC revenue R252m R201m R6.5bn Contribution to Organiser/exhibitor expenditure R4.5bn Contribution to Organiser/exhibitor expenditure National GDP Western Cape GGP R2.3bn R1.6bn Total direct Total direct expenditure expenditure Graph 2: Number of employment opportunities created/sustained by the CTICC in 2018/19 8 754 6 063 Direct employment Direct employment 14 620 Number of employment 10 127 Number of employment opportunities created/ opportunities created/ sustained in sustained in South Africa Western Cape 5 866 4 063 Indirect/induced Indirect/induced employment employment Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 58 CTICC AGM 2018 – another year of meeting and exceeding our KPIs OUR STAMP OF APPROVAL: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) agreed between Convenco and the City of Cape Town ensure that we fulfil our role as a core strategic asset of the City of Cape Town, the Western Cape Government and SunWest International. The responsibility to deliver on these targets is closely aligned with the centre’s economic contribution mandate. The KPIs inform not just our overall performance but the roles, goals and performance assessment criteria of each department, team and individual who works with us. We achieved and exceeded many of our KPIs, despite a tough economic environment, and have already made a healthy return on the investment made in the CTICC 2 (expansion), which officially opened in January 2018. Target Actual Category Measurement 2018/2019 2018/2019 Number of international events hosted compared to International events 32 34 annual budgeted target Number of events hosted compared to annual Total events hosted 535 560 budgeted target Percentage of annual total salary cost spent on training Human Capital Development 5% 6.4% of permanent and temporary staff 78% of minimum aggregate score for all CTICC Customer Centricity and Service Excellence 80% 84% internal departments and external suppliers Supply Chain Procurement from B-BBEE Suppliers measured in terms of the Percentage spend not lower than 60% 60% 86% B-BBEE Act Student Programme: Contribution to Youth Number of student opportunities provided 6 14 Employment and Skills Development 59 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ECONOMIC IMPACT Target Actual Category Measurement 2018/2019 2018/2019 Graduate Programme: Contribution to Youth Number of graduate opportunities provided 6 11 Employment and Skills Development Number of people from the employment equity target groups employed in the three Percentage of EXCO, MANCO and leadership highest levels of management in compliance 80% 80% positions held by persons from designated groups with the municipal entity’s approved employment equity plan Maintain Five-star Tourism Grading through Achieve Five-star Achieved Five-star Quality Offering effective management of maintenance quality service Tourism Grading Tourism Grading delivery Council Rating Council Rating Budget Percentage achievement of annual budgeted operating Operational Profit (1) 100% 722% profit Percentage of the total number of capital projects Capital Projects 90% 97% for the year completed or committed Capital Expenditure Percentage of total capital expenditure spend 100% 100% (CTICC 2 Expansion Programme) Governance External Audit Report (2) Clean audit report (2) Clean audit (2) Clean audit (2) Number of senior managers registered for MFMA Minimum Competency Level 7 12 Competency Course Financial Ratios Total cash and investments, less restricted cash for Ratio of Cost Coverage maintained (RCC) 5 times 10 times monthly operating expenditure Net Debtors to Annual Income (ND) (3) Net current debtors divided by total operating revenue 7% 1.30% Debt (Total Borrowings) to Annual Total annual operating revenue divided by total debt 0% 0% Operating Revenue (DC) KPI definitions and notes (1) Operating profit is defined as earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (2) Clean audit is defined as an unqualified audit report with no material findings on compliance of laws, regulations and predetermined objectives (3) Net debtors is defined as gross debtors less refunds Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 60 Merlyn Pietersen – Essential Printer Consumables 61 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ECONOMIC IMPACT IMPACTING LIVES: B-BBEE AND SMME SUPPLIER STORIES In line with our ongoing commitment to help develop local businesses in our sector and beyond, we prioritise procurement from SMMEs that are B-BBEE accredited, provided they meet the Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA) regulations and our competitive pricing requirements. 60% of the total spend this financial year went to SMMEs, which amounts to R227m, with a cumulative spend of R1.2bn over the past 16 years. In supporting the development of localised economies and enterprise development, we are making a significant contribution to growing Cape Town and the Western Cape’s SMME economy. Local procurement Women-owned enterprises A total of R382m of goods and services were procured over the past During this financial period, 39% of our total procurement spend was financial year. with women-owned enterprises. We highlight two women-owned businesses that stood out, namely, Essential Printer Consumables and Of this, R331m or 87% of total expenditure was with local businesses AFTA Africa Tours. (defined as businesses located in the Western Cape). In the 2018/19 financial year, we increased our local spend by an impressive R48m, which is an increase of 2% on the prior year. 87% Total spend on locally based 39% Total procurement spend with suppliers women-owned enterprises Case study: Essential Printer Consumables Essential Printer Consumables (EPC) was established in August 2001 by The future looks bright for Pietersen, and she and her team are excited Merlyn Pietersen and grew from a one-owner women-owned entity into about upcoming prospects. “Thank you so much to the CTICC for giving a small business with a staff complement of nine. us the opportunity to become a supplier. We look forward to continuing doing business together,” she concludes. Their mission is to empower and grow those associated with their company, build relationships that hinge on honesty, trust and integrity, and embrace the challenge of competition by providing unsurpassed “Working with the CTICC has enabled our service and efficiency to all their clients and customers. company to grow financially and has also In 2017, EPC won a contract with the CTICC by meeting our SMME assisted us in successfully acquiring new requirements. Their turnover increased from R10 714 prior to the contract contracts,” says Pietersen. to R38 900 per month during the contract, which represents a growth of 263%. Further to this, we provided them with a written reference, which has resulted in EPC tendering on and winning projects with Metrorail (PRASA) and the Department of Social Development. “Working with the CTICC has enabled our company to grow financially and has also assisted us in successfully acquiring new contracts,” says 263% Growth in turnover per month Pietersen. during the contract The contract with the CTICC has allowed EPC to increase their competitiveness in the marketplace, as they are now able to negotiate better prices with manufacturers and suppliers and buy in much larger quantities, thus benefitting from bulk pricing. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 62 Janice Davids – AFTA Africa Tours 63 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ECONOMIC IMPACT Case Study: Introducing AFTA Africa Tours AFTA Africa Tours is a small, woman-owned tour operator in the City “As the CTICC is often the first point of contact of Cape Town that was established in 2008 by Janice Davids to provide responsible, safe and secure, and cost-effective tourism solutions for the for delegates, this location gave us a platform discerning traveller. to have one-on-one interactions with them and The company was appointed as a new partner to the CTICC in the year offer a convenient service on their doorstep. under review and moved into our building earlier this year. We took advantage of this by creating a full “When we started at the CTICC in May 2019, we had no idea how package that maximises the small window much we would grow. Over the last six months, we have employed two period that many of our delegates have to extra tour guides and one permanent operations manager. We have also explore and experience our city,” says Davids. streamlined our service,” says Davids. We provide AFTA Africa Tours with space and equipment so that they can sell their services to delegates, as well as provide shuttle and tour services; a benefit to both the supplier and visitors. “As the CTICC is often the first point of contact for delegates, this location gave us a platform to have one-on-one interactions with them and offer a convenient service on their doorstep. We took advantage of this by creating a full package that maximises the small window period that many of our delegates have to explore and experience our city,” she told us. 300% Increase in staff over the AFTA Africa Tours strives towards job creation and empowering last six months micro-enterprises. Expanding on this, Davids notes, “The CTICC assisted us in making this a reality. We have since outsourced tours and transfers to four owner-managed companies due to overflow, we work closely with the onsite taxi service, and we have improved our website. On top of this, we are in the process of starting a learnership programme where Learnership programme for high school Travel and Tourism students can ride along and learn from Travel and Tourism students us.” Davids and her team have been overwhelmed by all the support and concludes with the following: “Thank you doesn’t even begin to capture the true essence of our gratitude. Being part of the CTICC team has brought us so much more than we expected. Thank you for all the assistance, support, advice, guidance and tools that you have extended to us. Thank you for believing in us. We are humbled to be part of this journey. We hope to continue flying the CTICC flag high and proud!” Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 64 ECONOMIC IMPACT Upgraded Auditorium 1 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE PROJECTS: ENSURING WE’RE FUTURE-FIT Building maintenance can never be neglected, particularly in a coastal climate, and it is also imperative to stay ahead of technological advancements in order to meet the needs of our clients. An example of our forward-thinking approach and dedication to improving visitor experience includes the construction of our Skybridge, which connects CTICC 1 and CTICC 2. This project was completed in 2018 and allows delegates to easily move between our two buildings, creating a single integrated events hosting venue. This year, key projects included the following improvements: • A Skybridge which connects CTICC 1 on the west of • Establishment of Mountain View Terrace, including operable Heerengracht Street and CTICC 2 on the east; roof and blinds; • Replacement of ballroom carpets; • Permanent AV installation in CTICC 2’s meeting rooms; • Refurbishment of the Old Pier Café (see story on page 66); • Boardroom upgrades, including drop-down screens, projectors and AV systems; • Various air-conditioning unit replacements; • Diligent BoardPad deployment to Board members; • Staff ablution facilities refurbishments; • Installation of a redundant optic fibre network link between • Installation of CTICC 1 and CTICC 2 admin office optimisation; CTICC 1 and CTICC 2; • Reverse osmosis plant; • Addition of credit card readers for parking pay stations at • Wireless network upgrade; CTICC 2. 65 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ECONOMIC IMPACT Embracing our heritage at the Old Pier Café OUR NEW OLD PIER CAFÉ: A FRESH EATING OPTION BUILT ON HISTORY The Old Pier Café is situated at the east end of CTICC 1 on land reclaimed during the construction of CTICC 2. Part of the old Cape Town harbour pier was unearthed during underground work on the tunnel connecting the new building to CTICC 1. The pier was built at the bottom of the Heerengracht over a century ago in 1910, and included a pavilion where ballets and concerts took place. It was demolished in 1939 as the boundaries of the current Foreshore were pushed further out to sea and a large area reclaimed. So now, where the old pier used to welcome visitors to the Cape, the CTICC proudly does so in its place. Hence the inspiration for the café’s name. Through feedback and following industry trends, we noticed that some meetings are seeking to lower delegate registration costs by excluding catering from the event offering. The CTICC took the opportunity to create the Old Pier Café in response to this growing trend. The buffet-style restaurant offers a live cooking station, hot meals, fresh salads and meals-on-the-go, as well as delicious pizzas and beverages. The restaurant will cater for both delegates and the general public, with guests only paying for what they choose. Currently being tested by staff, with a planned public opening date early next year, the Old Pier Café positions itself as an accessible option for lunch on the Foreshore. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 66 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 67 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION BUILDING BETTER TOMORROWS CREATING OPPORTUNITIES FOR COMMUNITIES Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) forms an integral part of our commitment to people. We encourage the development of local communities by creating opportunities that will generate jobs. We see every encounter and connection as a chance to empower someone to change their life, whether it is through thought leadership, the transfer of skills or the donation of resources. Many of these initiatives are run in partnership with our Local Community Partners (LCPs). Our CSR activations, LCP engagements and venue sponsorships are focused on empowering disadvantaged R1.6m communities and providing resources to vulnerable citizens and children. In the year under review, we contributed R1.6m to CSR activities and participated in over 20 activations, which included collaborations with our LCPs and with a number of other organisations. CTICC contributed to CSR Through these activities and sponsorships, we positively impacted communities, predominantly in the Khayelitsha, Lavender Hill and Mitchell’s Plain areas, in countless ways. Projects have included educational and income-generation initiatives; food, water and equipment donations; and assistance with urban gardening projects. Among the organisation-sponsored venues for events were the Nelson Mandela-Rhodes Foundation Trust, the National Institute for Crime Prevention and the Reintegration of Offenders (NICRO), and Jireh Community Projects. 20+ Staff participate in all CSR programmes and internal activations, whether through the giving of their time or by donating goods. All of our programmes are voluntary, and it makes us incredibly proud and grateful to have a staff complement that is always so willing to engage and give Activations took place of themselves. This year, some of these activities were linked to Arbour Week, Mandela Day, Youth Day, International Day of Older Persons, World Homeless Day and World Water Day, while others resulted from our capacity to assist worthy causes. In the next few pages, you can find out more about our community partners, as well as some of the activities we worked on with staff. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 68 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Gardening with Abalimi Bezekhaya HELPING HANDS: OUR COMMUNITY PARTNERS Our contribution goes far beyond just boosting the economy. We also engage in philanthropy by strategically engaging with our five LCPs. They ensure that we are focusing on the communities across the City of Cape Town that need us most. These LCPs include Abalimi Bezekhaya, Foundation for Alcohol Related Research (FARR), Ikhaya Le Themba, Mothers Unite, and Journey of Enrichment. Abalima Bezekhaya Abalimi Bezekhaya, meaning ‘farmers of the home’ in isiXhosa, was Over the last financial year, we donated bulk amounts of compost and established in 1982 as a non-profit micro-farming organisation to assist the cow manure for their urban community garden in Khayelitsha, as well as needy with basic human necessities. Today, they also work with other for the planting of windbreakers (trees and shrubs), which helps them community organisations, including Mzamo Women Skills Development. protect their gardens. The organisation works with impoverished groups and communities in At the CTICC, we are honoured to engage with this organisation and the Cape Flats areas by providing them with a number of important play a part in these transformative initiatives. support services. They also assist people with cultivating their own sustainable vegetable gardens. This is done by connecting these communities to the marketplace, transferring skills, supplying seeds, and financing infrastructure where needed and possible. This, in turn, supplements their food supply, helps them create livelihoods, and changes the direction their lives can take. 69 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Our donation to Foundation for Alcohol Related Research (FARR) Foundation for Alcohol Related Research (FARR) The Foundation for Alcohol Related Research (FARR) was started in 1997 In the year under review, we supported FARR by commemorating when Foetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD) was not yet understood, International Foetal Alcohol Syndrome Day. We made a donation of however, the organisation saw the correlation and presented their teddy bears, blankets, backpacks, stationery and toiletries for distribution findings on a global stage. Since then, they have been at the forefront to various early childhood development crèches in the West Coast region of this movement to dramatically change the lives of children affected by of the Western Cape. The centre also sponsored a venue for their AGM alcohol during pregnancy. in August 2018. Consequently, FARR is dedicated to uplifting South African communities In doing so, the CTICC was able to put a smile on many children’s faces, and building positive futures, which mirrors our very own objectives. and we are further humbled by the fact that we can help impact these They do this by driving social awareness programmes, conducting communities in a positive and thoughtful way. world-class research and offering a range of diagnosis, management, support, training, and educational and mentorship services to those who are at risk and children who have birth defects caused by alcohol consumption. Over time, FARR has become a hub for experts, community members and everyday South Africans who are looking for ways to uplift children and adolescents affected by FASD, in addition to their families and caregivers. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 70 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Water awareness with Mothers Unite Mothers Unite Journey of Enrichment Mothers Unite was founded in 2007 and is a registered non-profit Journey of Enrichment is a non-profit organisation that started as ‘Joe’s organisation that operates in Seawinds, Lavender Hill. By providing Feeding Scheme’ in 2009, with just a few pots of food being fed to the nutritional, educational and emotional support, Mothers Unite is able to hungry in the community of Bo-Kaap. heal, empower, uplift and support vulnerable children and their families from this community. They also offer positive alternatives to anti-social In 2015, the organisation registered as an NPO and changed its name to behaviour, which goes a long way to steering the youth in the right ‘Journey of Enrichment’, symbolising their desire to grow beyond filling direction. the bellies of the needy. Their new hope was to feed the body, enhance the mind and empower the people by restoring dignity through outreach This community initiative first started with a soup pot in Carol Jacobs’s projects, education, sport and food security. kitchen. Carol had had enough of seeing hungry children, so with the help of an oversized soup pot, she started making food to feed the youth Today, Journey of Enrichment organises donors to come together several in her neighbourhood. Soon, she realised that these children needed times a year to prepare and distribute food or food parcels to all more than just food – they needed physical and emotional nourishment impoverished communities, not just those in the Bo-Kaap. They also host and, thus, Mothers Unite began. donation drives for feminine products and blankets. Education and upliftment are close to our hearts, and we are privileged At the CTICC, we understand the importance that food security plays to say that during the 2018/19 financial year, the CTICC was able in the lives of impoverished communities, which is why we support and to make a difference. We repaired the toilets at Mothers Unite and donate to food-related initiatives. provided new toilet seats and signage, all of which are vital to improving the dignity of South Africans. We also imparted knowledge about the importance of saving water on World Water Day. 71 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Supporting Ikhaya Le Themba Ikhaya Le Themba Ikhaya Le Themba, which translates to ‘Community of Hope’ in isiXhosa, was started in 2003 in order to make a lasting difference in the lives of the poor, vulnerable and needy who live in impoverished communities throughout South Africa. At their core, Ikhaya Le Themba offers home-based care for terminally and chronically ill patients, provides support and assistance, including a community pantry, as well as a safe and nurturing place for orphans and vulnerable children. Ikhaya Le Themba’s services include youth and enterprise development, We care for our communities where they work towards addressing poverty and unemployment by improving on and equipping people with skill sets that will help them enter the job market. This is particularly exciting to us, as one of our aims at the centre is to increase job creation in the region. The community pantry initiative was created to feed those who are physically unable to help themselves and, during this financial year, we were able to provide Ikhaya Le Themba with food items for this project and connect them to one of our suppliers who also donated to their pantry. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 72 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION IMPACTING CHANGE: COMMUNITY ACTIVATIONS While we aim to make a significant change through our LCPs, there were many other opportunities and projects that we embraced throughout the last financial year, which positively impacted and uplifted communities beyond our LCPs. Our aim is to make a real difference in these people’s lives, which will undoubtedly shape their futures. Below are a few examples of the type of work we do. NICRO: Second Chance Project 27 – 29 September 2018 The National Institute for Crime Prevention and Reintegration of Offenders (NICRO) established the Second Chance Project in order to use compelling live theatre performances and collaborative art, produced and executed by Pollsmoor inmates, to challenge the public’s perception of criminals. Through this social justice initiative, NICRO is literally giving these inmates a second chance at life. This financial year, we are proud to have been able to sponsor Auditorium 1 to host NICRO’s Second Chance Project. Neighbourhood Old Age Homes (NOAH) 1 October 2018 We believe it is important to acknowledge the role that the elderly have played in our lives and to recognise how much they still have to offer the world. This is why, on International Day of Older Persons, we chose to honour them. On International Day of Older Persons, we engaged with Neighbourhood Old Age Homes (NOAH), based in Khayelitsha. NOAH ensure social pensioners have their basic needs met, are given a sense of purpose, and are able to meaningfully contribute to their own families, the NOAH family and society as a whole. To commemorate the day, staff interacted with and treated 75 seniors to a three-course meal and live entertainment at the CTICC. We also provided the elderly with bags filled with toiletries, treats, wool and blankets, and arranged transport to and from the event. It was a pleasure to facilitate the celebratory activities for the day, and we are thankful for the opportunity to get to know these lovely senior citizens. 73 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Haven Night Shelter 10 October 2018 Homelessness is a reality for many, but at the CTICC, we do our best to influence the course of these people’s lives. To this end, we have frequently partnered with Haven Night Shelter. Haven Night Shelter offers temporary shelter, rehabilitation opportunities, social welfare services, reunification services, physical care, and support to adults living on the streets who are committed to re-entering society. For World Homeless Day, we joined Haven Night Shelter in Napier Street, Green Point, to share the importance of taking care of those struggling with homelessness. We provided patrons with lunch and care packs filled with toiletries. This small but meaningful contribution may help them feel more confident and positively affect their reintegration into society. We also donated two much-needed fridges to the shelter, which will keep food fresh and safe for consumption. Zeekoevlei High School 13 June 2019 As Nelson Mandela once said, “Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.” We are known as the platform for facilitating knowledge exchange, and we recognise schools as the starting point for the knowledge economy and as a place that cultivates our future leaders. With this in mind, we decided to commemorate Youth Day 2019 at Zeekoevlei High School in Lotus River. We donated stationery to Grade 11 and 12 learners in order to provide them with just some of the tools they need on their education journey. We also supported these learners by donating lunch packs. A touching moment was when one of our staff from the area who had volunteered for the day had a heart-to-heart with the students. The impromptu speech imparted knowledge, and ignited passion and possibilities, as the staff member shared her personal journey and life lessons, showcasing what can happen when you make the best decisions for yourself. It is instances like these that have the potential to truly change lives. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 74 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION VENUE SPONSORSHIPS During the 2018/19 financial year, the CTICC committed to 10 venue sponsorships, assisting various worthy causes. These included: • Nelson Mandela-Rhodes Foundation Trust ‘100 for the 100th & Mandela-Rhodes Foundation 15’ event: 13 – 14 July 2018; • COSATU Senior Citizens: 24 July 2018; • Women and Beyond – No Shame Campaign: 28 July 2018; • FARR Annual General Meeting: 15 August 2018; • NICRO – Second Chance Project: 27 – 29 September 2018; • • Jireh Community Project: 27 October 2018; Transformation Pioneers launch of Turning Point: 2 December 10 Venue sponsorships 2018; • Cape Town International Jazz Festival music career workshop: 9 February 2019; • African Grassroots Hoop Youth Day event: 16 – 17 June 2019; • South African Body of Dance Cape Town National Hip Hop and Performing Arts Championships: 15 June 2019. We have chosen to focus on the following venue sponsorships to provide an overview of the type of event venue assistance we provide: African Grassroots Hoop Youth Day event 16 – 17 June 2019 Over Youth Day weekend, Hall 7 in the CTICC 2 was transformed into a basketball court for the African Grassroots Basketball Tournament. This event brings together community basketball enthusiasts from underdeveloped areas in order to reach youngsters, with the aim of instilling the values of determination, sportsmanship, discipline and teamwork into the hearts and minds of our youth. This was the second year that we hosted the event, as we understand the value of making a difference at the grassroots level in someone’s life. We are proud to be part of this project that uplifts and develops youth. 75 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Nelson Mandela-Rhodes Foundation Trust 13 – 14 July 2018 This event was a testament to the vision that Mandela had of providing education and exceptional leadership development opportunities to young trailblazers from across the continent. The foundation offers the Mandela-Rhodes Scholarship, which is a combination of financial support for postgraduate studies and a high-quality Leadership Development Programme. The 100 scholars chosen came from 18 African countries, including the Ivory Coast, Egypt, Nigeria, Cameroon, Kenya, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Toga and South Africa. At the same time, the Foundation commemorated its 15th birthday. We value and encourage the exchange of knowledge, thus, sponsoring a venue for a gathering of this magnitude and nature fits perfectly with our ethos and commitment. South African Body of Dance (SABOD) Cape Town National Hip Hop and Performing Arts Championship 15 June 2019 The South African Body of Dance (SABOD) hosted their Cape Town National Hip Hop and Performing Arts Championships for the second consecutive year at the CTICC, which took place on Youth Day in support of youth development and upliftment. This non-profit organisation aims to bring dance to the people of South Africa, irrespective of age and background, while instilling in each member a sense of discipline, competitive spirit and determination to improve and progress, all of which are beneficial characteristics. We offer a dynamic platform of exchange and, for us, it is exciting to be the host venue of an initiative that drives the transfer of creativity. Our inclusive space allowed for culturally rich and diverse art performances to come to life, with dancers given the opportunity to showcase their abilities, build confidence and expand their repertoire. This contribution is one that has the potential to mould many a champion. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 76 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION PEOPLE, PASSION AND POSSIBILITIES OUR PEOPLE AND THEIR POTENTIAL: WORKING TOWARDS BETTER FUTURES R3.6m was spent on training our people during the 2018/19 financial Our training covers four key aspects of skills development: statutory, year, affirming our commitment to changing lives by providing vocational, developmental and values-based leadership. Within these our staff with the means to reach their full potential. This included categories, we focus mainly on capacity building, leadership development, growing the student and graduate training programmes, and training team building, change management, effective employee engagement staff. There were 14 students and 11 graduates gaining invaluable and coaching. experience with us over the last financial year. Due to the opening of CTICC 2 in September 2017, we have also These programmes, together with staff training, skills transfer and career been able to increase the number of jobs we offer, growing our staff advancement, have a direct and long-term effect on the events and complement from 182 in 2017/18 to 217 in 2018/19. This is in line with hospitality sector and are critical to maintaining our status as a our commitment to job creation. world-class events destination. Additionally, it has a massive effect on our people themselves. By having this training under their belt, our students, graduates and staff are contributing to the knowledge economy. This type of tuition also benefits our students and graduates by providing them with the work experience they need, thereby helping them complete their degrees and making them more employable. In the same vein, it assists our staff by strengthening and maintaining their existing knowledge, ensuring that all employees have a consistent level of experience, and providing them with new skills where necessary. 3.6m was spent on training Essentially, training gives our staff the tools they need to excel in during the 2018/19 their positions and grow their careers at the CTICC. This is especially financial year important in a time when job creation and sustainability is paramount. We currently have 25 students and graduates learning with us. OUR CURRENT TRAINING FOCUS • Advanced Trauma Training; • Management Development Programme; • Business and Systems Analysis: Principles and Practices; • Minimum Competency Training – MFMA; • Banqueting Training; • Mid-Year Payroll Seminar; • Basic Fire Fighting Training; • New Managers Development Programme; • Cost and Management Accounting; • Niagara 4 Certification; • Employment Equity Act Amendments Workshop; • SAMTRAC Introduction; • Electrical Module M0 M3; • SAMTRAC; • First Aid Level 1; • Senior Managers Development Programme; • Line Manager/Supervisor Training/Workshop on Employee; • Wellness Programme. 77 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Our friendly staff delivering excellent service Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 78 Three of our dedicated staff who underwent long-term training 79 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION LONG-TERM TRAINING Long-term training enhances the competence of staff at management level and ensures that we run efficiently, delivering quality service to our clients and colleagues, both locally and internationally. This type of training occurs over longer periods, usually six months or more. Long-term training also assists in staff retention, upgrading skills, achieving long-standing career goals and growing the hospitality sector as a whole. 19 individual staff received long-term training, including the following highlighted staff: Moemeena Bedford Sibongile Magugwana Procurement Assistant Sales Executive Training: Purchasing and Supply Management Training: New Managers Development Programme Date completed: March 2019 Date completed: September 2018 Moemeena Bedford received training in Purchasing and Supply In 2018, Sibongile Magugwana took part in the New Managers Management from UNISA. This course provided her with knowledge of Development Programme (NMDP). This course focuses on interpreting and insight into the purchasing and supply environment. It also gave her and understanding changing environments, developing self-awareness a better understanding of how she can add value to the CTICC, as well and communicating effectively in the workplace. as our clients. She told us that a highlight of her training was the discussions around “This course helped me become more efficient at overseeing and the importance of effective leadership. managing our supply networks, as well as handling tenders and RFQs. It also showed me how a more integrated approach can improve my “I learnt that leadership is not about giving instruction or expecting service overall.” people to perform the task at hand. It showed me that people tend to engage more when they feel included in the decision-making process. It She continues, “Courses like these are so beneficial. These new skills will revealed that good communication is very important, especially if you are help me become better at my job and, with time, I will be able to apply a manager or the main decision-maker,” she says. for a higher position than what I’m currently in and grow within my department, as well as the company.” She is also more confident when it comes to her own leadership approach, her managerial decision-making processes, as well as team Moemeena says her goal is to be the “best me that I can be, in whatever and managerial competencies. position I hold.” Sibongile recently moved to long-term sales and wants to learn more about exhibitions and trade fairs and believes that this type of training Michael Hendricks will continue to help her grow within the company. “My goal job is to be Event Services Manager a Business Development Manager,” she says. Training: New Managers Development Programme Date completed: October 2018 For Michael, New Managers Development Programme (NMDP) training helped him to understand people and solve problems, as well as develop his teamwork and managerial skills. “This course has added immense value to my life, both personally and professionally,” he says. Not only did he learn more about how to communicate effectively in the 19 Individual staff received workplace, but this training has also equipped him with the confidence and capabilities to respond effectively to current and future business long-term training challenges. Michael says his goal is to be in health and safety auditing, and believes that the CTICC, through our various training programmes, will help him reach this dream. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 80 Upskilling our staff through short-term training 81 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION SHORT-TERM TRAINING Short-term training is essential for upgrading staff skills so that the service we deliver is always 100% up-to-date and world-class. In total, 95 individual staff underwent short-term training. Examples include the following: Denville Brussel Darrin de Villiers Commercial Administrator: Business and Research Junior Electrician Development Training: Electrical training and trade test Training: VAT Application Process, MS Word Basic, Emotional Intelligence Darrin de Villiers says his training has honed his skills and taught him Training, EBMS Training, ICCA AMP Training and Ethics Training more about the wiring of motors and transformers. Thanks to passing Denville Brussel says his training has allowed him to learn everything his trade test and completing his electrical course, he is now doing more from how to use the EBMS system effectively to improving research skills, hands-on electrical work that he previously wasn’t allowed to do. building self-confidence and embracing good business ethics. “I’m now planning on doing my wireman’s licence. My goal is to be a “I have become more efficient in my job, and the training I get to do at master electrician,” he says. the CTICC progressively expands on my current skill set. Learning is a lifelong journey, and you’re never too old to learn,” he says. Denville’s goal is to secure a position at the centre where he can continue to develop and improve himself personally and professionally. “I enjoy challenges and look forward to opportunities where I will be able to assume more responsibility.” 95 Staff members went on One of the courses he would like to participate in is the training for Supply Chain Management and Human Resources. short-term training “My long-term goal is to move into a management role” – and he believes the CTICC can get him there. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 82 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Sikhulule Mbekeni Elvino Mack Scm Practitioner Sous Chef Training: Minimum Competency Training​ Training: MS Word Basic, Essential Assertiveness Training and ISO 22000 Sikhulule Mbekeni enrolled in Minimum Competency Training, which enables our Supply Chain Management practitioners to make effective, Elvino Mack believes that “every course teaches you different things.” Each efficient and economical utilisation of public funds and resources. year for the last seven years, he has completed a training course. “These courses build on my skill set and help me grow within the company,” His training covered the interpretation of financial statements and he says. working capital management activities, in accordance with sound financial management policy. One of the courses that Elvino participated in was Essential Assertiveness Training. This one-day workshop explores interpersonal skills, the Improving on this expertise is essential for someone in his line of work, importance of effective communication, and techniques for developing Sikhulule tells us. Additionally, the course addressed strategic management, and improving confidence. budgeting implementation and performance management. “Essential Assertiveness Training improved my ability to communicate “Not only did this course improve my management style and budgeting with my clients and peers. I’m also much more assertive, which is a good abilities, both of which is important for someone in my role, but it also skill to have in a kitchen.” sharpened my analytical skills and critical thinking capabilities,” he says. He also took a course in ISO 22000 Food Safety Management. This is an This type of training, says Sikhulule, will help him attain his goal of essential course for a chef, as it proves their dedication to food safety, becoming a Supply Chain Management Manager. and teaches them about the processes and policies that need to be in place to mitigate risks. “My aim is to keep on improving, and one day I would like to run my own business as a chef.” This is why training is so important to us. The courses we provide will go a long way to helping him climb the career ladder at the CTICC, as well as aiding him in reaching his entrepreneurial goals. 83 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Hard-working staff at the Hospitality Suite EXTERNAL STAFF TRAINING We are committed to training full-time staff, as well as part-time or non-permanent staff. Training for non-permanent staff included ethics training, barista training, beverage training, food safety, customer service induction, health and safety, CARE (Customers Are Really Everything) training, and waitron and usher training, amongst many others. This type of training is voluntary, and our non-permanent staff can attend as many courses beneficial to their role as they like. In addition, they can join sessions that interest them outside of their role. As a result, we 549 Training courses provided a total of 549 attendees with training, totalling 1 075 hours were provided to during the financial period under review. non-permanent staff Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 84 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION PROMOTIONS: RISING STARS We are proud to see our staff grow within the company and are very pleased to report an increase in internal promotions, from eight in 2017/18 to 15 in 2018/19, up by an impressive 88%. Promotion is essential to both employee satisfaction and retention. It also encourages high service levels and superior productivity, while advancing our staff within the CTICC and enabling them to reach their full potential. Here our rising stars talk of their promotions in their own words: 8 Internal promotions 15 Internal promotions in 2017/18 in 2018/19 Olivia Bruce Commercial Department “I have always been passionate about marketing and the CTICC. It was a natural choice to work here, as I believe in the purpose of creating jobs through hosting events. At the CTICC, I get to build and shape the brand, create awareness around the business and ensure that we continue to be seen as a leading venue through various marketing and communications initiatives. I have learnt that no matter what, if you have grit, you can do anything in your personal and professional life. Perseverance and tenacity are other core traits that have served me and helped me reach my goals. I am grateful for the opportunities presented to me by the CTICC, and the value I have been able to add.” 85 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Manish Chokawala Operations Department “I really enjoy providing technical support to users and clients and overcoming the technical challenges that come with it. Every day is a learning opportunity at the CTICC, and it has taught me that anything is possible if you are willing to put in the effort. The CTICC’s IT Infrastructure is also really well-developed and maintained.” PIC TO STILL BE TAKEN Michael Collins Commercial Department “Working at the best venue in South Africa gives me the freedom to create exceptional event experiences for my clients. The CTICC’s innovation and flexibility accommodates for all our clients’ needs and high expectations. We are in the business of over-delivering and are, therefore, able to maintain valuable client relationships.” Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 86 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Chantal Croaster Commercial Department “I am driven by making a difference in the lives of our clients, staff and the greater CTICC community by working hard and making sure that the role I am playing in this industry is done to the best of my ability. I work by finding practical solutions to challenges so that we are able to work in a more efficient manner. As a service provider, we are at the forefront of making a direct impact on people’s lives in the Western Cape by increasing business tourism to the region, and that excites me! The CTICC’s sense of community and the willingness to assist, bring about change, and contribute to job creation and the economy is incredibly motivational. It pushes me to always think of what I can do to help, mentor, guide and support the next person, client or business.” Simphiwe Dantyi Operations Department “I strive to be the best person I can be. My motivation comes from interacting with my colleagues and improving my skill set. I have learnt a lot about how to deal and interact with different kinds of people, including clients and my colleagues.” 87 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Darrin de Villiers Operations Department “During my time at the CTICC, I have grown and matured in my role, especially when it comes to how I interact with my peers and clients. I have learnt patience and tolerance, and this has changed my entire outlook. I also look forward to coming to work and passing on my knowledge to my colleagues.” Keenin Hoogbaard Food and Beverage Department “I’ve learnt that at the CTICC, nothing is impossible. If you can imagine it, we can host it. Every event has its own story.” Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 88 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Mafiwa Kock Commercial Department “I like challenging myself and advancing on a personal level. I am also driven by results. I work best when I have a concrete goal and time to come up with a strong strategy for achieving it. I have learnt to equip myself by building essential skills and, in doing so, I can now identify priorities and adopt a good attitude, which goes a long way to managing stress and growing emotional intelligence.” AdÈle Maritz Commercial Department “I like being able to make a difference and setting an example for others. In my role at the CTICC, I have a direct influence on economic impact and job creation by attracting events to Cape Town. However, this can’t be done alone. Partnerships within your team and organisation, and the assistance of external stakeholders are essential to success. Adding to this, communication is vital. The more information that is shared, the better equipped one is to make an informed decision, which is exactly why I enjoy imparting my knowledge and experiences with my colleagues. Together, we are working to continue being a forward-thinking and solutions-driven service provider.” 89 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Nonopha Mashwa Food and Beverage Department “The CTICC has shown me that if I perform to the best of my ability, I will continue growing in my career. Just believe in yourself and don’t let a negative attitude stand in your way.” Sweetness Mata Food and Beverage Department “I’ve learnt that believing in people, equipping staff with the necessary skills, and unlocking minds with mentorship and job shadowing makes our vision a reality and has a positive effect on our daily work. Another important aspect is the ability to share important and relevant information. This is the key to success. By sharing pertinent information with the right people on my team, I am able to ensure that we are adequately prepared for any changes should they come up, which often happens in the conferencing industry. This is a simple skill but so effective and crucial when it comes to providing excellent customer service.” Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 90 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Asanda Morgwen Food and Beverage Department “I’m motivated by working under a positive, fair, professional and kind leadership team. I believe in dedicating my time to a company that gives me an opportunity to grow and exercises people’s rights. I work with clients, as well as the senior executive team, who guide and support me.” Robin September Operations Department “I value working alongside international clients and sharing industry experience while delivering a world-class service. Communication is fundamental in this volatile environment and is the number one driving force in achieving success.” 91 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Robyn Viljoen Commercial Department “I enjoy working in a dynamic environment that is exciting and challenging – and the CTICC offers that. In my time here, I’ve learnt that communication with your team is essential to ensuring that an event is carried out as best it can be. Keeping in touch with your client is just as important. You want them to know that you are taking care of them and working together with them to make their event a success.” Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 92 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION TWO TALES OF DETERMINATION As you’ll have read, at the CTICC, we are fortunate enough to have a stellar workforce that is dedicated to both uplifting themselves and the centre. Below we highlight in more detail just two of our staff who represent the types of transformations taking place within our walls on a daily basis. SHINING STAR Dimitri Koopman Dimitri started as a Commis (junior) chef 12 years ago and moved through Former position: the ranks, becoming Demi Chef de Partie (an assistant chef), then Chef Sous Chef de Partie (line cook). To achieve his current status in the kitchen, he underwent in-house training by the Executive Chef and Executive Sous Chef. “I learnt something new from each of the three Sous Chefs who’ve been here in my time,” he says. Current position: Senior Sous Chef Dimitri also received training in food costings, staff management, labour cost management, and the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point System (ISO 22000). “I am always putting in the effort, and I always want to learn about functions and trends. I always want to try something new,” he says. Dimitri won the CEO Award for Employee of the Year. “When you get an award, you realise people are always watching, and they do recognise your input and value. I am now guiding and coaching other chefs. This, for me, has been very rewarding, as I have had two chefs win bursaries under my tutelage,” he says. The CTICC has fulfilled a long-held dream to be a Sous Chef and having seen other people around him grow in their careers, Dimitri has a new goal: “One day, becoming an Executive Chef would be great, and I want to start studying towards that.” At work in the kitchen, he often changes menus. “I never do the same thing over and over, which is what happens with general restaurants,” he says. He hopes to get a few more certificates and complete a food and beverage management course to understand more about the business side of things. He also enjoys training staff. “Training people is a passion of mine. I love to see people grow. Ultimately, I’d love to go to Front of House operations,” he says. Since he started at the CTICC, Dimitri has managed to purchase a house and a car. “My family started over here. The grown-up part of life all started here.” At the end of day, Dimitri says, “I want to be part of helping the CTICC team synergise and integrate.” 93 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION TRUE GRIT Mandy Whatford Mandy trained in Project Management at Cape Peninsula University of Former position: Technology (CPUT) in 2013 via the CTICC, which helped her to understand Technical Administrator Assistant Project Management and target deliveries. “I’ve always wanted to make my management and peers proud and know that they can depend on me for doing what is required over and above. Current position: Most of all, I do it for myself and because I love what I do,” she says. Maintenance Coordinator For her efforts, she has won a number of awards over the years, including Employee of the Month, the Excellence Award and Employee of the Year. “If you have a can-do attitude, anything is possible,” she says. Mandy says she has gained enormous job satisfaction at the CTICC and is particularly grateful to Craig Barrington (GM: Facilities and Operations) for believing in her. “When I started here as a storeperson, I could not drive. Five years later, I have a driver’s licence and can say that Julie-May Ellingson really encouraged me when I was struggling with this. She always told me to park with the CTICC bakkie, as on-the-job training assisted me in this problem area. The CTICC really helped me with this personal goal.” Mandy says some of the benefits of working at the CTICC are the relationships she gets to build with other staff, and the lessons she has learnt from them. She recently achieved a long-term personal goal as well – to get her matric. “I started my matric four years ago. I had a tough time in my first year, as I had some personal issues. My son had become addicted to drugs, but that made me more determined. I passed three subjects in my first year, and one subject in my second year, but in my third year, I finally managed to pass math literacy, which was my hardest subject. Craig Barrington helped me so much with my maths. I don’t think I could have done it without him,” says Mandy. Mandy is now aiding two other people in her department to get their matric. “When you show that you’re determined, people notice. It’s because I was determined that I got to where I am,” says Mandy, who has now set her sights on becoming Assistant Facilities Manager. Aside from getting her matric certificate in June, Mandy also completed a SAMTRAC course in health and safety this year. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 94 Recognising our loyal staff with Long Service Awards LONG SERVICE AWARDS Long Service Awards are one of the most important forms of recognition at the CTICC because they reward staff for loyalty to the business. Not only do these awards show our staff that we value their hard work and dedication, but it also serves to motivate, engage and retain our staff complement, which is especially important in tough economic times. In 2018/19, 11 employees received Long Service Awards in the fiveand ten-year categories. Table 1: Long Service Awards for the 2018/19 financial year Quarter Employee Job title Department Years’ service 1 Amanda Van Der Heever Credit Controller Finance 5 Years 1 Bongani Wondo Parking Controller Operations: Facilities 10 Years 1 Ismail Essop Storeroom Supervisor Operations: Food & Beverage 5 Years 1 Katrina Stoffels Demi Chef de Partie Operations: Food & Beverage 10 Years 2 Moemeena Bedford Procurement Assistant Finance 5 Years 3 Mario Tito Event Services Manager Food & Beverage 5 Years 4 Kerwin Lakay Infrastructure Handyman Maintenance 5 Years 4 Jaclyn Petzer Sales Executive Commercial 5 Years 4 Keenin Hoogbaard Event Services Manager: Beverage Food & Beverage 5 Years 4 Dimitri Koopman Senior Sous Chef Food & Beverage 10 Years 4 Sharon Mfazwe Demi Chef De Partie Food & Beverage 10 Years 95 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Perhaps the best example of long service goes to Hajira Essop. In February 2019, she retired after 16 years of committed service. It is safe to say that she can never be replaced, but she serves as a wonderful example of an employee with drive and kindness. She worked her way up the ranks and was part of making us the institution we are today. HAJIRA ESSOP: AN INSTITUTION, A FRIEND AND A STALWART Hajira Essop, fondly known as ‘Aunty Hajira’, started at the CTICC on 1 November 2002, a few months before we officially opened our doors. She was handpicked to join the team by the then Managing Director, Dirk Elzinga, as a tea lady, and over the years, she worked her way up to Executive Office Assistant. But Aunty Hajira was more than just her role. She was our work mom, our friend and confidante, and a person we could go to for advice. She made everyone feel important and brought laughter to us all. Her contribution to the CTICC over the last 16 years has been immense. She was often the first person to welcome newcomers, and she supervised the many contract workers that came through our building. She was tireless and committed, and always worked towards ensuring the company ran smoothly and effectively. On 28 February, we said thank you to Hajira for her long service and hard work as she prepared herself for the new phase of her life – retirement. Aunty Hajira touched each and every one of our hearts and it was with tears in our eyes that we wished her well. Celebrating 16 years of excellent service with Aunty Hajira Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 96 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION FORGING BRIGHT FUTURES: STUDENT AND GRADUATE PROGRAMMES It is crucial for us to extend our training to embrace and develop new talent in the tourism industry. This is why we run two programmes for highperforming and capable young people interested in building a career in the event management and hospitality sectors: Student Placement Programme Students who are studying hospitality-related courses are provided with the chance to join us on a six-month training course while they are studying. This practical placement helps students complete their studies by giving them the relevant experience they need. Graduate Placement Programme This placement offers graduates a full year’s employment contract. These graduates learn about every aspect of our business during that year, giving them a complete overview of both the event management process and the hospitality sector as a whole. Our two programmes set up students and graduates for further study or employment opportunities. In the year under review, we had 14 students on our Student Placement Programme and 11 graduates on our Graduate Placement Programme. Our Student and Graduate Placement Programme candidates 97 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Roof Terrace overlooking the city, with stunning views of Table Mountain Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 98 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Anthea Davids Position: Financial Student Qualification: Certificate in Business Management Training journey: I started out as a waitron at functions during the school holidays, and when I was done with school, I started my Business Management course at college. While studying, I worked at the CTICC in the laundry room, which is how I found out about the Financial Student position. How has being a CTICC graduate helped you in your career path? Before I started working in the Finance department, the only thing I wanted to do was further my studies in Business Management. However, since I’ve been here, I’ve found that the financial environment is exciting, and I’ve realised that this is my true passion and future career path. My colleagues are more like family to me, and although many people said, “oh finance is quiet and boring”, that’s so not true. We never have a dull moment here. It’s truly been a huge blessing. Ultimate goal? To further my studies within the financial field and to be successful and financially stable so that I can provide for my family in the best way that I possibly can. Joseph Leshilo Position: Supply Chain Management Graduate Qualification: B.Com Honours in Logistics Training journey: I joined the CTICC with a wealth of theoretical knowledge in Supply Chain Management, logistics and transport economics, but with very little experience when it came to understanding the full process of practical Supply Chain Management. At the CTICC, I was exposed to everything from registration of suppliers on the database and inventory management to evaluating requests for quotes (RFQs) and compliance checking. I’ve now completed ethics training, which I found boosts morale so that employees work more effectively and harmoniously with their co-workers. How has being a CTICC graduate helped you in your career path? It has been so fruitful because I feel like I am now ready for any position related to Supply Chain Management, and it has equipped me with the necessary attitude needed in a work environment. Ultimate goal? My ultimate goal is to get a permanent job with the CTICC and grow within the great leadership at the CTICC. 99 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Nkululeko Ngcobo Position: Catering Graduate Qualification: National Diploma in Catering Management Training journey: I joined the CTICC in 2017 as a student on a six-month in-service training contract. I then went back to school to complete my diploma. I heard about the Graduate Placement Programme right after graduating and applied for it immediately because I still wanted to be part of the CTICC family. I knew there was more to learn and that I had some skills to add. How has being a CTICC graduate helped you in your career path? The CTICC has helped me find what I really love and enjoy doing, which is being a chef. When I first came here, I wasn’t sure what I really wanted, but after all the time I’ve spent at the CTICC, I’ve fallen in love with the hospitality industry. In this place, you grow every day. I’ve learnt everything from prepping for a function and cooking to stock taking, and briefing and supervising the staff when the Sous Chef is not present. Ultimate goal? At this point, I still want to grow in my field, learn as much as I can and try to be the best I can be. Jaydon Valentine Position: Marketing Graduate Qualification: B.Com Honours in Strategic Brand Management Training journey: I have some experience as a brand strategist and have worked as a PR and event intern. Currently, I am shadowing the Head of Marketing and Communications. On a day-to-day basis, I manage stakeholder relations, an advertising schedule, and coordinate marketing activities. How has being a CTICC graduate helped you in your career path? Working alongside the Head of Marketing and Communications has given me a holistic view of managing a marketing department, and the types of tasks that a marketing communications expert is expected to perform. This has given me a better idea of what career I would like to pursue in the future. More than that, the time that I have spent at the CTICC has equipped me with more practical knowledge and skills than I could ever have imagined, and I know this will go a long way to helping me become more competitive in my role. Ultimate goal? My goal is to be an entrepreneur. By having a vast knowledge of various industries, I have the potential to be an excellent corporate leader. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 100 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION COMMENTS FROM OUR STUDENTS AND GRADUATES Nodemocracy Gqiza Catering Graduate Food and Beverage Department “I have learnt a lot from the CTICC team and have built great relationships with my managers. I was able to work in two kitchens, and I’m very grateful for the opportunity to learn. This will go a long way to growing my career in the industry.” Kwanele Makhaye Graduate Food and Beverage Department “The departmental training offered was very informative and helpful in terms of growing professionally. I rotated around the Food and Beverage departments, which provided me with a lot of insight into how they operate and are interconnected, working to ensure the success of every event. The CTICC’s social activities are a great way for one to come out of their shell and interact with co-workers.” 101 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Samukelo Michael Mhlongo Front of House Graduate Food and Beverage Department “I have learnt so much in the graduate programme. I now know how to maintain customer satisfaction and manage the Food and Beverage department as per schedule. I work with an amazing team that assists me in gaining more experience in the hospitality industry. This experience will help me shape my future.” Simone Dos Santos Sales Graduate Commercial Department “My experience has been beneficial for personal and career growth. I am being exposed to conferences, exhibitions, banqueting and many other sectors in the hospitality industry, and working in such a diverse environment and demanding industry will assist my future endeavours.” Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 102 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Nurturing and uplifting our employees STAFF WELLNESS PROGRAMME We are committed to nurturing and retaining happy, well-adjusted employees who are able to perform optimally because they are balanced in all aspects of their lives. To this end, we appointed the Centre for Occupational and Wellness Services to implement a holistic Employee Wellness Programme (EWP) for our staff and their immediate family members over a period of 12 months. The Centre for Occupational and Wellness Services is an independent, national human capital, learning and development, occupational health and wellness management service provider, established in 2008, and a B-BBEE Level 1 Contributor. Through this wellness programme, we are able to provide our team with access to a variety of services, including counselling, trauma debriefing and defusing, chronic disease and illness strategy, health screening and awareness campaigns, substance abuse management, mental health services, lifestyle management campaigns, financial wellness and debt management, to name a few. We are confident that this commitment is of great value to our employees and one that will positively influence them personally. In turn, these offerings will also benefit our business. 103 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Engaging with cutomers for a superior CTICC experience IN TOUCH WITH OUR CLIENTS: CUSTOMER FEEDBACK Customer satisfaction remains very high at the CTICC, and for the year under review, we received an overall Customer Satisfaction Index of 84%, which was 4% above our KPI target of 80%. We use an independent company, N’Lighten, to measure its Customer Satisfaction Index. This is done on a monthly basis, face-to-face, telephonically or via email. It includes all the different types of events, namely, conferences, banquets, trade fairs, exhibitions, special events, 84% other events and photo shoots. A range of topics are covered that are relevant to our business operations, such as audio-visual services, cleanliness of the venue, coffee shops, conference and exhibition services, food and beverage, service of event executives and event service Overall Customer managers, ease of doing business, IT and telecommunication services, Satisfaction Index service of reception staff, safety and security, service of sales executives, was 4% above our venue climate control and waitering services. KPI target of 80% The results of these customer experience surveys are used to inform and elevate our training and quality of service, going beyond the expectations of our clients, visitors and stakeholders and to ensure we are seen as a world-class MICE destination. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 104 SUSTAINABILITY 105 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SUSTAINABILITY SECURING OUR TOMORROW, TODAY This year, our waste, energy and, in particular, water management efforts have continued to be high priority, with our R8m investment in our own reverse osmosis potable water production plant taking centre stage. Local sourcing of food for our catering offering has also been a strong focus. Details of all these initiatives follow below. We have always been focused on sustainability as a core business practice, which is why we have strategically formulated environmental sustainability initiatives to maximise our impact while creating real value for the beneficiaries of these partnerships. Human rights Globally, consumers and event organisers are demanding that companies follow sustainable business practices and processes. This is why waste management, energy consumption, local sourcing and water conservation are key priorities for us. We base our operations on the ten guiding principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), of which we are a member. These principles, contained in the UN sustainability goals for the year 2030, set out strategic policies for businesses that are committed to establishing a culture of integrity and upholding basic responsibilities to people and planet. Labour The UNGC focuses on a company’s value system in respect of its responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and contends that in upholding these basic responsibilities, a company also sets the stage for long-term success. The 10 UNGC principles are split into the following categories: human rights, which encompasses respecting human rights and ensuring we are not complicit in human rights abuses; labour, which includes preserving the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of forced, compulsory and child labour, and the rejection of discrimination in employment and occupation; environment, which includes approaching environmental challenges in a precautionary manner, Environment undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encouraging the development and dissemination of environmentally -friendly technologies; and, finally, anti-corruption, with principle ten stating that businesses must work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. We continually align to the UNGC’s principles, in particular by seeking new ways to mitigate its impact on the environment while advancing its people and providing them with new opportunities to grow within the organisation. Driving our triple bottom line sustainability objectives is our Nurture Our World (NOW) committee, which has implemented various practices and Anti-corruption raised awareness around sustainability. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 106 SUSTAINABILITY The NOW Team: • Informs, drives, and monitors our triple bottom line approach; • Ensures the effectiveness of our efforts to minimise our environmental impact, while maximising the positive contribution made to a sustainable • Oversees the design and implementation of sustainable CSR initiatives future for society. that contribute to social growth; • Raises the profile of the centre as a sustainability leader in its industry; To measure our impact on the environment, we use environmental indicators. These include our operational impact in terms of water, electricity, and fuel use, as well as the waste we produce. Our environmental indicators are a visual indicator of our commitment to minimising our own environmental footprint. The CTICC Nurture Our World team 107 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Natural light streaming through our minimalist and modern conservatories Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 108 Our state-of-the-art reverse osmosis plant Water conservation is a key concern at the CTICC, as it is in the City of Cape Town which was in a drought last year. One of our most significant initiatives during 2018 was the installation of the centre’s reverse osmosis plant. We also harvest greywater and rainwater for use inside and outside the CTICC building and have introduced a number of other initiatives to save water. REVERSE OSMOSIS PLANT A COMPLETE WATER SOLUTION: WHAT IT MEANS TO THE CTICC, OUR CLIENTS AND THE PLANET Water conservation is a key concern for us, as it is in the City of Cape Town, which experienced a drought last year. One of our most significant initiatives during 2018 was the installation of the centre’s reverse osmosis plant. We also harvest greywater and rainwater for use inside and outside our building and have introduced a number of other initiatives to save water. Reverse osmosis plant In 2018, we installed our reverse osmosis plant, which extracts conjunction with our water storage capacity, we are able to provide underground seawater using ultra-filtration, and reverse osmosis twice our regular daily water consumption, which means that we can technology that removes the salt and contaminants from the water by offer 100% water neutral events. pushing it through a semi-permeable membrane at high pressure. This plant produces purified and fully potable water that complies with the On some days over the review period, we used all 200 000 litres, SANS/SABS 241 of 2015 Standard for Drinking Water. and all of the water we use, including in the kitchens and drinkable water from the taps, is from the reverse osmosis plant, which has a It is purposely designed to cater to all our daily water consumption 15-year lifespan. Should the need arise, there is a valve to switch us onto needs by being able to produce 200 000 litres of drinking water in a municipal water. 24-hour cycle. We can expect a five-year return on investment (ROI) in the plant. The The plant integrates an additional storage tank with a capacity of 400 000 ROI began with significant drops in the cost of water over the review litres, which accommodates for our maximum demand scenarios. In year, and if that continues, we may see the ROI sooner than expected. 109 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SUSTAINABILITY Greywater and rainwater harvesting, and waterwise initiatives Cape Town’s dams have largely recovered from the drought in 2017, because the 2017/18 financial year was off a low base due to the intense but we continue to use water wisely and save this precious resource water restrictions still in place, and all hand washbasins were turned off. wherever possible. These restrictions have since been lifted, and all the hand washbasins have been turned on again. During the 2018/19 year, we used a total of 32 668.61kL, representing an increase of 10% from the previous 12-month period. This was mainly Table 1: Total Water Consumption 14 000 12 000 10 000 8 000 6 000 4 000 2 000 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2016 2017 12 055.187 10 559.277 10 341.934 9 545 2017 2018 6 964.848 7 791.29 7 549.875 7 260 2018 2019 6390 9 151 9 070 8 057.61 We have several other initiatives in place to reduce our water consumption. These include: • Utilising rainwater storage tanks, which capture up to 265 000 litres • Monitoring activities from exhibitors and orders for plumbing. of water at a time. The water is being used for irrigation of indoor Previously, freshwater was used for ballasts at exhibitions for the plants, cleaning and, in the winter months, provision of water to the erection of external structures. We banned this activity and only cooling towers of the central air-conditioning system; allow sand or sea water-filled ballasts. • Capturing condensate from the air-conditioning units. About 20 000 litres of water are captured a week and is used for cleaning purposes in and around the centre; • The centre reduces dishwashing loads and water use by not using tablecloths, using disposable napkins, biodegradable cups in our coffee shops, and providing our clients with the option to use this type of crockery at their events; • Minimising water usage with aerators in all taps in both the kitchens and ablutions; 265 000L of water is captured in our rainwater storage tanks. This is used for irrigation, cleaning and the central air-conditioning system. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 110 Our talented and ISO-certified chefs serving up local cuisine FOOD FOR THOUGHT: SOURCING LOCAL TO REDUCE OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT Our Executive Chef, Roberto De Carvalho, is particularly proud of the Our maintenance team are always working on ways to make the kitchens fact that all our food and beverage suppliers are now located within a more water and electricity wise. The kitchens use water from the reverse 50km radius, the exception being food items sourced from upcountry to osmosis plant, and energy-efficient ovens reduce the electricity requirements accommodate specific client requirements. By purchasing locally produced for cooking and regenerating food. and grown produce, we reduce flyer miles, minimise our carbon footprint, and, most importantly, support local businesses. What this means is that our kitchens only order what is needed for a particular event – a kind of just-in-time management process. In catering, this is called event-based ordering, and it means that we only use fresh ingredients for the events we service: today’s lettuce, rather than yesterday’s or the day before’s. This ensures there is very little food wastage and that meals ordered at the CTICC are always of excellent quality. We, therefore, only develop menus with available and seasonal produce. 50km Not only do we use as many local ingredients as possible, but we also prepare traditional dishes, such as Cape Malay spiced lamb skewers, vegetarian curry vetkoek with tomato chutney and barbecue sirloin sosaties. Through our dynamic menus, we have found that our international Radius for all food suppliers delegates love to experience food that they cannot get in their own country, just as much as our locals love to see their ingredients being utilised in new ways. One of the energyand environmentally-friendly techniques used in the production kitchens to further reduce their carbon footprint is the ozone water system. It kills bacteria and reduces food-borne illnesses, meaning that our chefs use fewer chemicals to ensure that food is safe to eat. 111 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SUSTAINABILITY OPTIMISING ENERGY EFFICIENCIES: PROTECTING OUR FUTURE Our energy consumption, including our electricity, petrol and diesel fuel In addition, we remain fully prepared for power outages, with several energy, increased in the last financial year by a combined 6%, which generators that start up automatically, ensuring that power is restored translates to a total of 44 743 gigajoules of energy from primary sources in under 60 seconds if there is an outage. However, generators are not (fuel) and electricity generation. sustainable and, therefore, we host events such as African Utility Week, where leaders in the field can come together and discuss sustainable This is a remarkable achievement considering that, with the addition of solutions to increase electricity supply. CTICC 2, our square meterage has effectively expanded by 31 148m2, adding 10 000m2 of multi-purpose conference and exhibition space and 3 000m2 of informal and formal meeting space. On the other hand, we used an average of 1 032 553 kWh of electricity (excluding petrol and diesel energy measurements) per month, which represents an increase of 6% per month from the previous year. Additionally, an average of 33 600 kWh per day and approximately 6% 0.76kWh/m2 average was reached. Looking at the kVA (kilovolt ampere) peak average per month, a reduction was achieved, which calculates to 2 569 kVA, and is 9% less than the Increase from the previous period’s monthly average. previous year Our greenhouse gas emissions increased by 719 tonnes during the financial year. This is mostly because we used more electricity when CTICC 2 became officially operational in 2018. In light of this, the increase is still nominal if you consider the fact that an entirely new four-floor building has gone online. We are committed to further reducing electrical energy consumption and, as outlined in our five-year strategy, we are investigating more sustainable electrical generation options, including photovoltaic solar PV 1 032 553 kWh of electricity is used per month. panes and water heating by means of heat pumps. Table 2: Combined energy consumption for CTICC 1 and CTICC 2 for the 2018/19 year under review Year Total kWh Fuel litres Total gigajoules Year-on-year Baseline year 2016/17 8 643 600 1 237.90 31 161.3 -6.03% 2017/18 11 684 111 1 309.13 42 110.7 35.14% New baseline 2018/19 12 416 212 1 187.58 44 742.8 +6.25% 6.25% Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 112 SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATIVE WASTE MANAGEMENT In the 2018/19 financial year, our total waste output was 676 metric tonnes, and 86% of it was diverted from landfill. We also actively engage with our clients to encourage recycling so that waste is reused in a socially beneficial manner. We maintain a thorough waste management system (ISO 14001) and require all events to submit a waste management plan in accordance with city by-laws. Waste certificates are issued, and waste disposal is accurately recorded and managed by our waste management service provider. Total amount of waste generated in 2018/19 (in metric tonnes) 41 Paper and board 80 419 Compostable Mixed recyclables 5 15 Metals Glass 581 metric tonnes Diverted from landfill 6 90 Hazardous Landfill 20 Plastics 113 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Cape Premier Yearling 2018 OUR GREEN INITIATIVES • We contribute a portion of the value of each conferencing food of bran, which is tightly covered for 10 to 12 days. The products package to our NOW Fund, which is used to aid local communities; become pickled and are then ready to be used in the garden. • A green events checklist is included in the marketing collateral to • We provide a multi-bin system to encourage recycling, with separation create more awareness around event greening, and printed material at the source; is provided on Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-approved paper; • Water is bottled on-site, utilising the Vivreau system, in water dispenser • We offer several fair trade wines on our wine lists, such as Reyneke bottles or jugs of water; Wines, which are fully organic and biodynamic. They use holistic, • Waste from exhibitions or conferences is collected and donated to ecological and ethical approaches to farming, gardening, food and organisations in need, as far as possible; nutrition; • Event waste is diverted from landfill by upcycling exhibition items, • We try to source wine bottles that are cork-less, while wine corks such as wood from custom stands, furniture left behind from are disposed of in special bins and handed to a waste company for events, and packaged food, by donating those items to organisations recycling; in need; • We use locally produced food, and most of our fish is from the SASSI • Natural light is used in venues, whenever practical. Green list; As part of our overall sustainability objective, we always look for ways to • We provide compostable takeaway food containers for all public green both our own business, through our sustainability efforts, and the catering events; events hosted by our clients. Our increasing focus on the environment • All kitchen waste is segregated and diverted from landfill and sent has led to tangible benefits for our community and the planet. to fly farms; This commitment to the environment earned us top honours after • Food waste that is unpackaged and left over, as well as any horse winning the Medium Stand Award category in the Event Greening manure and straw (usually obtained from our Cape Premier Yearling Forum Awards at Meetings Africa 2019 held earlier this year in event), is sent to our composting contractor, who distributes the Johannesburg. These awards recognise stands and companies that excel waste for use in bokashi. Bokashi is a composting method where in their commitment to ‘going green’ and environmental sustainability. scraps of all kinds are placed in a container filled with a special type Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 114 Sasol exhibitors stand at Investing in African Mining Indaba 2019 115 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SUSTAINABILITY CASE STUDY: INVESTING IN AFRICAN MINING INDABA 2019 The Investing in African Mining Indaba is the world’s largest mining investment conference and the biggest mining event in Africa. It offers South Africa and the rest of the continent an opportunity to engage with global investors who are seeking prospects for new or further investment in Africa’s mining industry. In celebration of its 25th anniversary, the organisers of Investing in African Mining Indaba made it their most sustainable and green event yet, and included a Sustainable Development Day aimed at bringing the issue to the attention of every mining business. This year’s theme was ‘Championing Africa’s Sustainable Economic Development’. It is one of our biggest international events annually, and this year it attracted 6 050 delegates, among them ministers, senior government officials, major mining company representatives, investors and service providers. What we set out to achieve The final facts and figures Alex Grose, Managing Director of Investing in African Mining Indaba, Eight skips of about 24 000kg of the wood used for the stands were said the mining industry places great importance on sustainability. The donated to the Orion Organisation, a school for persons with disabilities, organisation was keen to lead from the front in this regard, and they and Cabrico Genuine Clay Face Brick and Pavers. Sealand Gear, the believe that all event organisers should try to increase their sustainability recipient of the event fabric, reused the material to make upcycled goods. efforts whenever they can. Not only did the CTICC and Investing in African Mining Indaba meet their For this reason, the CTICC collaborated with the Investing in African goal of creating an environmentally sustainable event, but the centre Mining Indaba with the aim of diverting all event wood and fabric also aided in the creation of multiple jobs. waste from landfill. Numerous large exhibition stands were custom-built throughout CTICC 1 in Exhibition Halls 2, 3 and 4. After the success of the Investing in African Mining Indaba’s 25th anniversary, an even bigger event is being planned for the 2020 Investing The centre hosted pre-meetings to guarantee that the event break down in African Mining Indaba. More space will be allocated to junior and procedure was briefed and managed methodically. This ensured that mid-tiers within the Investment Pavilion. wood was successfully separated, and clear and correct waste separation signage was placed on the wood skips. By working closely alongside the centre’s service providers and stand builders, we ensured that the wood was carefully dismantled and contamination avoided. Additionally, one of the centre’s contractors, Scan Display, assisted in arranging and delivering the event fabric, banners and signage for donation. 24 000kg of wood used in the construction of exhibition stands was donated to our partners for repurpose Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 116 SUSTAINABILITY Implementing the upcycling plan Step 1 We worked alongside service providers, Averda and Bidvest Prestige, and various stand builders who were instrumental in ensuring that the wood was disassembled in a usable condition without contamination in the skips. Step 2 The Orion Organisation, located in Atlantis on the West Coast, cares for adults and children with various disabilities. The organisation received 6 000kg of wood, which was used to create bedroom cupboards in their various hostels. Step 3 Cabrico received 18 000kg of wood, which was used to fuel their oven, thus, drying their plaster bricks in an environmentally sustainable and energy-efficient manner. 117 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report SUSTAINABILITY Step 4 Fabric from the event, including branding and directional signage, was donated to Sealand Gear, who upcycled the donation to produce bags, accessories and clothing. Recording the success of the initiative We arranged for a videographer and photographer to capture the full deconstruction process to showcase the lifespan of a green event and the lessons we learned from implementing such a large-scale project. The video captures the process, from identifying stands, breaking them down, separating waste at the event, to delivering the waste to the partner donor organisations. We chose to share our experience so that other centres and conference and exhibition organisers could learn from us. The video also features an interview with CTICC CEO, Julie-May Ellingson, outlining the importance of reducing waste to landfill, and showing the handover of donations. Capturing the Delivering the waste to Handing over Sharing our full deconstruction the partner donor the much-needed experience so that process organisations donations others can learn from us Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 118 GOVERNANCE 119 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE ENDURING ETHICAL LEADERSHIP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board of Directors (‘Board’) is committed to upholding good ethical standards and the application of corporate governance principles in accordance with the King IV Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa (“King IV™”). As a recent adopter of King IV™, the Board of Directors ensures that the governance structure within the CTICC cultivates good governance outcomes in relation to its ethical culture, performance, effective control and legitimacy. King IV principles disclosure Board committees The requirement for reporting under King IV™ differs from reporting under The Board acknowledges that its overall responsibility for Convenco rests King III™, whereby King IV™ now requires that a company reports on with the Board as a whole. To assist it in fulfilling its responsibilities, how it has applied the code. A Governance Report outlining the CTICC’s the Board delegates some of its functional responsibilities to its governance framework is available on our website (www.cticc.co.za). committees by means of clearly defined mandates. These committees report continuously to the Board on their deliverables in accordance with Board of Directors their Board-approved charters. A detailed report on the composition and The Board provides leadership and determines our strategic objectives responsibilities of these four committees is set out on pages 124 and 125. of the CTICC and acts as the custodian of our corporate governance Company Secretary framework. The Board is supported by four committees and delegates the responsibility of running the business to its executive managers. The Board The company secretary is responsible for providing the Board with monitors the implementation of its strategies, decisions and key policies, guidance on discharging its responsibilities in terms of legislation and and is satisfied that it has fulfilled its responsibilities required by its regulatory requirements, and coordinating the functioning of the Board mandate this year. and its committees. The Board is satisfied that the company secretary has performed all formalities and substantive duties timeously and in an Composition of the Board appropriate manner and that there is an arm’s length relationship The Board comprises 11 Directors, of which nine are Non-executive, and between the company secretary and the Board. two are Executive Directors. Of the Non-executive Directors, seven (78%) Board meetings are independent. The Board is satisfied that its members have a diverse range of knowledge, skills, qualifications and experience, which enables The Board met four times during the year under review and will meet it to contribute meaningfully to the Convenco. at least four times per financial year and more often if circumstances require. The table on the following page sets out the Board meetings held Conflicts of interest and attendance during the reporting period. Directors are required to declare their personal financial interests and those of related persons in contracts with the group. Directors are further asked to recuse themselves from any discussions and decisions where they have a material financial interest. Chairperson and Chief Executive Officer The roles of the Chairperson of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer are separated and clearly defined. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day management of the group and implementation of the strategy and objectives adopted by the Board. The Chairperson of the Board manages the relationship between the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the various Board committees. 78% of the Non-executive Directors are independent Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 120 Audit and Risk Committee Left to right: Wayne De Wet, Divya Singh, Julie-May Ellingson, Lindiwe Ndaba, Annelise Cilliers Details of Directors’ meeting attendance 1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019 Name of Director Board Audit and Risk HR and Remuneration Nominations Social and Ethics Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 4 4 4 3 4 Cloete DA 3 3 1 Fourie SW 2 3 Myburgh S 4 4 4 Fraser JC 2 2 Zama CK 4 2 3 Cilliers A 2 2 Harris G 2 2 Pangarker N 3 1 Parker W Ellingson JM 4 3 4 3 4 De Wet W 3 3 Ntoi HV 2 3 2 Hamman EI 3 3 3 Singh D # 3 Ndaba L # 2 Burton M # 2 (#) Attended the meeting in the capacity as a committee member only 121 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE DIRECTORATE AND ADMINISTRATION for the year ended 30 June 2019 Directors Board committees DA Cloete Audit and Risk Committee Chairperson A Cilliers (Chairperson) Independent Non-Executive Director CK Zama Appointed: 27 October 2015 L Ndaba D Singh CK Zama M Burton Non-Executive Director Appointed: 24 August 2017 Human Resources and Remuneration Committee DA Cloete (Chairperson from July 2018 – March 2019) W Parker G Harris (Chairperson from April 2019) Independent Non-Executive Director JC Fraser Appointed: 30 May 2019 S Myburgh A Cilliers Nominations Committee Independent Non-Executive Director HV Ntoi (Chairperson from July 2018 – March 2019) Appointed: 16 October 2018 DA Cloete (Chairperson from April 2019) G Harris SW Fourie Independent Non-Executive Director A Cilliers Appointed: 16 October 2018 N Pangarker N Pangarker Social and Ethics Committee Independent Non-Executive Director EI Hamman (Chairperson from July 2018 – March 2019) Appointed: 16 October 2018 S Myburgh (Chairperson from April 2019) CK Zama JM Ellingson JM Ellingson Executive Director Appointed: 01 September 2014 Administration W De Wet Company Registration Number Executive Director 1999/007837/30 Appointed: 16 October 2018 Registered Office S Myburgh Convention Square Independent Non-Executive Director 1 Lower Long Street Appointed: 16 October 2014 Cape Town Western Cape SW Fourie 8001 Non-Independent Director Appointed: 22 November 2011 Company Secretary First Corporate Transfer Secretaries (Pty) Limited JC Fraser Appointed: 30/04/2019 Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 24 August 2017 Auditors Office of the Auditor-General HV Ntoi Private Bag X96, Bellville, 7535 Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 25 August 2016 Principal Bankers Resigned: 12 March 2019 ABSA Bank Limited PO Box 7735, EI Hamman Johannesburg, 2000 Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 20 April 2013 Resigned: 12 March 2019 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 122 Annelise Cilliers Deon Cloete Wayne De Wet Julie-May Ellingson Solly Fourie John Fraser Guy Harris Sharon Myburg Nisaar Pangarker Wahida Parker Kholeka Zama 123 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE BOARD COMMITTEES The Convenco Board committees operate in accordance with the terms of reference as defined in their respective charters. Regular reports on the activities of the committees are provided to the Board. The members of the committees are listed on page 122. Audit and Risk Committee Nominations Committee The committee comprises five members, of which one is an independent The Nominations Committee comprises three independent Non-executive Non-executive Director and all of whom hold appropriate qualifications Directors and one Non-executive Director, and met twice during the and experience, are nominated by the Board, and appointed by the period under review. Council of the City of Cape Town. The committee assists the Board in determining that it has the appropriate The committee meets at least four times a year, and its meetings are composition to enable it to execute its duties effectively, and confirms attended by the Executives, as well as the internal and external auditors. that the Directors are appointed through a formal and transparent The committee met four times during the period under review. process. Additionally, the committee reviews the performance of the company secretary, and ensures that the Board committees have the The purpose of this committee is to provide an oversight role over the appropriate skill sets needed for them to fulfil their responsibilities. This is internal financial controls of the company, in addition to making done through induction, ongoing training, development and evaluation recommendations to the Board of Directors, and advising the Board on of Directors. The committee also handles the retention, retirement and matters relating to internal financial controls and internal audits. succession of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer. The committee also assesses risk management, accounting policies, the adequacy, reliability and accuracy of financial reporting and information, Social and Ethics Committee performance management and evaluation, effective governance, The Social and Ethics Committee comprises one independent compliance with the Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008, MFMA, Municipal Non-executive Director, one Non-executive Director of the company Systems Act, King IV™ and other applicable legislation, as well as any and one Prescribed Officer, and met four times during the period under other matters referred to it by the Board. review. The committee is accountable to both the Board and the company’s shareholders. It has an independent role and acts in an Human Resources and Remuneration oversight and advisory capacity. Committee The committee is responsible for overseeing and monitoring ethics, The Human Resources and Remuneration Committee comprises four social and economic development, good corporate citizenship, customer independent Non-executive Directors and met four times during the relations, environment, health and public safety, Broad-Based Black period under review. Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE), labour and employee engagement, and the company’s compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The purpose of the committee is to provide an independent and oversight role on behalf of the Board with regards to Human Resources and remuneration issues. The committee assists the Board in ensuring that the company remunerates its Directors, employees and Executives fairly and responsibly, and that the disclosure of remuneration is accurate, complete and transparent and in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations applicable to the company. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 124 GOVERNANCE Details of Convenco Board composition 2019 Female Male African Coloured Indian White 20 – 30 31 – 40 41 – 50 Above 50 Independence Surname First Name Date of appointment (*) Cloete Deon Anton 27 October 2015 • • • # Ellingson Julie-May 1 September 2014 • • • * Fourie Solly William 22 November 2011 • • • * Fraser John Cameron 24 August 2017 • • • (*) Myburgh Sharon 16 February 2014 • • • * Zama Carol Kholeka 24 August 2017 • • • # De Wet Wayne 16 October 2018 • • • (*) Cilliers Annalise 16 October 2018 • • • (*) Harris Guy Patrick 16 October 2018 • • • (*) Pangarker Nisaar Ahmed 16 October 2018 • • • (*) Parker Wahida 30 May 2019 • • • (R) Hamman Ethel Irene 20 April 2013 (Resigned 12 March 2019) (R) (R) (R) (R) Ntoi Hlompho Vuyo 25 August 2016 (Resigned 12 March 2019) (R) (R) (R) Total 5 6 1 2 2 6 0 0 3 8 * Non-Executive Director # Executive (*) Independent Non-Executive Director according to the shareholders (R) Resigned during the year and not counted as part of the total 125 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Our sophisticated Pincushion Boardroom Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 126 GOVERNANCE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT REVIEW: PARTNERSHIPS THAT TAKE US FORWARD Shareholders Western Cape Government City of Cape Town Second largest shareholder and investor. Partner Primary shareholder and investor. Partner in in growing the ongoing economic benefits economic contribution to Cape Town’s present that flow from the provincial government’s and potential economic success as an opportunity “Open-opportunity Society for All” strategy. city. Important to our governance. SunWest International Minority shareholder. Partner in overseeing our success as a viable, sustainable business enterprise. Clients, staff, community and business partners Clients: professional conference, exhibition CCID and security stakeholders and hotel and event organisers security group Essential to our financial sustainability and the Ensures the safety and security of delegates during retention of our 217 permanent and temporary events within our precinct and surrounding hotels. staff complement. Local community partners Staff Established partnerships since 2011 with Abalimi Vital to our longevity, sustainability and reputation. Bezekhaya and FARR. Commenced partnerships in January 2017 with Ikhaya Le Themba, Journey of Enrichment and Mothers Unite. These partnerships were established to strengthen community ties and offer ongoing support to the valuable work of the organisations. South African National Convention Bureau and Cape Town and Western Cape Bureau Strategic alliances that assist in attracting Cape Town Tourism and other tourism international conferences to the City of Cape industry stakeholders Town and the CTICC, together with the potential for job creation. Raises the tourism profile of the City of Cape Town and the region, while also promoting the job and career opportunities this sector offers. Media Collaborating in order to position us and the Increases awareness about the CTICC. Primary region as top of mind for both leisure and target audience for reputation management business tourist roleplayers. action plans and economic contribution promotion successes. 127 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Cape Town Tourism 2018 AGM Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 128 GOVERNANCE HOW WE REACH OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND SHAREHOLDERS Effective engagement helps us ascertain stakeholder needs and The advent of our new website, which now has an e-commerce translates them into organisational goals, which ensures effective component, enhances another key client and visitor touchpoint one we strategy development going forward. We do this through networking, hope to further develop in the future. and fostering connections with our existing client base, our suppliers, international associations and event and hospitality sector groupings, in Finally, we look to our membership of both local and international line with the region’s key catalytic sectors. trade associations, which boosts our reputation as a global player in the conventions and events sector. We nurture our existing relationships and shape new business opportunities by hosting important events, such as our Annual General Meeting, Board meetings and shareholder meetings. We also attend relevant business association meetings and social stakeholder events. In line with the Fourth Industrial Revolution, we realise that social media and online has its own place and, therefore, we strategically make use of our Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and LinkedIn profiles. Our social media interaction during the 2018/19 financial year has resulted in the following numbers of followers as of June 2019: 29 387 Facebook followers 6 868 Twitter followers 1 706 Instagram followers 9 376 LinkedIn followers PARTNERS IN SUCCESS Rewarding partnerships with our shareholders, local tourism bodies and eventing organisations allow us to grow and cement our excellent reputation in the conferencing sector. These organisations include, but are not limited to: The City of Cape Town Cape Town Tourism The City of Cape Town is our major shareholder and is a close partner Cape Town Tourism is the City of Cape Town’s regional tourism in creating a desirable business and leisure tourism environment that organisation that is responsible for destination marketing, as well as contributes significantly to job creation. A number of accolades have visitor and industry services. They proactively market Cape Town globally paved the way to achieving this flourishing reputation. In 2018, the as an award-winning destination to entice visitors to the region. They City of Cape Town hosted the most events in Africa, and our popularity are committed to responsible and fair tourism and business practices, was reaffirmed when the City of Cape Town was named the ‘World’s and work with previously disadvantaged individuals, organisations and Leading Festival and Events Destination’ at the 2018 World Travel companies in order to further their message. Awards. Additionally, in the last decade, the Western Cape has produced more than 500 000 jobs. They are an important partner and ally. Cape Town & Western Cape Convention Bureau The South African National Convention Bureau The Cape Town & Western Cape Convention Bureau is a strategic business unit of Wesgro, the tourism, trade and investment promotion agency for The South Africa National Convention Bureau (SANCB) is the go-to Cape Town and the Western Cape. Their role is to promote Cape Town organisation for meeting planners and incentive and exhibition as the premier destination for meetings, incentives, conferences, events, organisers. They are responsible for promoting South Africa as an exhibitions and trade fairs. This is supported by their statistics, which show ideal business destination by providing reliable and independent that the value of business events brought to the city and province was event planning information. They manage national bidding, and we R1bn in the first half of the 2018/19 financial year. They provided us with often partner with them when travelling to international industry events. invaluable support in the form of preand post-bid assistance. 129 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE Human Resources team STAFF ENGAGEMENTS: SHAPING OUR PERFORMANCE TODAY AND TOMORROW Our staff are critical to the success of our business. With this in mind, Regular staff breakfasts are hosted at the CTICC, involving decadent employee engagement is fundamental to maintaining a strong CTICC sit-down meals. At these events, staff are able to discuss and provide team, one that remains committed to our goals and values, is driven feedback on challenges that they face in their roles. Staff awards are also to make every event a resounding success, and is dedicated to delivering presented. on our clients’ expectations – now and into the future. The Mid-Year Bash is a great team-building experience and an opportunity Employee engagement also contributes to transparency within the CTICC for staff to enhance their working relationships. This year, teams from in respect of company news and events, and supports staff in their roles various departments worked up a sweat and challenged each other to a as frontline brand ambassadors. soccer match. We host regular staff meetings that cover company performance, Our annual Year-End Function is an excellent opportunity for us to staff training presentations and staff travel feedback. Accolades, in connect with our staff and show them just how much their hard work particular, bolster staff motivation, as an acknowledgement of their positively impacts the centre. Last year, they were transported to a secret hard work nurtures and encourages employees. To this end, we have venue and treated to a day of jazz and dancing. implemented Long Service and Star Performance Awards. Staff conferences are a fun way to educate staff. This year, our theme In the year under review, our staff spent time together in the following was ‘Your Voice Matters’ and was set up as a live television chat show to ways: discuss company values. This culminated in our ‘staff war cry’. Poorman’s and Richman’s Day happens every month and our new Sustainability initiatives form part of our core focus. In the year starters are introduced to the full staff complement. These regular events under review, our staff participated in an Earth Day campaign, World give our employees the opportunity to network and get to know each Environment Day and Arbour Week. Below is a breakdown of these other in a casual setting. initiatives: Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 130 GOVERNANCE Building a sustainable city by planting trees in the P4 parking area for Arbour Week Arbour Week 1 – 7 September 2018 This year’s Arbour Week theme was ‘Forests and Sustainable Cities’. It was for this reason that we chose to green our parking area by planting trees. In preparation for Arbour Week, we had a mailer designed and sent out to staff to encourage participation. On 3 September, staff gathered and planted the trees in the P4 parking area, which allowed for us to do our part in creating a sustainable city. For Arbour Week in 2018, staff planted trees in the P4 parking area 131 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE Our staff commemorating Earth Day 2019 with their “Grow Your Own” starter pack Earth Day Educational Campaign 17 April 2019 In keeping with the Earth Day 2019 theme of ‘Protect Our Species’, we focused on educating staff about caring for South Africa’s indigenous plants. A mailer was sent to employees informing them of the critical role plants play in the ecosystem, as well as the many purposes they have. Staff were also given a ‘Grow Your Own’ starter pack that contained an indigenous plant. World Environment Day 5 June 2019 World Environment Day is an annual event initiated by the United Nations to encourage people to protect our environment. As a world leader in sustainability, the CTICC is committed to fighting pollution. This year, we emphasised the repercussions of single-use plastics and how vulnerable the environment has become as a result. CTICC staff were encouraged to do their part in reducing single-use plastics through an internal education mailer. To motivate employees to reduce their plastic consumption, they each received an Envirostraw. This is a reusable silicone straw, which can replace single-use plastic straws, and can be easily cleaned, folded and stored. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 132 GOVERNANCE In the running – the CTICC Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon participants Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon 20 April 2019 In addition to working with our communities, our staff join forces every year to promote a healthy lifestyle. As they say, healthy bodies contribute to healthy mindsets. The CTICC running team started after one of our staff members arranged a team of 20 employees to enter the Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon (OMTOM). This was the foundation of the running group, and they have arranged weekly runs every Tuesday and Thursday since then. 20 April 2019 saw our staff members take part in the world-renowned marathon. This is the second year that the CTICC has sponsored a running team as part of our growing initiative to improve the health and well-being of our employees. Through hosting the registration expo for the last seven years, the OMTOM has become a long-term partner of the CTICC, resulting in a clear synergy of the CTICC and OMTOM brands. The CTICC sponsored running gear and snacks for all of the staff participants. Congratulations are in order for our amazing CTICC running team: Shamil Abrahams Robert Hatton-Jones Zukiswa Magwaxaza Luqmaan Vallie Clint Aysen Keenin Hoogbaard Larissa Rossouw Alain Willemse Faizel Cloete Shireen Isaacs Willem Scholtz Bongani Wondo Bianca D’Araujo Wayne Jefhta Mkhanyisi Shabalala Kelvin Damon Kwanele Makhaye Tandile Solontsi Miguel De Sousa Nomha Matroos Ernest van Sitters 133 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Africa Day the CTICC way Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 134 GOVERNANCE CLIENT AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTS: BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER Our stakeholders in the business and leisure tourism sectors, as well as our clients, are pivotal to our success, and our connections with them impact the health of our operation as a whole. This year, we had a number of exciting stakeholder engagements, including some great travel experiences, giving us an opportunity to brainstorm innovative offerings and ideas. The following were our stakeholder engagements over the year in review: City of Cape Town, Wesgro and CTICC Film Industry Briefing and Open Day 2018 AIPC Annual Conference, London City of Cape Town, Wesgro and CTICC Film 1 – 4 July 2018 Industry Briefing and Open Day The CTICC CEO, Julie-May Ellingson, and the General Manager: Commercial 25 – 26 July 2018 and Business Development, Robert Hatton-Jones, attended AIPC’s The CTICC, in collaboration with Wesgro and the City of Cape Town, Annual Conference hosted at the London ExCeL. The event included hosted the Film Industry Briefing and the Wesgro Locations Workshop the AIPC Annual General Assembly, as well as educational sessions at our centre. The joint industry event focused on updates in the film on challenges facing conventions centres, innovations, such as future industry. This event was attended by the Executive Mayor, Patricia de technologies and the impact these may have on our sector, as well as Lille, and CTICC CEO, Julie-May Ellingson, opened and welcomed all employee wellness and strategies to engage, retain and grow staff. guests in attendance to the CTICC. In addition, the AIPC survey, which tracks global trends and guidelines, The Business Development Manager: National and the National Sales was presented in detail and provided valuable insights into how we are department presented the CTICC as an ideal film location to more than performing against our worldwide competitors. It was pleasing to note 200 film location scouts, location managers and directors. that, in terms of both revenue growth and operating profit, the CTICC far exceeded the global average of 5% to 6%. 135 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ICCA Congress, Dubai IMEX America, Las Vegas ICCA Congress, Dubai 16 – 18 October 2018 10 – 14 November 2018 The Business Development Manager: International travelled to Las Vegas The CEO, GM: Commercial and Business Development, as well as the to attend the annual IMEX America trade show, hosted at the Sands Business Development Manager: International, attended the ICCA Expo Centre. Congress, which took place in Dubai. CTICC’s representatives conducted a site inspection of the ADNEC Convention Centre in Abu Dhabi and the Business Development Manager: International also took part in the ICCA Business Lead Exchange Programme. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 136 GOVERNANCE Client Welcome Back Function IBTM World, Barcelona, Spain Meetings Africa Hosted Buyers Programme 27 – 29 November 2018 22 – 23 February 2019 The Business Development Manager: International and Sales Executive: As part of the Meetings Africa Hosted Buyers Programme, the Head of International travelled to Barcelona to showcase the CTICC’s products Sales, with the Business Development Manager from the Cape Town and and services to hosted buyers attending the show. They also attended a the Western Cape Convention Bureau, hosted Elissa Myers in Cape Town client dinner arranged by Worldwide Convention Specialists. the weekend prior to Meetings Africa in order to showcase the destination, as well as the CTICC. Client Welcome Back Function 30 January 2019 Her itinerary included a trip up Table Mountain and dinner at the Waterfront on Friday. On Saturday, we took her on a guided tour The CEO and Commercial team hosted a Client Welcome Back function via Chapman’s Peak to Kalk Bay and treated her to a wine tasting at in January 2019. This event was well-received, and over 100 key clients Groot Constantia wine estate. We hosted her for lunch at the CTICC, were in attendance. Our Food and Beverage department had the followed by a site inspection of CTICC 1 and 2. Dinner was enjoyed at Gold opportunity to showcase our extensive offerings, while clients were Restaurant, along with a drumming session. engaged by our EXCO, Sales, Leadership and MANCO teams. 137 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE Cape Town International Jazz Festival, CTICC-hosted Client Functions Meetings Africa 2019, Johannesburg Cape Town International Jazz Festival, 26 – 27 February 2019 CTICC-hosted Client Functions The Head of Sales and the Business Development Manager: National 29 – 30 March 2019 Long-term attended Meetings Africa 2019, hosted at the Sandton The CEO and her team hosted two client and stakeholder functions on Convention Centre in Johannesburg. Friday and Saturday night on the VIP Upper Deck. This was the first year This year, for the first time in three years, the CTICC had its own stand that we hosted an event on the Upper Deck on both evenings. We had and won the Green Stand Award in the Medium Stand Category. We ran an exceptional turnout and received many compliments after the event. two separate diaries, and between the two CTICC staff members on the stand, close to 60 meetings were held. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 138 GOVERNANCE Venues International Client/Supplier Workshop, Abu Dhabi Venues International Client/Supplier Workshop, US Sales Mission, New York and Washington, DC Abu Dhabi 8 – 12 April 2019 4 – 6 April 2019 The CEO, General Manager: Commercial and Business Development, as The Sales Executive: International attended the ICCA Client/Supplier well as the Head of Sales, travelled to the United States of America to Workshop in Abu Dhabi. The workshop is an intensive and focused conduct a sales mission with a specific focus on associations. The trip was business networking event, which brings together senior decisionplanned and coordinated with the assistance of our US sales representative, makers of association meetings (clients) who are actively looking for Arena Destination Marketing. destinations and venues with representatives from ICCA venue or A total of 13 meetings and presentations were conducted over five days. convention bureau members (suppliers). A maximum of 15 ICCA members each invited an accompanying client who is a decision-maker or influencer for their future associations’ meeting place. Through a series of one-on-one meetings, they made initial contact with the Sales representative, discussed their specific meeting requirements and gained an understanding around the suitability of the venues/destinations in a way that would otherwise have been time-consuming and would have involved a great deal of travel. 10 ||Cape 139 CapeTown TownInternational Centre||2019 ConventionCentre InternationalConvention AnnualReport IntegratedAnnual 2019Integrated Report GOVERNANCE CTICC Client Experience Open Day Breakfast CTICC Client Experience Open Day Breakfast AIPC Sales and Marketing Summit, Frankfurt 7 May 2019 19 May 2019 The CEO and Sales team hosted 80 guests to participate in our CTICC The CEO, GM: Commercial and Business Development, as well as the Experience campaign at the CTICC Client Experience Open Day Head of Sales, attended the AIPC Sales and Marketing Summit that took Breakfast. Carl Wastie was our MC for the morning and presentations place at the Congress Centre Messe Frankfurt. The theme for the summit were conducted by the CEO, the Cape Town and Western Cape was ‘Adaptability, Flexibility and Meeting the Competition: Developing Convention Bureau, as well as the CTICC’s Executive Chef. The your Marketing Strategy for Today’s Urgencies’. presentations represented the themes of the CTICC Experience campaign, namely venue, destination and catering. The CEO was invited to sit on a panel to discuss the applicability of AIPC’s recent survey results and update delegates on how centres perceive and address future business opportunities. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 140 GOVERNANCE Global Exhibitions Day IMEX Frankfurt The Event Organisers Network Western Cape 20 – 23 May 2019 Showcase IMEX Frankfurt was attended by the CEO, GM: Commercial and Business 13 June 2019 Development, as well as the Head of Sales. The GM: Commercial and The Sales department once again hosted the Event Organisers Network Business Development, together with the Head of Sales, attended Western Cape Showcase at CTICC 2, which attracted a range of event the ICCA Association evening cocktail dinner, hosted at the Marriott organisers from the area and provided a platform for the CTICC to Frankfurt Hotel. A total of 24 meetings and presentations were conducted showcase our services and the facility. The CTICC received a complimentary over three days. exhibition stand and the opportunity to engage with these organisers on Global Exhibitions Day a one-on-one basis. 5 June 2019 The CTICC hosted various Global Exhibitions Day activations that included client visits by the Business Development Manager: National Long-term, staff desk drops prepared by our Food and Beverage department, and a UFI video submission by our Business Development Manager. 141 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report IMEX Frankfurt Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 142 FUTURE-PROOFING 143 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report FUTURE-PROOFING FORGING AHEAD FEARLESSLY In the last financial year, we have won 14 international bids for international Accordingly, our forward book continues to reap the benefits of our hard conferences. To date we have secured 71 international conferences up work, diligent management, carefully curated reputation and the decision until the year 2024. to expand our eventing space with the addition of CTICC 2. In part, this is due to our excellent reputation, our firm ethics and Our alignment with key economic sectors also means we are attracting good governance, our dedication to our fellow South Africans and the conferences and events that advance the knowledge economy and place we live in. But it is also, importantly, due to the hard work and benefit the local and national economy. We are passionate about commitment of our staff. Having set the highest standard for ourselves consistently and significantly contributing to job creation in the region, in the past year, we are in an excellent position to take the CTICC to new which, in turn, shapes a more prosperous future for the citizens of the heights next year and in the future. Cape Town and the Western Cape. We host a number of international medical conferences each year. Ultimately, our business events are about people actually meeting, In 2020 we will welcome the World Ophthalmology Congress, the sharing ideas and getting to know each other, and what we offer is premier and largest international ophthalmic assembly. More than 8 000 a world-class venue, located in one of the world’s most desirable delegates from upwards of 130 countries are expected to attend, and cities. The ripple effects of these exchanges are felt by many thousands there will also be an exhibition featuring the latest products and services of people for years to come. Not only does it spark job creation, but in the field. it also ignites investment opportunities that further enhance the local economy in various ways. Additionally, we will be hosting the International Congress of Human Genetics in 2021, with an expected 7 000 attendees, and the 18th Fortunately, the MICE sector generally outperforms the national and International Congress of Immunology in 2022, with over 8 000 global growth rates, and we expect this to continue. This is certainly true attendees. We are also proud to welcome the 76th Congress of the for us. Our event calendar shows that, repeatedly, the South African and International Fiscal Association in 2022, as well as the General Assembly global community have confidence in our abilities, choosing us as the of the International Astronomical Union in 2024. There are many others, preferred venue to successfully host their events safely and seamlessly, as the table on page 154 to 156 illustrates . despite a tough economic climate. We are also very pleased to have been selected to host a number of world sporting championships. Among them are the 2023 Netball World Cup, where we are anticipating at least 6 000 delegates, and the 2021 International Karate World Championships, expected to attract over 8 000 delegates and it will be the first time that we will host an event of this nature. 8 000 Expected attendance for the 2020 World Ophthalmology Congress Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 144 FUTURE-PROOFING Building the city through business tourism BUILDING TRANSATLANTIC BUSINESS TOURISM: MULTIPLYING OUR POTENTIAL The essence of our economic contribution is the proactive development This was augmented by a week-long sales mission in April 2019 where of business tourism within the City of Cape Town and, by extension, our CEO, GM: Commercial and Business Development, and our Head increasing employment in the region. of Sales, were able to submit three bids for international conferences. Another sales mission in July 2019 concluded with an additional two bids Through various bids, many of which were in collaboration with the being submitted, with further sales trips planned for the future. CTICC, the Cape Town and the Western Cape Convention Bureau managed to secure business events to the value of R1bn in the first six All our business activities are strategically activated with economic months of 2018/19. stimulation in mind, while also accounting for market trends. The provision of a direct flight from New York to Cape Town means that the To further increase international business, we appointed New YorkCape Town market is now much more accessible, which will increase based Arena Marketing in October 2018, to assist with tapping into the the number of delegates attending conventions and congresses in South growing North American market. Africa. While Cape Town is seen as a long-haul destination, the city is Research indicates that there are a number of international association now being considered to host congresses and events that are organised head offices and multi-national corporations based in North America, from the United States of America. This flight, therefore, will help us with the potential to come to Africa. As such, the strategic decision to generate business from the region. appoint a representative in the region was made in order to generate leads, promote and market the CTICC, as well as coordinate a range of sales missions, effectively developing the centre’s presence in this market. 145 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Connecting to the Big Apple Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 146 Executive Chef Roberto de Carvalho 147 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report FUTURE-PROOFING SETTING FOOD TRENDS: INNOVATIVE CULINARY EXPERIENCES We continually adapt our food and beverage offering to fit our clients’ We now use Sativa lettuce mixed with microgreens and baby spinaches ever-evolving needs by including local cuisine, unique flavours, and to give dishes dimension. Edible flowers add to the flavour and accommodating special dietary requests, from dairy-, gluten-, nutand presentation. There are nourishing dishes that taste as good as they look. seafood-free food to vegan and vegetarian options. With Executive The portion sizes are also more aligned to nutritional needs. The idea Chef, Roberto de Carvalho, directing the kitchen, menus can always be is to revitalise attendees with food, not overstimulate them with heavy discussed and personalised. food. Executive Sous Chef Sibongiseni Gcelu derives inspiration for our menus Organic products from local suppliers are used, food waste is minimised, from all over the world and recently attended the Culinary World and food is cooked in a way that is a lot kinder to our bodies. This ethos Cup in Luxembourg, where nourishment was as highly prioritised as extends even to the use of cooking oil. We fry less and bake more, presentation. The top three trends were plant-based products, nutrition including potato chips. and well-being. For example, feeding the body while feeding the mind with plant-based options and vegan products. Chef Sibongiseni says our international visitors are up to speed with food trends and that being on-trend is beneficial to us in that we are able Translating this to the CTICC and working on nourishing food concepts, to deliver on clients’ requirements and expectations. We frequently get Chef Sibongiseni has focused the kitchen on breakfasts and lunches that compliments about how healthy and tasty our menus are. incorporate healthy options, using quinoa and bulgur wheat, as well as leaves. Here are some examples: OUR Cashless system We have taken steps to enhance the event experience by providing event hosts with the option of using a cashless payment system. Guests of the Cape Town International Jazz Festival utilised the tap-andgo cashless payment system as part of the 2019 festival. This convenient digital payment system alleviated queues at food vendors and bars. On arrival, attendees purchased a wristband at one of the cashless topup stations and any remaining funds could be refunded (minus the relevant associated fees) by visiting the supplier’s website after the event. The digital enhancement was well received by organisers and festival-goers and is on offer to all clients. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 148 FUTURE-PROOFING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY One of our environmental strategies at the CTICC is to focus on investing in more sustainable electrical generation over the next five years. Proposed methods of reducing consumption include photovoltaic solar panels, solar water heating and heat pumps. Our technical team is also committed to reducing kVA by ensuring that the building management systems are running optimally. EMBRACING THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION We continually upgrade and deploy the latest hardware and related software to support the business in the provision of a world-class ICT infrastructure as required for event-hosting activities. While we previously outsourced our ICT needs, there is now a dedicated in-house ICT department, with its core focus on the continual enhancement of systems in the technology space. To remain abreast of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and to meet the demands of our clients who hail from some of the most advanced countries in the world, we are continually upgrading our technological infrastructure. We fully intend to maximise our role in the advancement of new technologies, both as a conference destination and as a generator of technology-focused business meetings and conferences in the future. The state-of-the-art technology infrastructure in the CTICC 2 building includes 1 792 network points with 100mk of CAT 6 network cabling, an extensive fibre optic network with 1 496 fibre optic points and 28km of fibre, which caters for high-speed, high-volume traffic. Our WiFi connectivity is enabled through a combination of high and standard density points, providing for a combined total of 15 000 connections with an internet connectivity uplink of 10 gigabytes. These are some of the improvements we made over the last financial year: WiFi Automation Tap-in-tap-out Cashless New website, enhancements of CTICC 1 system cards integrating e-commerce. Currently, we communicate with clients, visitors and the people of the City of Cape Town via social media platforms, as well as via traditional marketing channels. Social media increasingly plays a key role in how we communicate with our clients and followers about events and sustainability initiatives. These remain key communication channels for the future. Our new website focuses on optimising the user experience (UX), while creating an efficient user interface (UI). This facilitates business at the ‘click of a button’. Additionally, the site functionality allows us to integrate Supply Chain Management and e-commerce, thereby building a seamless user journey, which includes venue spaces, enquiries, exhibitor bookings, supplier applications and more. This forms one of our primary touchpoints in the customer journey, so getting the site right is essential. Our brand has been extended to give the website a cleaner look and feel that takes into account current trends. As a result, the revitalised website boasts a soft colour palette, with each colour associated with relevant sections. This is further complemented by chic, vibrant photography enhances the customer’s digital experience. 149 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Our new and innovative website Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 150 FUTURE-PROOFING OUR LARGER COMPLEX: REDEFINING OUR MEETING PLACES The opening of CTICC 2 has encouraged new and exciting ideas for eventing and is increasing our footprint in the industry. With an even bigger convention centre, the new facility strengthens the city’s and country’s reputation as a global business events destination. CTICC 2 allows us to give existing and prospective clients a more extensive choice of venues, with greater capacity and flexibility. It also allows us to host multiple events across both venues simultaneously. CTICC 2 allows us to give existing With the opening of this modern, world-class building, the CTICC is and prospective clients a more not only about renting space but also delivering endless possibilities, extensive choice of venues, with connecting people, fostering ideas and shaping the future through our greater capacity and flexibility. actions. FUTURE REVENUE STREAMS: EXPLORING NEW POSSIBILITIES We are always searching for new ways to optimise our business by initiating new event experiences and, in turn, creating future revenue streams. We also support entrepreneurs and SMMEs and seek to offer them opportunities where possible. Another aim is to boost job creation in the region. To this end, we are planning to host our own events. Some of them are as follows: The Gift Fair All Sport Expo 29 – 30 November 2019 25 – 27 September 2020 The Gift Fair will create a platform for small-scale businesses to sell their The All Sport Expo presents virtually every type of outdoor, indoor and products, increase their market share and create brand visibility. Gift water sport enjoyed by South Africans. It is a one-stop-shop for sport products will include decorations, gift wrapping, consumable gifting, and wellness, featuring health, nutrition, medical, wellness products, arts and crafts, clothing, accessories, jewellery, health and beauty, sports equipment, and activewear. There will also be mini-challenges and children’s educational products and toys, and electronic gadgets. We exciting competitions, fun tournaments, sports training sessions, wellness are anticipating about 4 000 visitors, most of them high-end shoppers. workshops, live demonstrations, performance improvement coaching, sports injury and rehabilitation workshops, as well as a Kids Sports Zone. A unique evening with Francois van Coke 14 December 2019 This event is a unique evening with Francois van Coke, featuring acoustic renditions of his most popular hits and the stories behind them. He and his two guitarists, Jedd Kossew and Richard Onraet, will perform two special sets packed with songs spanning Francois’ 16 years as frontman of Van Coke Kartel, and as an award-winning solo artist. In between, he will regale his audience with background stories of timeless classics such as ‘Toe Vind Ek Jou’, ‘Komma’, ‘Ek Skyn (Heilig)’ and ‘Tot Die Son Uitkom’. 151 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 152 Africa Oil Week 153 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report FUTURE-PROOFING OUR FUTURE BOOK A bright future: International events secured up until 2024: The events listed below will bring hundreds of thousands of visitors to our centre, which, in turn, will increase job creation and boost the Western Cape GGP and South African GDP, thereby bringing our efforts full circle. We are building our future while contributing to the future of South Africa. JULY 2019 OCTOBER 2019 EY (Ernst & Young) Africa Leadership Summit 2019 310 Sexual Violence Research Institute (SVRI) Forum 770 ABSA – Rest of Africa Senior Leadership Group 280 International Federation of Freight Forwarders 600 Associations (FIATA) World Congress 2019 AUGUST 2019 International Association of Pancreatology (IAP) Congress NOVEMBER 2019 650 2019 Africa Oil Week 2019 1 000 Lifestyle Galaxy Annual Worldwide Conference 122 AfricaCom 2019 800 Association of International Schools in Africa (AISA) SEPTEMBER 2019 455 Conference 2019 26th Annual Meeting of Commission for the Conservation of 119 Southern Bluefin Tuna (CCSBT) – Meeting 1 FEBRUARY 2020 Africa Fertilizer Agribusiness 2019 153 HIV Vaccine Trials Network (HVTN) 300 Huawei Conference 200 Investing in African Mining Indaba 2020 3 000 General Assembly of the International Organization for Asian Racing Conference (ARC) 2020 600 610 Standards (ISO) MARCH 2020 Conference for the International Organization for Judicial Global Trade Review (GTR) Africa 2020 300 200 Training (IOJT) 2019 Olam Finance Conference 130 APRIL 2020 Servier Cycle Meeting 230 INSOL International’s Annual Regional Conference 2020 400 World Economic Forum (WEF) 2019 1 000 Entrepreneurs’ Organization Global Leadership Conference 1 500 OCTOBER 2019 MAY 2020 14th Annual African Organisation of English-Speaking Edmund Rice Education Beyond Borders (EREBB) Congress 300 163 16th International Conference on Space Operations Supreme Audit Institutions (AFROSAI-E) Technical Update 850 (SpaceOps 2020) 26th Annual Meeting of the Commission for the Conservation 80 of Southern Bluefin Tuna (CCSBT) – Meeting 2 JUNE 2020 5th Africa Women Innovation & Entrepreneurship Forum ISF World Seed Congress 2020 1 000 600 (AWIEF) World Ophthalmology Congress (WOC) 2020 8 000 Africa Oil & Power (AOP) 2019 800 International Society for Quality in Health Care AUGUST 2020 1 500 (ISQua) International Conference 2019 18th International Symposium on Microbial Ecology (ISME) 1 800 Lyconet Premium Conference 1 000 2020 Nexia International Annual Conference 2019 200 Toshiba Global Commerce Solutions 120 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 154 Africa Oil Week 155 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report FUTURE-PROOFING SEPTEMBER 2020 FEBRUARY 2022 18th International Congress of Dietetics (ICD) 2020 1 500 The World Association for Waterborne Transport 600 30th Annual International Council on Systems Engineering Infrastructure (PIANC) World Congress 700 (INCOSE) Symposium MARCH 2022 International Dairy Federation World Dairy Summit (WDS) 1 200 International Symposium on Pneumococci and 2020 1 100 Pneumococcal Diseases (ISPPD) 2022 OCTOBER 2020 MAY 2022 Global Self-Care Federation Regional Congress 2020 400 International Federation of Surveyors (FIG) 1 500 HIV Research for Prevention (HIVR4P) 2020 1 400 IndustriALL Global Union Conference 1 300 JUNE 2022 XXX International Mineral Processing Congress (IMPC) 2020 900 World Federation of Paediatric Intensive and Critical Care 1 500 Societies (WFPICCS) 2022 NOVEMBER 2020 58th Annual Meeting of the International Association of AUGUST 2022 600 Forensic Toxicologists (TIAFT) 2020 17th International Heat Transfer Conference (IHTC-17) 1 400 World Engineering Education Forum (WEEF), Global 18th International Congress of Immunology (IUIS) 2022 6 000 Engineering Deans Council Conference (GEDC) & Global 1 000 Student Forum (GSF) 2020 OCTOBER 2022 Africa Oil Week 2020 1 000 76th International Fiscal Association (IFA) Annual Congress 2 000 AfricaCom 2020 800 NOVEMBER 2022 30th Commonwealth Agriculture Conference 400 MARCH 2021 International Congress of Human Genetics (ICHG) 2021 7 000 OCTOBER 2023 International Association of Paediatric Dentistry (IAPD) 2023 1 000 MAY 2021 7th World Conference on Research Integrity 800 MAY 2024 International Society of Arthroscopy, Knee Surgery and 4 500 World Congress of the International Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Orthopaedic Sports Medicine (ISAKOS) Congress 2 400 Association (IHPBA) JULY 2021 AUGUST 2024 International Health Economics Association (IHEA) 2021 800 General Assembly of the International Astronomical Union Congress 2 500 (IAU) 2024 International Society for Animal Genetics (ISAG) 600 Conference 2021 15th International Conference on Mercury as a Global 1 000 Pollutant (ICMGP) AUGUST 2021 International Symposium on Veterinary Rehabilitation and Physical Therapy 2021 – by the International Association for 500 Veterinary Rehabilitation and Physical Therapy (IAVRPT) NOVEMBER 2021 Africa Oil Week 2021 1 000 AfricaCom 2021 800 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 156 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 157 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS The reports and statements set out below comprise the annual financial statements presented to members: Directors’ Responsibility Statement 159 Report of the Auditor-General 170 Report of the Directors 160 Statement of Financial Position 175 Company Secretary’s Certificate 161 Statement of Financial Performance 176 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 162 Statement of Changes in Net Assets 176 Report of the Human Resources Cash Flow Statement 177 and Remuneration Committee 165 Statement of Comparison of Budget Report of the Nominations Committee 167 and Actual Amounts 178 Report of the Social and Ethics Committee 168 Notes to the Annual Financial Statements 179 EXCO, MANCO and Leadership Team Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 158 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT for the year ended 30 June 2019 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance of adequate accounting records and the preparation, integrity and fair presentation of the financial statements of the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company (SOC) Limited (RF). The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP), including any interpretations of such statements issued by the Accounting Standards Board, the Municipal Finance Management Act, No. 56 of 2003 and the Companies Act of South Africa, No. 71 of 2008. The financial statements are based on appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied. The Directors are also responsible for the company’s systems of internal financial control. These control procedures are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance about the reliability of the financial statements, that assets are safeguarded and to prevent and detect losses. The Directors are not aware of any significant breakdown in the functioning of these measures, procedures and systems during the year under review. The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the financial statements. The Directors have no reason to believe that the company will not be a going concern in the foreseeable future, based on forecasts and available cash and finance resources. The financial statements have been audited by the Auditor-General of South Africa, who was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, Board of Directors and committees of the Board. The Directors are of the opinion that all representations made to the independent auditors during the audit are valid and appropriate. The responsibility of the external auditors is to express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with the accounting framework. Approval of the annual financial statements The annual financial statements, which appear on pages 175 to 221, were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 November 2019 and are signed on their behalf by: DA Cloete A Cilliers Authorised Director Authorised Director 27 November 2019 27 November 2019 159 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS for the year ended 30 June 2019 The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report for the year ended 30 June 2019. 1. General review The company’s business and operations and the results thereof are clearly reflected in the attached financial statements. 2. Dividends No dividends were declared or recommended during the year. 3. Share capital No changes in the authorised and issued share capital of the Company during the period under review. 4. Directors The Directors of the Company during the year under review and at the date of this report were: DA Cloete (Chairperson) CK Zama W Parker A Cilliers G Harris N Pangarker JM Ellingson (CEO) W De Wet (CFO) S Myburgh SW Fourie JC Fraser HV Ntoi (Resigned: 12/03/2019) EI Hamman (Resigned: 12/03/2019) 5. Auditors The Auditor-General of South Africa was reappointed as auditor in terms of the Municipal Finance Management Act, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003) (MFMA). 6. Shareholding The City of Cape Town owns 71.4% of the company’s shares. The remaining shares are held by the Provincial Government of the Western Cape (23.2%) and SunWest International (Pty) Limited (5.4%). 7. Subsidiary The Company has only one subsidiary, the Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company Limited (OPCO). OPCO is in the process of being deregistered. Consolidated financial statements have not been prepared as OPCO is dormant and is not considered material. 8. Holding Company The City of Cape Town. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 160 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY SECRETARY’S CERTIFICATE for the year ended 30 June 2019 In terms of section 88(2)(e) of the Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008, as amended, we, First Corporate Transfer Secretaries Proprietary Limited, in our capacity as Company Secretary of Cape Town International Convention Centre Company (SOC) Limited (RF), confirm that, for the year ended 30 June 2019, the company has lodged with the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission, all such returns as are required of a public company in terms of the Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008 and that all such returns and notices are, to the best of our knowledge, true, correct and up to date. First Corporate Transfer Secretaries Proprietary Limited Company Secretary 8 August 2019 161 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE for the year ended 30 June 2019 The Audit and Risk Committee (“the committee”) submits its report in Composition of the committee respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2019. The committee comprises five members, all of whom hold appropriate Audit committee mandate qualifications and experience, of which two are independent non-executive directors and all of whom are appointed by the Council of the City of The committee is governed by a charter which has been approved by the Cape Town. Board and is reviewed annually. The committee fulfils its responsibilities in terms of its charter, the Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008 (“Companies The committee was chaired by Ms EI Hamman until 12 March 2019 when Act”) and the Municipal Finance Management Act, No. 56 of 2003 Ms A Cilliers took over as its chairperson. (“MFMA”). The table below discloses relevant information on the audit committee The committee has an independent role with accountability to both members: the Board and the shareholders. It does not assume the functions of management, which remain the responsibility of the Executive Directors, Attendance at meetings officers and other members of management. The committee meets at least four times a year and its meetings were The committee acts in an advisory and oversight capacity. It does not attended by the executive managers, internal and external auditors. A relieve the Board of its responsibilities but makes objective and representative quorum for meetings is a majority of members present, independent recommendations. The committee is satisfied that it has, and at least one (1) member being a Non-executive Director of the Board. during the past financial year, met its responsibilities as stipulated in its The committee met four times during the year under review. charter and that it has complied with all its legal, regulatory and other responsibilities. Name Qualifications Membership Date appointed No. of meetings attended Mr M Burton CA (SA) External independent 1 April 2018 3/4 Ms A Cilliers CA (SA) Independent Non-Executive 31 January 2019 2/2 Director Ms E Hamman CA (SA) Independent Non-Executive 19 December 2013 3/3 Director Mrs L Ndaba B Compt External 24 August 2017 2/4 Certified Internal Auditor Certified Ethics Officer Dr D Singh LLD (Doctor of Laws) External independent 24 August 2017 3/4 Ms K Zama CA (SA) Non-Executive Director 26 June 2018 1/3 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 162 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) Key responsibilities of the committee accuracy of financial reporting and information; performance management and evaluation; effective governance; compliance with The statutory responsibilities of the committee are as set out in Section the MFMA and other applicable legislation and any other matters 94(7) of the Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008, and Section 166(2) of the referred to it by the Board; and Municipal Finance Management Act, No. 56 of 2003 (“MFMA”). • Performs such additional oversight functions as may be determined The committee by the Board from time to time. • Exercises oversight of the internal financial controls of the company; Discharge of responsibilities • Oversees the internal audit function, which is outsourced and which The committee has a work plan to support its effective functioning reports directly to the committee; during the year. The committee is satisfied that it has, during the past financial year, met its responsibilities as stipulated in its charter and that • Reviews and approves the internal audit plan, and monitors the it has complied with all its legal, regulatory and other requirements. effectiveness of the internal audit function in terms of its scope of work, progress with execution of the internal audit plan and Internal controls independence; The committee has, during the year under review: • Oversees and reviews the expertise, resources and experience of the company’s finance function; • Exercised oversight of a process, facilitated by the internal auditors, in terms of which management has assessed the effectiveness of the • Oversees the external audit process and approves the terms of company’s system of internal control and risk management, engagement and remuneration of the external auditors and reviews including internal financial controls; the effectiveness of the external audit process; • Reviewed the effectiveness of the company’s system of internal • Ensures that any significant issues arising from the audit are brought financial controls, including receiving assurance from management, to the committee’s attention; internal audit and external audit; • Oversees financial reporting risks in relation to financial reporting; • Reviewed and made recommendations to relevant company policies; • Assists the Board in ensuring that the company has implemented an • Satisfied itself that the Chief Financial Officer has the appropriate effective policy and plan for risk management, which will enhance expertise and experience to act in this capacity; the company’s ability to achieve its strategic objectives; • The committee has reviewed the quarterly financial and performance • Monitors implementation of the risk management action plan and reporting together with findings from the Auditor-General and ensures that risk management assessments are performed on a Internal Audit. These findings have been discussed with management; continuous basis and reports to the Board in this regard; • Evaluated the appropriateness of accounting policies and procedures, • Oversees the development and annual review of a policy and plan compliance with Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting for risk management to recommend for approval to the Board and Practice (“GRAP”) and overall accounting standards; ensures that frameworks and methodologies are implemented to increase the possibility of anticipating unpredictable risks; • Discussed and resolved any significant or unusual accounting issues; • Ensures that the combined assurance received is appropriate to • Reviewed relevant company procedures for the prevention and address all the significant risks facing the company and monitors detection of fraud; the relationship between the assurance providers and the company; • Reviewed relevant company procedures for the prevention and • Oversees compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and detection of fraud; reviews the effectiveness of the company’s systems for monitoring • Reviewed the significant issues raised by the internal and external compliance; auditors; • Makes recommendations to the Board of Directors, and advises the Board, the accounting officer and management of the company on matters relating to internal financial control and internal audit; risk management; accounting policies; the adequacy, reliability and 163 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Reviewed the effectiveness of the monitoring of compliance with External audit relevant laws and regulations and is satisfied that all regulatory compliance matters has been considered in the preparation of the The committee is satisfied that the external auditors are independent of financial statements; the company. • Exercised oversight of the financial aspects of capital projects, The committee had considered the fees to be paid to the external including the CTICC East expansion. auditors, as well as their terms of engagement, and found it to be acceptable. Based on the processes and assurances obtained, the committee believes that the significant internal financial controls are generally effective and The committee has reviewed the external auditors’ management letter that accounting practices are appropriate. and management’s response thereto. Risk management The committee concurs with the Auditor-General’s opinion on the annual financial statements. The committee has, during the year under review: Annual financial statements • Exercised oversight in respect of the enterprise risk management function, which remains management’s responsibility; The committee has reviewed the year-end financial statements and integrated annual report and is satisfied with their integrity. • Monitored implementation of the company’s risk management action plan and made recommendations regarding the improvement thereof The committee recommended the approval thereof to the board. and reporting thereon. The committee believes that the combined assurance model is adequate for the entity. Internal audit The committee has, during the year under review: • Ensured that the company’s internal audit function was independent A Cilliers and that it had the necessary resources to enable it to discharge its CA(SA) duties; Audit Committee Chairperson 20 November 2019 • Reviewed and approved the internal audit plan in terms of its scope and coverage and monitored progress with the execution thereof; • Monitored the effectiveness of the internal audit function; • Exercised oversight of the co-operation between the internal and external auditors and served as a link between these functions. The following assurance engagements were completed in the 2018/2019 internal audit plan: o Commercial contracts; o Performance information; o Events Business Management System (EBMS) applications. The internal audit plan was completed for the year and the areas for improvement were agreed to by management. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 164 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE for the year ended 30 June 2019 This report is presented by the Human Resources and Remuneration • Ensures that all benefits, including retirement benefits and Committee (“the committee”) and describes how the committee has other financial arrangements, are justified and correctly valued; discharged its duties in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2019. • Evaluates the performance of the Chief Executive Officer in determining her remuneration; Mandate of the committee • Exercises oversight on matters relating to Human Resource management The committee is governed by a formal charter, which has been and succession planning; and approved by the Board and is reviewed annually. The committee has an independent oversight and advisory role. A detailed annual work • Performs such additional oversight functions as may be determined plan was formally approved to ensure the effective functioning of the by the Board from time to time. committee. The work plan is reviewed at least annually. The committee is satisfied that it has, during the past financial year, met Discharge of responsibilities its responsibilities as stipulated in its charter and that it has complied with During the year under review, the committee: all its legal, regulatory and other responsibilities. • Reviewed the Non-executive Directors’ remuneration policy; Composition of the committee • Reviewed the remuneration strategy, which included the benchmarking The committee comprises four independent Non-executive Directors of all remuneration levels in the company; of the company. The Executive Directors and certain members of • Exercised oversight over salary increases; the company’s Executive Management team also attend committee meetings at the invitation of the committee. A quorum for meetings • Reviewed various company policies; is 50% of the members present. The committee was chaired by Mr DA Cloete until 30 May 2019 when Mr G Harris took over as its Chairperson. • Set, in conjunction with the Chief Executive Officer, her key performance indicators (KPIs) and carried out the necessary review of performance against the set KPIs; Attendance at meetings • Had oversight of the company’s employment equity reporting; The committee met four times during the period under review. Details of the Directors’ attendance at meetings appear on page 121 of this report. • Exercised oversight of matters related to Human Resource management and succession planning; and Key responsibilities of the committee • Performed such additional oversight functions as may be determined The committee: by the Board from time to time. • Assists the Board in ensuring that the company remunerates its Directors and Executives fairly and responsibly, and that the Remuneration strategy and policy disclosure of remuneration is accurate, complete and transparent and The company’s remuneration strategy is aimed at attracting, motivating in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable to the and retaining competent and talented employees to ensure that its company; business remains sustainable. Remuneration levels are influenced by the scarcity of skills and work performance. • Monitors the administration of remuneration at all levels in the company; A performance-based incentive scheme is in place, in respect of all levels of the company, to acknowledge the contributions of individual • Oversees the establishment of a remuneration strategy, which promotes employees by rewarding them for exceptional performance. KPIs are the achievement of the company’s strategic objectives and encourages identified and agreed between each staff member and his/her immediate individual performance; superior and his/her performance is measured against these agreed • Selects appropriate comparative groups when comparing remuneration indicators. Individuals’ KPIs are linked to the company’s KPIs as a means levels in the company; of ensuring that the company achieves its objectives. Furthermore, a reward and recognition programme is in place. 165 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS During the period under review, and with the assistance of independent external advice from Auld Compensation Consulting, the committee reviewed the remuneration trends in the market. All remuneration packages in the company were benchmarked to similar positions in the meetings industry to ensure that they are fair and competitive. The committee was satisfied that the advisor was independent and objective. Despite it being a turbulent year for the South African economy and the drought that affected local businesses in the Cape metropole, the CTICC performed strongly and continued to deliver against its strategic short, medium and long-term targets. The committee is satisfied that the company’s remuneration strategy and policy achieved its desired objectives during the period under review. Directors’ remuneration The company’s strategy for the remuneration of Non-executive Directors is aimed at ensuring that levels of remuneration are sufficient to attract, retain and motivate suitably skilled and experienced Non-executive Directors, recognising the responsibilities borne by our Directors, and ensuring that they are remunerated fairly and responsibly within the constraints of the Municipal Finance Management Act, No. 56 of 2003, and the company’s Memorandum of Incorporation. The company’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy is currently under review and will be benchmarked with those of the other City of Cape Town entities and then tabled at the Annual General Meeting of the company (held on 11 December 2019) for consideration and approval by the shareholders. Please refer to page 212 for details of the Directors’ remuneration for the period under review G Harris Human Resources and Remuneration Committee Chairperson Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 166 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE for the year ended 30 June 2019 This report is presented by the Nominations Committee and describes • Reviews the policy governing the seeking of independent how the committee has discharged its duties in respect of the financial professional advice by individual Board members; year ended 30 June 2019. • Reviews the performance of the Company Secretary and makes recommendations to the Board in this regard; and Mandate of the committee • Performs such additional oversight functions as may be determined The committee is governed by a formal charter, which has been approved by the Board from time to time. by the Board and is reviewed annually. The committee has an independent oversight and advisory role and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors. Discharge of responsibilities The committee has a detailed annual work plan, which has been formally Composition of the committee adopted to support its effective functioning during the year. The committee comprises three independent Non-executive Directors The committee is satisfied that it has, during the past financial year, met its and one Non-executive Director of the company. Executive Directors responsibilities as stipulated in its charter. attend committee meetings only by invitation. A quorum for meetings is 50% of the members present. The committee was chaired by Mr HV Ntoi until 12 March 2019 when Mr DA Cloete took over as its Chairperson. Attendance at meetings The committee met twice during the period under review. Details of the Directors’ attendance at meetings appear on page 121 of this report. DA Cloete Nominations Committee Chairperson Role of the committee 8 August 2019 The committee: • Assists the Board in determining that it has the appropriate composition to enable it to execute its duties effectively; • Assists the Board in ensuring that the Directors are appointed through a formal and transparent process; • Assists the Board in ensuring that the respective Board committees have the appropriate skill sets to enable them to fulfil their responsibilities; • Ensures that induction, ongoing training and development and evaluation of the Directors takes place; • Ensures that an appropriate succession plan is in place in respect of the Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors; • Assists the Board with the annual Board and Board committees’ effectiveness evaluations; • Reviews the Board and its own charter annually; • Reviews the role of the Chairperson of the Board annually; • Assists the Board in determining the retirement and succession of Directors; 167 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE SOCIAL AND ETHICS COMMITTEE for the year ended 30 June 2019 This report is presented by the Social and Ethics Committee (“the Ethics and corporate social responsibility committee”) and describes how the committee has discharged its duties in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2019 as required by The Board of Directors subscribes to the highest standards of ethics Regulation 43(5) of the Companies Regulations, read in conjunction with and corporate social responsibility and assesses the company’s section 72 of the Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008. performance against various mandatory and voluntary standards. The Board assumes the ultimate responsibility for the company’s ethics Mandate of the committee performance, which is delegated to the Executive Management, but it does not relieve Management of its duties and responsibilities The committee is governed by a formal charter that has been in this regard. The Chief Executive Officer is the visible link between approved by the Board and is reviewed annually. The committee fulfils its the Board’s corporate ethics expectations and the company’s ethics responsibilities in terms of Regulation 43 of the Companies Regulations, management. section 72 of the Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008, and it’s charter. The committee is accountable to both the Board and the company’s Discharge of responsibilities shareholders. It has an independent role and acts in an advisory and oversight capacity. The committee has a detailed annual work plan, which has been formally adopted, to support its effective functioning during the year. Composition of the committee The committee has, during the period under review, monitored the The committee comprises one independent Non-executive Director, company’s activities, having regard to relevant legislation and other one Non-executive Director of the company and one Prescribed Officer. legal requirements and codes pertaining to matters relating to social Certain members of the company’s Executive Management team also and economic development, the environment, B-BBEE, employment attend committee meetings by invitation. A quorum for meetings is 50% equity, health and safety, employee wellness and stakeholder of the members present. The committee is chaired by Ms S Myburgh. relationships. It is satisfied that it has, during the past financial year, met its responsibilities as stipulated in its charter and that it has complied with its legal, regulatory and other responsibilities. Attendance at meetings The committee is satisfied that the company takes its governance, The committee met four times during the period under review. Details social and environmental responsibilities seriously. While the committee of our Directors’ attendance at meetings appear on page 121 of this recognises that areas within its mandate are constantly evolving, report. it is confident that Management is committed to integrating ethics into the business of the company and that it continues to pay sufficient Key responsibilities of the committee attention to ethics management. The statutory responsibilities of the committee are as set out in the In terms of broader organisational ethics, the committee continues Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008, and the Companies Regulations. to review and monitor the company’s ethics-related policies to enable the fostering of a good ethical culture in the company. Furthermore, In executing its duties, the committee is responsible for monitoring a staff conference focusing on the values of the company was hosted and overseeing: during the period under review. • Ethics; In addition to the Audit and Risk Committee, the committee also • Social and economic development; monitored compliance with laws and regulations within its own mandate. During the period under review, Management confirmed • Good corporate citizenship; that there has been no material non-compliance with legislation or • Customer relations; regulations within the remit of the committee’s mandate. • Environment, health and public safety; The company also reports to the UN Global Compact in respect of • Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE); its labour, human rights, and environmental policies. • Labour and employee engagement; and • Compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 168 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE SOCIAL AND ETHICS COMMITTEE for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) In terms of environment, health and safety, the committee continued to monitor environmental, health and safety aspects in accordance with the short, medium and long-term strategy of the company. Due to the prolonged drought in the Western Cape, various water initiatives were implemented by the company, as well as the installation of a reverse osmosis plant. Furthermore, the company is effectively monitoring its use of electricity and water, waste management and its contribution to recycling efforts throughout the year. No significant environmental, health and safety issues arose during the period under review. S Myburgh Social and Ethics Committee Chairperson 8 August 2019 169 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL TO THE WESTERN CAPE PROVINCIAL PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL ON CITY OF CAPE TOWN ON CAPE TOWN INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION CENTRE COMPANY SOC LIMITED (RF) Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion 1. I have audited the financial statements of the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Limited (RF) (CTICC) set out on pages 175 to 221, which comprise the statement of financial position as at 30 June 2019, the statement of financial performance, statement of changes in net assets, cash flow statement and statement of comparison of budget information and actual amounts for the year then ended, as well as the notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. 2. In my opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the CTICC as at 30 June 2019, and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with South African Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (SA Standards of GRAP) and the requirements of the Municipal Finance Management Act of South Africa, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003) (MFMA) and the Companies Act of South Africa, 2008 (Act No. 71 of 2008) (the Companies Act). Basis for opinion 3. I conducted my audit in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). My responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor-General’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of this auditor’s report. 4. I am independent of the entity in accordance with sections 290 and 291 of the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants and, parts 1 and 3 of the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (IESBA codes), as well as the ethical requirements that are relevant to my audit in South Africa. I have fulfilled my other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA codes. 5. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. Other matter 6. I draw attention to the matter below. My opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. Unaudited disclosure notes 7. In terms of section 125(2) (e) of the MFMA, the entity is required to disclose particulars of non-compliance with the MFMA in the financial statements. This disclosure requirement did not form part of the audit of the financial statements and, accordingly, I do not express an opinion thereon. Responsibilities of the accounting officer for the financial statements 8. The accounting officer is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with SA Standards of GRAP and the requirements of the MFMA and Companies Act, No. 71 of 2008, and for such internal control as the accounting officer determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 9. In preparing the financial statements, the accounting officer is responsible for assessing the CTICC’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the appropriate governance structure either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 170 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Auditor-General’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements 10. My objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 11. A further description of my responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is included in the annexure to this auditor’s report. Report on the audit of the annual performance report Introduction and scope 12. In accordance with the Public Audit Act of South Africa, 2004 (Act No. 25 of 2004) (PAA) and the general notice issued in terms thereof, I have a responsibility to report material findings on the reported performance information against predetermined objectives for selected key performance categories presented in the annual performance report. I performed procedures to identify findings but not to gather evidence to express assurance. 13. My procedures address the reported performance information, which must be based on the approved performance planning documents of the entity. I have not evaluated the completeness and appropriateness of the performance indicators/measures included in the planning documents. My procedures also did not extend to any disclosures or assertions relating to planned performance strategies and information in respect of future periods that may be included as part of the reported performance information. Accordingly, my findings do not extend to these matters. 14. I evaluated the usefulness and reliability of the reported performance information in accordance with the criteria developed from the performance management and reporting framework, as defined in the general notice, for the following selected key performance categories presented in the annual performance report of the entity for the year ended 30 June 2019. Key performance categories Pages in the annual performance report KPC 1 – International events 59 KPC 1 – Total events hosted 59 KPC 4 – Supply Chain Procurement from B-BBEE Suppliers 59 KPC 6 – Graduate Program: Contribution to Youth Employment and Skills Development 60 KPC 7 – The number of people from the employment equity target groups employed in the three highest 60 level of management in compliance with the entity’s approved employment equity plan KPC 8 – Quality Offering 60 KPC 9 – Capital Projects 60 KPC 10 – Minimum Competency Level 60 171 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15. I performed procedures to determine whether the reported performance information was properly presented and whether performance was consistent with the approved performance planning documents. I performed further procedures to determine whether the indicators and related targets were measurable and relevant, and assessed the reliability of the reported performance information to determine whether it was valid, accurate and complete. I did not raise any material findings on the usefulness and reliability of the reported performance information for the following key performance categories: • KPC 1 – International events • KPC 1 – Total events hosted • KPC 4 – Supply Chain Procurement from B-BBEE Suppliers • KPC 6 – Graduate Program: Contribution to Youth Employment and Skills Development • KPC 7 – The number of people from the employment equity target groups employed in the three highest level of management in compliance with the entity’s approved employment equity plan • KPC 8 – Quality Offering • KPC 9 – Capital Projects • KPC 10 – Minimum Competency Level Other matter 16. I draw attention to the matter below. Achievement of planned targets 17. Refer to the annual performance report on pages 59 to 60 for information on the achievement of planned targets for the year. Report on the audit of compliance with legislation Introduction and scope 18. In accordance with the PAA and the general notice issued in terms thereof, I have a responsibility to report material findings on the compliance of the entity with specific matters in key legislation. I performed procedures to identify findings but not to gather evidence to express assurance. 19. I did not raise material findings on compliance with the specific matters in key legislation set out in the general notice issued in terms of the PAA. Other information 20. The accounting officer is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, which includes the directors’ report, the audit committee’s report and the company secretary’s certificate, as required by the Companies Act of South Africa, 2008 (Act No. 71 of 2008) (Companies Act). The other information does not include the financial statements, the auditor’s report and those selected key performance categories presented in the annual performance report that have been specifically reported in the auditor’s report. 21. My opinion on the financial statements and findings on the reported performance information and compliance with legislation do not cover the other information and I do not express an audit opinion or any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 22. In connection with my audit, my responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements and the selected key performance indicators presented in the annual performance report, or my knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 23. I have nothing to report in this regard. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 172 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Internal control deficiencies 24. I considered internal control relevant to my audit of the financial statements, reported performance information and compliance with applicable legislation; however, my objective was not to express any form of assurance on it. I did not identify any significant deficiencies in internal control. Other reports 25. I draw attention to the following engagements conducted by various parties that had, or could have, an impact on the matters reported in the entity’s financial statements, reported performance information, compliance with applicable legislation and other related matters. These reports did not form part of my opinion on the financial statements or my findings on the reported performance information or compliance with legislation. 26. In the prior year a Public Protector investigation was in progress based on the alleged failure by the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company (Pty) Limited and the City of Cape Town to implement the recommendations of the City’s forensic services department issued on 21 October 2014. On 3 December 2018, the investigation had been closed by the Public Protector on the basis that the investigation indicated that there was no such failure to implement these recommendations. Cape Town 20 November 2019 173 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annexure – Auditor-General’s responsibility for the audit 1. As part of an audit in accordance with the ISAs, I exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout my audit of the financial statements, and the procedures performed on reported performance information for selected key performance indicators and on entity’s compliance with respect to the selected subject matters. Financial statements 2. In addition to my responsibility for the audit of the financial statements as described in the auditor’s report, I also: • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. • evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the accounting officer. • conclude on the appropriateness of the accounting officer’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements. I also conclude, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the CTICC’s ability to continue as a going concern. If I conclude that a material uncertainty exists, I am required to draw attention in my auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements about the material uncertainty or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify the opinion on the financial statements. My conclusions are based on the information available to me at the date of this auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the entity to cease continuing as a going concern. • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Communication with those charged with governance 3. I communicate with the accounting officer regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that I identify during my audit. 4. I also confirm to the accounting officer that I have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence and communicate all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to have a bearing on my independence and, where applicable, related safeguards. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 174 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as at 30 June 2019 NOTES Restated 2019 2018 R R ASSETS Non-current assets 880 698 670 881 878 082 Property, plant and equipment 2 573 462 472 574 441 684 Intangible assets 3 8 014 948 697 307 Investment in subsidiary 4 100 100 Service-in-kind benefit 5 175 051 024 177 175 000 Deferred taxation 6 124 170 126 129 563 991 Current assets 252 294 712 247 268 613 Inventories 7 2 065 465 1 591 437 Trade receivables and other receivables 8 62 859 567 19 796 330 Service-in-kind benefit 5 2 123 976 2 123 976 South African Revenue Services 18.2 3 002 224 – Cash and cash equivalents 18.3 182 243 480 223 756 870 Total assets 1 132 993 382 1 129 146 695 NET ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Net financial position 1 034 686 398 1 022 202 363 Contribution from owners 9 1 277 427 701 1 277 427 701 Accumulated deficit (242 741 303) (255 225 338) Non-current liability Operating lease liability 10 335 155 244 280 Current liabilities 97 971 829 106 700 052 Client deposits 11 41 385 627 28 162 844 Trade payables and other payables 12 51 009 307 71 820 350 Provisions 13 5 576 895 4 723 383 South African Revenue Services 18.2 – 1 993 475 Total net assets and liabilities 1 132 993 382 1 129 146 695 175 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE for the year ended 30 June 2019 NOTES Restated 2019 2018 R R Revenue from exchange transactions 15 271 434 321 238 874 596 Cost of sales (31 568 293) (29 891 260) Gross profit 239 866 028 208 983 336 Other operating revenue from exchange transactions 20 473 429 25 298 447 Finance income 16.1 14 482 276 17 829 123 Other revenue 16.2 5 991 153 7 469 324 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 2.2 (2 548 136) (462 599 006) Operating expenses (239 913 421) (201 243 630) Operating Profit / (Loss) 14 17 877 900 (429 560 853) Finance costs – – Profit / (Loss) before taxation 17 877 900 (429 560 853) Taxation 17 (5 393 865) 117 590 109 Profit / (Loss) for the year 12 484 035 (311 970 744) STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS for the year ended 30 June 2019 NOTES Restated Restated CONTRIBUTIONS ACCUMULATED TOTAL FROM OWNERS DEFICIT R R R Balance at 1 July 2016 1 084 427 701 (168 000 555) 916 427 146 Profit for the year – As previously stated – 43 476 413 43 476 413 Prior year error – Service-in-kind charge 5 – (2 123 976) (2 123 976) Prior year error – Lease straight-lining 10 – (153 404) (153 404) Share issue 193 000 000 – 193 000 000 Service-in-kind benefit 5 – 183 546 928 183 546 928 Balance at 1 July 2017 1 277 427 701 56 745 406 1 334 173 107 Loss for the year – (311 970 744) (311 970 744) Balance at 30 June 2018 1 277 427 701 (255 225 338) 1 022 202 363 Profit for the year – 12 484 035 12 484 035 Balance at 30 June 2019 1 277 427 701 (242 741 303) 1 034 686 398 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 176 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CASH FLOW STATEMENT for the year ended 30 June 2019 NOTES 2019 2018 R R Cash flow from operating activities 20 003 869 88 732 036 Cash receipts from customers (venue rental, sale of goods and other services) 247 577 036 248 151 461 Cash paid to suppliers and employees (237 423 498) (173 847 032) Suppliers (175 574 688) (118 882 616) Employee costs (61 848 810) (54 964 416) Cash generated from operations 18.1 10 153 538 74 304 429 Finance income received 16.1 14 846 029 17 829 123 Taxation paid 18.2 (4 995 699) (3 401 516) Cash flow from investing activities (61 517 259) (115 960 048) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 2 (63 399 220) (115 090 983) Acquisition of intangible assets 3 (2 687 955) (869 065) Claims against capital spend 2 (ii) 4 569 916 – Cash flow from financing activities – – Decrease in cash and cash equivalents (41 513 390) (27 228 012) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 18.3 223 756 870 250 984 882 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 18.3 182 243 480 223 756 870 177 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF COMPARISON OF BUDGET AND ACTUAL AMOUNTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 NOTES ACTUAL ORIGINAL FINAL FAVOURABLE/ FAVOURABLE/ APPROVED APPROVED (UNFAVOURABLE) (UNFAVOURABLE) BUDGET BUDGET VARIANCE VARIANCE 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 R R R R % STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL 23.2 PERFORMANCE Revenue and other income 277 425 474 286 614 158 263 109 500 14 315 974 5 Revenue 227 019 251 239 754 964 219 184 759 7 834 492 4 Other income (i) 50 406 223 46 859 194 43 924 741 6 481 482 15 Less: Direct costs 56 650 766 54 214 595 52 766 823 (3 883 943) (7) Cost of sales 31 300 126 34 367 212 31 155 061 (145 065) (0) Direct personnel (ii) 17 797 070 8 586 402 9 244 304 (8 552 766) (93) Parking costs (iii) 5 155 186 7 504 500 8 849 298 3 694 112 42 Event-related marketing costs (iv) 1 416 140 2 761 681 2 761 682 1 345 542 49 Equipment hire 982 244 994 800 756 478 (225 766) (30) Add: Finance income (v) 14 482 276 4 515 185 12 261 535 2 220 741 18 Less: Indirect expenditure 217 379 084 267 625 901 245 028 796 27 649 712 11 Personnel costs (vi) 66 747 421 99 060 644 89 116 902 22 369 481 25 Operations general 1 707 339 3 143 915 2 368 823 661 484 28 Utility services (vii) 27 539 279 41 161 888 36 288 332 8 749 053 24 Maintenance (viii) 14 303 592 16 613 028 15 765 643 1 462 051 9 Building costs 25 172 322 28 799 639 24 249 134 (923 188) (4) Office costs 4 077 658 5 139 108 4 726 831 649 173 14 Computer expenses 4 942 048 6 180 096 5 520 710 578 662 10 Advisors (ix) 3 837 036 6 978 053 7 235 205 3 398 170 47 Travel and entertainment 1 789 379 2 196 454 2 193 242 403 863 18 Marketing and corporate communications (x) 10 770 186 11 841 959 11 843 844 1 073 658 9 Catering materials 1 956 359 3 559 619 2 768 630 812 271 29 Bad debts 413 864 300 000 300 000 (113 864) (38) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of assets (xi) 54 122 601 42 651 498 42 651 499 (11 471 102) (27) Profit / (Loss) before taxation 17 877 900 (30 711 153) (22 424 584) 40 302 484 180 Capital expenditure for the year ended 30 June 2019 Building enhancements (i) 28 977 335 18 680 000 37 391 129 8 413 794 23 IT and electronic infrastructure 15 558 803 15 222 500 16 426 303 867 500 5 Kitchen enhancements 1 340 313 1 348 100 1 348 100 7 787 1 Catering, furniture and equipment (ii) 5 797 305 5 375 000 7 875 000 2 077 695 26 Other capex items (iii) 14 413 419 8 566 932 18 258 469 3 845 050 21 Total capital expenditure 23.3 66 087 175 49 192 532 81 299 001 15 211 826 19 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 178 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 1. Accounting policies 1.1 Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP), including interpretations guidelines and directives issued by the Accounting Standards Board in accordance with the Municipal Finance Management Act, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003). The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis and incorporate the principal accounting policies set out below. The financial statements have been prepared on the basis of accounting policies applicable to a going concern. The basis presumes that funds will be available to finance future operations and that the realisation of assets and settlement of liabilities, contingent liabilities and commitments will occur in the ordinary course of business. The cash flow statement has been prepared in accordance with the direct method. The company does not prepare consolidated financial statements as the subsidiary is dormant and not considered material. GRAP Standards issued but not yet effective The following GRAP Standards have been issued but are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the entity: Standards that have been assessed: STANDARD DESCRIPTION DATE EFFECTIVE ASSESSED IMPACT REASON FOR ASSESSMENT ON ENTITY IGRAP 17 Service Interpretation of the Standard of GRAP on 1 April 2019 Low The entity has not granted Concession Service Concession Arrangements where a any service concessions. Arrangements where a Grantor Controls a Significant Residual Grantor Controls a Interest in an Asset. Significant Residual Interest in an Asset GRAP 18 Segment This Standard establishes principles for 1 April 2020 Low The entity does not have Reporting reporting financial information by segments. individual segments to report on. IGRAP 18 Recognition Interpretation of the Standard of GRAP on 1 April 2019 Low The entity does not own land. and Derecognition of Recognition and Derecognition of Land. Land IGRAP 19 Liabilities to The interpretation provides guidance on the 1 April 2019 Low The entity does not have Pay Levies accounting for levies in the financial liabilities to pay levies. statements of the entity that is paying the levy. GRAP 20 Related Party This Standard ensures that a reporting entity’s 1 April 2019 Medium The entity has transactions with Disclosures financial statements contain the disclosures Related Parties. The entity used necessary to draw attention to the possibility that IPSAS 20 to develop its accounting its financial position and surplus or deficit may policy for Related Parties. have been affected by the existence of related parties and by transactions and outstanding balances with such parties. GRAP 32 Service Accounting for service concession 1 April 2019 Low The entity has not granted Concession arrangements by the grantor, a public any service concessions. Arrangements Grantor sector entity. 179 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STANDARD DESCRIPTION DATE EFFECTIVE ASSESSED IMPACT REASON FOR ASSESSMENT ON ENTITY GRAP 34 Separate This Standard prescribes the accounting and To be Low The entity discloses its investments Financial Statements disclosure requirements for investments in determined by in controlled entities at cost. controlled entities, joint ventures and the Minister of associates when an entity prepares separate Finance financial statements. GRAP 35 Consolidated This Standard establishes principles for the To be Low The entity is not required to present Financial Statements presentation and preparation of determined by consolidated financial statements. consolidated financial statements when an the Minister of entity controls one or more other entities. Finance GRAP 36 Investments This Standard prescribes the accounting for To be Low The entity does not hold in Associates and Joint investments in associates and joint ventures and determined by investments in associates and joint Ventures sets out the requirements for the application of the Minister of ventures. the equity method when accounting for Finance investments in associates and joint ventures. GRAP 37 Joint The Standard establishes principles for financial To be Low The entity does not have joint arArrangements reporting by entities that have an interest in determined by rangements. arrangements that are controlled jointly (i.e. the Minister of joint arrangements). Finance GRAP 38 Disclosure of This Standard prescribes additional disclosures by To be Low The only interest the entity has Interests in Other entities that have any interests in controlled determined by in other entities is an interest in a Entities entities, unconsolidated controlled entities, joint the Minister of dormant company. The entity arrangements and associates, and structured Finance discloses its investment at cost. entities that are not consolidated. GRAP 108 Statutory This Standard prescribes the accounting 1 April 2019 Medium The entity has receivables due from Receivables requirements for the recognition, measurement, SARS, which meets the definition presentation and disclosure of statutory of a statutory receivable. receivables. GRAP 109 Accounting This Standard prescribes the principles to be 1 April 2019 Low The entity is not a party to a by Principals and used to assess whether an entity is party to a principal-agent arrangement in Agents principal-agent arrangement. terms of GRAP 109. GRAP 110 Living and This Standard prescribes the recognition, 1 April 2020 Low The entity does not own living and Non-living Resources measurement, presentation and disclosure non-living resources. requirements for living resources and disclosure requirements for non-living resources. Where a Standard of GRAP is approved as effective, it replaces the equivalent statement of International Public Sector Accounting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards or Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Where a Standard of GRAP has been issued but is not yet in effect, an entity may select to apply the principles established in that Standard in developing an appropriate accounting policy dealing with a particular section or event before applying paragraph 12 of the Standard of GRAP on Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 180 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 1. Accounting policies (continued) 1.1 Basis of preparation (continued) The significant accounting policies are set out below, and are consistent with those applied in the previous financial year. The amendments to GRAP 21 and GRAP 26 relating to the designation of an asset as cash-generating or non-cash-generating had no impact on the initial classification of the cash-generating unit. Significant judgements and estimates The company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed in the relevant notes. In the process of applying the accounting policies, management has made the following significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions, which has the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: Property, plant and equipment The useful lives of assets are based on management’s estimation. Management considers the impact of technology, availability of capital funding, service requirements and required return on assets to determine the optimum useful life expectation where appropriate. The estimation of residual values of assets is also based on management’s judgement whether the assets will be sold or used to the end of their useful lives, and what their condition will be at that time. Impairment of assets in progress As part of the impairment calculation, management estimates the recoverable amount by calculating the value in use of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. In arriving at the value in use, management has needed to make significant assumptions regarding future cash flows and discount rates, which are disclosed in Note 2.2. Operating lease commitments – Entity as lessor The entity has entered into commercial property leases on its property portfolio. The entity has determined that it retains all the significant risks and rewards of ownership of these properties, and so accounts for them as operating leases. Rental is paid based on turnover rental contracts and is recognised as accrued. Impairment of trade receivables from exchange transactions The calculation in respect of the impairment of debtors is based on an assessment of the extent to which debtors have defaulted on payments already due, and an assessment of their ability to make payments based on their creditworthiness. This was performed per service-identifiable categories across all classes of debtors. Provisions and contingent liabilities Management’s judgement is required when recognising and measuring provisions, and when measuring contingent liabilities as set out in Note 27. Management’s judgement is also required in the assessment for the provision of doubtful debts as set out in Note 8. 1.2 Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment loss. 181 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Costs include costs incurred initially to acquire or construct an item of property, plant and equipment and costs incurred subsequently to add to, replace part of, or service it. If a replacement cost is recognised in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment, the carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. Recognition of costs in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment ceases when the item is in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Capital work-in-progress is carried at cost and depreciated from the date the assets are capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to write-off the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: 2019 2018 % % Escalators and elevators 5.56 – 16.67 5.56 – 16.67 Carpets / Laminated flooring 16.67 – 25.00 16.67 – 25.00 Curtains / Blinds 11.11 – 20.00 11.11 – 20.00 Signage 8.33 – 33.33 8.33 – 33.33 Audiovisual 7.69 – 16.67 7.69 – 16.67 Fences and gates 6.67 – 16.67 6.67 – 16.67 Cold rooms 5.88 – 16.67 5.88 – 16.67 Air-conditioning system 5.56 – 16.67 5.56 – 16.67 Sprinkler system 16.67 – 20.00 16.67 – 20.00 Auditorium seating 8.33 – 16.67 8.33 – 16.67 Building management system 5.88 – 16.67 5.88 – 16.67 Building 2.50 – 50.00 2.50 – 50.00 Plant and equipment 8.33 – 33.33 8.33 – 33.33 Motor vehicles 5.26 – 25.00 5.26 – 25.00 Furniture and fittings 6.67 – 50.00 6.67 – 50.00 Kitchen and catering 5.26 – 50.00 5.26 – 50.00 Office equipment 6.25 – 50.00 6.25 – 50.00 Computer equipment 11.11 – 50.00 11.11 – 50.00 Computer software 11.11 – 50.00 11.11 – 50.00 The assets’ estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis. Repairs and maintenance are generally charged to expenses during the financial period in which they are incurred. However, major renovations are capitalised and included in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits of the renovation will flow to the company. Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset. An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits or service potential are expected from its use or disposal. The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment is included in operating profit when the item is derecognised. The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of the item. Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds the calculated recoverable amount, the asset is immediately written down to the recoverable amount. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 182 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 1. Accounting policies (continued) 1.3 Intangible assets An intangible asset is defined as an identifiable non-monetary asset without physical substance. Intangible assets are recognised initially at cost and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Intangible assets are amortised on the straight-line basis over the useful lives of the assets. The residual value, amortisation method and useful life, if not insignificant, are reassessed annually, with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis. Amortisation is calculated on the straight-line method to write-off the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as folows: 2019 2018 Useful life of acquired software licences 33.33% 33.33% Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal (including disposal through a non-exchange transaction) or when no future economic benefits or service potential are expected from its use or disposal. The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an intangible asset shall be included in surplus or deficit when the asset is derecognised. 1.4 Impairment of assets 1.4.1 Impairment of cash-generating assets Definitions Cash-generating assets are assets used with the objective of generating a commercial return. Commercial return means that the positive cash flows are expected to be significantly higher than the cost of the assets. Impairment is a loss in the future economic benefits or service potential of an asset, over and above the systematic recognition of the loss of the asset’s future economic benefits or service potential through depreciation/amortisation. Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised in the Statement of Financial Position after deducting any accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses thereon. A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets held with the primary objective of generating a commercial return that generates cash flows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. Costs of disposal are incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset, excluding finance costs and income tax expense. Depreciation is the systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an asset over its useful life. Fair value less costs to sell is the amount obtainable from the sale of an asset in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less costs of disposal. Recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Useful life is either: a) The period of time over which an asset is expected to be used by the entity; or b) The number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the assets by the entity. Criteria developed by the entity to distinguish cash-generating assets from non-cash-generating assets are as follows: 183 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The company considers cash-generating assets to be those assets which are used to host events, which represents the company’s core revenue stream, which is all of its assets as a single cash-generating unit. Identification When the carrying amount of a cash-generating asset exceeds its recoverable amount, it is impaired. The entity assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that a cash-generating asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the entity estimates the recoverable amount of the asset. Value in use Value in use of a cash-generating asset is the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to be derived from the continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life. When estimating the value in use of an asset, the entity estimates the future cash inflows and outflows to be derived from continuing use of the asset and from its ultimate disposal and the entity applies the appropriate discount rate to those future cash flows. Composition of estimates of future cash flows Estimates of future cash flows include: • Projections of cash inflows from the continuing use of the asset; • Projections of cash outflows that are necessarily incurred to generate the cash inflows from continuing use of the asset (including cash outflows to prepare the asset for use) and can be directly attributed, or allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis, to the asset; and • Net cash flows, if any, to be received (or paid) for the disposal of the asset at the end of its useful life. Estimates of future cash flow exclude: • Cash inflows or outflows from financing activities; and • Income tax receipts or payments. The estimate of net cash flows to be received (or paid) for the disposal of an asset at the end of its useful life is the amount that the entity expects to obtain from the disposal of the asset in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, after deducting the estimated costs of disposal. Discount rate The discount rate is a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money, represented by the current risk-free rate of interest and the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted. Recognition and measurement (individual asset) If the recoverable amount of a cash-generating asset is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. This reduction is an impairment loss. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in surplus or deficit. When the amount estimated for an impairment loss is greater than the carrying amount of the cash-generating asset to which it relates, the entity recognises a liability only to the extent that is a requirement in the standard of GRAP. After the recognition of an impairment loss, the depreciation charge for the cash-generating asset is adjusted in future periods to allocate the cash-generating asset’s revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. Redesignation The redesignation of assets from a cash-generating asset to a non-cash-generating asset or from a non-cash-generating asset to a cash-generating asset may only occur when there is clear evidence that such a redesignation is appropriate. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 184 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 1. Accounting policies (continued) 1.4 Impairment of assets (continued) 1.4.1 Impairment of cash-generating assets (continued) Reversal of an impairment loss The entity assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods for a cash-generating asset may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, the entity estimates the recoverable amount of that asset. An impairment loss recognised in prior periods for a cash-generating asset is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. The increase is a reversal of an impairment loss. The increased carrying amount of an asset attributable to a reversal of an impairment loss does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of depreciation or amortisation) had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior periods. A reversal of an impairment loss for a cash-generating asset is recognised immediately in surplus or deficit. After a reversal of an impairment loss is recognised, the depreciation (amortisation) charge for the cash-generating asset is adjusted in future periods to allocate the cash-generating asset’s revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. 1.4.2 Impairment of non-cash-generating assets Cash-generating assets are assets used with the objective of generating a commercial return. Commercial return means that the positive cash flows are expected to be significantly higher than the cost of the assets. Non-cash-generating assets are assets other than cash-generating assets. The entity does not have any non-cash-generating assets, as its entire operation is regarded as a single cash-generating unit. 1.5 Leases Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to the Statement of Financial Performance on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. Operating lease revenue is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 1.6 Inventories Inventories are recognised as an asset if it is probable that future economic benefits or service potential associated with the item will flow to the entity and if the cost of the inventories can be measured reliably. Inventories are initially measured at cost. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is determined on the weighted average method and includes transport and handling costs. The weighted average cost is determined using a weighted average cost for the month based on the most recent month’s purchases. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses. When inventories are utilised or consumed, the carrying amounts of those inventories are recognised as an expense in the period. The amount of any write-down of inventories to net realisable value and all losses of inventories are recognised as an expense in the period the write-down or loss occurs. Reversals of any write-downs of inventories arising from the increase in net realisable value are recognised as a reduction in the amount of inventories recognised as an expense in the period in which the reversal occurs. 185 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.7 Taxation Taxation on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred taxation. Taxation is recognised in profit or loss. 1.7.1 Current taxation Current taxation comprises tax payable calculated on the basis of the estimated taxable income for the year using the tax rates enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment of tax payable for previous years. 1.7.2 Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided on all temporary differences between carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax base, except to the extent that the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable surplus/deficit. The amount of deferred taxation provided is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is released or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates/laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting date. Deferred taxation is charged to profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a transaction that is recognised in net assets, in which case it is recognised in net assets, or a business combination that is an acquisition, in which case it is recognised as an adjustment to goodwill. The effect on deferred taxation of any changes in tax rates is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items previously charged or credited to net assets. A deferred taxation asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the associated unused tax losses and deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred taxation assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the tax benefit will be realised. 1.8 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and when a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. Provisions are reviewed at the reporting date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. When it is no longer probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, the provision shall be reversed. When the effect of the time value of money is material, the entity determines the level of provision by discounting the expected cash flows at a pre-tax rate reflecting the current risks specific to the liability. 1.9 Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the invoiced value of sales of goods and services net of value-added tax, rebates and all discounts. Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer. Revenue arising from the rendering of services is recognised when the event takes place. Where the event is held over a month-end, the revenue is split as earned. Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration receivable. 1.9.1 Revenue from exchange transactions Revenue from exchange transactions relate to income earned from venue rental, sale of goods and other services. Service fee income is recognised for the rendering of services as an agent in accordance with the contract of hire agreements. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 186 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 1. Accounting policies (continued) 1.9 Revenue recognition (continued) 1.9.2 Finance income Finance income comprises interest income. Interest income is recognised in profit or loss on a time proportion basis, taking account of the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate over the period to maturity, when it is probable that such income will accrue to the entity. 1.10 Financial instruments The company classifies financial assets into the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, amortised cost and cost. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets are acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. Financial assets at fair value Financial assets at fair value are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term. Assets in this category are classified as current assets. Financial instruments at amortised cost Financial instruments at amortised cost are non-derivative financial assets with fixed and determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets for maturities less than 12 months after the reporting date. Assets with maturities greater than 12 months are classified as non-current assets. Initial recognition The company recognises financial instruments in the Statement of Financial Position when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. The company recognises financial assets using trade date accounting. Impairment and uncollectibility of financial assets The entity assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets are impaired. Derecognition Financial assets The entity derecognises a financial asset only when: • The contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, are settled or waived; • The entity transfers to another party substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset; or • The entity, despite having retained some significant risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, has transferred control of the asset to another party and the other party has the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party, and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally and without needing to impose additional restrictions on the transfer. In this case, the entity: – Derecognises the asset; and – Recognises separately any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer. On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received is recognised in profit or loss. 187 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.10.1 Financial assests at amortised cost Receivables from exchange transactions Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the trade receivable and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment through the use of a separate allowance account. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of six months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Statement of Financial Position. 1.10.2 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Payables from exchange transactions Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the trade payable and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Derecognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancels or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement. 1.10.3 Financial risk factors The company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The company’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the company’s financial performance. (i) Interest rate risk The company’s cash balances are impacted by changes in market interest rates. (ii) Credit risk Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the company’s large number of customers, who are both internationally and nationally dispersed. The company has policies in place to ensure that sales of products and services are made to customers with an appropriate credit history. The company has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution, and cash transactions are limited to creditworthy institutions. (iii) Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents to fund the activities of the company. (iv) Capital risk management The company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 188 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 1. Accounting policies (continued) 1.11 Client deposits Client deposits received in advance for upcoming events are recognised at amortised cost and are derecognised and accounted as revenue when the event occurs. 1.12 Translation of foreign currencies Transactions Foreign currency transactions are recorded on initial recognition in Rands by applying to the foreign currency amount the exchange rate between the Rand and the foreign currency at the date of the transaction. At each reporting date: (a) Foreign currency monetary items are reported using the closing rate; and (b) Non-monetary items, which are carried in terms of historical cost denominated in a foreign currency, are reported using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items or on reporting an enterprise’s monetary items at rates different from those at which they are initially recorded during the period, or reported in previous financial statements, are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which they arise. 1.13 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 1.14 Employee benefits Short-term employee benefits The cost of all short-term employee benefits is recognised during the period in which the employee renders the related service. The amounts for employee entitlements to salaries, performance bonus and annual leave represent the amounts which the entity has a present obligation to pay as a result of employees’ services provided at the reporting date. The provisions have been calculated at discounted amounts based on current salary levels at the reporting date. There are no critical assumptions or judgements involved in determining the short-term employee benefits. Defined contribution plan The majority of the company’s employees are members of the defined contribution plan. A defined contribution plan is a provident fund under which the company pays fixed contributions into a trustee administered fund. The company’s contributions to the defined contribution plan are charged to the Statement of Financial Performance in the financial year to which they relate. The company has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. 1.15 Irregular expenditure Irregular expenditure is expenditure that is contrary to the Municipal Finance Management Act, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003), the Municipal Systems Act, 2000 (Act No. 32 of 2000), and the Public Office Bearers Act, 1998 (Act No. 20 of 1998), or is in contravention of the Municipal Supply Chain Management Policy. 189 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Irregular expenditure that was incurred and identified during the current financial year, which was not condoned, must be recorded appropriately in the irregular expenditure register. If liability for the irregular expenditure can be attributed to a person, a debt amount must be created if such person is liable in law. Immediate steps must thereafter be taken to recover the amount from the person concerned. If recovery is not possible, write-off of the amount must be considered. Where irregular expenditure is condoned or not condoned, it is accounted for as expenditure in the Statement of Financial Performance and classified in accordance with the nature of the expense, and where recovered, it is subsequently accounted for as revenue in the Statement of Financial Performance. However, the irregular purchases of assets are accounted for in the Statement of Financial Position and will be disclosed in the financial statements as irregular expenditure. 1.16 Fruitless and wasteful expenditure Fruitless and wasteful expenditure is expenditure that was made in vain and would have been avoided had reasonable care been exercised. Fruitless and wasteful expenditure is accounted for as expenditure in the Statement of Financial Performance and where recovered, it is subsequently accounted for as revenue in the Statement of Financial Performance. 1.17 Comparative information Comparative figures are classified or restated as necessary to afford a proper and more meaningful comparison of results as set out in the affected notes to the financial statements. Budgeted amounts have been included in the annual financial statements for the current financial year only. 1.18 Investment Investments in subsidiary companies are stated at cost, less impairment losses. 1.19 Capital commitments Commitments are not recognised in the Statement of Financial Position nor the Statement of Financial Performance, but are included in the disclosure notes to the annual financial statements. 1.20 Budget information The annual budget figures have been prepared on an accrual basis, and are consistent with the accounting policies adopted by the Board for the preparation of these financial statements. The approved budget covers the fiscal period from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The amounts are scheduled as a separate additional financial statement, called the Statement of Comparison of Budget and Actual Amounts. Explanatory comments on material differences are provided in the notes to the annual financial statements. These figures are those approved by the Board as part of the annual business plan process. Comparative information is not required for the Statement of Comparison of Budget and Actual Amounts. The budget information is prepared for Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Limited (RF). Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 190 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 1. Accounting policies (continued) 1.21 Related parties The related party accounting policy was formulated using the definitions as noted in the International Public Sector Accounting Standards 20 (IPSAS 20). The company regards a related party as a person or an entity with the ability to control the company either individually or jointly, or the ability to exercise significant influence over the company, or vice versa. Key management personnel are regarded as a related party and includes Board members, as well as other persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the reporting entity. Where they meet this requirement, key management personnel include any key advisor of key management personnel, as well as the senior management group of the reporting entity. Close members of the family of an individual are close relatives of the individual or members of the individual’s immediate family who can be expected to influence or be influenced by that individual in their dealings with the entity. All related party transactions are disclosed. 1.22 Value-added tax (VAT) The company accounts for VAT on an invoice basis. 1.23 Post-balance sheet events Events after the reporting date are those events, both favourable and unfavourable, that occur between the reporting date and the date when the financial statements are authorised for issue. Two types of events can be identified: (a) Those that provide evidence of conditions that existed at the reporting date (adjusting events after the reporting date); and (b) Those that are indicative of conditions that arose after the reporting date (non-adjusting events after the reporting date). 191 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2. Property, plant and equipment 2019 2018 ASSETS IN ACCUMULATED ASSETS IN PROGRESS DEPRECIATION ACCUMULATED CARRYING PROGRESS ACCUMULATED ACCUMULATED CARRYING COST COST(ii) (iii) IMPAIRMENT VALUE COST COST(ii) DEPRECIATION IMPAIRMENT VALUE R R R R R R R R R R Escalators 15 077 454 – 4 399 278 4 383 426 6 294 750 6 467 709 8 570 814 3 234 904 4 383 425 7 420 194 Elevators 21 167 156 3 742 073 8 436 785 6 193 623 10 278 821 8 838 685 12 110 254 7 665 706 6 193 623 7 089 610 Carpets / Laminated flooring 21 035 135 – 6 499 723 4 313 965 10 221 447 10 161 912 8 435 000 4 442 957 4 313 965 9 839 990 Curtains / Blinds 6 339 600 – 418 305 3 218 264 2 703 031 62 600 6 292 600 25 781 3 218 264 3 111 155 Signage 3 929 985 – 2 531 689 – 1 398 296 3 774 684 – 2 029 541 – 1 745 143 Audiovisual 11 753 112 – 8 619 771 – 3 133 341 9 686 230 – 8 094 061 – 1 592 169 Fences and gates 1 291 407 – 841 609 – 449 798 1 276 960 – 729 945 – 547 015 Cold rooms 5 079 873 – 3 176 033 792 726 1 111 114 3 301 547 1 550 000 2 912 049 792 726 1 146 772 Air-conditioning system 70 368 184 – 29 494 284 17 825 202 23 048 698 35 227 682 37 987 245 27 242 721 19 428 056 26 544 150 Sprinkler system 15 678 003 – 5 037 825 5 435 365 5 204 813 5 130 829 13 692 737 4 752 779 7 002 963 7 067 824 Auditorium seating 1 744 982 – 1 410 499 – 334 483 1 744 982 – 1 075 992 – 668 990 Building management system 14 631 656 – 10 980 870 – 3 650 786 16 761 852 – 11 813 315 – 4 948 537 Building 1 123 741 728 75 331 009 349 553 350 439 471 576 410 047 811 922 053 118 255 444 787 338 540 089 435 665 488 403 292 328 Plant and equipment 82 261 680 – 8 688 060 31 888 530 41 685 090 11 015 508 61 331 215 5 467 875 31 367 010 35 511 838 Motor vehicles 952 371 – 842 781 – 109 590 1 688 179 – 1 473 820 – 214 359 Furniture and fittings 20 562 064 – 11 177 511 – 9 384 553 20 520 809 – 9 570 230 – 10 950 579 Kitchen and catering 34 615 068 – 16 887 507 – 17 727 561 29 462 586 – 11 144 666 – 18 317 920 Office equipment 3 159 081 – 1 661 704 – 1 497 377 2 240 941 – 910 297 – 1 330 644 Computer equipment 65 650 128 – 23 535 041 18 438 264 23 676 823 27 289 296 35 248 338 14 827 335 18 027 279 29 683 020 Computer software(i) 8 197 287 – 5 713 004 979 994 1 504 289 13 171 985 – 9 752 538 – 3 419 447 1 527 235 954 79 073 082 499 905 629 532 940 935 573 462 472 1 129 878 094 440 662 990 465 706 601 530 392 799 574 441 684 (i) Computer software assets, which form an integral part of computer equipment that were previously disclosed together with computer equipment, have been reclassified and disclosed separately. Separately acquired software licenses are classified as intangible assets. Refer to Note 3. (ii) Assets in progress relate to the capitalised costs incurred on phase 2 of the expansion project, which is due for final technical completion during the second half of the 2019 financial year. (iii) The reduction in accumulated depreciation in certain classes of assets from 2018 to 2019 is due to asset disposals during the year. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 192 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 2. Property, plant and equipment (continued) The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment can be reconciled as follows: 2019 CARRYING VALUE AT Assets in Assets in Disposals Carrying BEGINNING OF Progress Progress NET BOOK value at end YEAR reclassification(i) Reclassification(ii) Additions (iii) Additions VALUE (iv) Depreciation Impairment of year R R R R R R R R R Escalators 7 420 194 – – – 38 931 – 1 164 374 – 6 294 751 Elevators 7 089 610 – – 3 742 073 218 217 – 771 079 – 10 278 821 Carpets / Laminated flooring 9 839 990 – – – 2 521 949 7 086 2 133 407 – 10 221 446 Curtains / Blinds 3 111 155 – – – – – 408 124 – 2 703 031 Signage 1 745 143 – – – 184 785 13 924 517 708 – 1 398 296 Audiovisual 1 592 170 – (6 251) – 2 069 638 – 522 216 – 3 133 341 Fences and gates 547 015 – – – 14 446 – 111 664 – 449 797 Cold rooms 1 146 770 – – – 228 326 – 263 983 – 1 111 113 Air-conditioning system 26 544 150 (1 531 171) – – 287 283 – 2 251 564 – 23 048 698 Sprinkler system 7 067 824 (1 497 491) – – – – 365 521 – 5 204 812 Auditorium seating 668 991 – – – – – 334 507 – 334 484 Building management system 4 948 537 – – – 77 074 213 692 1 161 133 – 3 650 786 Building 403 292 328 1 201 696 (4 334 044) 10 671 345 15 127 059 25 120 13 337 315 2 548 136 410 047 814 Plant and equipment 35 511 839 498 197 – – 9 062 694 40 180 3 347 460 – 41 685 090 Motor vehicles 214 359 – – – – 30 173 74 595 – 109 591 Furniture and fittings 10 950 580 – (34 978) – 776 184 26 728 2 280 505 – 9 384 553 Kitchen and catering 18 317 921 – (339 680) – 6 587 046 25 946 6 811 780 – 17 727 561 Office equipment 1 330 643 – (76 008) – 947 815 – 705 073 – 1 497 377 Computer equipment 29 683 019 392 602 (45 621) – 4 887 920 309 618 10 931 479 – 23 676 823 Computer software 3 419 447 (6 936 428) (97 094) – 5 956 435 2 838 069 – 1 504 289 574 441 684 (7 872 595) (4 933 676) 14 413 418 48 985 802 692 469 48 331 556 2 548 136 573 462 472 193 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (i) During the 2019 year, a detailed analysis was performed on all assets installed at CTICC 2 in order to capitalise the assets into the asset register, thus, reclassifying it out of assets in progress. This process was done in preparation of agreeing the final account on the project with the Principal Building Contractor. An amount of R7 872 595 previously included as assets in progress has been reclassified as computer software and licenses and is disclosed as Intangible Assets in Note 3. (ii) Reclassification relates to assets previously capitalised and moved to a different class during the asset verification exercise during the year. During the year, the company achieved a favourable outcome for claims against the principal building contractor to the value of R34.6 million (Note 8). The claim was allocated to the assets in progress category, resulting in a reduction in the carrying amount. The cost claim relating to the legal fees awarded were partially paid during the year, resulting in the reclassification balance of R4 933 676. The balance of the claims were allocated against prior year additions. (iii) Assets in progress relate to the capitalised costs incurred on phase 2 of the CTICC 2 expansion project and is reflected in the category relating to the costs. (iv) Where assets are assessed to have reached the end of their economic life, they are disposed of. The company donates certain assets to various schools and other organs of state in the Cape Metropole area that may still have a net book value at time of disposal. 2.1 Assets in progress Assets in progress relate to the capitalised costs incurred on the expansion of the convention centre (CTICC 2). The construction project for CTICC 2 was started in 2014 and was originally due for completion in October 2016. The expected completion date of the project has been delayed numerous times and as at the reporting date, final technical completion and final works completion have not yet been achieved due to significant unexpected delays affecting the ability to operate the building in the manner intended by management. The company has reclassified a significant portion of the costs into its separate categories of property, plant and equipment. The portion that remains in assets in progress relates to the portion of the works still to be completed, as well as other projects in CTICC 1. Given the significant unexpected delays in construction, the company has assessed the asset for impairment in accordance with GRAP 26. Property, plant and equipment that is taking a significantly longer period of time to complete than expected has a cost of R79 073 082 (2018: R440 662 990) and a carrying value of R62 981 738 (2018: R199 200 598). Assets in progress comprise the following significant classes: • Building; and • Elevators. Cost Impairment Carrying value R R R Movement in assets in progress AIP balance at beginning of the year 440 662 990 241 462 392 199 200 598 Less: AIP reclassified to categories (376 316 275) (225 371 048) (150 945 227) PPE (368 443 680) (225 371 048) (143 072 632) Intangibles (Note 3) (7 872 595) – (7 872 595) 64 346 715 16 091 344 48 255 371 Add: 2019 additions 14 726 367 – 14 726 367 AIP balance at year-end 79 073 082 16 091 344 62 981 738 The assets in progress balance has been included in the various categories of property, plant and equipment and is not disclosed seperately. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 194 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 2. Property, plant and equipment (continued) 2018 CARRYING VALUE Assets in DISPOSALS CARRYING AT BEGINNING Progress Other NET BOOK VALUE AT END OF YEAR Additions(ii) Additions VALUE DEPRECIATION Impairment OF YEAR R R R R R R R Escalators 10 450 132 – 2 482 399 – 1 128 912 4 383 425 7 420 194 Elevators 12 541 368 833 147 250 239 – 341 521 6 193 623 7 089 610 Carpets / Laminated flooring 13 067 766 1 783 442 919 207 – 1 616 460 4 313 965 9 839 990 Curtains / Blinds 2 003 452 4 338 858 – – 12 891 3 218 264 3 111 155 Signage 2 133 030 – 100 442 – 488 329 – 1 745 143 Audiovisual 1 024 589 – 833 805 – 266 224 – 1 592 170 Fences and gates 287 497 – 323 254 – 63 736 – 547 015 Cold rooms 2 120 813 – – – 181 317 792 726 1 146 770 Air-conditioning system 66 861 166 (19 907 841) 253 653 – 1 234 772 19 428 056 26 544 150 Sprinkler system 10 816 588 2 876 149 384 458 – 6 408 7 002 963 7 067 824 Auditorium seating 1 399 755 – – – 730 764 – 668 991 Building management system 6 357 034 – – 417 1 408 080 – 4 948 537 Building 719 871 873 62 422 796 3 532 256 – 14 662 903 367 871 694 403 292 328 Plant and equipment 52 258 028 11 898 487 3 698 646 – 976 312 31 367 010 35 511 839 Motor vehicles 358 615 – – – 144 256 – 214 359 Furniture and fittings 3 211 534 – 9 049 982 18 104 1 292 832 – 10 950 580 Kitchen and catering 4 772 404 – 18 400 962 132 725 4 722 720 – 18 317 921 Office equipment 1 049 340 – 854 892 2 573 587 – 1 330 643 Computer equipment (i) 44 352 138 3 038 033 6 086 952 632 5 766 193 18 027 279 29 683 019 Computer software (i) 6 813 146 – 636 765 – 4 030 464 – 3 419 447 961 750 268 67 283 071 47 807 912 151 880 39 648 681 462 599 006 574 441 684 None of the company’s assets are encumbered at the reporting date. (i) Computer software assets, which form an integral part of computer equipment that was previously disclosed together with computer equipment, have been reclassified and disclosed separately. Separately acquired software licences are classified as intangible assets. Refer to Note 3. (ii) Assets in progress relate to the capitalised costs incurred on phase 2 of the expansion project. 195 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Repairs and maintenance The following costs were incurred on assets to prolong the useful lives of assets: 2019 2018 R R Service providers 10 570 504 9 544 422 Materials 4 110 752 2 023 070 Total repairs and maintenance expenses 14 681 256 11 567 492 2019 2018 R R Cost (fully depreciated property, plant and equipment) Audiovisual 984 074 986 830 Building 2 021 978 3 612 809 Carpets / Laminated flooring – 19 876 Curtains / Blinds – 15 600 Sprinkler system 4 665 896 4 746 371 Air-conditioning system 114 856 114 856 Motor vehicles – 3 350 Computer equipment 58 078 540 097 Computer software 163 235 4 293 061 Office equipment 35 29 709 Furniture and fittings 5 188 872 5 923 892 Artwork – 1 321 095 Plant and equipment 1 454 309 350 962 Kitchen and catering 1 701 378 2 116 554 16 352 711 24 075 062 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 196 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 2. Property, plant and equipment (continued) 2.2 Impairment of the CTICC building and assets in progress In line with the accounting policy for cash-generating assets, property, plant and equipment were assessed during the period for possible indicators of impairment. The CTICC is a cash-generating entity established for the purposes of hosting events. The CTICC 2 building was established to enhance the capabilities of the CTICC to host additional and larger events to further contribute to the company’s revenue streams. As such, the impairment testing process applicable to cash-generating assets has been applied. During the review, management considered the impact of the delays in construction of CTICC 2, as well as the consequential delay and reduction in expected cash flows from that asset as indicators of potential impairment. During the year, a portion of the CTICC 2 building cost, which was included as part of assets in progress, was capitalised. Management views the building and assets in progress as forming part of a single cash-generating unit together with the existing CTICC building and, therefore, it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount for the CTICC 2 centre as an individual asset. Management estimated the recoverable amount by calculating the value in use of the cash-generating unit (being CTICC 1 and 2 combined) of R512 866 595 (2018: R490 617 296) and comparing it to the carrying value of the relevant assets in that cash-generating unit of R515 414 731 (2018: R953 216 302) at the date of impairment testing. Therefore, the company has recognised an impairment loss of R2 548 136 (2018: R462 599 006) and has been disclosed in the impairment line item on the Statement of Financial Performance. The impairment loss is significantly lower than the prior year’s amount as the impairment test was done on the combined buildings for the first time, as CTICC 2 was partially brought into use during that year, thus, requiring a significant impairment of R462 599 006. Consideration, methods and significant assumptions applied in arriving at the value in use (a) Due to the restrictions imposed on the use of the facility and site, no active market exists within, which the value of the centre can be determined through an arm’s length transaction between a willing buyer and a willing seller and, as such, the value in use of the centre has been used to determine whether the building’s carrying value may not be recoverable. (b) Since inception, all initial targets for the region (spin-offs) and the operation of the convention centre have consistently been exceeded and are forecast to maintain this level of performance for the foreseeable future. Despite this, the value in use of the centre can only be attributed to the present value of the future cash flows generated within the centre itself, and excludes any value which it generates for other entities or business sectors. (c) No value could be attached to the centre at the end of its useful life due to its disposal being highly unlikely, with no reliable basis for measuring the disposal value. (d) The two buildings of the business, as well as the remaining property, plant and equipment, are considered a single cash-generating unit for the following reasons: – CTICC 2 does not operate independently from CTICC 1; – The buildings are managed together as part of the event hosting business; and – Large events are hosted in a combination of venues across the two buildings. Accordingly, they are evaluated as a single cash-generating unit when testing for impairment. (e) The value in use was estimated using a discounted cash flow model, which incorporated approved budget figures for a 3 year projection period. Cash flows were forecast for an additional 4 years, assuming revenue growth of 6.5% for both CTICC 1 and CTICC 2. 197 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (f) A discount rate of 13.41% (2018: 14.04%) was used, which was calculated using the risk-free rate of the R186 bond of 8.10%adjusted by 5.31 percentage points to take into account the company’s long-term borrowing cost of 9.30%, a Beta of 0.90, as well as a market risk premium of 6.10% for uncertainty regarding timing and extent of future cash flows. Based on the value in use calculation, an amount of R512.9 million (2018: R490.6 million) was determined. The current carrying value of R515.4 million (2018: R953.2 million) was established for the relevant assets in that cash-generating unit. This has resulted in the recognition of an impairment loss of R2.5 million in the year (2018: R462.6 million). 2.3 Revision of useful lives of property, plant and equipment During the year, the company revised the estimated useful lives of certain items of property, plant and equipment. The change in estimate was necessary as these items were approaching the end of their originally assessed useful lives, and management determined that the assets were still going to be in use for an extended period beyond the reporting date as a result of the good condition and maintenance of the assets. The net effect of the changes in the current year was a reduction in the depreciation charge of R1 282 730 (2018: R7 201 152). The effect on future years will be an overall increase of the same amount over the subsequent financial years. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 198 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 3. Intangible assets 2019 ACCUMULATED Cost AMORTISATION CARRYING VALUE R R R Software licences 11 429 615 3 414 667 8 014 948 11 429 615 3 414 667 8 014 948 2018 ACCUMULATED Cost AMORTISATION CARRYING VALUE R R R Software licences 869 065 171 758 697 307 869 065 171 758 697 307 The carrying amounts of intangible assets can be reconciled as follows: CARRYING VALUE AT AIP CARRYING VALUE AT BEGINNING OF YEAR ADDITIONS(i) Reclassification(ii) AMORTISATION THE END OF YEAR R R R R R 2019 Software licences 697 307 2 687 955 7 872 595 3 242 909 8 014 948 697 307 2 687 955 7 872 595 3 242 909 8 014 948 (i) All software licences are acquired from external suppliers and are not internally generated. (ii) The reclassification of R7 872 595 (2018: RNil) relates to software and licence costs for CTICC 2 assets previously disclosed as assets in progress and capitalised during the year (refer Note 2). CARRYING VALUE AT Reclassification CARRYING VALUE AT BEGINNING OF YEAR ADDITIONS and Transfers AMORTISATION THE END OF YEAR R R R R R 2018 Software licences – 869 065 171 758 697 307 – 869 065 171 758 697 307 199 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4. Investment in subsidiary The company has an investment in the following company: 2019 2018 Unlisted R R Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company (Pty) Limited (OPCO) 100 100 The agency agreement between Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Limited (RF) (Convenco) and Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company (Pty) Limited (OPCO) was terminated on 30 June 2010. OPCO does not reflect any trading activities in its financial results and will be deregistered. The company is dormant and has net asset value of R100, which represents the share capital of OPCO. 5. Service-in-kind benefit 2019 2018 2017 R R R The service-in-kind balance is made up as follows: Non-current asset at beginning of year 179 298 976 181 422 952 183 546 928 Service-in-kind charge (2 123 976) (2 123 976) (2 123 976) Service-in-kind benefit at end of year 177 175 000 179 298 976 181 422 952 The service-in-kind benefit was not previously recorded and a prior period error was required, with the recognition of the service-in-kind benefit of R181 422 952 as a non-current asset at 1 July 2017 and adjusting the Accumulated Deficit with the same amount. An amount of R2 123 976 will be charged to the Statement of Financial Performance each year to reflect the annual benefit utilised. This is a non-cash charge and arose as a result of the GRAP 23 accounting recognition of the service-in-kind benefit. 2019 2018 R R Service-in-kind benefit allocation: Long-term portion 175 051 024 177 175 000 Short-term portion 2 123 976 2 123 976 Service-in-kind benefit 177 175 000 179 298 976 The non-cash service-in-kind benefit arose as a result of the long-term land lease entered into between the company and the City of Cape Town in 2001 for a period of 99 years at a rental of R100 per annum, which is below the market value. The company has valued the service-in-kind benefit to the value of the land. The service-in-kind benefit is recognised as a non-current asset and will be charged to the Statement of Financial Performance over the remaining period of the lease, which is 81 years and 5 months. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 200 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 6. Deferred taxation Deferred income taxes are calculated on all temporary differences under the balance sheet method using a tax rate of 28%. 2019 2018 R R The deferred tax balance is made up as follows: Asset at beginning of year 129 563 991 3 576 669 Temporary differences (5 393 865) 125 987 322 Asset at end of year 124 170 126 129 563 991 The balance comprises the following temporary differences: Property, plant and equipment 116 833 063 124 355 004 Trade receivables and other receivables 353 462 124 078 Client deposits 4 635 190 3 154 238 Trade payables and other payables 786 880 608 124 Provisions 1 561 531 1 322 547 Asset at end of year 124 170 126 129 563 991 7. Inventories 2019 2018 R R Food 402 313 392 618 Beverage 980 155 655 457 Consumables 621 419 498 679 Chemicals 61 578 44 683 Total 2 065 465 1 591 437 The company has not written down any inventory during the financial year (2018: RNil). 201 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8. Trade receivables and other receivables RESTATED 2019 2018 R R Exchange transactions Trade receivables 4 453 327 4 086 945 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables (615 163) (10 063) Trade receivables from exchange transactions – net 3 838 164 4 076 882 Prepayments 10 116 330 3 389 280 Other receivables 42 508 575 5 441 052 Non-exchange transactions South African Revenue Service: VAT 5 557 367 5 686 232 Interest receivable 839 131 1 202 884 Total 62 859 567 19 796 330 Trade receivables ageing Current (0 – 30 days) 2 622 867 3 011 293 31 – 60 days 274 218 594 938 61 – 90 days 198 229 245 274 91 – 120 days 648 139 183 417 + 120 days 709 874 52 023 Total 4 453 327 4 086 945 Provision for impairment (615 163) (10 063) Trade receivables – net 3 838 164 4 076 882 Trade receivables past due and not impaired 61 – 90 days 198 229 53 405 91 – 120 days 745 061 183 419 Total 943 290 236 824 Trade and other receivables past due are assessed on an individual basis and provisions are raised based on management’s judgement. Other receivables includes the amount due from the City of Cape Town, which relates to costs incurred on behalf of the City relating to the basement expansion. Provision for bad debts of R1 067 989 (2018: R1 067 989) has been raised against the amount outstanding by the City as the company expects a delay in receiving the payment due to the amount being disputed by the City. Therefore, the amount has been discounted to account for the time value of money. The amount has been restated to reflect as other receivables previously being included in trade receivables. Refer Note 8.1 on restated amounts. Other receivables also includes an amount of R34.6 million (2018: RNil) which is recoverable from the Principal Building Contractor of CTICC 2 due to the successful outcome achieved of claims lodged. The costs related to the claims now awarded were included in the assets in progress balance, which has now been reduced to reflect the amount due to the company (Note 2). The amount due was not impaired, taking into account the information available at the reporting date, which was that the amount is fully recoverable. The carrying value of these trade receivables and other receivables are denominated in the following currency: South African Rand. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 202 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 8. Trade receivables and other receivables (continued) RESTATED 2019 2018 R R Provision for impairment of trade receivables and other receivables Opening balance (1 078 052) (190 094) Additional provision (605 100) (1 078 052) Unused amounts reversed – 190 094 Closing balance (1 683 152) (1 078 052) The other classes within trade receivables and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivables mentioned above. The company does not hold any collateral as security. 8.1 Restatement of prior year comparative figures The amount owing by the City of Cape Town referred to above has been reclassified as other receivables during the year, as it is not considered to be a trade receivable and, accordingly, the 2018 comparative figures are restated. The changes made to the comparative figures are reflected below. 2018 As previously reported Amount reclassified RESTATED R R R Trade receivables 10 491 660 (6 404 715) 4 086 945 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables (1 078 052) 1 067 989 (10 063) Trade receivables from exchange transactions – net 9 413 608 (5 336 726) 4 076 882 Prepayments 3 389 280 – 3 389 280 South African Revenue Service: VAT 5 686 232 – 5 686 232 Interest receivable 1 202 884 – 1 202 884 Other receivables 104 326 5 336 726 5 441 052 Total 19 796 330 – 19 796 330 Trade receivables ageing Current (0 – 30 days) 3 011 293 – 3 011 293 31 – 60 days 594 938 – 594 938 61 – 90 days 245 274 – 245 274 91 – 120 days 183 417 – 183 417 + 120 days 6 456 738 (6 404 717) 52 021 Total 10 491 660 (6 404 717) 4 086 943 Provision for impairment (1 078 052) 1 067 989 (10 063) Trade receivables – net 9 413 608 (5 336 726) 4 076 882 203 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9. Contribution from owners Authorised share capital 10 000 000 “A” ordinary shares of no par value 1 000 000 “B” ordinary shares of no par value 2019 2018 NUMBER OF STATED NUMBER OF STATED Issued and fully paid ordinary shares SHARES CAPITAL SHARES CAPITAL R R Opening balance 259 966 1 277 427 701 259 966 1 277 427 701 “A” ordinary shares 245 966 1 137 788 000 245 966 1 137 788 000 “B” ordinary shares 14 000 139 639 701 14 000 139 639 701 Closing balance 259 966 1 277 427 701 259 966 1 277 427 701 “A” ordinary shares 245 966 1 137 788 000 245 966 1 137 788 000 “B” ordinary shares 14 000 139 639 701 14 000 139 639 701 10. Operating lease liability 2019 2018 2017 R R R The operating lease liability balance is made up as follows: Non-current liability at beginning of year 244 280 153 405 – Straight-lining of lease payments 2 614 827 2 614 827 2 614 827 Lease payments for the year (2 523 952) (2 523 952) (2 461 422) Operating lease liability at end of year 335 155 244 280 153 405 Operating lease liability allocation: Long-term portion 335 155 244 280 Short-term portion – – Operating lease liability 335 155 244 280 The straight-lining of the lease costs was not previously recorded and a prior period error adjustment was required for the operating lease relating to P1 Parking garage that it leases from the City of Cape Town. The lease was entered into in 2001 for a period of 50 years. The market value of the lease charge is determined every 5 years and it has an escalation clause from Year 2 in the cycle. In terms of the contract, the last market valuation performed to determine the lease charge was on 1 July 2016. The company has straight-lined the future lease payments for the period 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2021, which required a restatement of the 2017 amount, as well as the comparative amount for 2018. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 204 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 11. Client deposits 2019 2018 R R 0 – 1 year 37 895 757 26 325 314 > 1 year 3 489 870 1 837 530 Total 41 385 627 28 162 844 Client deposits are received in advance for upcoming events. Client deposits are paid back to clients if an event is cancelled and an event cancellation fee is payable by the client. As an event can be cancelled at any point in time, the total balance of client deposits is disclosed as current liabilities. 12. Trade payables and other payables 2019 2018 R R Trade payables 31 501 835 28 237 026 Accruals 19 507 472 43 415 716 Sundry payables – 167 608 Total 51 009 307 71 820 350 The carrying amount of trade and other payables is stated at amortised cost, but due to the shortterm nature of trade payables, amortised cost is the same. The carrying value of these trade payables is denominated in the following currency: South African Rand 31 501 835 28 237 026 13. Provisions 2019 2018 R R Performance bonus provision Opening balance 4 723 383 4 959 809 Additional provisions 5 576 895 4 723 383 Prior year provision utilised (4 723 383) (4 959 809) Closing balance 5 576 895 4 723 383 Performance bonuses accrue to staff on an annual basis based on the achievement of predetermined performance. The provision is an estimate of the amount due to staff in the service of the company at reporting date. 205 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14. Operating Profit / (Loss) 2019 2018 R R Operating Profit / (Loss) is stated after: Other revenue Insurance recovered (7 984) (309 348) Gain on foreign exchange (37 213) 7 697 Rental income Vexicure Proprietary Limited t/a Westin and Redefine Properties Limited (4 595 956) (4 495 129) Expenditure Auditors’ remuneration – Audit fee 1 071 925 1 050 311 Depreciation (property, plant and equipment) 48 331 560 39 648 681 Amortisation 3 242 909 171 758 Impairment Property, plant and equipment 2 548 136 462 599 006 Repairs and maintenance on property, plant and equipment 14 681 256 11 567 492 15. Revenue from exchange transactions 2019 2018 R R Service fee 29 657 510 21 177 117 Parking 15 709 792 13 970 075 Sales 226 067 019 203 727 404 Total 271 434 321 238 874 596 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 206 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 16. Finance and other income 16.1 Finance income 2019 2018 R R Interest receivable at the beginning of the year 1 202 884 1 202 884 Finance income (earned in respect of cash and cash equivalents) 14 482 276 17 829 123 Interest receivable at the end of the year (839 131) (1 202 884) Net finance income 14 846 029 17 829 123 16.2 Other income 2019 2018 R R Turnover rental 4 595 956 4 495 129 Sundry income 1 395 197 2 974 195 Total 5 991 153 7 469 324 17. Taxation 17.1 South African normal taxation 2019 2018 R R Current year – 8 397 213 Deferred taxation (refer Note 6) 5 393 865 (125 987 322) Taxation 5 393 865 (117 590 109) No company tax has been accounted for the year, as the company is in a taxable loss position of R17.6 million (2018: RNil) for the current financial year. The assessed loss relates to the capital tax allowances claimed on the CTICC 2 building. Management is comfortable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which the assessed loss can be utilised. The deferred tax charge in 2018 relates to the timing differences as a result of the impairment accounted for during last year. 207 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17.2 Reconciliation of effective tax 2019 2018 R R Profit / (Loss) before taxation 17 877 901 (429 560 853) Tax at statutory rate (28%) 5 005 812 (119 656 880) Permanent differences Property, plant and equipment 1 424 035 2 066 771 Temporary difference (1 035 982) – Effective tax 5 393 865 (117 590 109) The permanent differences relates to buildings and fences and gates, as no tax allowances were claimable at the time these assets were brought into use. 18. Notes to the cash flow statement 18.1 Cash generated from operations 2019 2018 R R Profit / (Loss) before taxation 17 877 901 (429 560 853) Adjustment for: Depreciation and amortisation 51 574 465 39 820 439 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 2 548 136 462 599 006 Finance income (14 482 276) (17 829 123) Lease straight-lining 90 875 90 875 Service-in-kind benefit 2 123 976 2 123 976 Asset write-off 692 470 151 880 (Decrease) / Increase in provision for bonuses 853 512 (236 426) (Decrease) / Increase in provision for impairment of receivables from exchange transactions 605 100 887 958 61 884 158 58 047 733 Movements in working capital Decrease / (Increase) in inventories (474 028) (393 272) Decrease / (Increase) in receivables (43 668 335) (7 246 614) (Decrease) / Increase in payables (7 588 257) 23 896 582 10 153 538 74 304 429 18.2 Taxation paid 2019 2018 R R Balance at beginning of year 1 993 475 (3 002 222) Current taxation charged to income statement – 8 397 213 Balance at end of year 3 002 224 (1 993 475) 4 995 699 3 401 516 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 208 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 18. Notes to the cash flow statement (continued) 18.3 Cash and cash equivalents 2019 2018 R R Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand and balance with banks. Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash flow statement comprise the following balance sheet amounts: Current accounts 11 857 864 6 138 316 Call and investment accounts 170 220 958 217 475 159 Petty cash 5 500 5 500 Cash float 112 500 132 500 Cash on hand 46 658 5 395 Cash and cash equivalents 182 243 480 223 756 870 The following bank and investment accounts were held by the entity Nedbank – Current Account (Acc Number: 1232043850) – 752 804 Nedbank – Call Deposit Account (Acc number: 03/7881544007/000105) 20 099 18 849 ABSA Bank – Current Account (Acc Number: 4072900553) 8 309 320 1 253 490 ABSA Bank – CTICC East – Current Account (Acc Number: 4072900228) 206 598 966 979 ABSA Bank – Exh Serv – Current (Acc Number: 4072900731) 659 828 642 085 ABSA Bank Treasury Account (Acc Number: 4073731246) 74 759 71 479 ABSA Bank Treasury Account (Acc Number: 4073733701) 2 607 359 2 451 479 Absa Bank – Call Deposit (Acc Number: 4074708347) 385 741 14 407 371 First National Bank – RMB Investment Account – 00 506 190 167 40 – 14 830 872 Stanlib – Corporate Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: 000-402-184 (1199539) 551436367) 24 501 318 27 739 151 Investec – Corporate Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: (462097) 1008645) 14 262 836 37 715 476 ABSA Bank – Call Deposit Account (Acc Number: 4083941322) 2 582 2 507 Nedgroup – Money Market Fund Account – (Acc Number: (1800167964) 8319631) 30 728 629 28 404 622 Nedgroup – Corporate Money Market Fund C2 Account (Acc Number: (1452-027-900) 8319631) 36 758 590 35 082 376 Absa Bank – Money Market Fund (Acc Number: 9295637051) 48 938 077 709 231 ABSA Bank – CTICC Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: 09316676360) 14 623 086 13 564 704 Absa Bank – Guarantee Account (Acc Number: (506009 4072900553) 43939765) – 45 000 000 209 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19. Expenses by nature 2019 2018 R R Depreciation (Note 2) 48 331 560 39 648 681 Amortisation (Note 3) 3 242 909 171 758 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 2 548 136 462 599 006 Employee-related costs (Note 21) 65 509 322 57 477 767 Cost of sales 31 568 293 29 891 260 Marketing and advertising costs 10 890 533 10 263 749 Other expenses (i) 115 182 007 93 681 675 Total cost of sales and operating expenses 274 029 850 693 733 896 (i) The items included in other expenses is detailed in the Statement of Comparison of Budget and Actual Amounts on page 178. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 210 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 20. Related parties 20.1 Holding company The company is controlled by the City of Cape Town, which owns 71.4% (2018: 71.4%) of the company’s shares. The remaining shares are held by the Western Cape Government, which owns 23.2% (2018: 23.2%) and SunWest International (Pty) Limited, which owns 5.4% (2018: 5.4%). The City of Cape Town has leased the land on which the convention centre is built to the company for a period of 99 years at a cost of R100 per annum. In terms of an agreement dated April 2001, Convenco has sub-leased a portion of land to Vexicure Proprietary Limited t/a Westin for an initial period of 30 years, extendable to 50 years. The hotel erected on this site reverts to the City of Cape Town should the lease not be renewed. In terms of an agreement dated September 2005, the company has sub-leased a portion of land to Redefine Properties Limited for an initial period of 50 years, extendable by 20 years. The office tower (Convention Towers) erected on this site reverts to the City of Cape Town should the lease not be renewed. 2019 2018 R R Related party transactions – City of Cape Town Rates and taxes 3 017 393 3 000 320 Electricity 18 089 195 13 642 596 Water 2 479 674 1 566 735 Lease P1 parking (including refuse, sewerage, rates and water) 5 155 186 3 466 277 Service-in-kind charge Lease CTICC 1 (Note 5) 2 123 976 2 123 976 Related party transactions – Other Y-Waste Solutions CC(i) – 10 400 Related party balances Amounts owing to City of Cape Town 2 487 040 948 194 Amounts due by City of Cape Town(ii) 6 404 715 6 404 715 (i) Food waste management services was awarded to Y-Waste Solutions CC (non-VAT vendor). The manager’s spouse (S. Fourie) is in service of the state (HoD: Department of Economic Development and Tourism) and a Non-executive Director of the company. The amount of the award in 2019: R0 (2018: R10 400). (ii) The amount due from the City of Cape Town relates to costs incurred on behalf of the City relating to the basement expansion. A provision for bad debts of R1 067 989 (2018: R1 067 989) has been raised against the amount outstanding by the CTICC, as the company expects a delay in receiving the payment due to the amount being disputed by the City. Therefore, the amount has been discounted to account for the time value of money. 20.2 Subsidiary The company has only one subsidiary, the Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company (Pty) Limited (OPCO). OPCO is in the process of being deregistered. Consolidated financial statements have not been prepared, as OPCO is dormant and is not considered material. 211 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.3 Directors’ remuneration Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration only includes fees for attendance of Board and sub-committee meetings. 2019 2018 R R Non-executive Directors’ remuneration AA Mahmood – 24 645 AM Boraine – 22 228 BJ Lodewyk – 56 977 EL Hamman 59 028 67 446 S Myburgh 65 346 59 100 DA Cloete 44 712 72 390 HV Ntoi 46 812 75 096 CK Zama(i) 40 325 34 777 JC Fraser 19 604 46 504 A Cilliers 30 668 – G Harris 33 806 – N Pangarker 18 862 – Executive Directors do not receive any Directors’ fees. Audit committee members’ remuneration (External to the Board) D Singh 34 170 – MR Burton 21 394 – L Ndaba(ii) – – Executive Directors’ remuneration CEO remuneration Basic salary 2 307 921 2 136 871 Bonus and performance-related payments 310 768 287 656 Total 2 618 689 2 424 527 Grand total 3 033 416 2 883 690 CFO remuneration Basic salary 1 382 714 1 327 332 Bonus and performance-related payments – 214 038 General Manager: Facilities and Operations remuneration Basic salary 1 613 204 1 493 615 Bonus and performance-related payments 217 149 201 063 General Manager: Operations Food and Beverage remuneration Basic salary 1 490 049 1 213 865 Bonus and performance-related payments 189 630 130 295 General Manager: Commercial and Business Development remuneration Basic salary 1 560 160 1 300 948 Bonus and performance-related payments 204 120 138 565 Total 6 657 026 6 019 721 (i) Ms CK Zama was paid Directors’ remuneration up to 31 March 2019 and no further remuneration will be made effective from 1 April 2019. (ii) Ms L Ndaba is employed at the City of Cape Town and, accordingly, is not paid any remuneration as a member of the committee. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 212 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 21. Employee-related costs 2019 2018 R R Salaries and wages 51 057 393 45 195 471 Contributions for Unemployment Insurance Fund, Workmens Compensation, Medical aid, etc. 4 390 074 3 936 000 Provident fund 4 554 370 4 014 334 Overtime 779 096 651 773 Performance bonus 3 660 512 2 513 351 Other: staff transport and health and safety costs 1 067 877 1 166 838 Total employee-related costs 65 509 322 57 477 767 Number of employees (includes 2 employees on temporary disability) 219 182 22. Operating leases 22.1 Lessee 1 year 2 – 5 years Over 5 years 2019 R R R Future minimum lease payments (including VAT) 3 134 749 15 255 574 402 343 260 2018 Future minimum lease payments (including VAT) 2 992 747 13 185 503 181 003 226 In accordance with the lease agreements from the City of Cape Town, the increases in lease payments are negotiated annually and every 5 years, a market-related value is determined for the lease premiums. Management has estimated the value of future minimum lease payment using the historical trend of increase percentages. Therefore, this estimate may change significantly from year to year. Future minimum lease payments for the operating leases relate to the following leases: 1. City of Cape Town – 99 year lease of land, remaining term: 81 years 5 months. The lease gives rise to a service-in-kind benefit, as the lease cost of R100 per annum is below market value. The service-in-kind benefit has been valued and disclosed as detailed in Note 5. 2. City of Cape Town – 50 year lease of P1 parking garage, remaining term: 32 years 3 months. 3. City of Cape Town – 30 year lease of ERF 270, option to renew, remaining term: 23 years. 213 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.2 Lessor The company receives rental income from Vexicure Proprietary Limited t/a Westin and Redefine Properties Limited, which is a percentage based on turnover. In terms of an agreement dated April 2001, Convenco has sub-leased a portion of land to Vexicure Proprietary Limited t/a Westin for an initial period of 30 years, extendable to 50 years. The hotel erected on this site reverts to the City of Cape Town should the lease not be renewed. In terms of an agreement dated September 2005, Convenco has sub-leased a portion of land to Redefine Properties Limited for an initial period of 50 years, extendable by 20 years. The office tower (Convention Towers) erected on this site reverts to the City of Cape Town should the lease not be renewed. Total rental income received for the period was R4 595 956 (2018: R 4 495 129). 23. Budget information 23.1 Explanation of variances between approved and final budget amounts The budget is approved on an accrual basis by nature classification. The approved budget covers the fiscal period from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. Both the budget and the accounting figures are prepared on the same basis. The variances between the approved and final budgets are mainly due to the adjustment of: • A decrease in revenue to account for the delayed practical completion of phase 1 of the expansion project of CTICC 2. The reasons mentioned above resulted in an overall decrease in revenue and costs between the approved and final budget amounts. 23.2 Explanation of variances greater than 5% and greater than R1m: Final budget and actual amounts Statement of Financial Performance (i) Other income (R6 481 482 – over) The growth in other income is mainly as a result of the increase in the number of events hosted during the year, as well as CTICC 2 being in operation for the full year. This resulted in good growth in the service fee and parking revenue earned. (ii) Direct personnel (R8 552 766 – over) The company had anticipated permanently employing staff previously provided through its labour brokers. The conversion of staff from labour brokers to permanent progressed slower than anticipated, as staff have not agreed to be insourced, hence the overspend. (iii) Parking costs (R3 694 112 – under) Parking costs includes all costs associated with the parking areas, namely, rental, security, cleaning and ticket costs, which were all lower than expected due to savings achieved during the year. (iv) Event-related marketing cost (R1 345 542 – under) During the year, the company incurred fewer costs in this category due to fewer clients making use of professional conference organisers (PCOs) for events. (v) Finance income (R2 220 741 – over) Due to steady interest earned from favourable cash balances, finance income was more than budgeted due to the delay in completion of CTICC 2, which resulted in higher than budgeted bank balances throughout the period and, therefore, a resulting increase in finance income. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 214 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 23. Budget information (continued) 23.2 Explanation of variances greater than 5% and greater than R1m: Final budget and actual amounts (continued) Statement of Financial Performance (continued) (vi) Personnel cost (R22 369 481 – under) The variance is due to savings from vacancies, new posts not filled and the conversion of labour broker staff to permanent employees that progressed slower than anticipated as staff have not agreed to be insourced. (vii) Utility services (R8 749 053 – under) Utility services were lower during the current period, as the company managed its water and electricity resources effectively and is benefitting from the installation of its reverse osmosis plant. (viii) Maintenance (R1 462 051 – under) The company has continued to effectively manage its maintenance and refurbishment programmes, thereby resulting in savings on costs. (ix) Advisors (R3 398 170 – under) During the current financial period, the CTICC made use of more cost-effective service providers and had fewer legal expenses due to fewer services required. (x) Marketing and corporate communications (R1 073 658 – under) The costs incurred on marketing and corporate communications were lower due to more effective utilisation of resources and opportunities. (xi) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment asset (R11 471 102 – over) The higher depreciation is due to the capitalisation of the majority of CTICC 2 assets and the superstructure, as well as the impact of the reassessment of useful lives performed in 2018 where the depreciation will be spread over a number of years, as well as the impairment charge for the year of R2 548 136, not included in the budget. 215 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.3 Explanation of variances greater than 10% and greater than R2 million: Final budget and actual amounts Capital expenditure 97% of capital expenditure projects were either complete or in progress as at year-end. (i) Building enhancements (R8 413 794 – under) Certain projects were awarded towards the end of the financial year and will spread into the 2019/20 financial year. These funds were rolled over to the 2019/20 financial period. (ii) Catering, furniture and equipment (R2 077 695 – under) Orders were placed for furniture and uniforms and will only be delivered in the new financial year. These funds were rolled over to the 2019/20 financial period. (iii) Other capex items (R3 845 050 – under) The unspent capital expenses relates to the timing of expenditure on the CTICC 2 expansion programme due to unexpected delays. 23.4 Revenue and other income reconciliation Classification of certain income and expenditure differs in instances from the Statement of Financial Performance compared to Statement of Comparison of Budget and Actual Amounts. 2019 R Revenue per the Statement of Financial Performance 271 434 321 Other income per Statement of Financial Performance 5 991 153 277 425 474 Revenue per the Statement of Comparison to budget 227 019 251 Other income per Statement of Comparison to budget 50 406 223 277 425 474 Cost of sales and operating expenses Cost of sales per the Statement of Financial Performance 31 568 293 Expenses per the Statement of Financial Performance Operating expenses 239 913 421 Impairment 2 548 136 274 029 850 Direct costs per the Statement of Comparison to budget 56 650 766 Indirect costs per Statement of Comparison to budget 217 379 084 274 029 850 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 216 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 24. Financial instruments 24.1 Risk management Foreign exchange risk The company operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US Dollar, Euro and British Pound. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities. The company has no exposure to foreign exchange risk on its revenues, as all its invoicing, including invoicing to foreign clients, is denominated in South African Rands. Limited foreign exchange risk exposure arises from payments to third parties denominated in foreign currency, which includes membership fees, advertising and marketing spend, and conference attendance costs. Payments denominated in foreign currency are limited and, therefore, the company’s risk exposure is minimal. Market risk The company’s activities expose it primarily to risks of fluctuations in interest rates. Interest rate risk The company’s interest rate profile consists of fixed and floating rate bank balances, which expose the company to fair value interest rate risk and cash flow interest risk. The company manages interest rate risk in terms of the Municipal Investment Regulations. Interest rate sensitivity risk The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the financial instruments’ exposure to interest rates at reporting date. A sensitivity analysis shows reasonable expected change in the interest rate, either as an increase or decrease in the interest rate percentage. The equal but opposite 1% adjustment to the interest rate would result in an equal but opposite effect on net surplus and, therefore, has not been disclosed separately. 2019 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 182 243 480 223 756 870 Increase / Decrease in interest rates 1% 1% Net surplus (post-tax) 1 312 153 1 611 049 Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the company if a customer fails to meet the contractual obligation, and arises principally from the company’s customers. The company’s policy is to receive the full contracted payment upfront from customers. Any outstanding balances arising during the event is managed through frequent communications with customers. Due to the nature of the business, a majority of the outstanding amounts are with customers with whom the company has dealt with previously and who have not defaulted in the past. Financial assets, which potentially subject the entity to credit risk, consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables. 217 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The company’s cash and cash equivalents are placed with high credit quality financial institutions. Credit risk, with respect to trade receivables, is limited due to the application of the Credit Control and Debt Collection Policy. Credit quality of trade receivables and other receivables The following represents the credit quality of the gross trade receivables and other receivables: RESTATED 2019 2018 R R Key accounts customers 2 799 012 3 436 951 Other accounts customers 993 240 639 931 High-risk customers 661 075 10 063 Other receivables (Note 8) 37 171 849 104 326 Related party recoverable 6 404 715 6 404 715 48 029 891 10 595 986 The company believes that no further impairment is necessary on trade receivables and other receivables, as reflected in Note 8. Liquidity risk The liquidity risk is the risk that the company will not have sufficient financial resources to meet all obligations as they fall due, or will have to do so at excessive cost. This risk can arise from mismatches in the timing of cash flows from revenue inflows and capital and operational out flows. The entity manages liquidity risk through an ongoing review of its future commitments and available resources by preparing regular cash flow forecasts. The company ensures that adequate funds are available to meet its expected and unexpected financial commitments, through effective working capital management. The following table provides details of the company’s remaining contractual liability for its financial liabilities. Less than 1 month 2 6 months greater than 6 months Total R R R R 2019 Financial instrument Trade payables and other payables from exchange transactions 28 307 517 22 639 409 62 381 51 009 307 28 307 517 22 639 409 62 381 51 009 307 The company is in receipt of client deposits for events booked up to the 2023 financial year, which is disclosed in the “greater than 6 months’ column. 2018 Financial instrument Trade payables and other payables from exchange transactions 17 854 717 53 965 633 – 71 820 350 17 854 717 53 965 633 – 71 820 350 Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 218 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 24. Financial instruments (continued) 24.1 Risk management (continued) Capital risk management The company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Consistent with others in the industry, the company monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including borrowings and trade payables and other payables from exchange transactions, as shown in the Statement of Financial Position) less cash and cash equivalents. Total capital is calculated as net assets, shown in the Statement of Financial Position, plus net debt. The gearing ratios as at 30 June 2019 and at 30 June 2018 were as follows: 2019 2018 R R Cash and cash equivalents 182 243 480 223 756 870 Less: Trade payables and other payables from exchange transactions (51 009 307) (71 820 350) Net cash 131 234 173 151 936 520 Total equity 903 452 225 870 265 843 Total capital 1 034 686 398 1 022 202 363 Gearing ratio 13% 15% 24.2 Financial instruments by category The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied below: 2019 FINANCIAL ASSET MEASURED AT AMORTISED COST Assets as per financial position R Trade receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions 46 346 739 Cash and cash equivalents 182 243 480 FINANCIAL LIABILITY MEASURED AT AMORTISED COST Liabilities as per financial position R Trade payables and other payables from exchange transactions 51 009 307 219 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 FINANCIAL ASSET MEASURED AT AMORTISED COST Assets as per financial position R Trade receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions 9 517 934 Cash and cash equivalents 223 756 870 FINANCIAL LIABILITY MEASURED AT AMORTISED COST Liabilities as per financial position R Trade payables and other payables from exchange transactions 71 820 350 25. Supply chain management regulations 25.1 Deviations In terms of section 36 of the Municipal Supply Chain Management Regulations and the CTICC Supply Chain Management Policy, the CEO may ratify any minor breaches of the procurement process. 2019 2018 R R Total deviations for the year amounted to R20 320 812 (2018: R13 688 285) Listed below are material deviations: Incident (i) Exceptional / Impractical cases 3 299 911 6 695 135 (ii) Sole / Single provider 9 678 822 1 256 568 (iii) Emergency situation 2 937 956 2 281 448 (vi) Minor breaches 4 187 862 3 437 134 (v) Works of art 216 261 18 000 20 320 812 13 688 285 (i) These cases relate mainly to membership and subscription fees to local and international organisations and temporary staff required for events. (ii) Items in this category include software licensing for the accounting system of R5.0 million, the point of sale system of R1.0 million and parking management system of R0.1 million, as well as floor tiles required for CTICC 1 that were the same as CTICC 2 and were only available from a single supplier, costing R2.9 million. (iii) The significant items included are related to the insurance cover for the 2018/19 period, the procurement of accounting and related services required during the 2018 financial year-end and work relating to the rational fire design of CTICC 2. (iv) The significant component of the cost relates to the architectural services contract for CTICC 2. The remainder relates to speciality foods for events. (v) This was for works of art purchased for CTICC 2. Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 220 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) 25. Supply chain management regulations (continued) 25.2 According to section 45 of the Municipal Supply Chain Management Policy, disclosure needs to be given of awards to close family members of persons in the service of the state, in compliance with the provisions of CTICC’s Supply Chain Management Policy. The contracts issued below were issued following our normal procurement procedures and were not issued through any deviations. AT Catering t/a 3 Peas was appointed onto the panel for the supply and delivery of Fresh and Prepared Fruit and Vegetables (CTICC027/2016 and CTICC028/2019). The Director’s spouse (Mrs. M. Brink) is in service of the state as a doctor at the Red Cross Hospital. The amount of award in 2019: R1 262 988 (2018: R0). Tender CTICC010/2016: Professional Services – Upgrading of Existing Generating System was awarded to SMEC. The spouse (Mrs. Y. Phosa) of the Chairperson of SMEC’s Board of Directors is in the service of the state as Chairperson Parliament Committee of Higher Education and Training. The amount of the award in 2019: R174 844 (2018: R0). Tender CTICC057/2018: Provision of Event Safety Services was awarded to Bidvest Protea Coin (Pty) Limited. The Director’s brother (Mr. M. Selepe) is in the service of the state as the Deputy Director: Risk Management at the City of Tswane. The amount of the award in 2019: R472 022 (2018: R0). Tender CTICC032/2016 and CTICC030/2019: Internet Service Provider was awarded to Future Perfect Corporation CC. The Director’s spouse (Mrs. P. Naidoo) is in the service of the state as a Project Manager at the City of Cape Town. The amount of the award in 2019: R2 265 168 (2018: R0). Appointment of Food Waste Management Services was awarded to Y-Waste Solutions CC (non-VAT vendor). The manager’s spouse (S. Fourie) is in service of the state (HoD: Department of Economic Development and Tourism) and a Non-executive Director of the company. The amount of the award in 2019: R0 (2018: R10 400). 26. Capital commitments 2019 2018 R R Commitments in respect of capital expenditure CATEGORY Other capex items 18 307 671 27 738 154 Total capital commitments 18 307 671 27 738 154 27. Contingent liabilities The CTICC has received various claims which have arisen from the expansion project brought about by the Principal Building Contractor and other professional services consultants. The company is also expecting to incur legal fees in the process of responding to these claims. Claims which will be dealt with beyond the next financial year, as well as any related legal fees, are not quantifiable at this time. Subsequent to year-end, the claims have not materialised. The significant claims have been dealt with in the 2019 financial year (refer Note 8). The CTICC was successful in overturning previous adjudications, which had been in favour of the Principal Building Contractor and is now seeking to recover monies previously paid to the Principal Building Contractor. These have been accounted for in the current financial year (refer Note 8). 28. Events subsequent to year-end The Directors are unaware of any events after the reporting date that would materially alter the amounts or disclosure in these annual financial statements. 221 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GENERAL INFORMATION as at 30 June 2019 Country of incorporation and domicile South Africa Registration Number 1999/007837/30 Nature of business and principal activities Convention centre hosting conferences, exhibitions, trade shows and special events Directors DA Cloete JM Ellingson W De Wet S Myburgh SW Fourie JC Fraser CK Zama G Harris N Pangarker A Cilliers W Parker Presentation currency South African Rands (“R”) Registered and business address Convention Square 1 Lower Long Street Cape Town 8001 Western Cape Postal address P O Box 8120 Roggebaai Cape Town 8012 Western Cape Company Secretary First Corporate Transfer Secretaries (Pty) Limited Preparer of annual financial statements Wayne De Wet CA (SA) Bankers Nedbank ABSA First National Bank Stanlib Investec Holding company City of Cape Town (71.4%) Western Cape Provincial Government (23.2%) SunWest International (Pty) Limited (5.4%) Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report | 222 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX UNITED nations global compact index The following table outlines the specific pages of this report that contain information on the CTICC’s Communication on Progress (COP) made over the last year, in terms of the key principles contained in the UNGC. No Principle Met Page reference 1 Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed . 3-4, 17-19, 57-60, 61-64, human rights. 67-78, 106 2 Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. . 106 3 Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective . 106 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4 Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and . 19, 106, 124 compulsory labour. 5 Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. . 106 6 Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment . 3-4, 17-19, 59-60, 61-64, and occupation. 106,124 7 Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. . 10-12, 20, 106 8 Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental . 3-4, 21-22, 105-118, 130, responsibility. 149 9 Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally . 106, 114 friendly technologies. 10 Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including . 106, 120, 124 extortion and bribery. 223 | Cape Town International Convention Centre | 2019 Integrated Annual Report CTICC 1 Convention Square, 1 Lower Long Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa GPS co-ordinates: -33.915141°, 18.425657° CTICC 2 Corner of Heerengracht & Rua Bartholomeu Dias, Foreshore, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa GPS co-ordinates: -33.91747°, 18.42908° CONTACT Tel: +27 21 410 5000 | Fax: +27 21 410 5001 info@cticc.co.za | www.cticc.co.za @CTICC @CTICC_Official official_cticc cape town international convention centre This report is printed on Gallerie, a recyclable, biodegradable and acid-free paper, which has been produced from certified and sustainable raw materials. Gallerie’s environmental credentials include being endorsed by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC).
