2018 report 2018 sustainability report Index Message To Stakeholders 7 3.1.2 Logistics 92 Sustainability Highlights 2018 24 3.2 Environmental Impacts Along The Production Process 94 1.Flos World And History 27 3.2.1 Materials And Energy Consumption 97 1.1 Flos History, Combining Heritage And Innovation 28 3.2.2 Waste Production 102 1.2 The Group And Corporate Governance 34 3.2.3 Ghg Emissions 103 Recent Facts Affecting Corporate Governance 38 4. Building Strong And Lasting Relationships 107 1.3 Flos Global Presence 40 4.1 With Employees 108 1.4 Flos' Commitment To Sustainability 52 4.1.1 Employment 109 1.4.1 Key Stakeholders 54 4.1.2 People Empowerment And Welfare 112 1.4.2 Materiality Analysis 55 4.1.3 Occupational Health And Safety 114 2. The Creation Of Light: A Synthesis Of Innovation 4.2 With Clients 116 And Tradition 61 4.2.1 Sales Channels And Communication Activities 116 2.1 Developing New Lighting Solutions 66 4.2.2 Customer Care And Satisfaction 118 2.1.1 Conception 68 4.3 With The Community 122 2.1.2 Pre-Series Production 68 4.3.1 Art And Design Culture 122 2.1.3 Quality And Compliance 69 4.3.2 Philanthropy Initiative 128 2.1.4 Launch Of The Product 69 Reporting Principles And Criteria 132 2.2 Product Quality And Compliance 70 Scope Of Reporting 133 2.3 Energy Efficiency Of Lighting Systems 76 Material Issues 133 2.4 Investing In Research And Innovation 78 Quality Reporting Principles 135 2.5 Protecting Flos' Ideas 82 Calculation Methodologies 135 3. The Path Towards A Sustainable Value Chain 85 Gri Content Index 138 3.1 The Production Process 86 3.1.1 Supplier Selection And Management 90 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Message To Stakeholders In 2018 we announced the creation of Design Holding, a global high-end interior design group that brings together a collection of prominent and complementary brands: Flos and Louis Poulsen in the lighting sector and B&B Italia Group in the furniture one. The idea behind Design Holding is to bring together companies that make excellence in design their founding value. For many decades, the history of industrial design has been marked by extraordinary iconic products generated by these companies through partnerships with legendary designers. The creation of the group thus aims to connect businesses, each with their own strong and unique nature, under a unanimous banner of international growth based on shared values and visions. As a worldwide Group, we will have the potential for enhanced geographical reach, having access to widened sourcing and distribution networks, and the ability to better adapt to market evolution and to customers' changing expectations. Albeit just the first step of a long-term roadmap, this strategic union represents for Flos a great opportunity to strengthen our pioneering approach in the lighting industry. Indeed, innovation epitomizes one of the key elements of our sustainability commitment, as proven by Flos' contribution to face global challenges that are reshaping the lighting world, such as the introduction of LED lighting sources and the advent of a circular economy. Aiming to create a company culture that boosts innovation and digitalization, we continue to invest in digital transformation, by integrating digital technologies in our operations, communication strategies and customer experiences. In 2018 we also progressed with the reduction of environmental impacts linked to our operations by focusing on energy efficiency and GHG emissions. In this direction, we continued investing in thorough monitoring of energy consumption and renewed our efforts to offset the carbon emissions resulting from our logistics activities. With the purpose of contributing to our local communities, we continued to build on our strong relationships with the territory by sponsoring and supporting cultural and philanthropic initiatives. In the same vein, regarding our people, we worked to foster an inclusive and constructive working environment, with particular attention on nurturing and retaining our talents by strengthening training activities. Despite 2018 being a year of significant changes and great challenges, we look forward to a new era of growth and carry forward Flos' identity and iconic heritage. With our fourth Sustainability Report we reaffirm our deep commitment to adhere to the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and provide all our stakeholders with an overview of our sustainability performance and achievements. Roberta Silva, CEO 6 7 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Ou r S t a k e h o ld e r s Electronic department R&D department 8 9 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Ou r S t a k e h o ld e r s Outdoor production department Salt spray test 10 11 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Ou r S t a k e h o ld e r s Polishing Painting department 12 13 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Ou r S t a k e h o ld e r s Custom product department Painting department 14 15 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Ou r S t a k e h o ld e r s Logistic department Outdoor painting department 16 17 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Ou r S t a k e h o ld e r s Arco lamp manufacturing Customization of architectural product 18 19 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 R ep orti ng P ri nci p le s a n d Cr it e r ia Microcomponents automatic warehouse LED assembly department 20 21 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 R ep orti ng P ri nci p le s a n d Cr it e r ia Finance department R&D department 22 23 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Sustainability Highlights Sustainability Highlights 2018 The Group Revenues People Countries 225 M€ 619 104 Value Chain Local suppliers in Italy Local suppliers in Spain 87 % 67 % People Employees Flos, Training hours per employees Ares and Antares 401 9.7 h Permanent Increase of training hours contracts per employee with respect to 2016 94 % 89 % Environment Tons of CO 2 Reduction of electricity 670 13 % GHG emissions consumption in the Bovezzo compensated through plant compared to 2017 the subscription to Go Green Program by DHL 24 25 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y 1. Flos World And History Established in 1962 in Merano, Italy, by Dino Gavina and Cesare Cassina, Flos Group is recognized as a world leading manufacturer of innovative lighting solutions in the residential, outdoor and architectural sectors, featuring high quality products and systems characterized by timeless design. The beginnings of Flos, meaning flower in Latin, blossomed from a brilliant idea: to create objects, which would change the way of life for both the Italian and foreign markets. 2097-30/50 by Gino Sarfatti 26 27 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y 1.1 Flos History, Combining Heritage And Innovation Since the launch of Flos, the founders had The brand's creations have received numerous the key objective of creating products that would international awards and many of them are now become icons, establishing new typologies and featured in the permanent collections of leading innovative archetypes. international art and design museums. Thanks to This has progressively allowed Flos to become a know-how acquired after more than fifty years of universally renowned for producing design icons, experience, Flos is today an international organization like the Arco lamp, tangible proof of Flos' timeless that offers a complete range of residential, design and excellence in craftsmanship. commercial and custom-made lighting products that Today Flos is the only Company in the lighting can be seamlessly integrated in any office, hotel, industry that is able to offer a complete range home or store. With a constant commitment to of integrated solutions. It exports to more than 70 research and technological innovation, but always countries worldwide and has single-brand stores and aiming to reach a poetic quality of light, the Company showrooms in Rome, Milan, Paris, Lyon, New York, has demonstrated how a historic brand can look to Stockholm, Oslo, Amsterdam and Copenhagen. the future without losing sight of its tradition. Biagio by Tobia Scarpa 28 29 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y Following its commitment to technological innovation, organized a series of Digital Lessons, i.e. training in 2018 Flos continued the integration of digital sessions dedicated to its employees focusing technologies in both internal processes and on digital topics e.g. digital public relations, communication activities. Flos' digital transformation digital marketing, 3D modeling, internet of things, started in 2017 with a cross-divisional process aimed the potential of mobile devices aimed at creating at reskilling its employees and enhancing their digital a company culture that nurtures innovation expertise. Indeed, Flos believes that to effectively and digital transformation. achieve a digital transition it is crucial to provide In addition, concerning its communication with digital skills to employees, to empower them in customers, Flos is also investing in the creation order to drive and funnel the corporate technological of a new Data Asset Management System along change. This process is actively coordinated and with a Product Information Management System, supported by a new corporate function, the Chief aimed at storing and sharing in a single, centralized Digital Officer, specifically devoted to the digital platform all the product information, ranging from the transformation. In line with these objectives, Flos technical designs to the historical archive of catalogs. Frisbi, Taraxacum 88 by Achille Castiglioni Plissè by Achille Castiglioni Butterfly by Afra & Tobia Scarpa Advertising Campaigns 30 31 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y The new platform will also allow the collection and With the new feature, the customer will thus monitoring of key indicators related to products experience a new store format in which the physical through the creation of a single dashboard accessible space is fully integrated with digital contents that from different users belonging to different corporate are always alive and changing. Just like on a social functions. Concurrently, Flos is also redesigning media wall, the objective is to make the relationship the digital customer experience, mapping and between the visitor and the object more complete monitoring the different touchpoints and interaction and more engaging. channels in order to meet customer expectations. While maintaining a strong commitment to integrate Taking the opportunity of the reopening of its flagship the digital transformation into its identity, Flos has store in Milan, Flos implemented a new system also contributed to face the challenges that are for displaying products. The entire store has been reshaping the lighting sector, such as the introduction conceived as a flexible and changing space that of the LED lighting source and the advent of a circular becomes a real communication tool for the brand, economy. In this time of change, Flos' ultimate goal supporting and complementing the Company's is indeed to translate heritage into a meaningful digital channels. direction aligned to the present and future situation. 'O Sole Mio by Rodolfo Dordoni 32 33 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y 1.2 The Group And Corporate Governance Flos Benelux NV Euroformat S.r.l. Flos BV Flos USA Inc. Flos Milano S.r.l. Antares Iluminacion S.A.U. 152 employees 218 employees Flos S.p.A. Commercial subsidiaries Flos Projets S.à.r.l. Flos Japan Co. Ltd Flos Illumination Shanghai Ltd Light Contract S.r.l. Flos USA Inc. Flos Employs 619 people Flos Scandinavia A/S Antares Iluminacion Pte Ptd 166 employees 83 employees Antares Iluminacion S.A.U. Ares S.r.l. Flos Sverige AB Flos S.p.A. Flos GmbH Light Contract S.r.l. Flos UK ltd Ares S.r.l. Flos is one of the leading players in the Italian lighting and, again in Italy, with Ares (Bernareggio, 83 industry, with registered revenues of more than €225 employees) for the Outdoor segment. Flos Norge AS million in 2018 at group level. As of 31 December st The remaining people are employed in the smaller 2018, Flos employs 619 people, mainly located commercial subsidiaries of the Group, including Flos in the three operating sites of Flos S.p.A. in Italy, Projets, acquired in 2017, and in the two custom Flos Roma S.r.l. for the Design segment (headquartered in Bovezzo, product manufacturing subsidiaries, Light Contract Brescia, 152 employees); in Spain with its subsidiaries (Collebeato, Brescia Italy) and Flos USA Inc. Antares Iluminacion S.A.U. for the Architectural and (formerly Lukas Lighting, Long Island City, NY-USA). Flos France S.a.s Soft architectural segment (Valencia, 166 employees); Operating subsidiaries Flos Projets S.à.r.l Commercial branches The Group Structure 34 35 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y In December 2014, Investindustrial V L.P., one of Europe's leading independent investment groups, became the majority indirect shareholder of Flos S.p.A. Starting from November 2018, Flos S.p.A. is fully controlled by Design Holding S.p.A., jointly controlled and owned by Investindustrial and The Carlyle Group. The new Design Holding Group, that is the largest global high-end design group with a European heritage, brings together three complementary companies with strong individual identities and significant design heritage: B&B Italia Group in furniture, Louis Poulsen in lighting and Flos. B&B Italia B&B Italia is the leading Italian high-end furniture design brand, globally Flos S.p.A. has implemented a control and governance system based on: recognised for its iconic products and technological innovation. • A Board of Directors, comprising four members, which, together with The Company has a unique product portfolio, marketed under the B&B Design Holding Board of Directors, is entrusted with the powers to ensure Italia, MAXALTO and Azucena brands for furniture and Arclinea for highthe ordinary and extraordinary management of the Company; end kitchens, and has been awarded many design prizes over the years. B&B Italia has developed longstanding partnerships with world-renowned • A Board of Statutory Auditors, comprising three standing statutory auditors designers and architects such as Antonio Citterio, Patricia Urquiola, Naoto and two substitute statutory auditors. Fukasawa, Gaetano Pesce and many others which have positioned the Company at the forefront of technological innovation and design. B&B Italia is headquartered in Como (Italy) and has 9 flagship stores worldwide Board Member (Washington, Dallas, London, Paris, Munich, 2 in Milan and 2 in New York) and 40 monobrands. Vitaliano Borromeo Arese Chairman of the Board (Company's representative) B&B Italia also signed commercial agreements in 80 Countries, developing a presence in over 800 specialized points of sale. The Company also Piero Gandini Board member CEO (Company's representative) operates in the Contract Division with complex turnkey realizations of Maurizio Bottinelli Board member furnishings and finishes in the hospitality, retail, office and nautical areas. Malvezzi Francesco Board member Louis Poulsen Louis Poulsen is a leading lighting brand with an iconic product portfolio An independent auditing firm has also been appointed. focused on Danish design heritage, with headquarters in Copenhagen and To ensure transparency and responsible day-by-day operations, since 2015, production facilities in Vejen (Denmark), that offers a high-end product Flos has an Organizational, Management and Control Model pursuant range for both indoor and outdoor applications. Louis Poulsen combines to Italian law 231/2001 (hereinafter Model 231 ), approved by the Board iconic designs stemming from the work of golden age Danish designers, such as Poul Henningsen, Arne Jacobsen, Finn Juhl and Verner Panton, of Directors in March 2016. The drafting of the Model 231 has included and collaborations with leading modern designers such as Christian the analysis of the main risks and the mapping of operating areas potentially Flindt, Shoichi Uchiyama and Louise Campbell. The Company has a global subject to those risks. distribution network with more than 50 countries served, and dedicated showrooms in Copenhagen, Stockholm, Miami, Helsinki, Vejen, Oslo, Los Angeles, Singapore, Tokyo and Dusseldorf. Design Holding Structure 36 37 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y As foreseen by the Model 231 and applicable legislation, Flos has appointed a Supervisory Body (Organismo di Vigilanza) entrusted with the task of controlling the internal implementation and the corporate compliance with Model 231, as well as its updating process. The Supervisory Board comprises two external members, who fulfill the regulatory requirements in terms of autonomy, independence and continuity and a secretary. Together with the Model 231, Flos drafted its Code of Ethics, which describes the Company's missions and ethical principles and governs the relationship between Flos and all its counterparts, i.e. shareholders, employees and partners, suppliers, Public Administration, trade unions, political parties and clients. The implementation of the Model 231 and of the Code of Ethics, together with Flos' certified 9001 Quality Management System, also represents the framework to ensure compliance with national and international applicable laws and regulations. Flos firmly believes that acting in accordance with the principles of Model 231 and of the Code of Ethics is essential to promote responsible business conduct, i.e. one enabling it to avoid the occurrence of corruption cases and of unethical business practices. In this regard, in the 2016-2018 period, no complaints from competitors and public authorities for anti-competitive behavior nor episodes of corruption were either identified or reported. Recent Facts Affecting In June 2019, Roberta Silva has been named as the new Chief Executive Corporate Governance Officer (CEO) of Flos. In her role as CEO of Flos, Roberta's task will be to carry forward the brand's strong identity and history of excellence, whilst guiding the Company and the Group into a new phase of growth and management that will enable it to successfully address the ongoing changes in the sector and the challenges of an increasingly global marketplace. Roberta was previously the Italian Country Manager of Bose, a US multinational manufacturer of high-end electronics. After successfully fulfilling this role, the Group promoted her to an international role appointing her as Head of Bose's Global Direct Retail Network. She left Bose after having led the Company into a new phase of strategic commercial development and brand enhancement. Roberta Silva 38 39 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y 1.3 Flos Global Presence Sales by Country Western Europe Asia Pacific Eastern Europe 63.7% 1 0.8 % 5.2 % Americas Middle East Africa 1 4.8 % 4.8 % 0.7 % Milan, Rome, Paris, Lyon, New York, Melbourne, Sydney, Amsterdam, Copenaghen, Oslo, Stockholm,Valencia, Prague, London, Singapore, Tokyo, Moscow, Regensburg, Shanghai. Manufacturing Plants Showrooms Flagship Stores Offices Ares S.r.l. Flos Norge AS Flos USA Inc. Bernareggio (MB), Italy Oslo, Norway New York, United States Flos S.p.A. Flos Flagship Store Flos Co Ltd. Flos has a widespread global presence serving Flos' growth and development is mainly due to its Bovezzo (Brescia), Italy Stockholm, Sweden Tokyo, Japan 104 countries (among which 34 directly host Flos' ability to combine tradition and innovation, offering personnel), with showrooms and shops located in to its clients a large and diversified product portfolio, Light Contract S.r.l. Flos Scandinavia A/S Flos Flagship Store & Showroom Collebeato (Brescia), Italy Copenaghen, Denmark Milano, Italy important cities such as Milan, London, New York, which includes new innovative lighting solutions next Lyon, Stockholm, Oslo, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, to well-known classic icons. Antares Iluminación S.A.U. Flos BV Flos Flagship Store Rome and Paris. Valencia, Spain Amsterdam, Netherlands Roma, Italy Lukas Lighting (Flos USA Inc.) Flos France Store and Showroom New York, United States Paris, France Flos Projets S.à.r.l. Paris, France Flos Flagship Store Lyon, France 40 41 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y Flos Decorative Flos' original core business, the Design collection merges technical research and innovation with emotional and aesthetic design, thanks to the strong relationships existing between the Company and the designers. All products belonging to Flos' Design collection are designed and developed in the Flos S.p.A. Italian headquarters in Bovezzo and they include several product categories, such as table lamps, floor lamps, pendant lamps and wall & ceiling solutions. Gaku by Nendo WireRing by Formafantasma Bellhop by Edward Barber & Jay Osgerby 42 43 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y Flos Architectural The Architectural collection includes indoor lighting systems both for domestic/residential use as well as for professional use. This business segment designs and develops lighting solutions, often in cooperation with engineering and architectural firms, both for big retail networks (mainly fashion retail and hospitality) and for private customers. This business line focuses on professional and residential lighting systems, custom-made solutions and soft architecture products and it is based in Antares Iluminaciòn S.A.U.'s headquarter in Valencia, Spain. Zero Track by Flos Architectural Light Shadow by Flos Architectural 44 45 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y Flos Outdoor The Flos Outdoor collection has been created to illuminate open spaces through a new design language, finding balance both by hiding in the natural landscape behind discrete objects, and by conversing with the architecture through designs with a unique identity. At present, Flos Outdoor collection is mainly produced by Ares (Bernareggio, Italy). Klein Pro Klein Pro Camouflage by Piero Lissoni 46 47 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y Flos Custom Born to satisfy customers' specific practical needs and their increasing desire for exclusivity, this collection includes the custom-made segment. The custom-made business segment has been developed over 20 years by Flos' Italian subsidiary, Light Contract, and it is currently growing following the acquisition of Lukas Lighting, later merged into Flos USA Inc., in December 2015. Hotel Brooklyn Bridge, New York Musco Center for the Arts Chapman University, Orange Condé Nast 1 World Trade Center HQ, New York 48 49 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y Through this period of continuous change and development, on one hand it is becoming particularly important for Flos to guarantee a corporate identity and strong internal cohesion, and, on the other, to offer its products through a unique brand and image. At the beginning of 2017, Flos published its first outdoor lighting catalogue with the aim of presenting the new outdoor collection, communicating the same vision and an innovative design spirit that makes the Group leader in the Design and Architectural segments. Over recent years, the participation in major projects with the involvement and integration of the Design, Architectural and Outdoor collections has been a key element and a growing trend in Flos' business strategy. Thanks to the differentiation of its collections and products and to the presence of its Custom division, Flos is able to design and implement complex lighting solutions, which respond to the specific needs and expectations of increasingly demanding clients. Flos took part in the design and realization of several new buildings, including airports and luxury hotels and structures; for each project, Flos supplies its client with a unique lighting solution for the whole building, guaranteeing the same concepts for indoor and outdoor lighting, from the design to the realization phase. Customised architectural product for retail 50 51 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y 1.4 Flos' Commitment To Sustainability 2015 2016 2018 report In 2015, Flos strengthened its commitment performance indicators. Thanks to this path, internal towards its stakeholders by publishing its first comprehension and attention to sustainability issues Sustainability Report. Since then, Flos started have increased and have allowed Flos to start several a process of identification and prioritization of initiatives and to update its materiality analysis for its social and environmental impacts as well as its fourth Sustainability Report with a higher degree 2017 2018 a monitoring process of its most significant key of awareness and knowledge. Soft Architecture employee Sustainability Reports Covers 52 53 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y 1.4.1. The following table reports an overview of Flos' key stakeholders, based on Direct Value Generated, Distributed and Retained 2016* 2017 2018 € in thousands Key Stakeholders their influence and on the dependence of these stakeholders on the Company; Direct economic value generated 208,072 215,144 225,762 for each stakeholder category, a description of existing engagement activities is provided. Direct economic value distributed 173,355 180,223 201,467 Operating costs 115,777 120,626 143,233 Employees' wages and benefits 35,825 37,687 39,212 Stakeholder Category Engagement Tools And Activities Payments to providers of capital 13,927 12,322 13,791 Employees And Trade Unions Continuous dialogue between HR department and employees/trade unions, specific initiatives Payment to government 7,649 9,506 5,127 Board Of Directors Formal meetings Community Investment** 176 82 103 Economic Value Retained 34,717 34,920 24,295 Suppliers Continuous dialogue and periodic meetings Clients Website, Fairs, Catalogues * 2016 values do not include Flos Projets S.à.r.l., acquired in May 2017 Training course organized for clients ** Value related to Community Investment excludes donations of lamps (e.g. donations to charity auctions) Preliminary analysis of customer satisfaction on a sample of clients End-User Social networks, communication campaigns, fairs and meetings Competitors 1.4.2. As part of the process for defining the Sustainability Report contents, Materiality Analysis the materiality analysis has been updated for the current reporting year Media Press releases in order to map relevant topics, which reflect Flos' economic, environmental Architects And Interior Designers Continuous cooperation on research and development of new products and social impacts and/or may influence the decisions of the key stakeholders Providers Of Financial Capital Formal meetings and periodic management reports identified. Starting from last year results, the results of the benchmarking analysis related to the lighting industry and to sustainability reporting Regulatory Membership of working groups within regulatory bodies And Certification Bodies and industry associations (E.g. Assoluce, Lighting Europe, Iec) best practices have been taken into account. In addition, a meeting with management was carried out, in order to evaluate possible changes and updates in terms of topics' relevance and priority. This has been carried out Flos impacts those stakeholders that are influenced by the Group's economic considering different sources of information: results (employees, Public Administration, local communities, shareholders), • The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards; as well as those that have commercial relationships with it (providers of loans, • The ten principles of the UN Global Compact to which Flos adheres; suppliers), through the distribution of the value generated by its activity. • Actual or potential requests coming from clients; The following table reports the economic impact that Flos' financial results • Results of a sector specific media analysis, that covered news regarding Flos; have on its stakeholders. Direct economic value generated and distributed • The Regulatory framework; by Flos shows a proportional increase between 2016 and 2018, while the • Reports from industry associations; economic value retained decreased in 2018 by 30%. • Flos' ESGs KPIs and goals. 54 55 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y Diffusion Of Energy Sustainability Corporate Product Research And Saving Culture Of Materials Identity Quality And Development Compliance The following highlights the main results obtained through the materiality analysis update: Customer Satisfaction • The most relevant sustainability issues for both Flos and its stakeholders have remained the same as last year: product quality and compliance, and research and development. With respect to 2017, the perceived internal relevance of the corporate economic performance and customer satisfaction has slightly increased; Sustainability Of • Anti-corruption, among the topics already present in the 2017 materiality Lighting Systems analysis, has become non-material, mainly due to the low risk related Relevance To Flos' Stakeholders to Flos' business; • The relevance that the stakeholders attribute to emissions and sustainability Economic of materials has increased with respect to 2017, mainly due to growing Performance attention on the topics at an international level; Brand Protection • Other relevant issues are related to the responsible management of the Emissions Employees Care Occupational Health supply chain, to internet of things, to direct and indirect environmental And Safety Logistics impacts (logistics, diffusion of an energy saving culture), to Flos' business model and strategic priorities (corporate identity, brand protection, Competitive Diversity Supply Chain competitive behavior, product portfolio extension and growth in foreign Behavior Responsible markets) and to the Group's human capital (employee care, diversity, and Management occupational health and safety). Community Relations Waste Product Portfolio Internet Growth In Anti-Corruption Extension Of Things Foreign Markets Training To Clients Water Building Energy Responsible Data Privacy Consumption Efficiency Communication And Protection Relevance To Flos Group 56 57 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 Fl os Wo r ld A n d His t o r y In November 2015, Flos subscribed to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a global coalition of companies committed to voluntarily align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Companies participating in the Global Compact initiative are required to communicate annually on progress made in implementing the ten principles in order to inform Company stakeholders (e.g., investors, consumers, civil society, governments, etc.). This Sustainability Report represents Flos' Communication on Progress. An integral part of the UNGC commitment is to take actions and be a leading catalyst in supporting the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development — adopted by world leaders in September 2015. The SDGs aim to end poverty and other deprivations, develop strategies that improve health and education, reduce inequality and spur economic growth, all while facing climate change and working to preserve oceans and forests. Flos, with its activities and initiatives, aims to contribute most to achieving six of the 17 SDGs, as highlighted in the figure below. Soft Architecture employee 58 59 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The C reati on Of Li ght: A S y nthes i s Of I nnov ati o n A n d Tr a d it io n 2. The Creation Of Light: A Synthesis Of Innovation And Tradition In the last few years, the furniture and artificial lighting industries have been dealing with relevant changes. First, the need for internationalization, which is increasing export shares, has resulted in a clear increase in M&A (Merger and Acquisition) deals together with the entrance of financial investors as relevant shareholders of small and medium enterprises, in order to improve their competitiveness abroad. At the same time, brand protection and identity represent key strengths to ensure business continuity and sustainability over time, in particular in relation to the concept of Made in Italy. Landlord Soft by Piero Lissoni 60 61 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The C reati on Of Li ght: A S y nthes i s Of I nnov ati o n A n d Tr a d it io n Thus, companies like Flos are continuously facing risks and threats related This objective can be achieved by a so-called regenerative design, which to anti-competitive behavior and imitations of their most iconic products. is one based on the extension of the product life cycle, on the optimization The analysis of the external pressures Flos carried out in 2018 has revealed of reuse, refurbishment and recycling techniques in order to increase no significant variations in relation to environmental and social topics, with resource productivity. respect to the corresponding analysis conducted in previous years. For instance, effective actions in this direction include increasing modularity, From a business perspective, the demand for lighting products is continuing to as well as facilitating the disassembly or maintainability of products, in order increase as a consequence of the global population growth and urbanization. to improve their durability and to reduce their overall environmental impact. The most urgent priority for the industry is therefore to decouple demand This approach implies the need to design and manufacture products in a way growth and environmental impacts. that guarantees both modularity and safety, even in the case of customer's modification or disassembly at the end of the life phase of the product. Resource scarcity and climate change concerns are resulting in the In addition, if on one hand there is a possibility to reuse or modify part development of new or updated regulations to promote energy efficiency, of products and contribute to the reduction of the environmental impact, while the increasing spread of voluntary certifications (such as the LEED on the other hand, it is crucial to guarantee the respect of patents and certification for buildings) is driving consumers to ask for more efficient registered copyrights. products. The lighting industry has been addressing these issues by pursuing Within the upcoming years, as circular economy principles spread and lighting the development and enhancement of more efficient lighting technologies. control systems constantly improve, the sector might face an additional Some years ago, the industry underwent a paradigm shift from conventional change in the business model with the introduction of lighting as-a-service lighting to Light Emitting Diodes (LED), which represent a sustainable (LaaS). This service delivery model consists of third-party management of alternative to incandescent lamps and fluorescent tubes because of their the lighting system charged on a subscription basis, that includes financial, longer life span and ability to consume comparatively less energy. This shift technical, or operational services, additional maintenance as well as end-ofrepresented only a first step, as the great controllability of LED-generated life electronics management. Therefore, LaaS stimulates a more efficient use light has also resulted in growth opportunities in the area of automated and of materials and products while creating a virtuous circle that can improve the intelligently controlled systems, not only for professional purposes but also for behavior of both the user and the producer. Street lighting, sport facilities and residential ones. Indeed, the next technological step will be the mass adoption airports will be among the main areas of application of this lighting turnkey of automated LEDs, which guarantee costs and energy savings, for example service. In fact, applications and functionality of lighting systems are key by adjusting light levels based on the number of people in a room or based elements for the implementation of LaaS solutions. on sunlight, or by adjusting light levels based on where a customer is standing In the near future, the legislative framework will introduce regulation regarding in a store. To reach these objectives, within the coming years the evolution circular economy applications, for instance, the new CEN-CENELEC of the lighting market will most likely see the integration of advanced Technical Commissions 10 (CEN-CLC TC/10) Regulation regarding Ecodesign data-transmission technologies with intelligent lighting systems. requirements on materials efficiency aspects for energy-related products1. Attention is also moving towards the so-called human centric lighting , 1 The CEN-CENELEC TC/10 covers Material Efficiency Aspects for Ecodesign. which considers the impacts of artificial light quality on people's wellbeing It is structured in several Working Groups (WG), with different subjects, and emotions. Industry associations, such as Lighting Europe, are currently about the development of relevant standardization deliverables required by M/543: WG 1 Terminology; focusing on this topic, promoting studies to assess how lights can improve WG 2 Durability; concentration, safety, efficiency and health both in the workplace and at home. WG 3 Ability to repair, reuse and upgrade energy-related products ; Finally, in the lighting industry, like many other industrial sectors, there is WG 4 Ability to remanufacture and method for determining the proportion a growing interest in the transition from a linear to a circular economy aiming of reused components in products; WG 5 Ability to recycle and recover energy-related products, at decoupling economic growth from the consumption of finite resources. recycled material content of energy-related products; The circular economy concept is founded on the shift from a take-makeWG 6 Documentation and/or marking regarding information relating dispose economic model to one that tries to retain as much value as possible to material efficiency of the product. The Standards delivered by this TC are at the present horizontal, and will be in the from natural resources and products. future integrated with Product Standards, to support Circular Economy targets. 62 63 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The C reati on Of Li ght: A S y nthes i s Of I nnov ati o n A n d Tr a d it io n The Ecodesign Regulation for Lighting, adopted in December 2018 by the Regulatory Committee, provides a further input to the implementation of the circular economy principles. Article 4 of such Regulation specifies requirements to ensure that light sources and separate control gears can be replaced with the use of common available tools and without permanent damage to the containing product, namely the outer part of the lighting solution. Consequently, only products for which a technical justification about the functionality of the containing product is provided in the technical documentation, explaining why the replacement of light sources and separate control gears is not appropriate, can be placed on the EU Market. Furthermore, manufacturers of containing products are required to provide information about the replaceability (or non-replaceability) of light sources and control gears by end-users or qualified persons without permanent damage to the containing product; manufacturers are also required to provide information about how light sources and separate control gears can be dismantled from end-of-life containing products. In this scenario, Flos focuses its efforts on offering products that are at the same time reliable and characterized by utmost quality. The most symbolic example is the shift from traditional lamps to LED alternatives: even when LED solutions started being commercialized, Flos' strategic approach has been that of waiting for the technology to become mature and highly reliable, in order to maintain the high quality characterizing the Company's products. Besides improving energy efficiency, Flos is also undertaking a thorough implementation of circular economy principles in its product design and production, for instance by guaranteeing the possibility of replacing the lighting source. Such a possibility is actually guaranteed to all Flos' indoor lighting systems for domestic use (also with the availability of spare parts), in addition to the product high durability. Indeed, the evolution of Flos' products, which goes hand in hand with the progressive adoption of the most suitable new technologies, sometimes only requires the replacement of traditional light sources with new ones, while in other cases it involves reinterpretation of classic icons into new revolutionary products and lighting systems. In this constant quest for innovation, the collaboration with international designers and a strong cultural tradition have been the brand's hallmarks right from the outset, making Flos stand out from its sectorial peers. A selection of LED lamps 64 65 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The C reati on Of Li ght: A S y nthes i s Of I nnov ati o n A n d Tr a d it io n 2.1 Developing New Lighting Solutions The creation of products that become icons and On the contrary, with respect to the architectural the conception of new languages around light are collection one year is the maximum timeframe to the result of an articulated process involving Flos' develop a whole product family. In fact, key clients internal R&D department, as well as renowned increasingly ask for customized products and special and emerging designers, architects and engineers. modifications to existing ones, thus it becomes more Concerning products belonging to the design and more relevant for Flos to respond to customer collection, from the initial proposal of the new requests within a compressed timeframe. The key luminaire to the actual sale of the product, the time phases of the process leading to the development lapse ranges roughly from one to two years. of new or revisited lighting system is described below. Arrangements by Michael Anastassiades 66 67 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The C reati on Of Li ght: A S y nthes i s Of I nnov ati o n A n d Tr a d it io n 2.1.1 Designers, architects and/or engineers submit the lighting solution idea 2.1.3 The pre-series is tested to assess its adherence to quality and compliance Conception along with some preliminary sketches to Flos' R&D Department, and subject Quality And Compliance requirements. Regarding the design collection, the final prototypes arising them to top management for evaluation before starting the production from the pre-series production process are sent to pilot clients who are asked of the prototype series. to fill in a report about the product, giving Flos precious feedback covering product functionality, finish, packaging as well as the overall product emotion and experience. 2.1.2 Once the product has been accepted, the R&D team, in collaboration with Pre-Series Production designers, architects and engineers works to realize it. A pre-series is realized in order to test the mechanical and electrical design, to select the most 2.1.4 If the prototypes satisfy pilot clients' expectations (for the design collection), appropriate materials, to test the production process and to incorporate any Launch Of The Product Flos' internal quality standards and the applicable regulatory requirements, necessary improvement to the lighting system. During these phases different the product is approved for industrialization and the production phase assessment regarding construction, mechanical and electrical aspects are is launched. carried out. The realization of a product that represents the concreteness of an idea of light and design is conceivable thanks to the close cooperation between the R&D team and the Procurement Department, that meticulously selects the best suppliers available. Sawaru by Nendo 68 69 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The C reati on Of Li ght: A S y nthes i s Of I nnov ati o n A n d Tr a d it io n 2.2 Product Quality And Compliance The full and continuous implementation of Flos' Quality Management Systems is a key instrument to guarantee that products meet all applicable standards and regulations, both at national and international level of application. This applies particularly to the following categories of regulatory requirements: • Low Voltage Directive (2014/35/EU), on the placement on the market of electrical equipment designed for use within certain voltage limits with the objective of ensuring the safety of low voltage electrical equipment 1. 2. 3. on the EU market; First quality check Statistical quality check Routine test quality check • Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) Directive (2014/30/EU), that regulates the electromagnetic compatibility of equipment; on raw materials carried out by Flos' on final products. Carried out in the assembly • Radio Equipment Directive (2014/53/EU), on the harmonization of the and components coming personnel on single department as per regulation (including tests European Member States laws establishing a regulatory framework for from suppliers components following on products electrical safety) and additional placing radio equipment on the market; the manufacturing/painting statistical tests • Ecodesign Directive (2009/125/EU), adopted in December 2018 by phases by suppliers the European Regulatory Committee, established a framework for the setting of ecodesign requirements for energy-related products; • Ecodesign Regulation, that will enter into force in September 2021, requires an improvement of energy efficiency of light sources and introduces new functionality and information requirements for light sources, control gears and containing products (that are also luminaires); • Performance requirements, such as photometric tests, carried out according to international standards, used for lighting design; • Product labelling, in this respect in 2017 Flos took part in a working group with Lighting Europe and the European Commission with the aim of defining Quality epitomizes for Flos the perfect blend which are certified by independent third parties obligations regarding energy labeling and energy classes rescaling. of aesthetics, compliance and attention to details. and cover the design, production and sale activities In 2021 new labelling requirements for the lighting products will start and With the aim to improve the production process of lighting systems. Flos' quality monitoring process manufacturers of containing products, which include luminaires, will no and to offer clients products characterized by high is structured on the steps described above. longer be required to ensure the availability of the energy label that will quality, Flos S.p.A. and Antares Iluminaciòn S.A.U. For more details on Flos' production chain, please thus be discontinued. Moreover, manufactures of containing products implemented ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems, refer to Chapter 3. with integrated light sources (i.e. LED) will be required to provide the energy efficiency class of the light source. In addition, working groups tackled the European Registry for Energy Labelling (EPREL) database (Regulation 2017/1369/EU), which requires the European Commission to establish a product database where all new models, covered by an Energy Labelling regulation, have to be registered before they can be placed on the EU market for the first time. Integrated Light sources data will have to be uploaded in EPREL as soon as the second version of such database enters into force in 2021; 70 71 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The C reati on Of Li ght: A S y nthes i s Of I nnov ati o n A n d Tr a d it io n • Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive (2011/65/EU), In addition to ensuring regulatory compliance to the applicable EU Directives, and relevant updates, on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous Flos is permitted to use the ENEC Mark logo on many of its products. substances in electrical and electronic equipment; The ENEC logo is a voluntary mark which complements the mandatory CE • Product disposal, such as EU WEEE Directive (2012/19/EU), Waste marking, and is a seal of compliance to all applicable European standards. Electrical & Electronic Equipment). In particular, in August 2018 the WEEE While CE marking represents a self-declaration by the manufacturer and does Directive changed the product categorization to the so called Open not imply that products have been approved by the European Commission Scope ; the existing ten product categories were reduced to six and or any other authority (i.e. Test Houses), the ENEC mark demonstrates more products are now covered by the Directive, such as heat exchange compliance with European standards and is granted by an independent third equipment, monitors and lamps; party, which is responsible for inspecting also the production process. • Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act , a Californian law known The ENEC mark can be granted only to Companies in which a Quality System as Proposition 65, among other issues, was set out to inform the public with is operating, either certified or qualified by a 3rd party. warning labels about the presence of toxic substances that cause cancer and/or birth defects in consumer products. In order to check Flos products' Product labels include information necessary to ensure the safe use compliance with the requirements of the Proposition 65, during 2018 the of luminaires, in compliance with the minimum safety requirements specified Company, with an external qualified laboratory, started a program aimed in the Low Voltage Directive and other applicable EU Directives. at testing the possible exposure to toxic substances (e.g. lead, phthalates) The products are also identified with a batch of production, according with foreseeable use of the product, based on the most restrictive standard to which it is possible to obtain access to the relevant routine test results methods. and to a list of the components used for their production. No incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning products In order to fulfil all requirements and standards, Flos has its own internal have occurred during the last three years. laboratories, which are accredited to verify product safety compliance (only some tests are carried out externally). Compliance with the applicable regulations guarantees that all Flos' product categories are assessed with respect to health and safety impacts across their life cycle. Beyond mere regulatory compliance, safety is continuously monitored throughout the product lifetime through the analysis of complaints and communications by consumers. In the rare event of complaints related to safety, Flos reacts quickly by reclaiming the products and conducting tests in order to ensure customer safety. For instance, in relation to the malfunction case of the halogen version of the Skygarden 1 and Skygarden 2 lamps and following few complaints received regarding Romeo S2 Moon and Louis (manufactured until March 2006), Flos reacted in a timely manner, distributing safety kits and collaborating with the local authorities of the countries involved. In 2018, no analogous complaints related to safety aspects were received by Flos. 72 73 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The C reati on Of Li ght: A S y nthes i s Of I nnov ati o n A n d Tr a d it io n Participation In Industry Associations With the aim of proactively participating in the development of new and more effective national and international regulations and standards and of cooperating with other players in the lighting industry, Flos is engaged in several industry associations. Thanks to its participation in the technical department of Assoluce and other Flos has been collaborating with Lighting Europe for the promotion industry associations, Flos is involved in several working groups aimed of regulations embracing a circular economy perspective, such as Article 4 at discussing new regulations and standards to safeguard both the lighting of the new Ecodesign Regulation for Lighting, since the lighting industry has industry and final customers. Such working groups take place both been the leading figure in the diffusion of energy efficiency solutions. at a national (e.g. CEI – Italian Electrotechnical Committee) and an The industry sector also has a strong record of accomplishment in prolonging international level (e.g. IEC/CENELEC – International Electrotechnical the lifetime of products, in collection and recycling and in the reduction Commission and European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization). of hazardous waste. In the next few years Flos anticipates being actively In 2018, Flos' activity continued to focus on the new edition of the IEC/EN involved in the Electromagnetic Compatibility Directive, Radio Equipment 60598-1 safety standard, that will be published in 2020, specifically regarding Directive recasting, as occurred with the Low Voltage Directive in 2018. the new LED light sources (i.e. photo biological safety hazard Retinal blue light hazard ) and all the updates necessary to cover new products, such Indeed, additional challenges may arise from the potential recast as Power over Ethernet (PoE), supplied luminaires, Protective Extra Low of European Directives and Regulations setting rules and procedures Voltage construction (PELV). In addition, the Company contributed to the regarding the compliance of lighting products. amendment of the IEC/EN 60570 standard about electrical supply track systems for luminaries. Furthermore, Flos worked on the alignment of the two IEC/EN standards mentioned above, focusing in particular on track systems and magnetic suspensions in luminaires. Assil Flos is an associate of Assil, the Italian FLA Flos and Ares are members of Assoluce, Anfalum Antares is an associate of Anfalum, Lighting Europe Assil, Assoluce and Anfalum Association of Lighting Manufacturers founded the Italian national association comprising more than the Spanish Association of lighting manufacturers belong to Lighting Europe, the industry association in 1995, which includes about 80 Italian Companies 150 luminaire manufacturers belonging to Federlegno, that comprises 87 Spanish companies active that represents the lighting industry in Europe. representing over 50% of the Italian market turnover which is the Italian wood and furniture industry in the lightning industry. Lighting Europe's main mission is to promote in the lighting segment. association. efficiency and sustainability of lighting systems, focusing on environmental challenges, human comfort and customers' health and safety. 74 75 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The C reati on Of Li ght: A S y nthes i s Of I nnov ati o n A n d Tr a d it io n 2.3 Energy Efficiency Of Lighting Systems FLOS Architectural Light Source Evolution LED HALOGEN METAL HALIDE FCL 2018 91,70% 7,20% 0,60% 0,50% 2016 71% 13% 14% 2% 2014 52% 17% 28% 3% 2012 29% 24% 40% 7% In its research and development activities, Flos has also worked to improve the dimming artificial lighting concepts that optimize the use Besides its efforts to maximize the energy efficiency Flos is outlining a way to reconcile efficiency and performance of its lighting systems and products. of daylight. On the other hand, for the design of its lighting solutions, Flos is continuously working sustainability trends and requests with its identity For the architectural segment, the use of LED is, collection, the Company is still conducting dedicated to improve the overall performance of its lamps. and philosophy, as well as with clients' quality by now, given as granted, as a result of the mounting R&D activities. Within this business segment, Flos' A concrete example of this approach is the choice and aesthetics expectations. pressures coming from competitors and final primary objective is that of matching energy efficiency of a new class of power supply units that meet the Over the last few years, in its attempt to reduce consumers. Each new Flos product is designed requirements with clients' aesthetic and quality Level IV efficiency standard, translating into lower the energy impact of its products, Flos has created to be LED-powered even if, in case of specific client expectations. Accordingly, researchers of the design consumption levels and higher conversion efficiency. modern LED lighting solutions that have now become requests, products can keep using traditional sources collection work with designers to produce new renowned icons. This is the result of a selection such as halogen or fluorescent lamps. families of lamps directly conceived to be powered by of top-level LED solutions, delivering visual comfort Moreover, Flos has carried out studies on the natural LED sources and to review and remake iconic models, together with energy efficiency. lighting of buildings in order to create dimmable in order to shift to the LED technology. 76 77 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The C reati on Of Li ght: A S y nthes i s Of I nnov ati o n A n d Tr a d it io n 2.4 Investing In Research And Innovation Research and development is an integral part colors starting from digital 3D models, enabling Flos of Flos' operations that seeks to materialize ideas to realize colored maps. This enables Flos to produce by investigating the feasibility of creation. prototypes with high precision in terms of colors The Company's ability to always offer innovative and and details, a feature impossible to achieve with iconic lighting products and systems is due to the a different technology in a short timeframe and paramount importance paid by the Group to research. at a reasonable cost. In 2018, investments in R&D activities amounted One of the main challenges of the R&D department to 3.3 million euros, mainly attributable to the cost of is bringing classic iconic models back into modernity. personnel (both employees and external consultants) In fact, Flos continuously strives to preserve the and expenses related to materials for prototypes and classic charm of design products, while using modern molds. The result of Flos' commitment to innovate componentry, innovative materials and up-to-date has taken shape with one of the first applications assembly and manufacturing methods to overcome in Italy of a pioneering color 3D printing solution. operational limitations and enhance a sustainable This technology allows the reproduction of 10 million production approach. Re-edition of Chiara by Mario Bellini. Prototype 78 79 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The C reati on Of Li ght: A S y nthes i s Of I nnov ati o n A n d Tr a d it io n Intensity Technological innovation also involves the connectivity of lighting solutions. Internet of Things (IoT) applications enable to combine and control different devices connected through the internet. As such, via the use of embedded sensors, it is possible to gather information from the surrounding environment, to analyze it and to elaborate effective responses. IoT applications in lighting systems enable, for instance, the improvement of energy efficiency with Movement daylight sensing that can control all the lights in the house, via a network of extremely sensitive detectors. In addition, such a system maps the usage patterns of customers, enabling them to further optimize energy savings and visual comfort in buildings. Over the past few years, Flos has progressively integrated IoT solutions within its existing products, as well as designing a series of new ones specifically intended to profit for the potential of these solutions. Currently Flos' lamps allow for different communication protocols that suit both centralized systems, in which all lighting devices are controlled by a central interface, and single systems, that can be remotely controlled by a simple control switch or a light dimmer. Smart Control In 2018, during the Light+Building2 and the Biennale Interieur3 exhibitions, Flos presented its new advanced solutions of smart control technologies, both integrated lighting control systems and mobile applications, that easily interface with any home automation standard and are compliant with Smart Building requirements. For instance, Flos' Smart Control® system is an application for smartphones and tablets allowing the total remote control of the luminaries. Light systems can thus be controlled and programmed in limitless positioning, orientation and dimming options to easily adjust to any lighting need and environment. 2 The Light + Building fair, that takes place in Frankfurt every two years, is an exhibition where the industry presents the latest products in the fields of lighting, electrical engineering as well as home and building automation. 3 The Belgian fair of Kortrijk, called the Biennale Interieur, is an exhibition dedicated to creative interior design and architecture. 80 81 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The C reati on Of Li ght: A S y nthes i s Of I nnov ati o n A n d Tr a d it io n 2.5 Protecting Flos' Ideas Total Number Of Patents Filed By Year4 Depositary Type 2016 2017 2018 2018 42 Flos S.p.A Design 4 85 12 Invention 0 1 1 Antares Design 33 35 18 2017 130 Invention 1 0 1 Ares Design 17 9 8 2016 55 Invention 0 0 2 4 Total number of patents filed by Flos S.p.A., Antares and Ares during the last three years, including the first filing phase only and excluding following extensions. In order to protect brands and innovations These latter refer mainly to the architectural Design registrations have a limited duration; in Italy, and social networks selling counterfeit products. in the global and competitive environment in which and soft architectural business and, in an attempt for example, they last 25 years. Therefore, in order To strengthen its fight against counterfeiting, during the Company operates, in the past few years Flos to provide a broader protection of right, take to guarantee, safeguard and protect some iconic 2018 Flos continued registering in several countries S.p.A. (for the Design collection), Antares (for the into account the original design, but also any lamps, Flos also filed applications for copyright its most iconic products' trademarks. Architectural collection) and Ares (for the Outdoor significant aesthetic variation that the product registration in Italy and in other strategic countries. With the aim of enhancing the concept of Made collection) have filed several patents. might undergo in the future. In Italy, this kind of copyright, released by the Ministry in Italy and preserving high quality branded products For each new product category, Flos, with the Concerning the design collection, patents are first of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, from counterfeiting, Flos is also an active member support of an international consulting firm, evaluates filed in Italy and then extended to the European is directly linked to the designer and protects its of INDICAM. It represents nearly 180 companies, the best approach and solutions to protect its Community and to other foreign countries, legacy up to 70 years after the author's death. industry associations, legal and IP firms, security creations across geographies. Among others, design representing strategic regions in terms of business Flos actively combats online infringements and consultants and other organizations engaged against registrations, patent applications for invention and sales volumes. Conversely, concerning frauds, such as the sale of counterfeit products counterfeiting activities affecting branded products. or utility models and registered copyrights are some the architectural collection, patents are filed or the illicit use of images and texts from Flos' Its activity is focused on sharing information and of the methods currently applied. All patents are at a European level. Since 2017, Flos has also website and social media. This latter kind of violation spreading counterfeiting awareness, by co-operating filed before the presentation of new prototypes extended its brand protection activities to the is among the most wide-spread, due to the rapid with police, courts and all other branches of the during international fairs. Given the nature of Flos' Outdoor collection. The trend of filings during growth of online shopping. Since 2017, an external Italian Public Administration directly dealing with core business, the majority of patents belong the years is mainly related to the biennial periodicity specialized company has supported Flos in the anti-counterfeiting activities and by lobbying for better to the design registration category, while the fewest of Euroluce, which is where new lamps belonging continuous process of identification and suppression legislation and its stricter enforcement. is represented by patent applications for invention. to the Design collection are presented to the public. of worldwide e-commerce platforms, marketplaces 82 83 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The P ath Toward s A S us tai nab le Va lu e Ch a in 3. The Path Towards A Sustainable Value Chain Flos' intent of bringing to life inspired sketches and projects from lighting architects and designers demands an articulated production process involving the R&D department, highlyspecialized artisans and an accurate quality control system. Within this process, Flos directly manages, in collaboration with designers, architects and engineers, the conception and design of lighting systems, as well as the monitoring activities and tests carried out to assess product quality and to ensure compliance with safety requirements. Whereas, for the majority of manufacturing, assembly and logistic activities, Flos relies on the expertise of a specialized and trusted network of suppliers. Quality control tools 84 85 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The P ath Toward s A S us tai nab le Va lu e Ch a in 3.1 The Production Process The production chain of the design collection This phase includes highly specialized techniques, is handled in Flos' Italian headquarters in Bovezzo, including those necessary for the manufacturing for the indoor lighting products, and in Bernareggio, of hand blown glasses and technical fabrics, for the outdoor products, while the architectural but also coating processes and plastics and collection is produced in Antares' Spanish metals processing. headquarter in Valencia. The processed materials composing the lighting The production process begins, once the products systems are then sent to Flos headquarters have passed the prototype and pre-series phases, to ensure that they meet the high quality and with the purchasing of single components, safety standards required by the Company and all as the large extent of techniques and materials applicable regulations. Afterwards, the components required for Flos' products implies the externalization are assembled as indicated in the design and of most of the manufacturing processes. engineering plans. Arco lamp manufacturing Custom products assembly 86 87 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The P ath Toward s A S us tai nab le Va lu e Ch a in The assembly process is predominantly outsourced to a network of selected Flos' Lean Manufacturing artisans, mainly based in the Lombardy region and in Valencia (for further details, please refer to § 3.1.1). Lean manufacturing is a systematic methodology that acknowledged standards on which lean manufacturing The production chain ends with a further quality assessment of the final focuses on minimizing waste within manufacturing is based and aims to create a continuous improvement product, carried out in the Group's internal laboratories. processes while simultaneously maximizing productivity. in line with the idea that small, ongoing positive changes The lean thinking is based on five key principles, namely can reap major improvements. The key component and Over the last few years, production processes have been characterized value, value streams, flow, pull, perfection. foundation of the Kaizen method is the so called by an increase in Flos' production volumes that are leading to a saturation These principles build on the identification of customer's 5 S program that stands for: Sort, Set in order, Shine, of the external network in charge of product assembly. In order to overcome needs and the relative mapping of the value stream , Standardize and Sustain. The 5 S program focuses this issue and to continue responding to market needs, in 2018 Flos started in order to identify all the actions needed to deliver on having visual order, organization, cleanliness and a pilot project for setting up a new assembly line in its facilities in Nave, close a given service or product. Afterwards, the objective standardization of each workspace, resulting to its Bovezzo plant. The project aims to increase the ownership is to set up a smooth process of value creation with in improved profitability, efficiency, service and safety. of the production process, thus enhancing the control over its supply chain augmented productivity and efficiency. The last two Flos has implemented the lean thinking principles and as well as the production capacity and flexibility. To design and manage steps are based on the optimization of the process the 5 S approach first by analyzing product assembly the new production area, Flos decided to implement the lean manufacturing by cutting the time in which the product or the service methods in order to optimize station layout; secondly, principles with the support of the Italian Kaizen Institute. Flos' primary is delivered to the customer and, finally, on working by setting up a dedicated training program focused objective was to obtain a production and logistics flow organized in on the continuous improvement of such an approach by on the lean manufacturing principles and on the creation accordance with the most advanced manufacturing concepts capable integrating the lean thinking into the corporate culture. of a diffused continuous improvement culture through of eliminating faultiness as well as time and materials inefficiencies. The Kaizen principles, in particular, are among the most team work and incremental change. At the end of 2018, a project for implementing the lean manufacturing principles has been implemented also in Ares' Bernareggio plant with the aim of optimizing production processes by increasing quality and Sort Set in order Shine Standardize Sustain minimizing waste. Remove all Create a specific Clean the work area Standardize the best Never fall back into unnecessary items location for practice within the the old ways from the workplace everything workplace 88 89 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The P ath Toward s A S us tai nab le Va lu e Ch a in Concerning the Architectural collection, given the quality performance 3.1.1 Flos' products are the outcome of a long-lasting collaboration with top-quality of all suppliers, the selection process is primarily based on their flexibility Supplier Selection Italian and Spanish suppliers, a fusion of craft heritage and experimentation. and capability to promptly react to Flos' requests, which adapt to the And Management Besides the electronic components, which are usually imported or purchased fluctuations and demand shifts characterizing this branch of the lighting from multinational companies, the production of other semi-processed market. For these reasons, as shown in the next table, more than 67% materials and components and the majority of the assembly activities of the Company suppliers are located in Spain and, more specifically, are outsourced to Italian and Spanish suppliers, mainly from northern Italy in Valencia and its surrounding areas (approximately 39% of the total number and Valencia's surrounding areas. This proximity becomes crucial, also of suppliers and 51.3% of the total spend in 2018). in strategic terms, given the intensity and timeliness with which Flos conducts quality control processes on semi-processed materials and on finished Suppliers' provenance by number and spending – Architectural collection products. Promoting local suppliers not only gives the opportunity to rely on a shorter supply chain improving reliability and delivery times but also Suppliers Provenance 3 U.M. 2016 spending 2017 spending 2018 spending demonstrates support for the local community. In absolute terms, the increase in the number of suppliers for the design collection between 2016 and 2017 Spain suppliers (n.) 145 70.7% 143 70.8% 137 70.9% is due to the inclusion of Ares in the reporting scope. Despite this extension, Valencia and surrounding areas suppliers (n.) 73 47.4% 81 51.4% 79 51.3% for both the design and the architectural collections, the percentage of local Other areas in Spain suppliers (n.) 72 23.3% 62 19.4% 58 19.6% suppliers is still relevant both in terms of number of suppliers and in terms Other Countries suppliers (n.) 62 29.3% 60 29.2% 67 29.1% of spending and shows a regular trend through the years, as reported in the Total n. 207 100% 203 100% 204 100% following tables. Regarding the design collection, Flos' preference for local suppliers is not a simple choice of convenience, but it stems from its attention 3 2016 data are related to Flos and Antares only, while 2017 and 2018 also include Ares. and attachment to the concept of Made in Italy , considered as a synonym of expertise, artisanship and innovation. Indeed, more than 87% of the Sustainable management of the supply chain involves a long-lasting Company's suppliers are located in Italy, mainly in the Lombardy region relationship between Flos and its suppliers, built on mutual trust and respect. (approximately 70% out of the total number of suppliers, representing 69.1% Considering the important role played by the supply chain in Flos' business, of the total spend in 2018). In line with previous years, 2018 also recorded the Company is committed to transfer its modus operandi and its expertise an overall increase in the number of suppliers, mainly related to the launch to suppliers, providing technical support in order to assure product quality. of new products and collections characterized by distinctive materials, Flos adopts a strict selection process and conducts audits at the suppliers' thus requiring highly specialized suppliers. sites to evaluate the quality of the materials and services they provide, their technical skills and the tools and machineries they use. Moreover, Suppliers' provenance by number and spending – Design collection great attention is paid to the supplier's quality management system (QMS), preferring those who have obtained an ISO 9001 QMS certification. Flos' business model, focused on the aesthetics and on the functional Suppliers Provenance 1 U.M. 2016 spending 2017 spending 2018 spending durability of its products, implies a greater attention devoted to quality Italy suppliers (n.) 231 83.7% 358 84.1% 425 82.4% and technical aspects during the assessment and selection of suppliers. Lombardy region 2 suppliers (n.) 182 67.6% 287 68.6% 341 69.1% Nevertheless, in its attempts to monitor and reduce its overall impacts Italy (except Lombardy region) suppliers (n.) 49 16.0% 71 15.5% 84 13.3% along the supply chain, at the beginning of 2018 Flos released new Other Countries suppliers (n.) 37 16.3% 49 15.9% 64 17.6% contractual clauses, based on a series of relevant national and international Total n. 268 100% 407 100% 489 100% guidelines and regulations. 1 2016 data are related to Flos and Antares only, while 2017 and 2018 also include Ares. 2 Data include Verona district. For the definition of local suppliers Verona district has been also considered, based on the proximity to Bovezzo headquarter. 90 91 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The P ath Toward s A S us tai nab le Va lu e Ch a in The latter cover issues such as the safety of products and workplaces, is mainly composed of small-scale companies, which do not have the environmental impact of products and production processes and workers' the possibility to stock products for a long time following the manufacturing labor conditions. Relevant examples of such norms are provided by the and assembly phases; REACH Regulation, focusing on the assessment and management of the risks • Italy: transport activities are operated by truck. Conveyances are not posed by chemical substances, the Waste Electrical & Electronic Equipment under exclusive use; this allows the optimization of the use of the payload Directive, for the management of electronic waste, or the International Labor capacity, as trucks can also pick up goods from other customers; Organization's regulation, such as the Equal Remuneration Convention, which • Other Countries: most overseas transportation is required for raw materials fosters work of equal value for men and women. A further reference has been and components supplied from China. These are transported by ship and, introduced about Conflict Minerals Rules, as regulated by Section 1502 of the only in exceptional cases, by air, while truck carriers operate the ground Dodd-Frank Act and of the new Regulation EU 2017/821. transportation from arrival harbors to Flos' headquarters. Moreover, in order to track their sustainability performance, these additional contractual clauses foresee the possibility of requesting suppliers' specific Regarding the Antares headquarters in Valencia, some suppliers are data related to environmental aspects (such as waste produced, raw materials situated in the same industrial complex as the Company. For the remaining and energy consumption) or safety issues (such as accident statistics). part, Antares relies on owned trucks for the suppliers located in Spain and Similarly, these new contractual clauses foresee the opportunity of conducting on an outsourced aircraft service for goods purchased abroad. environmental and social audits on suppliers' facilities and policies, in order Finally, concerning Ares' headquarters in Bernareggio, transport operations to test their compliance with Flos' requests. from local suppliers are mainly shared with other Companies in order In 2018, to carry forward supplier monitoring, Flos also introduced a new tool to increase efficiency and reduce costs. for supplier qualification. Although designed for collecting business-related supplier information, the tool will also allow the introduction of ESG aspects Transportation of sold products is entirely outsourced. Depending in supplier screening that, together with the new contractual clauses, will help on the distances, on the time of delivery and on the volumes, transport the Company to further understand and minimize social and environmental is operated either by truck, by ship or by aircraft. In 2017, Flos has undertaken burdens across its supply chain. a process of reorganization of its outbound logistic suppliers based on parcel dimensions, in order to increase both its efficiency and to reduce the overall environmental impact thanks to the possibility of offsetting the greenhouse gas emissions generated by logistics through climate protection projects 3.1.2 The efficiency and flexibility of logistics are essential to ensure that all (for further details please refer to § 3.2.3). Logistics products are delivered to the right place at the right time, enabling Flos to respond to market requests in a timely manner, while reducing costs and environmental impacts. Due to its strict quality control system, which implies the monitoring and the quality assessment at each production phase, the Company has to cope with a frequent and substantial cargo handling from suppliers' facilities to Flos' plants, and conversely. Ares' Outbound Logistics Management In particular, concerning the Bovezzo and Bernareggio sites, all inbound transport services are provided by external carriers and strictly vary depending In June 2018, Ares launched its renovated outbound Besides significant operational benefits, such as on the area where the transport is performed: logistics management system based on the Industry increased efficiency, greater transparency and • Bovezzo and surrounding areas: transport operations are conducted 4.0 principles. As a result, product outflow from the traceability, the new logistics management system by local truck companies, which deliver exclusively Flos products. Bernareggio plant has been automated allowing for will reduce paper consumption for internal procedures Such an on-demand transport service allows the flexibility, reliability and product tracking across all logistics processes. to almost zero, as it is now fully digitalized. timeliness required by clients, also considering that Flos' supplier network 92 93 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The P ath Toward s A S us tai nab le Va lu e Ch a in 3.2 Environmental Impacts Along The Production Process The most relevant environmental impacts from Flos' that, in order to be effective, a forward-looking overall production process come from outsourced corporate responsibility strategy must encompass activities and, only to a limited extent, from environmental footprint assessments and impact the assembly and packaging activities carried out reduction initiatives along the entire value chain. in Bovezzo and Valencia and from manufacturing In this sense Flos, starting from the R&D and design processes carried out in Bernareggio. Impacts mainly phase, focuses on selecting materials and production relate to the following environmental aspects: material processes that, in line with the aesthetic profiles consumption, scraps and waste from production of products, ensure the utmost environmental respect, and assembly, discharge of process water containing with the aim of reducing scraps from the overall toxic substances employed in the coating and production process. painting processes, energy consumption and related indirect emissions from logistics. Flos is conscious Plastic-free packaging Water-based painting 94 95 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The P ath Toward s A S us tai nab le Va lu e Ch a in Furthermore, Flos is continuing to monitor the environmental impacts 3.2.1 Flos is addressing its most pressing environmental challenges by focusing generated by its activities outside its organizational boundaries. Flos' carbon Materials And Energy on less impactful and more innovative techniques, reinventing, where possible, footprint, including indirect Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emissions related Consumption its iconic products. The Company accurately monitors the amounts to employees' business travels and the logistics of products and materials of materials and components purchased to produce its lightening systems (Scope 3 emissions), has been updated for the three-year period 2016-2018 and is committed to reduce the use of non-recyclable or toxic materials. in order to include Ares and quantify the impact at Group level (see § 3.2.3). In this direction, Flos replaced the inside packaging of the new lamp Concerning direct impacts coming from manufacturing, assembly and collections with Expanded Polystyrene (EPS), a material which is fully packaging activities carried out in Bovezzo, Bernareggio and Valencia, Flos recyclable. Additionally, conscious that functional longevity is essential monitors its energy consumption and waste production, taking actions for the sustainability of its products, Flos takes into consideration, throughout to reduce the environmental burden resulting from them. the conceptual design process and the selection of materials and suppliers, the durability of the materials composing the lighting systems. In this sense, the selection of materials in the design phase is made to ensure the replaceability of components. Processed materials (intensity ratios refer to net sales of Flos, Ares and Antares) Materials 4 U.M. 2016 2017 2018 Ares' Environmental Impacts Glass t 196 191 209 kg/k€ 1.08 1.17 1.24 Ares' headquarters, located in Bernareggio (Monza and Following Flos' commitment to minimize Plastics t 326 346 380 Brianza province, Italy), covers an area of 12,000 m2 the environmental impact of its operations, kg/k€ 1.80 2.11 2.24 including the research and development department, and in accordance with current legislation, Ares' Aluminium & Zamak 5 t 2,053 2,194 2,029 testing laboratories and a painting and coating system. facilities are equipped with an air treatment system kg/k€ 11.32 13.39 11.97 In addition, the plant has also a specific division for the abatement of particulate and other hazardous equipped with an automatic assembly line for circuit compounds as well as a water treatment plant Iron t 299 442 626 boards and a production department for wiring and authorized for effluent discharging both in the sewage kg/k€ 1.65 2.70 3.69 assembly activities. Ares manufacturing activities entail collection system and on the soil. External specialists Brass t 33 37 51 both water consumption and air emissions, mainly carry out wastewater and air quality analyses on kg/k€ 0.18 0.23 0.30 related to painting processes and the work of the a regular basis, in order to guarantee both compliance Rubber t 5 4 electronic circuit division, which comprises, for instance, with normative limits and the correct functioning kg/k€ 0.03 0.02 welding activities and the use of chemical compounds. of treatment plants. Marble/Concrete t 2 0.4 kg/k€ 0.01 0.002 4 For 2016, data are related to Flos and Antares only. 5 Zamak is a family of alloys with a base of zinc and alloying elements of aluminium, magnesium and copper. 96 97 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The P ath Toward s A S us tai nab le Va lu e Ch a in Concerning the procurement and processing of raw materials, all materials Electronic components employed (intensity ratios refer to net sales of Flos, show a stable consumption trend over the years, both in absolute terms Ares and Antares) and in relation to net sales. The increase of categories such as iron and the addition of new categories refer to the inclusion of Ares from 2017 data. Electronic Components 6 U.M. 2016 2017 2018 In particular, marble, concrete and rubber are materials mainly used in Ares' Transformers & power supply units 439,094 436,511 706,722 outdoor collections. In addition, the relative increase of the brass category units/ k€ 2.42 2.66 4.17 with respect to previous years is due to the launch of a new product family Electrical components units 5,717,871 6,820,962 6,658,154 IC Lights Floor, designed by Michael Anastassiades made of this metal. units/ k€ 31.53 41.63 39.28 In addition to the above mentioned raw materials, the Bernareggio plant also LED and LED components units 1,712,845 5,826,083 6,843,040 purchases chemical components for painting and coating activities. In 2018, units/ k€ 9.45 35.56 40.37 these compounds, that include paints, artificial resins and silicones, amounted Traditional lamps units 77,777 22,630 11,931 to 15 tons, increasing by 44% compared with 2017, mainly due to an increase units/ k€ 0.43 0.14 0.07 in production volumes. 6 For 2016, data are related to Flos and Antares only. The trend in electronic components purchased is representative of the industry switchover from conventional light sources to LED solutions, In addition to the use of raw materials and components to produce lighting due to the spread of this less energy intensive lighting technology. systems, another relevant impact arising from Flos' business derives from In particular, the significant increase of LED components purchased since packaging consumption. Flos' objective is, on one hand, to reduce the amount 2017 is due to the inclusion of the outdoor collection, which mainly relies of packaging used and to improve its recyclability and, on the other hand, on such solutions for its products. Nevertheless, even without considering to ensure an adequate protective barrier during transport. the outdoor collection produced by Ares, LED components purchases show an increase of 27% with respect to 2016 and of 157% with respect to 2014 Packaging materials (intensity ratios refer to net sales of Flos, Ares and Antares) (847,864 units). For the architectural segment the transition to LED sources is almost complete, also as a consequence of the market and of competitors' Packaging Materials U.M. 2016 2017 2018 and final customers' requests. For the design collection, the decreasing trend Paper and cardboard t 1,065 1,047 1,133 of traditional lamps purchases is also attributable to the Directive 2015/1428/ kg/k€ 6.8 6.4 6.7 EU, requiring companies not to sell lamps together with traditional light bulbs, Plastics t 75 79 78 thus allowing the customer to buy the solution he or she prefers between LED kg/k€ 0.5 0.5 0.5 and traditional sources. Wood t 264 302 371 kg/k€ 1.7 1.8 2.2 98 99 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The P ath Toward s A S us tai nab le Va lu e Ch a in Energy Consumption Of The Bovezzo Plant Polyurethane Foam 44% Concerning packaging materials consumption, Flos of all new collections. As a result, with regards to the Offices has decided to reduce the usage of materials based design collection, the purchase of polyurethane foams 3% on polyurethane foam, by substituting them with less shows a further 15% decrease in 2018 compared with General Services toxic and more recyclable alternatives for the packaging 2017, in terms of kilograms/number of products. 37% 16% Production Area R&D In addition to material consumption, Flos monitors its energy consumption, which is mainly related to heating and cooling purposes and to fossil fuel consumption for the corporate fleet. In particular, the production site Furthermore, as already carried out in Valencia facilities over the last few in Bovezzo is supplied from the district-heating network of Brescia, years, in 2018 the Bernareggio plant continued investing in the substitution an integrated system providing energy to the city from waste incineration. of the lighting systems with LED lighting. This project will proceed during 2019 Natural gas consumption, instead, derives from the Bernareggio plant, with the replacement of the lighting systems with more than 300 LED lamps where it is used for heating purposes and for painting activities. in the warehouse and manufacturing areas, thus contributing in decoupling The constant increase in natural gas consumption along the reporting period increasing production volumes and energy demand. is due to the increase of production volumes. Energy consumption In 2017, Flos has also implemented a sophisticated real-time monitoring system of its energy consumption levels in the Bovezzo plant. The system, Energy Consumption U.M. 2016 2017 2018 operational since January 2018, allows to monitor the energy demand of the Energy consumption for buildings GJ 19,757 22,009 22,951 different production processes within the plant, in order to identify the most -of which: electricity purchased from national grid GJ 8,750 9,247 9,168 energy-intensive ones as well as potential inefficiencies. The final goal -of which: district heating purchased from external is to start from consumption patterns to implement mitigation or remediation GJ 4,108 5,014 5,892 waste-to-energy plant activities in order to reduce the energy demand and increase the overall -of which: natural gas for heating and production processes GJ 6,899 7,748 7,890 efficiency of the plant. Energy consumption for fleet GJ 3,223 2,711 3,593 -of which: for Company car fleet GJ 2,459 2,217 3,342 The first result of this initiative has been, in 2018, a 13% reduction -of which: for Company truck fleet GJ 764 494 356 of Bovezzo electricity consumption compared with 2017, mainly due to the revamping of the lighting system carried out in the previous years. Total GJ 22,980 24,720 26,649 In addition, in 2018, thanks to the new tool for energy monitoring, Flos has optimized the cooling system and identified outliers through consumption patterns analysis. Although next year's records will provide more in-depth analysis, first results show that 44% of energy consumption is linked to office facilities that, consequently, may be the focus of energy efficiency initiatives in the near future. 100 101 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The P ath Toward s A S us tai nab le Va lu e Ch a in Waste production by category 3.2.2 Flos' waste production is mainly related to faulty components that do not Waste Production meet the Company's aesthetics and quality requirements and that are Waste Produced U.M. 2016 2017 2018 sent back to suppliers. Whenever possible, in the event of faulty products, undamaged components are separated and reused to minimize waste Non-hazardous waste t 489 523 533 volumes. Hazardous waste t 32 31 28 Total t 521 555 562 Moreover, in the belief that prevention is the most effective approach for eliminating waste, Flos is engaged in the training of its suppliers, in order Waste production by disposal method to reduce cases of non-compliance of input materials with respect to the Company's aesthetics and quality requirements. In particular, Flos inspects Waste, by disposal method U.M. 2016 2017 2018 and monitors the percentage of defective components coming from different Recycled t 277 311 311 suppliers and the reasons for their return, in order to identify the suppliers experiencing more difficulties, to discuss with them the implementation Not recycled t 244 244 250 of potential corrective actions and to provide them with the necessary tools Total t 521 555 562 and training to put them into practice. Finally, Flos offers its employees the opportunity of buying non-saleable, defect products at a discounted price, thus further reducing its total waste 3.2.3 Flos' commitment to reduce its overall environmental footprint encompasses volumes. Waste produced during the assembly phase occurring in Flos' GHG Emissions also the monitoring of its greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) for reduction and headquarters is collected and separated according to its composition compensation purposes. The most part of Flos' GHG emissions are located to optimize recycling. Moreover, the Company relies on an external provider in the final end of the value chain, i.e. concerning logistics activities. Indeed, for waste management and recycling activities. the emissions related to the production process are quite limited, in absolute terms. Nonetheless, in the past few years, Flos started putting in place a The following tables illustrate Flos' waste production in the reporting period. series of energy efficiency activities aimed at reducing its overall footprint. The total amount of waste produced increased mainly due to the increase As shown in the table below, in accordance to the GHG Protocol Corporate in production. The percentage of recycled waste slightly rose, shifting from Accounting and Reporting Standard, Flos has identified and monitored all 53% in 2016 to 55% in 2018. relevant direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) and those resulting from energy purchases (Scope 2). Moreover, where data are available and reliable, Flos In 2017, with the aim of continuously increasing the percentage of recycled is monitoring and reporting indirect emissions occurring outside of the waste, Flos has introduced the separated collection of polyethylene in the Company, in order to extend the analysis to its entire value chain (Scope 3). Bovezzo plant. In 2018, this choice allowed to achieve a further 2% reduction The GHG emissions resulting from the electricity purchased from the national of the unsorted waste production of the plant with respect to 2017, whereas in grid have been calculated both by adopting the location-based and the 2017 the reduction amounted to 14% compared with 2016. market-based method. The first one reflects the average emissions intensity In addition, Flos has also improved the separated collection of unsorted of grids from which energy consumption occurs while the second reflects waste in the offices by identifying the areas where most waste is produced emissions from electricity that the Company has purposefully chosen. and is implementing a new dedicated collection system. In relation to the latter, since August 2018, the electricity purchased by Flos' The hazardous waste is mainly related to the introduction of the Bernareggio Bovezzo and Nave plants is entirely covered by Guarantees of Origin (GO), plant in the reporting scope. The plant hosts manufacturing phases, such as thus certifying that it is produced from renewable sources and results in zero painting and coating, which require the use of chemical compounds. emissions of CO2 according to the market-based method. 102 103 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 The P ath Toward s A S us tai nab le Va lu e Ch a in Scope 3 GHG emissions, resulting from the transportation of purchased goods and sold products (when customers do not manage transportation on their Carbon Offsetting own) and from business travels have been calculated in line with last year's approach. The increasing of outbound logistics in 2018 is mainly related In order to compensate the environmental impacts On behalf of Flos, and proportionally with the emissions to the inclusion of Ares' data in the calculation. of its outbound logistics activities, since 2017 Flos resulting from the transportation service purchased, adheres to the Go Green – Climate Neutral program DHL invests in climate protection projects complying GHG Emissions U.M. 2016 2017 2018 organized by DHL 9, which allows customers to offset with the Clean Development Mechanism10 (CDM) criteria Direct Emissions (Scope 1) tCO 2 eq 688 751 858 their emissions resulting from the transportation set out in the Kyoto Protocol. -Emissions resulting from natural gas burning used of goods. The methods used for calculating and Flos' offset for 2018 amounted to 589.90 t CO2 eq, tCO 2 377 438 448 for Company's heating and production processes eq offsetting greenhouse gas emissions are based an increase of 123% compared with 2017, when -Emissions resulting from fuel (diesel) used on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol's Product Life Cycle the offset amounted to 264.58 t CO2 eq. In addition, tCO 2 57 37 27 for Company's truck fleet eq Accounting and Reporting Standard. The calculation in 2018, Ares also participated to the project by offsetting -Emissions resulting from fuel (diesel) used methodology includes carbon dioxide ( CO 2 ) and further a further 79.76 t CO2 eq. In total, in 2018 both Flos tCO 2 246 225 306 for Company's car fleet eq GHG emissions such as methane ( CH4 ) and nitrous and Ares contributed to CO2 savings equal to the CO2 -Emissions resulting from fuel (gasoline) used oxide ( N2O ) from transport and logistics as well as emitted by around 360 passenger cars, which travel tCO 2 0.38 0.86 15 for Company's car fleet eq upstream emissions from fuel and energy production. for 10,000 km. -Emissions of refrigerant gases resulting tCO 2 8 51 63 from leakages of air-conditioning systems eq Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) – Location Based tCO 2 eq 1,019 1,172 1,123 -Emissions resulting from electricity purchased tCO 2 785 897 816 2018 30% 70% from national grid 2,261 t CO 2 eq -Emissions resulting from district heating purchased tCO 2 233 275 307 from the waste to energy plant eq 2017 16% 84% Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) – Market Based tCO 2 eq 1,309 1,411 1,342 1,685 t CO 2 eq -Emissions resulting from electricity purchased tCO 2 1,076 1,136 1,035 from national grid eq Emission offset with the GoGreen GHG Emission resulting from transportation -Emissions resulting from distric heating purchased program of sold products tCO 2 233 275 307 from the waste to energy plant eq Other Indirect Emissions (Scope 3) tCO 2 eq 2,134 2,423 3,590 -Emissions resulting from transportation 9 DHL is an international company providing express deliveries worldwide and logistics services including freight tCO 2 375 454 1,017 of purchased goods 7 eq transportation, warehousing and supply chain solutions. 10 The Clean Development Mechanism certifies emissions reduction projects in developing countries as well as trading -Emissions resulting from transportation of sold products 8 tCO 2 1,486 1,685 2,261 eq and selling certificates arising from projects in order to meet emissions reduction targets through compensation under -Emissions resulting from business travels tCO 2 eq 273 284 312 the Kyoto Protocol. Total Location-based tCO 2 eq 3,840 4,346 5,571 Total Market-based tCO 2 eq 4,131 4,585 5,790 7 2016 and 2017 data are related to Flos and Antares (for the last, only finished products from Bovezzo and Bernareggio and returns from consumers are included). 2018 data also include Ares outbound logistics. 8 Emissions data from transportation of sold product show, by nature, a fluctuating trend mainly due to the architectural collection, as a consequence of fluctuating demands from key accounts and other clients, different weights of products and distances covered. 104 105 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 B ui l d i ng S trong A nd Las ti n g Re la t io n s h ip s 4. Building Strong And Lasting Relationships « With the purpose of contributing to our local communities, we continued to build on our strong relationships with the territory by sponsoring and supporting cultural and philanthropic initiatives. In the same vein, regarding our people, we worked to foster an inclusive and constructive working environment, with particular attention on nurturing and retaining our talents by strengthening training activities. » – Roberta Silva Fuorisalone 2018, Milan 106 107 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 B ui l d i ng S trong A nd Las ti n g Re la t io n s h ip s 4.1 With Employees 4.1.1 As of the 31st December 2018, Flos Group's workforce, including Flos USA Inc. Employment and Flos' commercial branches, totalled 619 persons, showing an increase with respect to the prior year (609). Flos, Ares and Antares' workforce was equal to 438 people and included 28 supervised workers and 9 interns. Workforce By Employee U.M. 2016 2017 2018 Category And Gender 1 Total workforce n. 422 444 438 Employees n. 391 397 401 Supervised workers n. 22 33 28 Interns n. 9 14 9 Workforce by gender Women % 47% 44% 43% Men % 53% 56% 57% 1 Data do not include Flos USA Inc. and Flos' commercial branches. Board Composition U.M. 2016 2017 2018 By Gender And Age Group Women n. 0 1 0 Men n. 8 8 4 Less than 30 years n. 0 0 1 From 30 to 50 years n. 4 4 3 Passion and expertise of Flos' people have always taking important business decisions. been key elements of the Group's success. In recent years, Flos has taken the first steps More than 50 years n. 4 5 0 Being conscious of how important it is to be able of a path aimed at further strengthening its attention Total n. 8 9 4 to always count on qualified and committed towards its employees, by adopting a more structured employees, ever since its foundation, Flos has approach, featuring training activities and employee Employees, whose number has remained relatively consistent over the put its workforce at the center of its strategies development programs. years, represent the majority of Flos, Ares and Antares' workforce, which and it always considers its people's needs when corresponds to 92% of the total workforce in 2018, with the remainder composed of supervised workers and interns. The employed personnel are mainly located in the Italian plants of Bovezzo (152 employees) and Bernareggio (83 employees) and are mainly composed of office workers (61% of the total, in 2018). The employees' composition shows a balanced proportion between women (43%) and men (57%) employed and a predominance of employees between 30 and 50 years old (67%). Flos is committed to enhancing corporate diversity in order to create an inclusive working environment where all employees, regardless of gender or other individual differences, are able to express their full potential. 108 109 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 B ui l d i ng S trong A nd Las ti n g Re la t io n s h ip s Flos prefers permanent contracts (94%, in 2018) to temporary ones Employees By Contract Type U.M. 2016 2017 2018 as a means of promoting human resources retention and development, Permanent n. 363 365 375 while enhancing, at the same time, employees' sense of awareness and Women n. 167 160 165 commitment. In 2018, only 5% of employees worked part-time, a percentage almost unchanged with respect to the previous two years. All Flos employees Men n. 196 205 210 are covered by collective bargaining agreements, as required by national laws. Temporary n. 28 32 26 Women n. 15 12 7 Men n. 13 20 19 Total n. 391 397 401 Employees, by Gender Full-time vs Part-time Employees 2018 172 229 2018 5% 95% Contrary to the previous years' trend, the graph below shows a slight decrease of the hiring rate in 2018, that is calculated by dividing the number of hirings 2017 172 225 by the total number of employees at the end of the reporting year. Similarly, the turnover rate, calculated as the number of resignations over the number of employees, slightly declined in comparison to 2017. 2016 182 209 The low turnover rate, which was mainly due to voluntary resignations, represents a physiological staff renewal. Woman Man Part-time Full-time Employee Hiring And Turnover Rates Hiring rate Turnover rate Hirings U.M. 2016 2017 2018 Employees, by Category Employees, by Age 9.2% 9.3% Women n. 16 13 19 8.5% Men n. 20 24 15 61% 67% Office Workers From 30 to 50 years Less than 30 years old n. 8 12 11 7.4% 7.8% 7.5% From 30 to 50 years old n. 26 24 22 5% More than 50 years old n. 2 1 1 Middle Managers 7% Less than 30 years 2016 2017 2018 Total Hirings n. 36 37 34 3% Executives 31% 26% Workers More than 50 years Terminations U.M. 2016 2017 2018 Men n. 10 15 19 Women n. 19 16 11 Less than 30 years old n. 3 4 6 From 30 to 50 years old n. 20 21 16 More than 50 years old n. 6 6 8 Total Terminations n. 29 31 30 110 111 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 B ui l d i ng S trong A nd Las ti n g Re la t io n s h ip s almost 100 hours in 2018. In accordance with the 2018 training program, Flos 4.1.2 Flos' objective for 2018 was to increase training for all employees to help confirms its commitment for 2019 to provide all its employees with adequate People Empowerment create a more stimulating working environment. In 2018, expenditure on training, regardless of employee category and contract types. In addition, specific And Welfare training increased by more than 5 times the equivalent spend in 2015. courses on environmental aspects and impacts management of products and To continuously funnel personal and organizational improvements, Flos has operation will be introduced, aiming at further increasing employees' awareness designed and developed a dynamic and personalized training program, aligned and involvement in environmental and sustainability issues. to the different employees' expectations and corporate responsibilities. The program was conceived to help employees realize their full potential, Training U.M. 2016 2017 2018 both in terms of soft and technical skills necessary to meet the Group's evolving requirements and to adapt to the technological and national Total hours h 2,005 3,124 3,885 and international legislative changes taking place in the business world Men h 1,262 2,048 2,280 (e.g. Brexit, Eco-design regulation, labeling and EPREL data base). Women h 743 1,076 1,606 For the design of this program, Flos has considered employees' training needs Average hours h/employee 5.1 7.9 9.7 and has identified a set of minimum training requirements for every cluster of Men h/employee 6.0 9.1 10.0 functions. The yearly training program has been evaluated and integrated by Women h/employee 4.1 6.3 9.3 each function responsible prior to authorization of the Personnel Department. Non-Compulsory Training The training program involves both technical ad hoc courses (e.g. 3D Total hours h 1,499 2,696 3,725 printer and e-commerce) and non-technical training ranging from legislative requirements (e.g. RoHS, Ecodesign, import and export) to public speaking Percentage on total training % 75 86 96 and English, French and German lessons. For instance, in 2017 in the Average hours h/employee 3.8 6.8 9.3 Bernareggio plant the majority of office workers' training activities were dedicated to digitalization and Industry 4.02; as regards the Bovezzo plant, Average Training Hours, By Employee Category in 2018 specific courses on lean manufacturing were organized involving seven employees for almost two days of training, with the aim of creating 2018 4h 12h 17h 12h a team for the lean manufacturing pilot project at the Nava site (for further details, please refer to § 3.1). In 2019, training on lean manufacturing will continue, involving employees within the R&D department. 2017 5h 9h 17h In 2018, Flos invested heavily in training providing a total of 3,885 training hours to its employees, corresponding to an average of 9.7 hours per employee, showing a significant increase of 89% compared to 2016. 2016 1h 6h 12h 3h In addition, looking at the non-compulsory training (i.e. excluding training activities required by national regulations, such as health and safety training), the average training hours per employee amounted to 9.3 in 2018. Workers Office Workers Middle Managers Executives This increase reflects Flos' determination to provide its employees with a training program conceived to be a response to their needs and not only in With the aim of retaining talent and supporting its highly specialized relation to a compliance requirement. Training courses are mainly provided to employees, Flos will evaluate the possibility to introduce an evaluation middle managers (17 hours by employee in 2018), while executives and office system based on employees' performance. The system will be first launched workers' training hours per employee were equal and amounted to 12 hours with a pilot project involving a small group of about 20 employees from the per employee. With regard to workers, the average training hours provided marketing department. This system could help to align individual goals with increased over the three-year period, reaching 4 hours per employee in 2018. the organization's expectations, identifying training needs and provide clear Flos has also provided training to supervised workers and interns, for a total of communication around work responsibilities and objectives. 2 Industry 4.0 is the process of automation and digitalization at an industrial level. 112 113 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 B ui l d i ng S trong A nd Las ti n g Re la t io n s h ip s Executives and managers are expected to act in order to reduce injuries and to ensure safety in the workplace. Therefore, in 2017 Flos in the Bovezzo Benefits And Welfare plant carried out a project aimed at improving the structural stability and at reducing the seismic vulnerability of warehouses. In addition, to reduce Flos believes that employees' welfare is key to create Benefits are provided to all full-time and part-time potential leakages and workers' exposure to chemical substances, Flos a motivating working environment encouraging people employees, while fuel vouchers are extended also to introduced a new closed-circuit washing system in the prototype division and to give their best efforts. To stimulate employees' temporary workers. In addition, to provide a wider set of substituted the painting cabins, respectively in 2017 and in 2018. Furthermore, growth, advancement and personal well-being, Flos benefits to its employees, in 2018 Flos has implemented Flos invested in the acquisition of four electric forklift trucks with higher has translated its commitment into the provision of a an online platform developed to manage workers' security levels and performances as compared to the old ones. In relation to benefit package that meets employees' needs beyond benefits and performance bonuses. The web-platform Antares' headquarters in Valencia, the Company provides an annual check-up just base compensation. In 2018, Flos introduced will become operational at the end of 2019 and will for all its employees, on a free and personal basis, and every year an audit meal vouchers in the benefits package that already allow an integrated and simplified way of discovering is conducted by a third party to assess Antares' compliance with health and included health insurance and invalidity coverage, fuel and access to all the different benefits. safety regulations. The audit results include recommendations for workplace vouchers and canteen services. Flos also promotes pay Flos' objective for the near future is to extend the safety improvements that the Company integrates and communicates to its for performance to recognize everyone's contribution benefit package to all the Group's companies, such suppliers located on its premises. Finally, the Bernareggio plant has started through offering performance bonuses related both to as Antares and Ares, and to provide additional benefit an optimization process of the production lines in order to improve both product quality and to business profitability. categories to meet everyone's needs and priorities. product quality and workers' safety. Besides redesigning the layout of the production lines, in 2018, new ergonomically designed workstations have been implemented, to encourage a healthy and comfortable working environment. During 2018, Flos registered 5 injuries with relatively lower severity compared with 2017; in 2018, the average number of lost days related to the 5 injuries 4.1.3 Guaranteeing a healthy and safe workplace for all its workforce and preventing equated to almost 10 days per injury, whereas in 2017 one injury resulted in Occupational Health accidents are key commitments for Flos. In line with these objectives, 31 lost days. During the three-year reporting period, no occupational diseases And Safety the Group carries out, on an ongoing basis, several activities to improve have been recorded. occupational safety and raise people's awareness of these topics. The Group provides continuous training and education on health and safety Health And Safety 4 U.M. 2016 2017 2018 topics. In 2018, a total of 160 hours of health and safety training was provided. This was fewer than in 2016 and 2017, due to the frequency of the activities Number of injuries n. 3 1 5 that are carried out on a two or five-year basis depending on training levels Women • Men n. 2 • 1 0 • 1 2 • 3 and workers' risks. In particular, in 2018 Flos provided training on health and Lost days 5 n. 30 31 47 safety topics to the newly hired employees about specific topics, such as Women • Men n. 17 • 13 0 • 31 12 • 35 load-handling operations, noise and repetitive movement. Injury rate [number of injuries/hours worked x 1,000,000] 4.5 1.5 7.3 Women • Men 6.6 • 2.7 0.0 • 2.6 7.0 • 7.5 Training On Health U.M. 2016 2017 2018 Lost day rate [number of lost days And Safety Topics 3 for injuries/hours worked x 1,000,000] 45.0 45.8 68.5 Total hours h 506 428 160 Women • Men 56.3 • 35.6 0.0 • 80.1 41.8 • 87.8 3 Data related to Antares' only include non-compulsory training Absentee rate [number of absentee days/ workable days] % 2.8 3.4 3.7 (data on health and safety training by employee category are not available). Women • Men % 3.4 • 2.3 4.0 • 3.0 5.4 • 2.4 4 All data reported in the table are referred to Flos' employees (excluding contractors). Commuting injuries and first-aid are not included. 5 Lost days and absentee days are calculated as working days. For injuries, lost days are calculated starting from the day of the injury. 114 115 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 B ui l d i ng S trong A nd Las ti n g Re la t io n s h ip s 4.2 With Clients By doing so, Flos operates closely with the key accounts both to meet their need of having the same lighting concept applied to their different stores and to help them to better develop their project and business. Flos also relies on Agencies that operate through active sales, by collaborating with design studios and architectural firms, proposing personalized and unique lighting solutions. In these cases, lighting products can be sold either directly to the final client or via distributors. Furthermore, Flos relies on showrooms for sales of its architectural and design collections. These showrooms are corporate shops operating either through B2C or through B2B models. Finally, in those markets where these sales channels are not available, Flos relies on exporters, which allow Flos to reach final customers and intermediaries in those Countries where direct sales activity is not present. Flos' sales channels Flos S.p.A. Agencies Exporters Design Studios and 4.2.1 Flos operates through various sales channels to better adapt its offer Sales Channels And to clients' different expectations and technical requirements. The Group mainly Architectural Firms Communication Activities relies on its own subsidiaries and sales team located worldwide as well as Key on agencies, which are intermediaries that sell products of the architectural Showrooms Wholesalers Retailers Accounts and design collection to distributors. Flos' distributors comprise wholesalers of electric equipment and lighting specialists, which sell products to installers, and generalist retailers, that are mostly composed of family-run furniture or lighting shops, which predominantly serve final customers. Flos uses its products catalogues as the main media to interact with its Key accounts, instead, are B2B clients, which have a direct contact with customers. The three catalogues, each dedicated to a specific collection, the Company also through the distribution network, that represents are not only a list of products and corresponding technical specifications, an additional service and a market advantage compared to competitors. but they represent a way for Flos to express and communicate its identity, its philosophy and its history. Flos has also developed a mobile app that offers clients the opportunity to access the Company's catalogues directly from their cell phones and tablets. Sailing event with clients 116 117 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 B ui l d i ng S trong A nd Las ti n g Re la t io n s h ip s The digitalization of catalogues, together with the corporate website, allows Moreover, since 2018, Flos' front office organizes periodic meetings once the Company to inform clients in real time about new product launches and every quarter involving specific departments – i.e. quality, production and periodic updates of technical information. In its effort to support clients, R&D – to report and analyze the complaints received and evaluate corrective the Company has published on its website a series of web videos, containing actions. The Group monitors the number of products returned for faultiness instructions on how to install the lighting systems. reasons and the evolution of the quality indicator, which is calculated Moreover, Flos has made available to download the app String Lights – as the incidence of returned products for faultiness reasons on the total costs Remote dimmer and more , which allows clients to control the light intensity of goods sold. This indicator, which contributes to determining employees' of their String Lights lamps designed by Michael Anastassiades. yearly bonus, has slightly increased by 11% with respect to 2016. In this app, it is also possible to find additional contents such as the biography of the designer, interviews, ideas and instructions for the installation, image Quality Indicator U.M. 2016 2017 2018 galleries, and more. Other means of communication are press releases and, Cost of returned product for faultiness importantly, social networks (such as Facebook, Pinterest and Instagram). on cost of goods sold 6 % 1.36 1.28 1.51 In 2017, Flos created a new organizational function dedicated to Social Media management, in an effort to focus on digital channels of communication 6 2017 and 2018 data also includes Ares. in order to effectively engage with younger clients. Concerning the architectural collection, the Company has carried out an analysis on return causes (design, transportation, suppliers etc.) and product 111k 423k types (electric, mechanical, aesthetic). The results of this analysis have shown that product returns are mainly due to suppliers' production process and to followers followers the design phase of the products. This has served as the basis for defining strategies and actions aimed at reducing the problems leading to client claims. A deeper analysis has been carried out in order to identify faultiness reasons 4.2.2 Customer satisfaction is essential to Flos' business. The Group demonstrates related to top products (in terms of sales). Following the analysis, for each Customer Care its attention to clients by offering exceptionally designed and technologically specific cause identified, whereas possible, corrective actions have been And Satisfaction advanced lighting systems, high quality standards and an efficient repairing/ implemented. Otherwise, dedicated initiatives have been planned for the next substitution service. Flos continuously monitors clients' claims regarding few years. An additional relevant aspect, which demonstrates Flos' attention product malfunctioning or faultiness, with the purpose of improving the overall to its customers, is the importance devoted to the timeliness of deliveries. process, thus enhancing customer satisfaction. In the event of claims, Flos Regarding the design collection, the time lag between orders and deliveries evaluates, on a case-by-case basis, the best solutions in terms of both costs is usually less than 6 days. In 2018 Flos' time lag extended compared with and customer satisfaction. For instance, the Company may either recall the 2017, as a consequence of an increase in outdoor and architectural orders, product to analyze the causes of its malfunctioning, substitute it immediately characterized by a higher level of customization thus requiring longer or, in case of widely installed systems, to send a Flos technician from the manufacturing times. internal quality department to conduct a site visit in order to identify more suitable solutions. In 2017, Flos invested in reorganizing its customer care services to offer a unique contact for both the design and the architectural collections. With a new structure based on those countries where Flos is present, the Company is able to build a strong relationship with every customer and to respond effectively and promptly to all customer needs allowing them to interface with a single customer care service. 118 119 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 B ui l d i ng S trong A nd Las ti n g Re la t io n s h ip s Time lag between orders and deliveries The aim is to test retailers' opinion on the following aspects: • Product innovation; • Product quality; 2018 63% 37% • Response and processing time to/for clients' requests; • Management of product-related problems; 2017 70% 30% • Response to customization requests. This qualitative analysis, which continued both in 2017 and 2018, has shown < 6 days > 6 days a great satisfaction among Flos' retailer clients across all aspects and has served as the basis for implementing specific corrective actions following the suggestions collected from interviewed personnel, in particular regarding the response time lag to product-related problems and the satisfaction of In order to provide customers with a deep understanding of Flos' products, customization requests. In 2018, in particular, in line with its commitment, both in technological and aesthetic terms, the Group offers a series of training Flos extended the customer satisfaction survey to around 100 retailers aiming programs specifically designed to cover the needs of the different interlocutors at gathering an even more representative client sample. (agents, distributors, lighting designers etc.). Flos offers a series of courses concerning the architectural collection products, aimed at explaining their technical features and how to install them. Through the training program Progettazione della luce negli interni (Interior light design), Flos offers to furniture retailers an opportunity to understand how to present and sell a lighting concept. For the next few years, a training program has been designed for lighting retailers on how to communicate the value of design and the importance of the iconicity of Flos' lamps. The courses, which are carried out at Flos' showrooms in Valencia and Milan or directly at the client's site, provide an opportunity for collecting feedback from clients on products. In addition, taking the opportunity of the restructuring activities of its facilities in Bernareggio, Ares has built its own training room mainly dedicated to its customers, lighting designers and architects. Since 2016, in its attempt to gather customers' opinions Flos has also carried out an analysis on customer satisfaction, which has involved direct interviews, held at retailers' locations. 120 121 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 B ui l d i ng S trong A nd Las ti n g Re la t io n s h ip s 4.3 With The Community 4.3.1 Contributing to the dissemination of the art and design culture amongst the Art And Design Culture community is one of Flos' key commitments in terms of social responsibility. In line with this objective, the Group offers its support to cultural events, exhibitions and design festivals through donations, loans, light installations and co-organization efforts. For over 50 years, Flos has collaborated with the most prestigious art, architecture and design museums across the world. A variety of products have been donated or lent to such institutions and actually feature in the permanent collections of iconic museums, such as the MOMA (Museum of Modern Art) in New York, the Triennale di Milano in Milan, and the Centre National d'Art et de Culture Georges Pompidou in Paris. Refettorio Paris au Foyer de la Madeleine, Paris 122 123 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 B ui l d i ng S trong A nd Las ti n g Re la t io n s h ip s In 2018, Flos' commitment to foster the art and design culture amongst the community materialized by participating, as creative partner of the Triennale di Milano, in the A Castiglioni exhibition, celebrating his 100th birthday anniversary. The history of Flos is closely intertwined the Castiglioni brothers who, together with Tobia Scarpa, have been the reference designers of the Company since its foundation, in the early 1960s, with an unprecedented fermentation of revolutionary ideas and intuitions that would lead to the creation of objects destined to remain forever in the history of design. In addition to the extraordinary series of cocoon lamps, such as Taraxacum, Viscontea and Gatto, the professional relationship between Achille and Pier Giacomo with Sergio Gandini resulted in some iconic products such as Arco, Taccia, Toio and Snoopy. The successful and prolific collaboration of the Castiglioni brothers then continued with Achille after the untimely death of Pier Giacomo, resulting in a new series of successes, with highlights including Lampadina, Aoy, Gibigiana, and Parentesi, the brilliant height-adjustable lamp designed in 1971 from a Pio Manzù's spark, winner of a Compasso d'Oro ADI award and exhibited in the permanent collections of the most important design museums in the world. In the A Castiglioni exhibition Flos had a twofold role. Firstly, most of the lighting fixtures designed by the brothers or by Achille alone, came from the Flos archive or the Castiglioni Foundation itself, together with a selection of original catalogues and documents and valuable period images. In addition, in collaboration with Studio Urquiola, Flos created an ironic and at the same time poetic site-specific installation entitled (traparentesi) . The exhibition, celebrating one of the most important masters of Italian design, has been one of the most visited of the Milan Triennale generating a large attendance of public throughout the course of the event, from October 2018 to January 2019. The (traparentesi) Installation Besides the supply of unique historical lighting fixtures, a switch being tuned on, the bounces of a ping-pong Flos created (traparentesi) , a party of 100 Parentesi ball and many other entertaining sounds bringing lamps which, like 100 candles, were activated by the a voice to the lighting effect produced by the 100 presence of visitors, recreating the innate joy that Achille Parentesi lamps, some of which have been hacked brought to every environment and transferred to every and hybridised for the occasion with unusual and object. One can find the call of an owl, the noise of surprising heads and light sources. The exhibition A Castiglioni – Milan Triennale 124 125 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 B ui l d i ng S trong A nd Las ti n g Re la t io n s h ip s In the same way, Flos, on the occasion of the 26th edition of Biennale Interieur, the international design exhibition that takes place once every two years in Kortrijk, Belgium, and the first design fair attended by Flos, sponsored two inspiring lectures held by Giovanna Castiglioni. Achille Castiglioni's daughter retraced the inspiration and philosophy behind some of the most iconic lamps designed by the Castiglioni brothers for Flos, especially conveying the irony and genius, which originated many brilliant objects that are still recognized as design icons worldwide. Flos' commitment in support of design and culture continued also with the support of the Master in Lighting Design & LED Technology, proposed by POLI.design, founded by Politecnico di Milano. The Master aims at forming professionals able to follow the productive process of lighting in interiors, urban exteriors, temporary and museum environments, residential and show exploring both the production process and the innovation of the field of application. As regards the technical partnerships, in 2018, Flos has been invited for the first time by the International Fair of Modern and Contemporary Art in Milan (miart). Flos, as technical sponsor of the event, realized a site-specific light installation in the exhibition's VIP Lounge. The product featured in the project was Arrangements, designed by Michael Anastassiades, a perfect example of collaboration and interdisciplinarity between art and design. In 2018, Flos has also been the lighting partner of Italiana. Italy through the Lens of Fashion 1971-2001 , an exhibition promoted and produced by Comune di Milano-Cultura, Palazzo Reale and Camera Nazionale della Moda Italiana, showed at Palazzo Reale in Milan from February to May 2018. Conceived and curated by Maria Luisa Frisa and Stefano Tonchi to mark the sixtieth anniversary of the Camera Nazionale della Moda Italiana, the exhibition celebrates the story of Italian fashion from 1971 to 2001, highlighting the progressive affirmation of the Italian fashion system in this great season for Made in Italy. In partnership with exhibition designers and artistic directors Selldorf Architects and Studio Baschera Brigolin Mocchi, Flos developed the lighting project and supplied innovative and high-performance light sources from its Architectural collection, best suited to the exhibition. Special accessories like lenses and anti-glare filters provided better optical control and comfortable light shaping by reducing glare to a minimum for visitors. All the lights had dimmers so that the light could be adjusted o the right level for each object or outfit and to enhance the atmosphere Biennale Interieur, Kortrjk and theatricality of the exhibition design. M. Anastassiades installation – Miart 2018, Milan The exhibition Italiana. Italy through the Lens of Fashion 1971-2001 – Palazzo Reale, Milan 126 127 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 B ui l d i ng S trong A nd Las ti n g Re la t io n s h ip s Finally, in 2018, Flos partnered with the Museum of Cycladic Art in Athens for an exclusive installation of Arrangements, designed by Michael Anastassiades. Curated by Afroditi Gonou & Atalanti Martinou, with the support of premier design retailer and Flos' local distributor Deloudis, the project fills the museum's foyer and Cycladic Cafè with compositions of geometric light sculptures. The Cycladic Café Art Project is part of the museum's Contemporary Art Programme, which brings together social gathering venues and art. With the ultimate aim of embracing the Greek and international contemporary art scene, the Museum presents works by internationally acclaimed and emerging artists, associated with its current exhibitions and activities. 4.3.2 Besides supporting cultural events, Flos' relationships with the local territory Philanthropy Initiative involve contributing to charity and fundraising events. In 2018, for instance, Flos donated lamps to Convivio , the most renowned charity exhibition and market promoted by the fashion and luxury industries to support ANLAIDS, operating in favor of HIV research, helping HIV-positive people and their families. Similarly, Flos donated four of its iconic models for the auction organized at Fondazione Prada for supporting the Bianca Garavaglia Onlus foundation, aiming at raising funds to promote scientific studies and medical treatment in the field of pediatric oncology. In addition, in 2018, Flos contributed with Patricia Urquiola to the Kālida Sant Pau project in Barcelona. Patricia Urquiola, in particular, has joined the project designing the interior of the building, giving it a cozy and dynamic atmosphere through Flos' decorative lamps and architectural luminaires that are the main base of the center's lighting. Kālida Sant Pau has opened in 2019 as a place where people with cancer can find support, information and feel able to share their feelings and concerns in an environment of total understanding. The ultimate goal of the project was creating a place where providing social and practical support to people with cancer, to their caregivers and relatives throughout the cancer process, within a specially-designed architectural environment. In the same vein, Flos participated as technical partner to the realization of Refettorio Paris, a collaborative project between Food for Soul and Le Foyer de la Madeleine. Food for Soul is a non-profit organization founded by chef Massimo Bottura to empower local communities to fight against food waste through social inclusion while The Foyer de la Madeleine is a social restaurant Centro Kālida Sant Pau, Barcelona based in Paris aiming at serving nutritious and in-season meals every day to elderly people and workers. 128 129 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 B ui l d i ng S trong A nd Las ti n g Re la t io n s h ip s An integral part of Flos' commitment towards the community, is the longlasting support to Fratelli dell'uomo, a non-governmental organization for international cooperation working for the growth of local communities in developing countries. According to this partnership, started in 2015, 20% of the gross sales from the Gun Collection by Philippe Starck (Bedside Gun, Lounge Gun, and Table Gun lamps) is donated each year to Fratelli dell'uomo. During the past few years, thanks to Flos' contributions, several projects have been supported. For instance, since 2016, Flos has allocated its entire Fratelli dell'uomo contribution to the project Healthy childhood in the Totonicapán Maya Kiché community in Guatemala carried out by the organization Asociación CDRO , with the purpose of reducing communicable diseases and complications arising from common pathologies spreading among the child populations. The project involves four local communities belonging to the Santa Lucia la Reforma Municipality (which supersedes the villages of Pamaria, Pabaquit, San Luis Sibilia and Arroyo San Juan) with the primary focus of improving the availability, accessibility and overall quality of childhood health services. The project moved forward in 2018, during which more than 3,000 consultations were carried out between clinical and home medical visits also by delivering medicines and food supplements according to the pathologies identified. Chronic malnutrition, for instance, represented 59% of the consultations, of which 1% related to acute chronic malnutrition. Fratelli dell'Uomo, which is acknowledged by the Italian Foreign Ministry, was launched in Italy in 1969 and it is part of the Frères des hommes Group. The organization supports projects and initiatives, mainly in Latin America and Africa, related to access to food, protection of the environment and common goods, responsible economy, community health, migration and co-development. For more details, please visit www.fratellidelluomo.org. Infanzia in salute , a charity project developed with Fratelli dell'Uomo 130 131 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 R ep orti ng P ri nci p le s A n d Cr it e r ia Reporting Principles And Criteria For the fourth consecutive year, Flos is publishing its annual Sustainability Report, 2018. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The contents of this report reflect the materiality analysis carried out according to the approach described in the paragraph Flos' commitment to sustainability , in accordance with the GRI Standards. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiative since 2015, through this report Flos is also fulfilling its commitment to producing an annual Communication on Progress – a public disclosure outlining its progress in implementing the Ten Principles of the UNGC. The UNGC Principles are clearly mapped against the GRI indicators in the GRI Content Index. At present, Flos' 2018 Sustainability Report does not directly address the UNGC issues and principles related to Human Rights, since the majority of the Group's direct activities and suppliers are located in Europe, where Human Rights are regulated by laws. To avoid any possible risk of complicity and as a proof of its commitment, Flos introduced clauses on labor conditions and on the respect of human rights in its contracts as described in the paragraph Supplier Selection and Management . In addition, some of the most important human rights issues related to Flos' activity, such as the protection of workers' occupational health and safety, are already included among the Labor principles and issues the Group reports on. Scope of Reporting This document includes a description of initiatives and activities carried out during the 2018 calendar year as well as the related key performance indicators, presented for the entire 2016-2087 period, where available. The data collection process and the report publication activities are structured on an annual basis. The information included in the Sustainability Report refers to Flos S.p.A. and the fully controlled operating subsidiaries Antares Iluminacion S.A.U. and Ares S.r.l. All commercial branches and the other operating subsidiaries as of 31st December 2018 are not included. Any exceptions to this reporting scope are explicitly indicated in the text. Flos S.p.A. has its registered headquarters in: • Bovezzo (Brescia Italy), Via Angelo Faini, 2; • Antares Illuminacion S.A.U, Carrer Mallorca, Polígono Industrial Reva, Calle Turia, Ribarroja de Turia (Valencia Spain); • Ares S.r.l., V.le dell'Artigianato, 24 (Bernareggio, Italy). Material Issues The following table provides the link between Flos' material issues (as described in Chapter 1) and the corresponding GRI Standards topics (Topic-specific Disclosures), together with their scope and any eventual limitations on the reporting boundary, due to the unavailability of data and information on the external perimeter. In the coming years, Flos is committed to identify and implement specific actions aimed at gradually extending the scope of data collection and reporting for material aspects. 132 133 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 R ep orti ng P ri nci p le s A n d Cr it e r ia Quality Reporting Principles Flos' Sustainability Report is drafted in accordance with the principles Flos' Material Aspects GRI Material Aspects Aspect Boundary Limitations Of Reporting On Boundary of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability, Within The Outside The Within The Outside The as defined by the GRI Standards. The document highlights both strengths Organization Organization Organization Organization and weaknesses, as well as possible areas of improvements for the Group. Economic Performance Economic performance Group The data collection and reporting processes are structured in a way to ensure information comparability over the years and to guarantee an accurate Supply Chain Responsible Procurement practices Group Management interpretation by the key stakeholders interested in Flos' performance Supplier environmental Group assessment evolution. Flos' Sustainability Report, 2018, is not subject to external assurance. Supplier social assessment Group Calculation Methodologies The methodologies and assumptions used to calculate the performance Sustainability Of Materials Materials Group Suppliers Reporting scope not indicators included in the Report are described below: extended to suppliers • Research & Development costs are calculated taking into account Sustainability Of Lighting Energy Group Suppliers, Reporting scope not capital expenses and operating costs (e.g. personnel involved, costs Systems clients extended to suppliers for materials, etc.). Emissions Emissions Group Suppliers Reporting scope partially extended to suppliers • All data related to injuries refer to the Group employees, thus excluding contractors. Commuting injuries and first-aid cases are not included. Logistics Emissions Group Suppliers Reporting scope partially extended to suppliers • Where environmental data are not available, conservative estimations have been used, resulting in the underestimation of the Group's Energy Group Suppliers Reporting scope partially extended to suppliers environmental performance; Employee Care Employment Group • Energy consumption from the Group's fleet has been calculated starting from the following available data: Training and education Group a) Flos' car fleet: kilometers covered; Occupational Health Occupational health Group Suppliers Reporting scope not And Safety and safety extended to suppliers b) Ares and Antares' fleet: fuel consumption. Product Quality Customer health Group And Compliance and safety Concerning the Scope 2 emissions resulting from the consumption of electricity purchased from the national grid, two calculation methodologies Marketing and labeling Group have been implemented: the location-based and the market-based Customer Satisfaction Marketing and labeling Group approaches. The first one reflects the average emission intensity of grids Diversity Diversity and equal Group taking into account both renewable and non-renewable productions, while opportunities the second one reflects emissions from the electricity source that the company Competitive Behavior Anti-competitive behavior Group has purposefully chosen through, for instance, contractual instruments. Brand Protection Group The following table shows the conversion factors that have been used: Research & Development Group Product Portfolio Extension Group Average fuel consumption car UK Department for Transport, Fuel Consumption 2017 Growth In Foreign Markets Group [l fuel/100km] Corporate Identity Group Fuel density [l/t] UK Department of Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Conversion factors Full set, 2018, 2017, 2016 Diffusion Of Energy Saving Group Culture LCV (Lower Calorific Value) [GJ/t] Italian Ministry for Environment, Tabella parametri standard nazionali, 2018, 2017, 2016 Internet Of Things Group 134 135 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 R ep orti ng P ri nci p le s A n d Cr it e r ia Greenhouse gases emissions calculations have been carried out based GHG Emissions Scope 3 on the principles included in the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting Source Activity Data Emission Factor GWP and Reporting Standard. -Business travels by plane; Kilometers UK Department of Environment, CO 2 equivalent, considering Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA), the following gases: Emissions have been calculated as follows: -Logistics Conversion factors Full set, CO 2 (GWP = 1), CH 4 (GWP = 25) 2018, 2017, 2016 and N 2O (GWP = 298). Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) GHG Emissions Scope 1 are taken from IPCC Fourth Source Activity Data Emission Factor GWP Assessment Report (AR4). Flos' Car Fleet Kilometers covered UK Department of Environment, CO 2 equivalent, considering Business travels by train Kilometers Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane, Only CO 2 emissions have been Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA), the following gases: Rapporto di Sostenibilità considered Conversion factors Full set, CO 2 (GWP = 1), CH 4 (GWP = 25) 2017 , 2017. 2018, 2017, 2016 and N 2O (GWP = 298). Global Warming Poten-tials (GWPs) are taken from IPCC Fourth Some data have been restated with respect to those included within the 2017 Assessment Report (AR4). Sustainability Report where more updated and reliable information were made Ares And Antares' Fleet Fuel consumption UK Department of Environment, CO 2 equivalent, considering available. (gasoline and diesel) Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA), the following gases: Conversion factors Full set, CO 2 (GWP = 1), CH 4 (GWP = 25) 2018, 2017, 2016 and N 2O (GWP = 298). Global Warming Poten-tials (GWPs) are taken from IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). Leakages From Leakages (kg) Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) Air-Conditioning Systems are taken from IPCC Fifth Assessment Of Refrigerant Gases Report (AR5). GHG Emissions Scope 2 Source Activity Data Emission Factor GWP Electricity Purchased Electricity Terna international comparisons Only CO 2 emissions have been From The National Grid consumption on Enerdata figures – 2016 data considered (Location Based Approach) District-Heating Purchased Heat consumption UK Department of Environment, CO2 equivalent, considering From The Waste To Energy Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA), the following gases: Plant Conversion factors 8Full set, CO 2 (GWP = 1), CH 4 (GWP = 25) 2018, 2017, 2016 and N 2O (GWP = 298). Global Warming Poten-tials (GWPs) are taken from IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). Electricity Purchased Electricity AIB, European Residual Mixes Only CO 2 emissions have been From The National Grid consumption 2017 considered (Market Based Approach) 136 137 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 G R I Co n t e n t In d e x GRI Content Index GRI Standard GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Disclosure Page number(s) General Disclosures GRI 102: General Organizational Profile Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization 133 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 40 50 102-3 Location of headquarters 133 102-4 Location of operations 133 102-5 Ownership and legal form 34 38 102-6 Markets served 40 41 102-7 Scale of the organization 34 50; 108 -109 102-8 Information on employees and other workers UNGC 108 -111 102-9 Supply chain 86-93 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 38; 133 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach (*) 102-12 External initiatives 58; 133 102-13 Membership of associations 74 75 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker UNGC 7 Ethics And Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 34 38 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 34 38 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 54 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements UNGC 110 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 54 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 54; 116 -130 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 54; 74 75; 118 -121 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 34 35 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 55 58; 133 -134 102-47 List of material topics 55 58; 133 -134 102-48 Restatements of information 135 -137 102-49 Changes in reporting 133 -137 102-50 Reporting period 133 102-51 Date of most recent report 133 102-52 Reporting cycle 133 * Flos adapts its decisionmaking approach by 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 143 taking into account the 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 135 social and environmental issues according to the 102-55 GRI content index 139 -143 precautionary approach. 102-56 External assurance 135 138 139 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 G R I Co n t e n t In d e x GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) Material Topics Material Topics GRI 200 Economic Standard Series GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series Economic Performance Materials UNGC GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 54 57; 134 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 97 -100; 134 Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 54 55 103-2 The management approach and its components 97 -100 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 54 55 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 97 -100 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 55 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 97; 99 Performance 2016 Energy UNGC Procurement Practices GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 100 -101; 134 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 90 93; 134 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 100 -101 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 90 93 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 100 -101 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 90 93 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 101 GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 90 91 Emissions UNGC Practices 2016 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 103 -105; 134 Anti-corruption UNGC 102 8 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 103 -105 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 38; 55 57; 134 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103 -105 103-2 The management approach and its components 38 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 104 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 104 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 38 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 104 Anti-competitive Behavior Supplier Environmental Assessment UNGC GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 38; 55 57; 134 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 -57; 90 92; 134 Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 38 103-2 The management approach and its components 90 92 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 90 92 GRI 206: Anticompetitive 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and GRI 308: Supplier 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and (**) Behavior 2016 monopoly practices 38 Environmental actions taken Assessment 2016 ** No suppliers were assessed for environmental impact. In 2018, Flos realesed new conctractual clauses that foresee the possibility of requesting suppliers' specific data related to environmental aspects. 140 141 Sust a i n a b ili t y R e p o r t 2 018 G R I Co n t e n t In d e x GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) Material Topics Material Topics GRI 400 Social Standards Series GRI 400 Social Standards Series Employment UNGC Marketing And Labeling GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 109 -111; 134 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 70 73; 134 Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 109 -111 103-2 The management approach and its components 70 73 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 109 -111 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 70 73 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 111 GRI 417: Marketing 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 70 73 And Labeling 2016 Occupational Health And Safety UNGC Brand Protection GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 114 -115; 134 Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 82 83; 134 103-2 The management approach and its components 114 -115 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 82 83 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 114 -115 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 82 83 GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Health And Safety 2016 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 115 Research & Development Training And Education UNGC GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 78 81; 134 Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 112 -114; 134 103-2 The management approach and its components 78 81 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 112 -114 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 78 81 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 112 -114 Product Portfolio Extension GRI 404: Training 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 113 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 28 32; 40 50; 55 57; 134 And Education 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 28 32; 40 50 Diversity And Equal Opportunity UNGC 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28 32; 40 50 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 109 -111; 134 Growth In Foreign Markets Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 109 -111 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 28 32; 40 50; 55 57; 134 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 109 -111 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 28 32; 40 50 GRI 405: Diversity And 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 109 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28 32; 40 50 Equal Opportunity 2016 Corporate Identity Supplier Social Assessment UNGC GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 28 32; 40 50; 55 57; 134 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 90 92; 134 Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 28-32; 40-50 103-2 The management approach and its components 90 92 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28-32; 40-50 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 90 92 Diffusion Of Energy Saving Culture GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken (***) Assessment 2016 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 74 77; 134 Approach 2016 Customer Health And Safety 103-2 The management approach and its components 74 77 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 70 73; 134 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 74 77 Approach 2016 Internet Of Thinghs 103-2 The management approach and its components 70 73 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 70 73 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 57; 78 81; 134 Approach 2016 GRI 416: Customer Health 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 73 103-2 The management approach and its components 78 81 And Safety 2016 impacts of products and services 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 78 81 *** No suppliers were assessed for environmental impact. In 2018, Flos realesed new conctractual clauses that foresee the possibility of requesting suppliers' specific data related to social aspects. For further information about this Sustainability report please contact Flos S.p.A., Via Angelo Faini, 2 – 25073 Bovezzo (Brescia), Italy Tel: + 39 03024381 – Email: info@flos.com 142 143 Design Simone Piermaria, Silvia Lavinia Carbonere f los.com
