Communication on Progress incl our compliance with sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act 2018 Solar A/S Cvr nr. 15 90 84 16 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Solar Group has a green profile by nature, working to promote sustainable energy solutions and induce initiatives to the benefit of our society. Solar – Communication on Progress 2018 2 Contents COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 4 Letter from the CEO 5 Our actions in numbers 6 Our business model 7 CSR in Solar 7 Purpose of CSR 7 Strategy for CSR 7 Target group 7 Organisation 7 Reporting 8 Diversity 10 Environment and climate 13 Labour 15 Anti-corruption 17 Human rights 3 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW Letter from the CEO Solid acumen & ethical principles From the reception at our headquarters in Vejen, ness and the urge to challenge status quo. Therewe have been able to observe solar panels erecting fore, we challenge our customers. Our suppliers. at our adjacent parking lot. What was once a field Ourselves. Otherwise, it is impossible to add the of dirt is now a photovoltaic power station that will pivotal value that is our reason for existing. generate power to run our data centre, provide shelter for employees’ cars and feature charging For 100 years, Solar has been a part of northern stations for electric cars. The project is led by our Europe’s business community. We believe that Solar solar power subsidiary Solar Polaris and will be a in another 100 years will still provide best-in-class showcase of what we are capable of at Solar. solutions that enable a responsible use of scarce human, natural and financial resources. This project sums up what CSR is to us: an integrated part of our business. Our approach is In relation, I want to underline that our committhe same whether it is labour, environment or ment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations’ sourcing. It is based on solid acumen and ethical Global Compact in the areas of human rights, laprinciples. bour, environment and anticorruption remains firm. We cannot attract the best talents and the best customers if we do not offer passion, social awareJens Andersen CEO Solar – Communication on Progress 2018 4 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Our actions in numbers 28 futures 190,000 kWh BACK TO SCHOOL LIGHTS OUT As part of our ongoing commitment with SOS In 2019, we will replace 2,119 light sockets Children’s Villages and Engineers without and light sources at our central warehouse in Borders, we have supplied 28 citizens in the Vejen, Denmark. This will lower our power use city of Hawassa in Ethiopia with technical by 36 percent. educations. 150,000 boxes 510 solar panels BOX THINKING HARVESTING THE SUN Feedback from our customers led to a We are erecting a photovoltaic system at our sustainability initiative that lowered Solar’s parking lot at our headquarters in Denmark. annual use of cardboard boxes. The solar panels will generate power to run our data centre and provide shelter to employee’s cars. Solar – Communication on Progress 2018 5 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Strategy update Our business model KEY RESOURCES → CORE ACTIVITIES → VALUE CREATION Sourcing Services Operational Digital excellence excellence excellence leadership HUMAN RESOURCES We build on long-term We work closely with our Central and regional With an e-business share CUSTOMER VALUE Our 3,000 ‘can-do’ people use cooperation with our customers to offer taiwarehousing, common above 50%, we are a true We create customer market insight to develop new busistrategic suppliers, and lored, value-adding serlean processes, integratdigital company and use productivity by helping ness areas and move our business by consolidating our cusvices that optimise their ed IT systems and shared our platform, including our customers to run forward. tomers’ sourcing needs, businesses and make services across our local webshop, website and their businesses more we aim to increase effithem more productive. operating companies digital marketing, to efficiently. INNOVATION CULTURE ciency throughout the support our business. support a personalised Our people have both the right and supply chain. customer experience. SHAREHOLDER VALUE duty to challenge our customers, We strive to create suppliers and each other to create value for our shareinnovative solutions. holders by constantly Based on our underOur services range from We drive continuous We assume digital optimising our business standing of our customproduct engineering, improvement within a leadership and drive TECHNOLOGICAL KNOWHOW to increase the value of ers’ needs we work both advisory services and broad range of discibusiness development in Our people have thorough the company. with brand manufacturtechnical support to plines, and we effectively collaboration with our knowledge about products and ers and proactively seek customer logistics and leverage our regional digital partners. technologies. EMPLOYEE VALUE alternatives. Fastbox. footprint to reduce costs We create value for our and improve efficiency. employees by giving STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT them responsibility, We engage with a number of trust, exciting jobs and We offer a number of Our broad range of We strive to keep our We use the digital different stakeholders to keep career opportunities. Solar concepts that services are suitable for costs low to protect our transformation of the developing our business and meet different customer both installation and margins in a market with construction industry to create an understanding of our needs. We have concepts industry customers. increasing price transdevelop new services to productivity agenda. suitable for both parency. We exercise drive productivity and installation and industry strict management over cost savings in collaboraFINANCIAL CAPITAL customers. our cost base. tion with our customers. Our financial situation is sound and our collaboration with the capital market helps to ensure the continuBUSINESS SEGMENTS: Installation, Industry and Other ous development of our business. Solar – Communication on Progress 2018 6 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS CSR in Solar Turning energy efficiency into profitable business We acknowledge the fact that our PURPOSE OF CSR We see a potential in using CSR as an element in ORGANISATION success comes at a cost to the In Solar, we have made a formal decision to our strategy to open up new markets for energyIn Solar Group, CSR is anchored in HR. In relation conduct business ethically and to contribute to efficient products and solutions. to this, we have established a CSR ambassador world around us in a number of sustainable development. We want to embed network of representatives from each of Solar’s ways. Our CSR policy forms the We can grab market shares if we communicate CSR thinking into our projects and operational subsidiaries. The ambassador network commuframework for the way we work processes to make sure that CSR is not a standour principles and actions effectively to customers nicates implemented initiatives and identifies with CSR in Solar Group. The policy alone discipline, but rather a natural part of our who care about environmentally friendly product possible CSR initiatives to be implemented across was approved by our Executive way of doing business. lines. the Solar Group. Board and communicated to our The bottom line is that we want to integrate Our investors have a significant interest in knowREPORTING employees in 2019. CSR into our daily operations where it makes ing that we are a socially responsible company. Once a year, we submit our Communication on sense – and we want to be strategic in our way The development over the recent years has added Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact. This In order to integrate CSR into our daily business, of communicating it to our stakeholders. CSR as yet another parameter to assess the vitality communication on progress also represents Solar we have committed ourselves to upholding of a company. Group’s compliance with sections 99a and 99b of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global STRATEGY FOR CSR the Danish Financial Statements Act. Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, Over the past years, we too have noted a signifiWe want to stay alert and able to be proactive environment and anti-corruption. The Global cant increase in the customers’ demand for when it comes to handling potential risks within To keep our CSR communication dynamic, we supCompact aims to promote a sustainable documented CSR initiatives on our behalf. They CSR. We aim to integrate considerations to enviport our yearly report with regular communication development of society and forms the framewant to know that we are a socially responsible ronment, labour, human rights and anti-corruption on cases on our website. In addition to cases, the work of Solar’s work with CSR. company – and they want to be able to tell their into our business and into the relationships we website holds the required CSR documentation. customers that we are. have with our employees and business partners. You can find more information here. In addition, Solar is a listed company and as such obligated to uphold the standards of the Further, we believe that our ability to attract the We want to be an active and committed business In addition, Solar Group submits data to the Danish Financial Statements Act. Our yearly right talents depends on our social profile. We use in the communities and markets we operate in. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an internationally Communication of Progress to the UN Global CSR to attract new employees and make ourselves recognised reporting system, to give our investors Compact is therefore to be seen as a part of our attractive to our current employees. We believe TARGET GROUP access to standardised and comparable data about annual report. that our CSR involvement to a large extent is This CSR policy applies to Solar Group and our environmental impacts. Our latest CDP facts becoming a requirement from the new constitutes the framework for our work with CSR. and figures can be found here. generations. It serves to inform both internal and external stakeholders of what CSR means to Solar. Solar – Communication on Progress 2018 7 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW HUMAN RIGHTS CSR in Solar – continued DIVERSITY members elected by the Annual General Meeting, work-life balance. We allow employees working at Our diversity policy expresses our view that all just as last year. office positions to work from home, and we Solar Group employees are to be treated equally, encourage our male employees to go on paternity with no regard to gender, age, race or religion, At Solar, we operate with two upper management leave. ensuring equal rights for all when it comes to levels: Solar Group Management (SGM) and senior employment, employment terms, training and level management. The latter includes vice presiDespite our efforts, the overall gender distribution in promotions. dents or directors who report to an SGM member. the two upper management levels was 15.91% Solar’s aim is for an overall distribution of women women and 84.09% men as of 31 December 2018. We aim for a higher degree of diversity, as we and men of 25% and 75% respectively by 2020. This is not a satisfactory result. believe that this will make us a better and stronger business. However, we do not compromise In 2018, we have continued to focus on raising the on qualifications. We will continue to employ the share of women in the upper management levels. most qualified candidate regardless of his/her However, we acknowledge that we operate in a field gender, political, religious or personal orientation. historically dominated by men. E.g. at entry level, the apprentices for positions in trade is 37,5% We believe it is important that the Board of Direcwomen*. In comparison, the entry level for apprentors represents a wide diversity of skills, age and tices in retail and office administration is 65% and gender, and that we maintain a dynamic balance 76,97% women respectively. between continuity and renewal through a periodic turnover of board members. This also shows in entry-level positions in Solar, where 25% of new hires for white-collar positions Our diversity policy sets out our objective are women. For blue-collar the distribution is almost regarding the composition of the board. Solar even between the genders. wishes its board to be as diverse as possible, including equal participation of women and men, To counteract this reality, we have run internal while still ensuring that the board represents the management training programmes that promote overall skill sets required. management and leadership competences, allowing our managers to grow. The programmes are Our aim is for neither gender to be undertargeted at newly appointed managers, and we represented on the Board of Directors after Solar’s hope that this will generate a pipeline of both male Annual General Meeting in 2019. Consequently, and female candidates for upper management levels women must make up at least 40% of the board in the future. members elected by the Annual General Meeting, which is deemed a fair distribution. Further, in 2018 we continued to require that both genders were represented among the final candiActions and Results dates for senior management positions. This is a At the Annual General Meeting in 2018, a new requirement that will remain in 2019. member of the Board of Directors was elected. However, this did not change the distribution, so Finally, we believe that we offer flexible work women still make up 20% of Solar’s board conditions suiting employees who seek to achieve *Source: Business College Syd in Denmark. Solar – Communication on Progress 2018 8 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS CASE Solar brings light and education to Hawassa As part of our ongoing commitment with that he would have work for the rest of his life. installed a photovoltaic system, which SOS Children’s Villages and Engineers Another chose to focus on textiles, because he generates power and lighting to the village. was not able to walk properly.” Solar, Engineers without Borders and SOS without Borders, we supply 28 citizens in Children’s Villages solved the job with great the city of Hawassa in Ethiopia with “After the school visit, a student invited us back participation from the locals. technical educations. to his house. He wanted to show us some of the amenities that Solar had also sponsored. A “I really feel that Solar has made a difference ”It is so unique and fantastic what Solar is doing mattress, soap and some clothing. It was all very for these people. It has also made me apprecifor these 28 students and their families down basic, but he was so proud,” says Jacob. ate the possibilities we have here in Denmark. here. It literally saves their lives. They say that We are able to fix whatever needs fixing. Now, Solar is sent from heaven,” Jacob Mortensen ONGOING COMMITMENT I’m definitely not the one to complain about wrote in an email to Solar’s CEO Jens Andersen Our collaboration with the SOS Children’s the crack between my floor boards,” says Jacob on 30 November 2018. Jacob is Manager of Villages and Engineers without Borders is a fiveMortensen. Technical Service in our Climate & Energy year commitment. The former wishes to create department and was in Ethiopia when he got sustainable children’s villages and, thus, the The Solar cell installation consists of 40 280 the chance to meet with some of the talents projects are closely related to our core business. watts monocrystalline solar cell panels from enrolled in an educational programme funded This means that we are able to support them Hyundai. The lamps are from Solar Plus and by Solar. with our technical knowledge, product expertise funded by Solar employees. and deliver quality products to the children’s ”First, we visited their vocational schools and villages. talked about why they had chosen their Jacob Mortensen installed different educations. One had chosen to be E.g. the SOS children’s village in Hawassa is a photovoltaic system i a mechanic, because he noted the endless nearly self-sufficient in power and lighting. Hawassa. amount of old cars on the roads. He figured We used our expertise within solar power and 9 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Environment and climate Reducing our emission of carbon In Solar Group, we work to proPOLICES addition, standards have been created for our four that our distributors use trucks within the best mote sustainable energy solutions Since 2010, Solar has reported data to the Carbon key markets with strict guidelines on procedures European norm for transportation of our goods Disclosure Project and UN Global Compact. In if an incident involving a hazardous material was to ensure a reasonable limit to the contamination and induce initiatives to the benaddition to monitoring our emission, we focus to happen. we cause. efit of our society. However, as is on finding ways to further reduce emission in our the case for any other businesses, daily business. Our CDP work is described in a CDP In both matters, we consider the risks to be under ACTIONS AND RESULTS our business activities leave a mark strategy which is available to all employees on our control. In 2018, we adjusted our internal reporting on the environment, for instance intranet. processes to ensure that the employees involved KPIS have sufficient time to deliver the needed data in when we transport our products Data is collected from Solar A/S, Solar Danmark CDP’s Climate Disclosure Score is a measure of the the right quality for our reporting. We monitored from A to B. To minimise the A/S, Solar Norge AS, Solar Sverige AB, Solar quality and comprehensiveness of the information the reporting process closely and used the inconveniences that come from Nederland B.V., Solar Polska Sp. Z o.o., MAG45 and provided in the company’s response to CDP’s tightened control to deliver high quality figures to our business activities, reducing P/F Solar Føroyar. annual climate change questionnaire. The discloour CDP reporting. sure score is a metric of good internal manageour emission of carbon is a CSR RISKS ment, an understanding of climate change issues As part of our focus on data quality, we have priority. Our most significant strain on the environment and company transparency on climate change. invested in a new system for collecting and qualicomes from our distribution activities and our use Therefore, our disclosure score is a KPI which we fying data for our reporting on CDP. This is a result of company cars. Therefore, we make a priority of monitor. of a review made by Internal Audit in Solar Group. reducing the footprint that we leave. The system will improve the quality of our data Energy labels show how an appliance, vehicles etc. and provide a more solid foundation for taking Our activities in central warehouses include ranks on a scale from A to G according to its further action. the handling of hazardous materials. As we energy consumption, class A being the most acknowl-edge the fact that these may pose an energy efficient. A KPI has been defined to Due to the implementation of the new reportenvironmental risk, we have defined and standardeliminate the use of company cars less efficient ing system, the deadline for our CDP report is ised procedures for the handling of these. In than classes A and B. Equally important, we expect rescheduled to Q3 2019. Solar – Communication on Progress 2018 10 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS CASE Solar reduces use of cardboard boxes by more than 150,000 Feedback from our customers led to per year in Sweden and close to 100,000 in a sustainability initiative that lowered Denmark. Besides contributing to a better use of natural Solar’s annual use of packaging, created resources, the solution has also lowered the a better work environment and improved employees’ stress levels, because it has reduced profitability. the amount of overtime work. Every day, our central warehouse in Örebro, Swe“I have felt a big difference since I started at den, ships more than 2,000 packages. This, of Solar two years ago. It has become easier for course, results in a significant use of cardboard us to control the flow in the department. In boxes and bubble wrap. Last year, we received addition, it has become less stressful to do the feedback from customers saying that there was picking and packing at the warehouse, where a lot of empty space in the cardboard boxes. we handle more than 27,000 different products. So the initiative has made the employees The extra space in the boxes was caused by a happier,” says Mathilda Åkerblom, Area Manager limitation in the warehouse IT system, meaning at the central warehouse in Örebro. that each tray only contained up to seven product types. Following a lot of research involving Next for the team is to implement the solution a range of stakeholders in Sweden and Denmark, at Solar Sverige’s central warehouse in Halmstad. we found that it was possible to alter the IT system controlling the warehouse without causing problems elsewhere. This raised the filling level and hereby lowered our use of cardboard boxes by a total of 55,000 Solar – Communication on Progress 2018 11 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS CASE Solar Fastbox powered by electricity In Oslo, electrical vehicles now deliver our popular Solar Fastbox service. In Copenhagen, we tap into the sharing economy. Zero emissions, zero stress and lower costs for our customers. In cooperation with express delivery providers Dønn Grønn we now deliver electrical materials straight to their work location by electrical cars with our one-hour service Solar Fastbox. This way, fitters in Oslo can get products delivered within 60 minutes* without CO2 emission, traffic jams or the struggle of finding a parking space. Oslo is not the only area, where we are engaging in strategic partnerships with local mobility companies. We experience an increase in Solar Fastbox deliveries in all markets because more fitters see the benefit of continuing working instead of driving to and from service centres. This requires that Solar has access to a flexible fleet of delivery trucks. In Denmark, we have entered a strategic partnership with Mover, a transportation platform that connects Solar with available drivers. This is a solid and cost-effective supplement to traditional logistics providers. Further, Mover taps into the sharing economy and exploits the fact that a delivery truck spends a lot of its life*See where we deliver Solar Fastbox in Norway time standing still. and Denmark on solarnorge.no and solar.dk. Solar – Communication Annual Report 2018 on Progress 2018 12 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Labour An active effort to develop our employees The Solar Group’s approach is for We aim for a high degree of diversity, as we POLICIES KPIS all employees in the individual believe that this makes us a strong business. We Actions guiding our employees are described in An indicator of our employees’ wellbeing is the always hire the most qualified candidate regardan employee handbook, which is available on our employee stick rate, i.e. employees who are still enterprises to be treated in the less of this person’s political, religious or personintranet. The employee handbook is a compilation with the company one year after the start of their same way regardless of gender, al orientation. It is an expressed requirement to of policies, procedures, working conditions and employment. Our ultimate aim is always to have age, race and religion, so that all have both genders represented in a candidate behavioural expectations. more satisfied, loyal employees that actively want employees have equal opportunipool for a vacant management position in Solar to remain with us. Therefore, we have set an ambiGroup. Our Code of Conduct states that Solar will comply tious stick rate target of 90%. ties when it comes to recruitment, with applicable laws and regulations and act in employment terms, training and We make active efforts to develop our employan ethical, sustainable and socially responsible The employee turnover refers to the percentage promotions. ees and want to make it clear that employees manner in our business activities. Respect for of workers who leave our organisation and are at all levels can find interesting careers in Solar. human rights is an integral part of Solar’s ethical replaced by new employees. As a high employee To do so, we look at each individual employee’s framework. turnover can be hurtful to a company’s bottom potential. line, we aim for a reduced employee turnover of RISKS 6%. Solar is fully compliant with all requirements An inevitable risk of running a business is workstemming from labour legislation and collective place accidents. When it comes to labour and While some absence due to illness is inevitable, it agreements in the countries in which we opeemployee conditions, safety at work is our top is evident that sick days delay work, create stressrate. We work to ensure safe working condipriority beyond comparison. We have taken a ful situations for other workers, and represent a tion regulations related to social relations and number of measures to keep our safety at work cost to our company. Therefore, we continuously employee conditions. Our stand on the area has at an acceptable level, including working closely monitor our employees’ sickness absence rate. Our been defined in a number of policies described together with safety representatives, keeping our KPI for sickness absence rate is 3%. below. employees fully informed about safety measures etc. Solar – Communication on Progress 2018 13 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIONS AND RESULTS On a yearly basis, we carry out reviews, auditing An employee stick rate of 80,2% compared to 83% our key central warehouses to make sure that all last year is unsatisfactory as our target remains at safety requirements are met. Our external risk 90%. We will focus even more on our stick rate in advisor submits a general status and recommenda2019. tions of actions to increase the safety level. When it comes to employee turnover, a 2018 result In 2018, we have conducted reviews of the safety of 8.6% compared to the same result last year is not and the general status of our warehouses in Vejen a satisfactory result. (DK), Gardermoen (NO), Alkmaar (NL), Duiven (NL), Halmstad (SE), Ørebro (SE) and Eindhoven at our Ending the year at 3.9% against 3.7% last year, our subsidiary MAG45 (NL). Our insurance broker and sickness absence rate is on par with last year and risk advisor Marsh performed the reviews. the level is satisfactory throughout Solar as both blue and white-collar positions are included. We have also used our new and improved platform to support our performance development processes for the first time. Our mission was to find a process that is intuitive, encourages dialogue and makes it easy to follow up on progress and agreed plans and targets. As a result, we have made it easier to link performance and learning, set goals, and assign learning programmes from our training facilities. We have used the new Learning Management System to train all employees in GDPR via six e-learning modules. In the employee performance appraisals, we will continue to focus on performance, competence development, development potential, mobility and career plans. In addition, we run an internal management training programme that promotes management competences and tools, allowing our managers to grow. Solar – Communication on Progress 2018 14 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Anti-corruption Our zero tolerance policy Corruption undermines growth POLICIES ACTIONS AND RESULTS To ensure that possible breaches to our Code of and social and economic developOur zero tolerance stand on corruption and Our whistle-blower scheme invites internal and Conduct are identified and called out, we rely ment. It undermines clean and fair bribery has been clearly expressed in our supplier external stakeholders to expose any kind of inforon everybody’s vigilance and willingness to draw Code of Conduct and in the Code of Conduct mation or activity that is deemed illegal, unethical, attention to possible serious regulatory violations business, is an obstacle to trade governing our employees. or not correct. An independent authority receives on the basis of concrete evidence. We value this and strictly against our group valand handles any information exposed via the whistype of information from our employees, but also ues. We can only avoid damage to RISKS tle-blower scheme. from business partners, customers and other third our company, our employees and Solar Group’s business activities are not centred parties. business partners if rules and stanin high-risk areas when it comes to corruption In 2017, our focus was on reintroducing our Code and bribery. Nevertheless, our supplier Code of of Conduct and whistle-blower scheme to our emdards are respected. Consequently, Conduct dictates zero tolerance behaviour in both ployees. Although everyone has read and signed misconduct must quickly be recareas. In addition, our employee Code of Conduct the Code of Conduct and been introduced to the ognised, processed and remedied. states that the ban on corruption applies to all scheme, it may not be on top of their minds. individuals acting on Solar’s behalf. The Code of Therefore, we took the opportunity to remind Conduct is introduced to all employees and them of the materials and carried out an internal available on our intranet. campaign inviting our employees to revisit our Code of Conduct. We want to leave no doubt KPIS about what is acceptable behaviour in the Solar We have not defined actual KPIs for this area. Group. In 2018, we concluded that there was no need to promote the whistle-blower scheme further. Solar – Communication on Progress 2018 15 CASE Multi-purpose solar panels installed at parking lot A new photovoltaic system will provide energy in the global energy mix. As a socially power for our data centre in Vejen as responsible company with expertise within solar power we see it as a natural extension of our well as shelter for our employee’s cars. business to support this focus. From the reception at our headquarters in ”Denmark has had a lot of focus on wind, and Vejen, we have been able to observe the instalwe see a great future for combining that with lation of solar panels at our adjacent parking solar power. Prices on photovoltaic systems are lot. Our solar panel subsidiary Solar Polaris is dropping, and solar panels are generating power in charge of erecting a photovoltaic system both in sunny, cloudy and calm weather,” says that will generate power to run our data centre Jens Andersen. and transform the parking area into 812 square metres carport – including charging stations for The photovoltaic system consists of 510 REC electric cars. panels and 6 Fronius inverters and will be functional in the beginning of 2019. “It will be a great way for Solar to exhibit what we a capable of. The business case is solid, making it a green initiative on a good economic foundation, so perhaps it could also inspire some of our guests to do the same,” says Jens Andersen, CEO at Solar Group. Both the Danish Government and the UN Sustainable Development Goal number 7 put focus on increasing the share of renewable MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights Responsible supplier management We want to ensure that we respect POLICIES KPIS human rights in our operations as Our Code of Conduct indicates that human rights For supplier management, KPIs define that Solar are an integral part of Solar’s ethical framework. will implement a contract system to support and well as through our business relaAll of our employees have signed our Code of Conimprove the process of on-boarding new suppliers tions. Hence, we have implemented duct, which dictates that Solar will comply with and updating the policy going forward. Implementwo separate codes of conduct; applicable laws and regulations and act in an ethitation of the system will be finalised before the one for employees and one for cal, sustainable and socially responsible manner in end of Q2 2019. suppliers. all of our business activities. ACTIONS AND RESULTS As a part of our standard due diligence processes, Solar is committed to ethical business practhe Solar Group Code of Conduct declares that tices and we hold our suppliers to the same high Solar Group expects its suppliers to uphold our standards. It is Solar Group’s policy to comply with policies concerning compliance with all applicable all applicable laws and regulations of the countries law, respect for human rights, environmental conand regions in which we operate and to conduct servation and the safety of products and services. our business activities in an honest and ethical manner. Therefore, we have initiated a partnership RISKS with our suppliers, calling on them to sign our The greatest risk for Solar Group within human updated Code of Conduct. rights lies with our third party agreements. Through our suppliers’ signup to and compliance As for supplier management, our key priorities are with the Solar Supplier Code of Conduct, the supon track. pliers take full responsibility in their supply chain. Solar – Communication on Progress 2018 17 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CSR IN SOLAR SOLAR ENVIRONMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IN BRIEF & CLIMATE LABOUR OUR BUSINESS ANTI-CORRUPTION CORPORATE MATTERS HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights – continued CODE OF CONDUCT Pursuing common goals To support our efforts in relation to our Code of Conduct we are implementing a new digital contract system in 2019. The system will raise the number of suppliers who have signed our Code of Conduct and will provide more control over the process of on-boarding new suppliers and updating the policies with existing suppliers. “Tying the knot between us and our suppliers and pursuing common goals is a natural step for both of us. Responsible sourcing takes an effort from everyone in our value chain, but for us and our suppliers it is a given,” says Vice President in Group Sourcing Thomas Clausen, Solar Group. Thomas and his team are implementing the new contract system for the Solar Group. “The system is currently being implemented and can notify our suppliers of changes in our Code of Conduct. The system is also linked to the commercial contract with the supplier, making the Code of Conduct an integral part of our standardised contracts, giving us more control over the process of on-boarding suppliers to our policy,” says Thomas Clausen. The system is expected to be fully implemented by the end of Q2 2019. Read more about our work with supplier management here. Solar – Annual Communication Report 2018 on Progress 2018 18 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW SOLAR IN BRIEF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS CORPORATE MATTERS Solar A/S Industrivej Vest 43 DK-6600 Vejen Tel. +45 79 30 00 00 CVR no. 15908416 Go to our CSR page Follow Solar on LinkedIn Solar – Annual Report 2018 19
