COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BASIC TEMPLATE Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: January 2018To: January 2019 1. STA TEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company's chief executive Date: 29th of March 2019 To our Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Chedid Capital Holding and its affiliated companies reaffirm its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and includes its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication Sincerely yours, arid Chedjd Chairman and Group CEO 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Expat employees in our overseas operations are covered with the best medical insurance conditions and should any medical problems or intervention request a repatriation to get a family psychological support, our medical coverage includes the repatriation. Imposing a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct to all employees setting the principles of conduct internally and externally. Providing employees with a whistleblowing and protected reporting mechanisms enabling them to report any misconduct, harassment or abuse. Forbidding violence in the workplace in addition to the possession of weapons on the company premises or while conducting business on behalf of the company. Labour Our criteria for performance assessment are relevant and very objective and are run by committees not by 1 person or 2. Our employee's satisfaction and continuous development are considered part of our vision and this is why we have created in our Group structure the Chedid Academy to constantly train and educate people across all our entities. The diversity of our employees and the mixture of different cultures and values have made us a unique Group than can adapt, match, grow our business across all continents. Our Group is known for its Global mobility and career development across all markets and continents. For our expat, employees are provided with a multiple exit permit with no limitations or restrictions. Our employees are not required to have a no objection to leave and work for a different employer in the countries we operate. Providing equal treatment and employment opportunity irrespective of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, disability, marital status or political orientation. This applies to all aspects of the Company employment decisions including hiring, development, promotion, training, benefits, compensation and termination of employment. Environment Our Group Chairman is a UNDP ambassador and has actively participated in financing 2 major projects related to the protection of the environment: The WARAK Beirut initiative: an initiative that aims to implement sorting paper and cardboard from the source in public institution buildings in Beirut. The project which will be implemented by Beirut municipality in collaboration with UNDP is funded by Beirut municipality and Goodwill Ambassadors Mr. Ghaleb Farha and Mr. Farid Chedid. The project will increase the rate of paper and cardboard sorting from source and will enhance recycling while decreasing the rate of burning and/or dumping. The project’s first stage consists of the implementation of the sorting from source plan and includes all public institution buildings in Beirut. The plan includes an aw areness campaign and the installation of sorting and storage bins and link institutions with recycling industries through local collectors. A green Initiative of College Notre Dame de Jamhour to reforest Lebanon: 1000 trees were planted in the region of Hammana by the students of the College and supported by the Mr. Farid Chedid, UNDP Goodwill Ambassador nd by UNDP. Anti-Corruption We are committed to comply with anti-bribery laws in countries in which the Company operates. Ethical conduct and behavior is required from all employees in accordance with the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Employees are encouraged to raise the professional and ethical standards of the insurance profession and applying them at all times in their occupational duties. In an attempt to validate a strong compliance culture at Chedid Group, a Compliance E-learning Project was launched by the Governance, Risk and Compliance team as a step towards further developing the knowledge of all Chedid employees in relation to compliance topics and in turn meeting the regulatory training requirements imposed in the countries where Chedid operates. In implementing this Compliance E-learning Project, Chedid has chosen to partner with Thomson Reuters in delivering comprehensive training courses that combine expert content with interactive and engaging delivery. The chosen courses were tailored to reflect the line of business of Chedid, the regulatory landscape and the compliance requirements of the jurisdictions in which Chedid operates. Each course will provide a training material and an examination that will assess the comprehension of each employee. The courses will cover the below topics:  Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption in Insurance Firms  Code of Conduct  Financial Crime (AML&CFT, Fraud and other financial crimes)  Ethics and Compliance Essentials 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Total employees 550 Male 335 60.91% Female 215 39.09% Average Age 35.24 Nationalities 23 Absenteeism Rate 1.38%
