<IR> <SDR> <NOM> <R&R> <AFS> SUITE OF REPORTS SUS TAINABL E DEV EL O PME NT REP ORT 2018 VISION MISSION AngloGold Ashanti To be th e leading To c r e a te v a l ue f o r o ur s ha r e ho l de r s , o ur e m pl o y ees an d ou r bus i ne s s a nd s o c i a l pa r tne r s thr o ugh s a fe l y a nd r es p on s i b l y Limited (AngloGold mining compan y. e x pl o r i ng, m i ni ng a nd m a r k e ti ng o ur pr o duc ts . O u r p r i mar y Ashanti) is an f o c us i s go l d, but w e w i l l pur s ue v a l ue -c r e a ti ng op p or t u n i t i es i n o the r m i ne r a l s w he r e w e c a n l e v e r a ge o ur e x i s t i n g as s et s , independent, global s k i l l s a nd e x pe r i e nc e to e nha nc e the de l i v e r y o f v al u e. mining company OUR VALUES with operations O ur bus ine s s valu es an d b eliefs gu id e our be ha v i o ur, i n o r de r tha t w e m a k e a po s i ti v e i m pa c t . and projects on T he s e beha viours an d b eliefs link ou r b us i ne s s a c ti v i ti e s to o ur s o c i a l pe r f o r m a nc e . four continents. AngloGold Ashanti is the third largest Safety is our We treat each We are accountable We want the We value We respect the gold producer in first value. other with dignity for our actions communities and diversity. environment. the world in terms and respect. and undertake societies in which we to deliver on our operate to be better of production commitments. off for AngloGold Ashanti having been there. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2 0 1 8 <SDR> CONTENTS In this report, we provide an overview of our performance against those About this report Our 2030 and selecting our aspirational goals issues selected as being material to our business. We reflect honestly report content on our performance by acknowledging our achievements but also by identifying areas for improvement. Our reporting outlines how and why PAGE 3 PAGE 5 we take the decisions we do. SECTION 1 SECTION 2 SECTION 3 SECTION 4 SECTION 5 MATERIAL ISSUES ABOUT LEADERSHIP DELIVERING ALIGNMENT WITH ANGLOGOLD MESSAGES ON OUR THE SUSTAINABLE ASHANTI SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT From the 12 DEVELOPMENT GOALS 84 Employee, community Corporate profile 7 Chairperson of STRATEGY Employee safety 23 and asset security 59 the Social, Ethics How we create 9 and Sustainability Our sustainable 16 and share value Committee development Employee and Artisanal and small-scale 30 64 journey community health mining (legal and illegal) Our 2018 10 From the desk 13 performance of the CEO Sustainable 17 Contributing to selfDevelopment 39 Respecting human rights 68 The view of 14 sustaining communities Assurance 90 Executive Vice Strategy statement President, Responsible Talent management, Stakeholder 20 environmental 46 skills development and 72 Sustainable engagement Development stewardship employee relations Administration IBC Navigating political and and corporate Integrated closure 54 regulatory uncertainty 78 information management and risk S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2 0 1 8 1 OUR 2018 SUITE OF REPORTS AngloGold Ashanti’s 2018 suite of reports comprises: <IR> <NOM> <SDR> <R&R> <AFS> <WWW> Integrated Report Notice of Annual General Sustainable Development Mineral Resource and Ore Annual Financial Statements Our dedicated annual reporting • The primary document in our Meeting and Summarised Report Reserve Report • Prepared in accordance with website, hosts PDFs of the suite of reports Financial Information (Notice • Describes commitment to • Detailed breakdown of our the International Financial full suite of reports to facilitate of Meeting) sustainable development Mineral Resource and Ore Reporting Standards (IFRS), ease of access by and • Provides a comprehensive • Notice of forthcoming annual Reserve – at group and the requirements of the communication with overview of our performance • Provides detail on sociogeneral meeting operational level South African Companies stakeholders. in relation to our strategic economic and environmental Act, No 71 of 2008, as objectives and the outlook • Description of resolutions to performance in relation to • Complies with SAMREC and amended, the JSE Listings for the company be voted on material issues JORC, as well as Section Requirements and King IV • Both financial and non• Remuneration policy and • Complies with GRI 12.11 of the JSE Listings • Audited in accordance with financial performance are implementation report Standards and is aligned Requirements International Standards on reviewed • Summarised financial with the UN Global Compact • Signed off by Competent Auditing • Complies with the IIRC information and UN Sustainable Person • Includes the Directors’ report framework, King IV and the Development Goals (SDGs) JSE Listings Requirements • Independently assured www.aga-reports.com Houses the full suite of 2018 reports together with supplementary information Scan to visit the mobile website OPERATIONAL PROFILES Compiled for each operation, these include relevant operational and sustainable development information S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT The AngloGold Ashanti Sustainable Development Report 2018 presents Compliance with comprehensive and detailed reporting standards 102-54 information on our sustainable This report has been prepared development performance. in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards: In setting our reporting boundary for core option. These standards are each material issue, we have considered There have been no significant the benchmark for sustainability impacts which result from operations within changes in our reporting during reporting globally. This includes AngloGold Ashanti and its associated the year. 102-49 conducting a robust materiality companies, as well as from outside the assessment and focusing our organisation. In exceptional circumstances reporting on these aspects 1 . Control: we may report on developments, impacts By control we mean we own the and data outside our reporting boundary AngloGold Ashanti is a signatory of assets and engage or employ where these are material to the business and the United Nations Global Compact the workforce. its sustainable development performance. (UNGC) and this report serves as the 2018 Communication on In the context of this report, “outside of Significant influence: Progress (COP). Our sustainable By significant influence we the organisation” refers to our suppliers, development approach and mean we operate the asset where we do not own the assets and do not activities are also aligned with under a contractual obligation directly engage or employ the workforce, the Sustainable Development to the owners. and where we do not operate the asset Framework of the International under a contractual obligation. “Within Council on Mining and Metals Reporting (ICMM), of which AngloGold Ashanti the organisation” refers to all operations Information is consolidated and is a member. and entities in which the group has a reported as AngloGold Ashanti controlling interest and which are under results for assets under our The section on External Charters our management, in terms of a contractual control. For assets where we provides additional detail of obligation. We do not report non-financial have a significant influence, compliance with other frameworks, information for Morila Mine in Mali or Kibali we may choose to report including voluntary memberships. Mine in the Democratic Republic of the information externally if it is of Congo (DRC), which are managed and specific interest and applicable This section can be found on our operated by our joint venture partner agreements allow. online report www.aga-reports.com Barrick Gold Corporation following its merger with Randgold Resources Limited. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 3 1 www.aga-reports.com/18/download/AGA-GRI18.pdf 2018 <SDR> SELECTING OUR REPORT CONTENT 102-46 102-50 102-51 102-52 The AngloGold Ashanti Sustainable The online survey was Development Report 2018 articulates made up of the following our sustainable development performance across all our operating components: jurisdictions for the reporting period 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. The external landscape It is organised around a set of material issues which are a synthesis of the main We conducted a qualitative survey of the top challenges and opportunities facing threats and opportunities using a PESTLE AngloGold Ashanti. As such, they are central analysis. This acronym is used to describe to our sustainable development strategic the Political, Economic, Social, Technological, approach, our actions, and the results we Legislative and Environmental aspects of our have achieved. business landscape. Aligning with The process of selecting the material issues Review of the 2017 External perspectives our strategy is guided by the International Integrated company risks and Alongside the survey, we also studied data In this report there is an explicit connection Reporting Council (IIRC), the GRI Standards material issues from external mining risk reports, issues between the material issues, our strategy and the AA1000 Accountability Stakeholder arising from our interactions with investors We conducted a semi-quantitative rating and the actions we have undertaken for Engagement Standard. Our process has and other stakeholders, and company stories of the top 10 company risks, as well as a coherent response to the issues. As matured significantly over the past five years. trending in social media and news reports. the material issues as published during integration of the United Nations’ Sustainable From initially hosting an annual multidisciplinary These inputs were used as a basis to test the the 2017 reporting year to establish their Development Goals (SDGs) is an important corporate workshop, we progressed in internal thinking from the analysis, as well as current relevance. A net relevance score for part of our strategy, we have also prioritised 2017 to hosting an online survey designed to identify new issues which may not have each company risk and material issue was the relevant SDGs and included a detailed to engage a wider business audience which been considered. calculated as part of the analysis. mapping of the issues and our actions included operational leaders. This approach facilitated richer content discussions, with a This process resulted in a detailed report on to subsets of each goal where we may more rigorous analysis. For 2018 we followed the materiality process, survey responses contribute wholly or in part to its achievement a similar approach, with the online survey Identification of and analysis and concluded with a set of 10 ( 1 UN resolution – Transforming our having a significantly higher response rate emerging issues material issues. These were subsequently world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable than in the previous year, and with a higher The survey was also designed to capture approved by the Executive Committee, to Development). This mapping does not reflect quality in the responses. Survey responses in emerging risks and issues not captured by ensure that they represented a balanced and specific internal targets, but does strengthen 2018 were also compared to those from the the PESTLE, or the 2017 company risks and comprehensive view of the critical areas of our continued work to align our business previous year. material issues. concern for the business and stakeholders. agenda more closely to a societal one. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 4 1 www.un.org/ga/search/view_doc.asp?symbol=A/RES/70/1&Lang=E OUR 2030 ASPIRATIONAL GOALS of the Sustainable Development disciplines Shifting the dialogue from reactive to forward thinking... SAFETY HEALTH ENVIRONMENT Workplaces free of injury and harm Healthy employees and healthy communities Zero harm and equitable use of natural resources • Embedding and integrating safety into the business • Strengthening organisational capability and health risk • Risk management to drive zero harm – elimination of management to eliminate occupational exposures above set limits harmful discharges • Risk management to drive workplaces free of harm • Company health initiatives to optimise fitness for work • L everaging our position in land and water as a catalyst to create • Enabling safe operations through line management value beyond our traditional scope of influence • Critical control modelling for next generation protection • Community health initiatives – strengthening health systems; responding to epidemics; calculating tangible value to the business • Driving integrated closure management across the mine cycle RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION, Prioritised discipline SDGs PRODUCTION CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION CLIMATE ACTION Prioritised discipline SDGs Prioritised discipline SDGs GOOD HEALTH AND GOOD HEALTH AND SUSTAINABLE CITIES LIFE ON LAND WELL-BEING WELL-BEING AND COMMUNITIES GOVERNMENTS AND COMMUNITIES SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS SDGs APPLICABLE ACROSS Communities are self-sustaining – free from No human rights violations and communities THE DISCIPLINES poverty and inequality assist in protecting our business • C  ommunities – strengthening institutional capacity, establishing • Integrating and embedding Security and Human Rights into all • Safety strong partnerships and creating alternative industries business processes • Health • G  overnments – strengthening institutional capacity, influencing • Resilient security systems enabled by technology and • Environment for policy certainty and establishing strong partnerships intelligence – driving a predictive and pre-emptive approach • Governments and communities • Community involvement and partnering in Security and Human Prioritised discipline SDGs • Security and human rights Rights issues NO POVERTY REDUCE INEQUALITIES Prioritised discipline SDGs DECENT WORK AND SUSTAINABLE CITIES PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INDUSTRY, INNOVATION, AND COMMUNITIES INSTITUTIONS QUALITY EDUCATION ECONOMIC GROWTH Prioritised discipline SDGs INFRASTRUCTURE INDUSTRY, INNOVATION, PARTNERSHIPS FOR REDUCE INEQUALITIES PARTNERSHIPS FOR GENDER EQUALITY PARTNERSHIPS FOR INFRASTRUCTURE THE GOALS THE GOALS THE GOALS S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 5 SECTION 1 / ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI SECTION 1 ABOUT AngloGold Ashanti, an independent, international gold mining ANGLOGOLD company with a globally diverse, high-quality portfolio of operations and projects, is headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa. Measured by production, AngloGold Ashanti is the third-largest gold mining company in the world. ASHANTI IN THIS SECTION 3.4Moz $773/oz $976/oz ZAR 0,95 Production from operations Total cash cost at lower end of guided range All-in sustaining costs Dividend of ZAR 95 cents per share declared, decreased from 3.8Moz in 2017 between $770 to $830/oz down 7% year-on-year given strong cash flow performance S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2 0 1 8 6 SECTION 1 / ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI CORPORATE PROFILE AngloGold Ashanti, an Our footprint 102-45 independent, international gold mining company with a globally AMERICAS CONTINENTAL AFRICA SOUTH AFRICA AUSTRALASIA 4 Guinea 10 Australia diverse, high-quality portfolio 1 Argentina 9 South Africa Cerro Vanguardia (92.5%) Siguiri (85%) Sunrise Dam of operations and projects, is Mponeng (West Wits) 5 Mali Tropicana (70%) 2 Brazil Surface Operations headquartered in Johannesburg, Serra Grande Morila (40%) (1) Sadiola (41%) Vaal River (1) Morila and Kibali are managed and South Africa. AGA Mineração Yatela (2) Kopanang (4) operated by Barrick Gold Corporation 3 Colombia following its merger with Randgold Measured by production, AngloGold 6 Ghana Moab Khotsong (4) Resources Limited. Gramalote (51%) Ashanti is the third-largest gold mining La Colosa Iduapriem (2) Yatela is being sold company in the world. Quebradona (94.9%) Obuasi (3) (3) Obuasi – the redevelopment project began in early 2019. 7 DRC (4) The Vaal River operations, Kopanang Our portfolio of assets Kibali (45%) (1) and Moab Khotsong, were sold on As at 31 December 2018, our portfolio of 8 Tanzania 28 February 2018. 14 operations in nine countries included Geita LEGEND long-life, relatively low-cost operating Operations Projects assets with differing orebody types, located Asset sale being considered in key gold-producing regions around Greenfields exploration the world. These operating assets were Note: Brownfields exploration is conducted supported by three greenfields projects Mali at all operations Guinea 4 5 in a tenth country and a focused global 6 Ghana DRC exploration programme. 7 Colombia 3 8 Tanzania Our operations and greenfields projects are grouped into the following regions: Brazil 2 Continental Africa, Americas, Australasia South Africa 9 10 Australia and South Africa. Argentina 1 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 7 SECTION 1 / ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI CORPORATE PROFILE CONTINUED Our business Our exploration programme is aimed at acid in Brazil. In compliance with all applicable establishing an organic growth pipeline to legislation, great care is taken to ensure the Our business activities span the full spectrum enable us to generate significant value over safe production, transportation and storage of of the mining value chain – from exploration time. Greenfields and brownfields exploration sulphuric acid, which is a hazardous material. through mining to the production of refined is conducted in both established and new gold and its sale. Our activities also include gold-producing regions, through managed and Following the sale of the Vaal River operations, mitigating our impact on the communities and non-managed joint ventures, strategic alliances effective 28 February 2018, which included the environments in which we operate. and wholly-owned ground holdings. uranium producing unit, AngloGold Ashanti no To maintain and strengthen our social longer produces uranium. Our world-class greenfields discoveries include capital, we aim to create sustainable value La Colosa, Gramalote and Quebradona for shareholders, employees, and social and Shareholders and their shareholdings (Nuevo Chaquiro) in Colombia. business partners through safe and responsible AngloGold Ashanti has a diverse spread of mining and discipline in the allocation of capital. shareholders that includes some of the world’s Over the past five years, AngloGold Ashanti largest financial institutions. has transformed itself by increasing efficiencies CORPORATE and competitiveness, focusing on safety and sustainability performance, improving margins, STATUS UPDATE Government and other interests The government of Ghana holds containing operating and overhead costs, and • Restructuring of South Africa 173,650 shares and 0.04% of generating positive cash flows, in line with our region continued. Sales of Moab total shares in issue in AngloGold strategic objectives. Khotsong and Kopanang were Ashanti with the respective national successfully concluded on governments in the DRC, Guinea Our organisational and management 28 February 2018 Our product and Mali holding direct interests structures align with global best practice in • Following ratification by the Once mined, gold ore is processed into doré in our operating subsidiaries or corporate governance. By using our human Ghana parliament of agreements (unrefined gold bars) on site and dispatched joint ventures in those countries. In capital efficiently, group support functions reached with government during to precious metals refineries for refining to a Argentina, Fomicruz, a state company cover planning and technical, strategy, purity of at least 99.5%, in accordance with in the province of Santa Cruz, has an sustainability, finance, human resources, legal 2018, the redevelopment of the London Bullion Market Association’s interest in Cerro Vanguardia. For more and stakeholder relations. The planning and Obuasi began in January 2019 information see page 8 of the <IR> 1 . technical functions focus on identifying and standards of ‘good delivery’. The refined gold • Closure on track at Yatela and managing opportunities, maintaining long-term bars are then sold directly to bullion banks. its sale is pending, subject to Our listings optionality, and ensuring the optimal use of our fulfilment of conditions precedent While gold is our principal product, some minor The primary listing of the company’s ordinary intellectual capital through a range of activities that include brownfields and greenfields • All other assets operational by-products also make up a small proportion shares is on the JSE in South Africa. Its shares exploration as well as innovative research of our manufactured capital output. By(or depository receipts) are also listed on the New focused on mining excellence. products are silver in Argentina and sulphuric York, Australian and Ghana stock exchanges. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 8 1 www.aga-reports.com/18/download/AGA-IR18.pdf SECTION 1 / ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI HOW WE CREATE AND SHARE VALUE Economic value generated ($m) 2018 2017 $4,045m Sales of gold and by-products 3,943 4,510 Interest received 17 15 Royalties received 10 18 (Loss) / profit from sales of assets (20) 8 Economic value generated during 2018 Income from investments 95 7 Total 4,045 4,558 Economic value distributed – 82% of value generated ($m) Aligning with the SDGs 2018 2017 Related SDGs $1,676m 1,839 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION, PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG PRODUCTION INSTITUTIONS Suppliers – includes procurement of goods and services, operating costs, rehabilitation and exploration (41% of value generated) PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS $713m 1,002 NO POVERTY GENDER EQUALITY Employees – includes salaries and wages paid and investment in training and development DECENT WORK AND (17% of value generated) REDUCE INEQUALITIES ECONOMIC GROWTH $714m 659 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION, PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG Government – includes current tax, royalties, tax paid on behalf of PRODUCTION INSTITUTIONS employees and production, property and other taxes (18% of value generated) PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS $202m 208 Providers of capital – includes finance costs, unwinding DECENT WORK AND PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS ECONOMIC GROWTH of obligations and dividends paid (5% of value generated) $21m 27 GOOD HEALTH AND QUALITY EDUCATION Community – includes region-specific socio-economic development WELL-BEING programmes in relation to our social licence to operate CLEAN WATER AND SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND (1% of value generated) SANITATION COMMUNITIES Total 3,326 3,735 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 9 SECTION 1 / ABOUT ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI OUR 2018 PERFORMANCE $3.3bn Economic value distributed; of this 53% 36% $0.947 billion was paid to employees as Reduction in all occupational Improvement in all salaries and wages and $21 million spent disease frequency rate injury frequency rate on community and social investment $1.6bn Spend with local suppliers 3.4Moz $976/oz All-in sustaining costs at lower 44,249 Produced in 2018 (2017: 3.8Moz) Average number of employees end of the guided range S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 10 SECTION 2 / LEADERSHIP MESSAGES SECTION 2 LEADERSHIP AngloGold Ashanti’s leaders play an active role in the company’s sustainable development performance – from a governance level to overseeing business activities. This section provides insight into MESSAGES how sustainable development is viewed and managed from the most senior level. IN THIS SECTION Building Strengthening Aligning Contributing quality relationships social licence to operate strategy with SDGs to the transformation of the mining industry S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2 0 1 8 11 SECTION 2 / LEADERSHIP MESSAGES FROM THE CHAIRPERSON of the Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee The company has moved away from employment in the sector and from occupying Bold and ethical leadership, collaboration and a The 2018 AngloGold Ashanti senior board and executive positions. They wish willingness to work outside traditional and limiting using sustainability as a compliance to play a more visible and significant role in resilos can create opportunities that realise the Sustainable Development Report driven and reporting function, to imagining and building a more sustainable and full potential of employees and build trustful and represents the company’s an executive, board, and in some responsible mining sector. harmonious relations with states, communities, continuing efforts to use instances, shareholder driven strategic industry peers, investors and suppliers. In this context, AngloGold Ashanti strives to the discipline as a source of imperative for generating real value for see the opportunity that these realities present In line with the requirements of the King IV innovation for conducting the stakeholders and contributing to the and to use this knowledge as well as its Report on Corporate Governance and exploration and mining of our transformation of the mining industry. understanding of the technical complexities to ensure that the company remains a products in a way that is legally, and inherent risks of operating mines in poor responsible corporate citizen, the Social, Our sustainability strategy is not only a driver of and more developed countries, to inform its Ethics and Sustainability Committee continues economically, socially and innovation. It overarches the company’s business strategic shortand long-term sustainable to play an active role in the governance of the environmentally responsible. strategy to create value from exploiting a nonbusiness goals. Our practices are informed company’s sustainable development activities. renewable resource for our shareholders, our by internal values and ethics, by external employees, the governments and communities government policies and regulations, by the The committee actively monitored the that have entrusted us with the legal, social and provisions of our own bill of rights in the South company’s employment equity, diversity and environmental licences to operate. African Constitution, the Mining Charter, and inclusion, health of discipline and localisation by the guidance and international standards strategies. It also paid attention to gender We are aware that shareholders are pressing of good practice provided by multilateral parity, social investment, local procurement, as for leaner operations, greater returns on agencies such as the United Nations Global well as strategies related to engagement with investments and more diligent measures Compact, the International Council on Mining civil society activists in the mining sector, legal to avoid risks related to environmental and Metals, the World Business Council for compliance and whistle blowing. degradation. We are tuned in to the fact that Sustainable Development and others. These host country governments are reviewing In conclusion, the report seeks to be an institutions play a key role in supporting the mining contracts and codes and insisting that honest and transparent reflection of our industry’s efforts to create sustainable futures minerals are a public resource that can boost sustainability challenges and the actions through responsible mining. national economies and GDP’s. There are we have taken to address them effectively rising concerns around artisanal and illegal In 2017, the company took the bold step of to achieve our business goals. While we mining and the associated life-threatening risks aligning its business strategy with the 2030 acknowledge that much more work remains to which they are exposed. Our company is SDGs. It entered into a partnership relationship to be done, as Chairperson of the Social aware that citizens seek increased transparency with the Minerals and Metals Initiative at the Ethics and Sustainability Committee, I remain and accountability through more constructive University of Cape Town to explore ideas optimistic about the direction we are pursuing Nozipho January-Bardill dialogue, active participation in solving industry on how research in mining and AngloGold and am confident that we will remain resolute Chairperson of the Social, Ethics problems and fairer procurement opportunities. Ashanti’s experience and expertise can jointly in enhancing the stakeholder trust we are and Sustainability Committee Similarly, women – inside and outside the contribute to shifting the sector into a more building and achieving and maintaining our industry – do not wish to be excluded from sustainable paradigm. legal and social licences to operate. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 12 SECTION 2 / LEADERSHIP MESSAGES FROM THE DESK OF THE CEO Like any global mining company, aspects of building trust with our stakeholders operate. This clearly indicates that much work and enhancing the quality of solutions we remains to create workplaces free of injury and AngloGold Ashanti’s conduct AngloGold Ashanti has a range of develop and apply in responding to challenges. illness, an endeavour we are undertaking in our as a corporate citizen and the important stakeholders which at These two aspects are critical as we navigate own right and also as part of a number of industry way we, as an organisation, times may have somewhat different the complex political, economic and social forums. Similarly, we continue to cooperate meet our commitments to all or even conflicting expectations. challenges facing the mining industry. with our peers to find improved ways to protect the environment, minimise our use of natural stakeholders, is fundamental In building trust, we recognise the need to Our aim is to manage these expectations resources such as land, water and energy – to how we fulfil our role as an sensitively and respectfully, underpinned not always act with integrity, to deliver on our scarce resources that we share with our hosts. important part of the societies in only by a clear view of the opportunities the commitments and to invite our stakeholders business has, but also an honest discussion to participate in developing shared solutions While we are proud of the progress made in which we operate. of the risks, challenges and trade-offs the for our common challenges. We strive to embedding a culture within our business of business faces as it looks to unlock value from create an environment that nurtures innovation respecting and advancing human rights, there the responsible development of a precious – and integrates all aspects of sustainable is conflict we face and must constructively and finite – natural resource. At all times we aim development into the core of our business address with various communities adjacent to to find mutual benefit and to exist in harmony operations. We recognise that this is a journey our operations. While we recognise that mining with those influenced by our activities. rather than a destination, and one which we is an important driver of economic development embrace the need to continually improve. – particularly in emerging economies – we To this end, this report includes a discussion also know well that it is by its very definition a around our aspirations with respect to the 2030 In this sustainable development report, we disruptive enterprise with impacts that must be sustainable development goals we have set, seek to present an honest reflection of the carefully managed and mitigated. and the work done to integrate the SDGs into progress we have made, while acknowledging our strategy. the significant challenges we still face in We need to work hard to improve the dialogue achieving our goals. Achieving our lowest All with our neighbours in order to mitigate Our sustainable development strategy and Injury Frequency Rate was overshadowed by their concerns, incorporate their input in the performance remains a foundational aspect the tragic loss of three colleagues early in the development and operations of our assets, of our business. We see the successful year due to workplace accidents. Similarly, and continue to enhance their benefit in the implementation of this strategy as an enabler while we have seen continued reduction in form of local content in the procurement of business success; and so meeting our occupational diseases across the company, of goods, services and meaningful skills sustainability commitments is as important these diseases have not yet been eliminated, development. This is the true path to improving as achieving targets in cost management, and we have continued to record cases of the license to operate. production and profitability. It is core to our Silicosis and Noise Induced Hearing Loss. business, a line accountability and essential to Going into 2019 and beyond, we remain resolute maintaining our license to operate. We are also mindful of emerging occupational in our commitment to sustainable development. Kelvin Dushnisky diseases such as those related to diesel We welcome your engagement with the report Chief Executive Officer In giving effect to our strategy we have particulates, and public health challenges and invite your comments and questions to continued to focus on the two important common in many of the countries where we sustainability@anglogoldashanti.com. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 13 SECTION 2 / LEADERSHIP MESSAGES THE VIEW OF EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, Sustainable Development Our operating environments, this maturation journey, and while we have not Progress on our journey has also been reached a consistent state of proactiveness, we reflected in our performance. Protecting particularly those in emerging people from harm and striving toward Sustainable development remain resolute and have demonstrated progress. economies, reflected the trend of workplaces free of injury continued to in AngloGold Ashanti is Our ongoing trajectory is reflected in various receive attention at the highest levels in the increasing tensions across political, characterised by a continued highlights during the year, all building on the company, as well as being embedded into social and economic aspects. the daily work of all employees. With our maturation journey in the foundation created over the past few years. Central to this is the expectation – Following the setting of aspirational sustainable focus on risk management and ensuring that face of a challenging critical controls are actively monitored and of host countries and communities development goals in 2017, we made further business landscape. progress in aligning our work to achieving effective, we continued to see improvements – for a greater share of the benefits in our safety performance. This approach those SDGs that are relevant to our business. from mineral resources. This included understanding how our activities has been extended to addressing health risks and contributing to healthy employees map and contribute to specific criteria of our While these trends occur over time, the steady and healthy communities. We continued to prioritised SDGs, as outlined in the landmark progression is interspersed by periods of show progress in reducing moderate and United Nations General Assembly resolution heightened tension. This is often associated reportable environmental incidents, as well as on “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda with impending elections in host countries, or in improving energy efficiency and reducing for Sustainable Development”. Linked to this, greenhouse gas emissions. Our dedicated with changes to national political leadership. all sustainability disciplines completed roll out focus on respecting human rights continues, In this setting, the mining sector is commonly of the company sustainable development and we are pleased to report that no human brought into focus as a political, economic framework, with the development of three-year rights violations were recorded during the year. and social issue. This calls for us to be mindful work plans. of the dynamics affecting our business, and In 2018, challenges with illegal mining persisted, to establish meaningful relationships with all Work to integrate sustainable development and while fatalities relating to illegal mining constituencies so that they experience a fair into core business operations continued, the on our tenements are beyond our immediate deal from our mining activities, in a way that is most notable being strengthening sustainability control, we continue to report on them enduring beyond national political changes. input into business projects and collaborating transparently. We also work closely with local closely with the company supply chain authorities to address this complex challenge. The quality of relationships we share with local department to strengthen the local mining communities – especially where they have a Going forward we will maintain efforts to value chain. This collaboration gave rise to strengthen our social licence to operate, stake in our business success – is an important a company policy on local procurement. We integrating sustainable development into the determinant of our business continuity and anticipate that as sites make progress toward business and enhancing collaboration with competitiveness. Increasing our sustainability meeting the policy requirements, we will see a stakeholders as we strive to ensure mutual maturity as a company and moving through step change in local value chain strengthening. benefit to all stakeholders. In this light, we the stages of being reactive and compliant to We also expect that this will have a positive will also continue to refine our strategy and David Noko Executive Vice President, being proactive in responding to challenges, and far reaching influence on the quality of the actions required to demonstrate good Sustainable Development is essential to nurturing relationships based on relationships we share with local communities corporate citizenship, and our contribution to trust and mutual benefit. In 2018, we continued and host countries. achieving a world that we all aspire to. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 14 SECTION 3 / DELIVERING ON OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY SECTION 3 DELIVERING Our sustainable development strategy has since 2018 integrated sustainability principles across all disciplines and into the business to progress from meeting compliance to generating and sharing ON OUR SUSTAINABLE value. In 2018 we continued this journey to strengthen our approach, further integrate into the business for greater impact, and extending DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY engagement for collaboration, learning and transparency. IN THIS SECTION Continued Deeper Engaging translation of the strategy integration into the business with external stakeholders S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2 0 1 8 15 SECTION 3 / DELIVERING ON OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2017 JOURNEY 2018 Consolidation and pushing 2018 2015 the boundaries Deepening integration into the business and value chain Strengthening connections between 2016 business activities and the SDGs 2014 2013 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Current phase of the Integrating the Integrating into the Leverage off the Outward focus and sustainable development disciplines business foundation collaboration journey begins Guiding principles and philosophies Strengthening credibility of sustainable Targeted integration into strategic AngloGold Ashanti University of Cape Town Developing a common strategic framework embedded into discipline work development portfolio business processes partnership for thought leadership and innovation Inward focus with varying degrees of Common language and approach Sustainability conversations shift from Pockets of excellence observed. Operationalising SDGs – 2030 aspirations set discipline maturity meeting compliance to generating value Mapping the SDGs to material issues with step change activities S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 16 SECTION 3 / DELIVERING ON OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AngloGold Ashanti’s sustainable addressed in a way that builds trust, yet Plans of countries where we operate, they balanced with the core business requirement provide a framework for us to work and live development landscape is complex, to ensure profitability within the laws and harmoniously with our stakeholders to achieve and while there have not been any norms of society. We continue to see economic development, societal well-being fundamental shifts over the past few convergence of social licence to operate and environmental protection. years, the nuances of the challenges and legal requirements for licencing and operating, and this is one of many examples The materiality process, and the selection faced continue to evolve over of the material issues reported on, validates of interrelationships and interdependencies time. With most of the company’s between all the dimensions of the terrain we the company view on the challenges and operations located in emerging operate in. These interrelationships create opportunities we face as well as our strategic economies, the global challenges both opportunities and threats. approach and actions in responding to them. of poverty and inequality assume A key example of the opportunity-threat Our actions in 2018 greater prominence, setting the paradox, is in the application of new In 2018, we continued the journey outlined technology to shift performance. Technology tone for how dynamics within our in the 2017 Sustainable Development and its application connects to each of business environment unfold. the political, economic, social, legal and Report 1 . The work followed three main themes: continued translation of the strategy environmental dimensions of sustainability. Through our annual materiality process, through the sustainable development On the one hand, embracing technology challenges and opportunities are evident discipline to strengthen a coherent approach; in the mining industry, which has lagged across the political, economic, social, further integration into the business for other sectors, is essential for improving technological, legal and environmental greater impact; and extending external industry efficiency, productivity, sustainable dimensions. We face political uncertainty engagement for collaboration, learning performance and competitiveness. On the or instability in various jurisdictions, often and transparency. other, in emerging and labour-intensive associated with policy and regulatory economies it may be perceived as a threat uncertainty. Weak public institutions, along Continued translation of the strategy to already high levels of unemployment. with economic hardship in these countries During the year, the Group Community, Grappling with these complexities is the aggravate the challenge. The social Government Affairs, Group Security and nature of sustainable development. dimension continues to be an increasingly Human Rights strategies were reviewed influential aspect of our evolving sustainable The United Nations’ SDGs provide a unique and aligned to the Group Sustainable development landscape. Heightened opportunity to elevate the conversation from Development strategic framework. The stakeholder expectations for the mining trade-offs to collective and collaborative process followed was the same as that sector to contribute to socio-economic solutions. Together with the African Union followed for Safety, Health and Environment development need to be understood and 2063 Agenda, and the National Development and reported on previously 1 . S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 17 1 www.aga-reports.com/17/sd/strategy/journey SECTION 3 / DELIVERING ON OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY CONTINUED This process completed the roll out and interaction with business operations at all In the 2017 Sustainable Development Report The Responsible Mining Index Assessment alignment of the sustainable development levels, considering both project development we described the partnership between commenced in 2017, continuing into strategic framework through all the and ongoing operations. Secondly, AngloGold Ashanti and the University 2018 with the release of the report in the sustainability disciplines in AngloGold Ashanti, collaboration with the supply chain team of Cape Town, with the selection of two first half of the year. Using an evidencewith key outcomes including clarification of the continued, with development and rolling out projects for collaboration. The first was a based approach, the assessment covered discipline 2030 aspirational goals, determining of a company local procurement policy which thought-leading multi-stakeholder workshop 30 mining companies, focusing on the strategic focus areas to frame the work to enables local supply chain strengthening on “Green Mining: Beyond the Myth” and company policies and practices across be done, prioritisation of the relevant SDGs in the jurisdictions where we operate. This the second focused on our approach to various Economic, Social, Environmental and the development of three-year work plans two-pronged approach is helping to increase embedding the SDGs into the business and Governance aspects. The index is toward achieving the goals. underpinned by a philosophy that mining line accountability for business sustainable strategy. The proceedings of the multidevelopment outcomes, and to enhance stakeholder workshop, which included should benefit the economies, improve the Furthermore, developing a coherent set of the positive impact of our operations on innovative thinking on concepts in the mining lives of people and respect the environments actions for each strategic focus area and using stakeholders. sector and explored complex challenges of host countries, while also benefitting these to further prioritise the SDGs enabled and dilemmas faced by the industry, were mining companies in a fair and sustainable a detailed analysis of how we contribute to Engaging with external stakeholders consolidated into a publication under the way. In actively participating in the achieving selected targets within the SDG As part of AngloGold Ashanti’s sustainability assessment, AngloGold Ashanti experienced themes. In this way, our contribution to same name. The book was launched in maturation journey, in 2018 we progressively it as an opportunity for an honest and achieving the SDGs is embedded into the February 2018, as the first open access extended our engagement with external transparent reflection on our strategy and sustainable development strategy and the work partnership product. done to translate the strategy into action. The stakeholders for collaboration, learning and performance, as well as one to learn links between our strategy and the SDGs are transparency. This enabled a more critical Later in the year, the collaborative work to from our peers and work towards reflected in each material issue of this report. review of our strategic approach, and a greater embed the SDGs into business strategy was continuous improvement. contribution by the company to positively published by the University of Cape Town Deeper integration into the business influence the mining sector’s sustainable as a working paper entitled “Embedding The concept of integrating sustainable development agenda. the Sustainable Development Goals into Our performance development into business processes and Business Strategy and Action”. The working In reviewing our performance, we activities is well recognised as an important In addition to engaging through industry consider our self-assessment of progress paper described the AngloGold Ashanti means to enhance sustainability outcomes and bodies, various agencies and governments at in improving our sustainable development case study and converted the learning into a is a key aspect of our sustainable development international and national levels, two notable maturity level as well as ratings we have toolkit enabling a step-by-step application of strategy. All sustainability disciplines have engagements were: attained from external indexes. the process by any company, in any sector incorporated this work as a strategic • continuation of the partnership between wishing to pursue a similar journey. During As with previous years we used three focus area. AngloGold Ashanti and the University of its development the toolkit was reviewed by rating categories namely: reactive, During the year, work was done across two Cape Town in South Africa; and various stakeholders and experts including compliant and proactive, to assess our broad streams of activities. Firstly, sustainability • active participation in the Responsible from the Embedding Project and the United maturity in each strategic focus area. disciplines continued to strengthen their Mining Index process. Nations Development Programme (UNDP) 1 . S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 18 1 www.toolkit download SECTION 3 / DELIVERING ON OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY CONTINUED AngloGold Ashanti sustainable development maturity assessment Responsible Mining Index The Responsible Mining Index evaluated the sustainability performance of 30 companies across Strategic focus areas Objective 2016 2017 2018 six dimensions. Ensure effective structures and competence; actively Health of disciplines manage the sustainable development talent pool Dimension AngloGold Ashanti relative ranking Embedding and Business leaders understand sustainable development and Economic development 16th integrating sustainable it is integrated into business processes and activities development Business conduct 10th Information and The right information is appropriately captured, shared Lifecycle management 3rd knowledge management and used to improve decision making Engaging with Stakeholders and their relationships to the business Community well-being 4th stakeholders and are understood, and they are effectively engaged to Working conditions 1st partnerships optimise impact Sustainable development related risks are understood, Environmental responsibility 4th Managing risk critical controls are identified and established, and control effectiveness is demonstrated AngloGold Ashanti performed in the top 10 in five of the six dimensions. Capitalising on Sustainable development opportunities are systematically opportunities identified and used to the benefit of the business, the environment and society Dow Jones Sustainability FTSE Russell ESG Rating and Monitoring, evaluation The business achieves its sustainable development Index (DJSI) FTSE4Good Index Series and reporting with performance outcomes and effective oversight ensures The DJSI assesses companies across In December 2018, AngloGold Ashanti effective governance integrity of the systems in place economic, environmental and social retained its status as a constituent of dimensions. In 2018, 75 companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series. The Index Being a catalyst for The business competences are leveraged to create shared sustainable and mutual value with stakeholders beyond our immediate scope of the metals and mining sector were invited identifies companies that demonstrate value influence, enhancing the social license to operate to participate, with 58 being assessed. strong environmental, social and AngloGold Ashanti’s score was in the governance practices measured against Communicating Internal and external stakeholders are meaningfully 86th percentile relative to peers, and the globally recognised standards. In each sustainable development engaged on company sustainable development issues performance and performance company retained its membership of the of these practices, AngloGold Ashanti DJSI emerging markets index. scored consistently higher than the Sustainable development initiatives position the company Enabling business industry (basic metals) and subsector as the leaders in the field – across the mining industry competitiveness (gold mining) averages. and other sectors LEGEND Reactive Compliant Proactive S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 19 SECTION 3 / DELIVERING ON OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our approach 102-42 102-43 and two-way process. It is important that Our stakeholders and key topics of engagement 102-40 102-44 102-46 we understand stakeholder needs and Stakeholder engagement underpins expectations in order to better manage them; • Mitigating safety risk, employee wellness and ensuring stable the value creation process and is and we in turn provide and share information labour relations vital to the success of our business. about AngloGold Ashanti, on our objectives, Employees • Increasing productivity and maintaining focus on Our stakeholders are those groups policies and standards, and our financial, strategic objectives of people who may be affected by operating and sustainability performance. • Encouraging a collaborative approach to problem solving AngloGold Ashanti’s decisions and/ Engagement is conducted in line with the King Investment community or activities, and who can in turn IV principles. Our stakeholder engagement (includes providers • Managing expectations, particularly against strategic objectives influence our activities. process continues throughout the life cycle of financial capital, • Financial and sustainability reporting – periodically and when of an operation, from exploration through to shareholders, investors there are new developments Our stakeholder engagement is informed by closure. Our approach is to mindfully partner and financiers) our operating environment and our activities. with our stakeholders to assess, manage (and) The feedback obtained in stakeholder • Mitigating regulatory and political risk or mitigate ethical and regulatory risks. engagement feeds in to the processes • Appraising governments of new developments at operations to determine our material issues and our The board is accountable for stakeholder and projects Governments and business risks and opportunities. Engagement engagement through some of the board • Engaging proactively in policy development, regulatory proposals regulators is driven by the need for us to determine and committees, and maintains oversight of material and conflict resolution understand stakeholders’ perspectives, views issues concerning stakeholders through the • Ensuring the benefits of mining flow through to the state at and expectations, and aims to establish and Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee. national, local and community levels maintain mutually-beneficial relationships. This is especially important in relation to our Given the diverse footprint of our business, • Managing expectations, upholding human rights and ensuring host communities, one of several important there is a correspondingly diverse set of security of assets and the community Communities stakeholder groupings with which we engage. stakeholders, each operating within a unique • Establishing mutually beneficial partnerships for shared Building and nurturing our stakeholder social, economic, political and regulatory value creation relations is integral to securing and protecting context. Engagement takes place either at our licence to operate, to addressing our • Working on long-term partnerships, empowering the group level, for an overview of the business material issues, and to enhancing shareholder Industry partners local population as a whole, or at an operating level, with value as we execute our strategy. and suppliers • Coming up with solutions to sector challenges or new stakeholders who need to understand developments to promote the industry We engage directly and indirectly with our operational impact and stakeholder influence various stakeholders. Such engagement is on the business. In all our interactions with • Complements and supplements engagements with many other regular, transparent, and aligned with our stakeholders we demonstrate our adherence Media stakeholders values. Engagement is an inclusive, continuous to our corporate values. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 20 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES SECTION 4 MATERIAL Our sustainable development challenge is framed by the material issues facing the company. Our reporting reflects these issues as they were ISSUES highlighted by the business and our stakeholders. 102-47 PAGES PAGES PAGES PAGES PAGES PAGES PAGES PAGES PAGES PAGES 23-29 30-38 39-45 46-53 54-58 59-63 64-67 68-71 72-77 78-83 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Employee Employee Contributing to Responsible Integrated Employee, Artisanal and Respecting Talent Navigating safety and community self-sustaining environmental closure community and small scale human rights management regulatory health communities stewardship management asset security mining (legal and skills and political and illegal) development uncertainty and risk S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 21 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES VIDEO CASE STUDIES The following videos delve deeper into some of the sustainable development projects undertaken during the year. Watch the case studies to get a real sense of what AngloGold Ashanti’s sustainability focus involves, and what progress has been made to provide benefits to our stakeholders. TALENT MANAGEMENT: STRENGTHENING PARTNERSHIPS FAST-TRACKING CAREER PROGRESSION OF YOUNG TALENT LOCAL PROCUREMENT FOR MUTUAL VALUE AngloGold Ashanti places people first. Our board, We collaborate closely with our supply chain department Forming partnerships is essential to address the executive management, and senior leadership know to strengthen local mining value chains. This collaboration complex sustainable development challenges we that the successful execution of our business strategy has given rise to a company policy on local procurement, face. Through partnerships we can make a greater depends on a positive, motivated and engaged to endeavour to procure all goods and services locally. contribution toward achieving the world we all aspire to workforce. This case study details two programmes in This case study examines the policy and provides live in. This case study explains the partnership between place to develop our future leaders. examples of progress made at two of our operations. AngloGold Ashanti and the University of Cape Town. Watch the case studies here: www.aga-reports.com/18/sdr#case-studies S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 22 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE SAFETY 01 KEY FEATURES SAFETY REMAINS OUR FIRST PRIORITY Employee safety was again ranked as the most significant material issue facing AngloGold Ashanti in 2018. Notwithstanding the progressive improvements seen in the company’s safety performance over the year, we recognise that as a company, we will continue to be defined by our ability to protect employees from 4.81 injury and harm. During the year, understanding and managing operational risk profiles in challenging operating conditions continued to be a major feature in our pursuit of workplaces free of injury and harm. While the top risks with potential for high consequence events remain unchanged, their intensity varied across the operations with minimal changes from the previous year. Across the company, no new or emerging safety risks were identified. All-injury frequency rate. A 36% improvement on 2017. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 2018 23 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE SAFETY CONTINUED Relative intensity Our actions in 2018 Embedding and integrating safety into Focus TOP RISKS 2017 2018 In 2017, we reported on enhancing our the business The group safety strategy continued to • Ground control safety approach to achieve our 2030 be socialised and entrenched across South African • Vertical transport aspiration of creating workplaces free of injury and harm 1 . This included establishing the business, with executive and senior operations operational management approval of plans • Rail-bound transport a set of strategic focus areas, along with at the beginning of the year. In continued three-year workplans directing efforts toward International • Heavy mobile equipment achieving our goals. efforts to integrate safety into the business, a multi-disciplinary Technical Standards operations • Light vehicles In 2018, activities centred around continued Committee was established to provide input • Fires to and oversight over the development and implementation of the strategy, with good Common • Explosives progress being made across several areas. review of safety-related standards applicable across the company. Committee members across operations • Electricity Ensuring health of the safety discipline are drawn from mining, engineering and • Work at heights A review of the safety Health of Discipline other technical disciplines. This committee Framework was concluded in July 2018. The reviewed the suite of Major Hazard Control Risk intensity remained Risk intensity deteriorated framework focuses on ensuring integrity of the Standards and the updated standards were safety function across the group, and defines approved by the Sustainability Policy Review Reduction of the South African asset base There were no significant organisational Committee in November 2018. The standards the safety structures, competences and during the year decreased the number of changes or operational interventions affecting incorporate leading practice requirements for talent management requirements to achieve operations with high-risk profiles, with the the overall risk profile of the international the development of critical controls and other group safety and business objectives. The potential for fewer events occurring across the operations. It is anticipated that the defences to protect employees from harm in company. Apart from rail-bound transport, this progressive expansion of underground mining review included working together with group human resources as well as mining and other the workplace. did not change the inherent risk associated in the international operations will not materially with the retained operations. The decline in change the risk profile, as the mining methods technical disciplines to ensure alignment with Work on integrating safety considerations into rail-bound transport risk in South Africa, is undertaken are mechanised in nature. the company approach and to strengthen the company Operational Excellence programme largely due to the established use of technical integration of safety into the business. commenced during the year. This included controls at Mponeng mine, including collision The regulatory landscape in all jurisdictions mapping and translating ISO 45001 concepts to continued to be monitored regularly, and Following completion of the discipline avoidance devices, front-driven locomotives work processes to ensure that methods, such no changes materially influenced safety framework, a series of professional technical and electronic remote signaling. as approaches to risk management, are aligned practices. Emerging regulatory changes competency assessment tools were across the company. Seismic risk continued to present a significant are also not expected to significantly developed for roll out in the first quarter challenge in relation to ground control. change practices in the company. From a of 2019. To enable roll out, the framework Management of risk to drive workplaces Additionally, elevation of risk due to business certification and standards perspective, in design, along with the competency free of injury and harm rationalisation and changes in organisational February 2018, the ISO 45001 standard was assessments, have been incorporated into the In the process of reviewing the Major Hazard structures required a heightened focus on issued to replace use of the OHSAS 18001 company-wide TalentSolved® application for Control Standards, all operations updated change management. assessment series. talent management. their gap assessments to evaluate the actions S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 24 1 www.aga-reports.com/17/download/AGA-SD17-employee-safety.pdf SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE SAFETY CONTINUED needed to meet compliance. The required Cross pollinating with learnings from one region actions have been costed and incorporated to the other, has assisted greatly in uplifting the into the budgeting process. Close out actions general quality and compliance of lock out and are underway. tag out controls. These controls are considered crucial in preventing fatal injuries. Compliance with existing critical controls for fatal risk hazards continues to be Through the year, other disciplines in the monitored, with ongoing work to achieve sustainable development portfolio, and other continuous compliance. These critical parts of the business, continued to extend their controls are largely mining process and use of the Bow-Tie risk analysis methodology engineering based, with management of with critical control identification and monitoring, their effectiveness set as a line management as pioneered by the safety discipline. accountability. Compliance is incorporated Enabling execution through into routine management reporting and line management performance is presented quarterly to the In 2017, we reported on a benchmarking Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee required actions to address them. Actions In support of advancing the use of HPIs, a exercise to evaluate the relevance of culture of the Board. seeking to shift the culture at the operations, shared learning portal and HPI dashboard has to safety performance in complex social and with the elimination of fatal incidents are been developed for broader internal use. In moving toward a more proactive approach, economic landscapes. Visits to two sites in India underway at Cuiabá Mine in Brazil. evaluation of critical control failures has been were undertaken. Building on this initial work, in The move to using ISO 45001 as a standard incorporated into investigation and notification collaboration with DuPont Sustainable Solutions, The effectiveness of this intervention will be has been used to strengthen the internal of High Potential Incidents (HPIs). This assists the company completed assessments of the evaluated in 2019, to determine if and how to assurance process, supporting increasing in continuing to strengthen the focus on critical culture and systems in place at Mponeng and roll out to other operations in the company. maturity of our safety systems. Work has control management, as well as improving Cuiabá Mines to identify areas for step change included reviewing internal safety standards understanding of the adequacy and validity of improvements in safe production. Monitoring, evaluating and reporting and practices, along with the assessment the critical controls we have defined to date. with effective governance protocols used. Alignment of company tools The site assessments involved interviews of The company continued the progressive shift Over the past few years, our approach to and protocols to ISO 45001 is expected to be management, supervisors and professionals toward greater use of leading indicators. The critical control identification and management completed in early 2019. across all aspects of the business; visits and main thrust of this has been through critical and the associated data being collected on observations of meetings and operational control monitoring and the identification, Parallel to, and in support of, the company individual controls, has enabled us to continue activities; as well as a comprehensive investigation and reporting of HPIs. move to migrate from OSHAS 18001, refining knowledge of the specific strength and documentary review of policies, standards, Sunrise Dam gold mine attained ISO 45001 priority of each control. This goes beyond the HPIs continued to be tracked and reported work procedures and audit findings. certification during 2018. Other company traditional approach of categorising controls on, with sharing of learnings across the operations will be working toward ISO 45001 along the broad hierarchy of elimination, The process of assessment and line business. In 2018, the process was certification over the next three years. substitution, engineering, administrative and management engagement, established a deep strengthened and codified for consistent personal controls. understanding of site-specific issues and the application across the business. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 25 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE SAFETY CONTINUED Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) S H ARIN G AND LEA R N IN G FR O M HPI s For the company 2030 aspiration of “Workplaces free of injury and harm” we have prioritised SDG 3, which focuses on ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all at all ages. While the subset of targets in the goal ALERT 1 ALERT 2 have limited focus on occupational safety, our work contributes in part to SDG 3 targets 3.6 and 3.9. Uploading of Refer to page 85 for additional detail. Investigation Site HPI / incident portfolio of completed verification evidence } Alert 1 completed Alert 2 completed Audit Audit/implementation documentation Key mechanics of Review incident understood Verification letter Deep dive Verification Consultation with COOs Highlighting lessons notification Implementation learnt Decision taken to conduct organisational deep dive In conjunction with technical heads Opening Close out Specific focus areas of case Specific target population Opening up of case in Collating of evidence shared learnings portal LEGEND Executive summary and close out report Site Group safety Critical learnings Critical learning notification notification S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 26 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE SAFETY CONTINUED collaborative effort between mining companies, Progress of activities and embedding the safety strategy across the business employee bodies and the South African Department of Mineral Resources, and the Safety maturity assessment 2016 2017 2018 award is MineSafe’s highest ranking prize. The Ensure effective structures and people competence, and International Operations’ AIFR deteriorated Health of disciplines actively manage the safety discipline talent pool 15%, from 2.00 to 2.29. Embedding and Business leaders understand safety management and it is Reporting of High Potential Incidents continues integrating sustainable integrated into business processes and activities to heighten awareness, facilitate organisational development learning and effect more robust controls. Information and The right information is appropriately captured, modeled, shared, Although the number of reported incidents is knowledge management and used to improve business decision making – enabling trending down, the continued occurrence of to enable learning continuous and step change progress to achieve the goals HPIs is an indication that residual Operational Australasia – Sunrise Dam Risk Profiles remain high, with consequent Current and emerging health risks are understood, Management of risks vulnerability. During the year, we saw 33% critical controls are identified and established, and control to drive workplaces free fewer HPIs vs 2017, from 210 down to 140. effectiveness is demonstrated. Risk management is applied of injury and harm in a dynamic and responsive way Our performance Sadly, in the first four months of the year the Enabling execution Safety practitioners influence, enable and coach operators to through line management drive superior safety performance company experienced three fatal injuries. Two of these occurred in South Africa and one Monitoring, evaluation, at the international operations in Brazil. We remain committed to achieving our objective of IN MEMORIAM reporting with effective governance The business achieves its safety performance outcomes and provides oversight ensuring integrity of the system zero fatalities. Mr Heber de Oliveira Temoteo (29 January 2018) Communicating with Targeted communication increases understanding of the safety Electrocution incident, internal stakeholders business and mobilises support across the organisation for The group AIFR of 4.81 for 2018, represents on safety performance improved performance an improvement of 36% compared to 2017. Cuiabá Mine This is the best in the company’s history Mr Sikheto Mathebula Communicating with Effective communication on safety performance positions the and was predominantly driven by the de(23 February 2018) external stakeholders company as a responsible citizen beyond compliance risking of the South Africa Region Operations on safety performance Rail-bound transport incident, which reported an AIFR improvement of Moab Khotsong Mine Critical control 19% from 12.68 to 10.25 compared to Mathematical modelling distinguishes cost-effectiveness prioritisation for 2017. Testimony to these successes, the Mr Palo James Machini between a range of critical controls enabling better choices optimal protection (7 April 2018) South Africa Region Surface Operations was Seismic event, Mponeng Mine recognised by MineSafe as the most improved LEGEND mining operation on a year-on-year basis. Reactive Compliant Proactive MineSafe is an industrial body representing a S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 27 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE SAFETY CONTINUED Compliance with standards and safety culture maturity All injury frequency rate Fatal injury frequency rate (per million hours worked) (per million hours worked) Safety framework maturity 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Strategic planning, goals 14 7.36 14 0.04 Safe work practices and targets 15 7.18 15 0.09 Corporate governance, legal and other requirements Change management 16 7.71 16 0.06 Safety leadership and Contractors, suppliers and partner 17 7.49 17 0.06 accountabilities selection and management 18 4.81 18 0.03 Co-design and conversation Hazard and risk management Awareness, training and Lost time injury frequency rate Occupational fatalities Incident management competence (per million hours worked) (number of fatalities) Emergency response, crisis Occupational environment, health, management and business 14 5.18 14 6 wellbeing and fitness for work continuity 15 5.17 15 11 Design, construction, commissioning, decommissioning Technology, research 16 5.74 16 7 and development and closure 17 5.69 17 7 Procurement and disposal Knowledge management 18 3.37 18 3 Operational and asset integrity Performance management Injury severity rate High-potential incidents (per million hours worked) (per million hours worked) Work planning Learning and experience 14 277 14 177 LEGEND 15 326 15 198 Reactive Compliant Proactive 16 313 16 210 17 314 17 210 18 197 18 140 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 28 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE SAFETY CONTINUED Safety Indicator 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Group lost time injury frequency rate down by 41% All injury frequency rate (per million hours worked) Americas 3.97 3.29 3.96 5.61 3.79 Continental Africa 0.49 0.39 0.51 0.50 1.56 South Africa 10.25 12.68 12.02 10.81 11.85 Australasia 9.14 8.53 9.49 8.56 10.73 Fatal injury frequency rate (per million hours worked) Americas 0.05 0 0.05 0.05 0.09 Continental Africa 0 0 0 0.03 0 2018: 3.37 (2017: 5.69) South Africa 0.07 0.11 0.09 0.13 0.06 Australasia 0 0 0 0 0 Lost time injury frequency rate (per million hours worked) Americas 2.47 1.86 1.33 1.79 1.29 Continental Africa 0.12 0.15 0.13 0.22 0.54 South Africa 8.21 10.08 9.62 8.63 9.29 Australasia 3.12 3.76 5.38 4 3.28 Occupational fatalities (number of fatalities) Group number of Americas 1 0 1 1 2 occupational fatalities Continental Africa 0 0 0 1 0 down by 57% South Africa 2 7 6 9 4 Australasia 0 0 0 0 0 Injury severity rate (per million hours worked) Americas 95 77 59 149 92 Continental Africa 9 3 3 12 12 South Africa 538 582 547 550 511 Australasia 14 5 1 4 0 2018: 3 (2017: 7) S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 29 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH 02 KEY FEATURES IMPROVING OUR PREVENTIVE CAPABILITY Maintaining the health and well-being of employees and contributing to that of communities is an 3.29 important aspect of achieving our social licence to operate. In 2018, it remained the company’s second most significant material issue. In responding to the challenges, the company has adopted a risk-based approach described in previous reports. Recognising the variation of operating conditions and circumstances across our business, no significant changes to health risks at individual operations were noted during the year. All occupational disease frequency rate. Structural changes have led to a reduced health risk profile. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 30 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED In Continental Africa, communicable diseases of a global phenomenon, non-communicable significant occupational diseases seen in the The global positioning of health and wellpresent a significant health risk to operations. disease is a growing challenge and accounts South African mining industry. Due to the being reaffirms the importance of employee Malaria is endemic to the countries where for most of the ill-health absenteeism at depth of mining and its labour-intensive nature, and community health as a company we have operations, and disease outbreaks our South American operations. On the our South African operations have historically material issue, and the relevance of our such as the Ebola outbreak which began in occupational front, while recorded exposures accounted for over 90% of all occupational 2030 goal of “Healthy Employees and May 2018 in the DRC, potentially present a are fairly low, noise and silica dust remain disease cases recorded across the company. Healthy Communities”. It touches on each threat to our operations. While this outbreak important occupational hazards. Although no With the cessation of operations at Savuka of the social, economic, environmental did not affect our managed operations, exposures have been identified, cyanide and and Tau Tona mines in the West Wits area, and and governance dimensions of sustainable in 2014 Siguiri mine in Guinea had direct lead monitoring are also undertaken. sale of Kopanang and Moab Khotsong mines development, and there is a strong case for it experience with the large-scale outbreak in the Vaal River area, the only retained South to be managed effectively. The Australia operations generally have a low affecting Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. African assets are Mponeng mine and Mine The greatest burden of disease however, health risk profile. As with other operations, Waste Solutions and a closure of business. Our actions in 2018 non-communicable and lifestyle-related Through the detailed health strategy review arises from non-communicable diseases which The workforce has reduced by some 18,800 illness are a challenge. Evolving healthand revision undertaken in 2017 1 , a definitive account for over 70% of ill-health absenteeism employees (a 74% reduction). It is anticipated related regulatory frameworks also strongly decision was made to shift to a more proactive across the operations. Such diseases include that there will be a more than 50% reduction influence operational focus and efforts on approach with a greater focus on prevention lifestyle related disorders such as hypertension in occupational disease cases recorded in the managing occupational health challenges. of disease. 2018 was a year of consolidation and diabetes. They are generally chronic company following the structural changes. Linked to mining in remote locations and and making progress with the three-year and require long-term treatment. Important government priorities, high levels of attention Beyond the company and the mining work plans developed in the previous year. occupational health hazards include noise have been given to mental illness and fatigue. industry, health and well-being are clearly An important part of the consolidation was to and silica dust exposure, and these will Additionally, the emerging threat of diesel recognised as issues of global importance. strengthen the coherence of the Global Health become more relevant with underground particulate matter emissions has been a This is exemplified by the dedication of Leadership Team. This served to increase mining at Obuasi and Geita mines. Adding prominent area of focus in Australia, with one of the United Nations’ Sustainable the validity and influence of the health voice to the challenge, health systems in the areas the mining industry playing an active role Development Goals – SDG 3 – solely to within the business, and to enable a consistent where we operate often have weaknesses, in developing appropriate guidelines and a good health and well-being. The concepts approach in responding to the diverse health and company assistance may be required to proactive approach to its management. challenges faced. improve their capability. can be seen from different dimensions. As The most significant changes to AngloGold a basic right, poor health and inequitable Health of the discipline In the Americas, infectious disease outbreaks Ashanti’s health landscape during the year access to effective health services In focusing on the capability of the health may occur and cause morbidity. This is most related to the restructuring and dramatic represents a key vulnerability of marginalised discipline we seek to ensure an effective commonly due to viral infections. Influenzafootprint reduction of the South African populations. Good health and well-being health organisation with appropriate structures type outbreaks are observed seasonally across operations. Mining a narrow, hard rock is also an outcome, one that the world, as staffed by competent people and an actively all the countries where we have operations. orebody with high silica quartz content and represented by the SDGs, is aspiring to. As managed talent pool. During the year a Health In Brazil, a Zika virus outbreak was recorded at great depth is associated with risk of a central player in the SDGs, good health of Discipline Framework and Guideline was in 2015-2016 and an increase in yellow fever developing silicosis, occupational tuberculosis and well-being is an enabler and has a drafted according to group human resources cases were recorded in 2017-2018. As part and noise induced hearing loss – the most ubiquitous influence across the raft of goals. requirements. The guideline sets out a step S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 31 1 www.aga-reports.com/17/download/AGA-SD17-employee-community-health.pdf SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED by step approach to ensure an appropriate Health of discipline guideline pathway health organisation design in the context of the business and health strategies. Competency requirements for each skill category are determined and managing the talent pool with effective succession planning is enabled. S U P E R I O R P E R F O R M A N C E I N A L L B U S I N E S S C I R C U M S TA N C E S Each step in the guideline pathway is Monitoring, expanded into a series of sub-steps which Supporting the evaluating business context Building and maintaining capability clarify what needs to be considered for that and reporting 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 stage. Expected outcomes and processes to follow for each step are outlined. The guideline enables conversations to be structured, shaping consistent yet locally relevant application at operational levels. In line with the strategic shift toward greater preventive capability, efforts were made Understand the Establish the Determine the Establish Manage the Develop people Monitor,evaluate across all areas to ensure competence in business context discipline scope, required structure, competency human capital and staff for and report on occupational hygiene, or to establish adequate and strategy service offerings and skill mix and work framework based on the future discipline health access to these specialist skills. For example, strategic objectives processes the structure in Brazil, a central resource provides a service and skill mix to all operations in the country, whereas in Australia, based on operational circumstances, an external specialist provider provides the necessary services to Sunrise Dam and Africa. By the end of the year, three had approach has intentionally focused on local Outstanding Baseline Health Risk Tropicana gold mines. completed the intermediate programme and skills development, moving beyond a limited Assessments were completed for Sadiola were enrolled into the advanced programme. health agenda, and contributing to national and Tropicana gold mines, and all operations The greatest challenge was experienced Additionally, the occupational hygienist development in an enduring way. have now met this company requirement. in Continental Africa where local resources from Siguiri mine was given accountability As we continued to strengthen a preventive are unavailable and utilising expatriate staff to provide oversight and guidance to all Managing risk to achieve the goals approach, all operations in Continental does not support a local capability-building Continental Africa operations. Outcomes of In 2018, a common approach to managing Africa completed Occupational Hygiene agenda. In response, a long-term view was the initiative are multi-faceted. Significant health risk gained momentum across the Risk Assessments. These assessments adopted with the selection of six locals from preventive capability has been built into company and significant progress was made. form the basis of identifying and prioritising all Continental Africa operations to undergo the Continental Africa operations and Previously there were pockets of success occupational health risks facing the business, formal occupational hygiene training with strengthening of occupational hygiene in various areas, with other parts of the so that the best approaches to preventing the University of the Witwatersrand in South systems over the past year is clear. The business lagging. them can be implemented. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 32 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED The management of prioritised health risks is working under the guidance of an occupational diagnosis of ill health and on-site management impact assessments inform community guided by the development of Bow-Tie Risks environmental engineer who has oversight or referral to appropriate facilities. All employees health initiatives which the company leads or Assessments (BTRAs) for the selected risks. over all operations. They have also undergone have an equitable medical benefit, either participates in. This approach is used across all sustainable training to meet the standard requirements. through internal company funding or a medical development functions in the business, and insurance scheme. Insurance mechanisms All AngloGold Ashanti operations in Continental we have previously described the rationale and Our 2018 actions to improve health risk covering compensation for occupational injury Africa are in countries where malaria is methodology used 1 . management represent a significant maturation or illness are in place for all employees. endemic, representing a significant company step by the health discipline as we make the and community health challenge. As reported Last year we reported that progress was slow transition from a frequently reactive approach Healthy communities previously, all sites have community-based in developing Bow-Ties for prioritised health to being more consistently proactive. Community health challenges vary across malaria control programmes, often in partnership risks at site level. To accelerate progress, the different jurisdictions where we operate. In 2019, it is anticipated that BTRAs will be with stakeholders such as government, NGOs completion of BTRAs at a regional level, A proactive approach to determining completed for the remaining identified hazards, and academic institutions. We have previously and the identification and management of community health initiatives at an operating and attention will be given to active critical reported on our public-private partnership critical controls was set as a company key level is underpinned by a risk-based approach, control monitoring and management. approach in Ghana, where AngloGold Ashanti performance indicator, with a stretch target as well as collaboration with local authorities of three BTRAs per region by the end of and communities to establish the community was selected by Ghana’s National Department Healthy employees of Health to be the principal recipient for 2018. All operations were mobilised, and health priorities to be addressed. This forwardWork to support the health and well-being stretch targets were either met or exceeded looking approach is aimed at preventing ill a Global Fund grant to extend Obuasi’s of employees, ranges from health education for all regions. Collectively, 23 health BTRAs health and negative impacts to and from integrated malaria control programme to other and awareness activities to enabling active were completed by multidisciplinary teams at host communities while optimising health districts in Ghana 1 . In 2018, the programme diagnosis and management of injury and operational levels. Hazards addressed through and wellbeing. Along with environmental is estimated to have covered over a million illness. All operations have a health unit to the Bow-Ties included silica dust, noise, and social impact assessments, community structures, protecting around 1 million people, provide in-house services as appropriate and lead, flammable gases, diesel emissions, to coordinate any outsourced services used. health impact and baseline assessments are and creating some 1,300 job opportunities underground ventilation, vibration, infectious increasingly considered an integral part of risk in the communities involved. Based on the diseases and mental health. For each BowAt each operation, health education for management, as well as a valuable contributor sustained successes over the past decade, Tie, a control register classifies each control occupational and non-occupational conditions to social responsibility. Improving community AngloGold Ashanti was again awarded in terms of its type, quality and level of routinely happens at induction, and at specific health supports our much-needed social principal recipient status and $16 million to criticality. Accountabilities are assigned, and training sessions or during campaigns. Health licence to operate. conduct malaria control activities in 14 districts their development by multidisciplinary teams topics are also incorporated into normal and 45 prisons nationally for the period 2018 – ensures integration of health risk management routines in the workplace, such as at pre-shift Continental Africa Baseline community health impact assessments 2020. Iduapriem Mine has also demonstrated into the business with line accountability. meetings and toolbox talks. were conducted at Geita, Siguiri and Obuasi success in its contribution to malaria control, In Brazil, further steps have been taken All operations monitor employee exposure to sites in Continental Africa. The assessments with the community based malaria programme to embed critical control management identified hazards and have scheduled medical consider the prevailing health status and being recognised as a major contributor to the by converting the BTRAs into standards. surveillance for “at risk” employees. Routine challenges of local communities, as well as second-place award received by the operation Technical professionals have been assigned surveillance as active screening and primary potential health impacts on the community in the 17th edition of the Ghana Club 100 hygiene monitoring accountabilities and are healthcare capability at all sites enables early from mining operations. These baseline health Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Awards. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 33 1 www.aga-reports.com/16/download/AGA-SDR16-community-health.pdf SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED The programme distributed 6,947 long-lasting Americas Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) insecticide treated nets to employees and In Brazil, most community initiatives focus on For the company 2030 aspiration of “Healthy employees and healthy communities” we have contractors, 16 surrounding communities health education and campaigns about specific prioritised SDG 3. The strategic focus areas we have adopted assist us in further refining our and three senior high schools in the area. health issues related to the local communities. efforts as we contribute to subsidiary targets of this goal. This was supported by intensive awareness During the year, awareness campaigns were and sensitisation training as well as close held on diseases transmitted by the Aedes Refer to page 85 for additional detail. surveillance and monitoring of utilisation of aegypti mosquito which include dengue and these nets and the malaria disease burden on yellow fevers. Outbreaks of these conditions the mine and at community level. have occurred over the past few years and recently yellow fever has become an increasing In addition to company led or supported challenge. Health education and awareness disease programmes, all operations have social campaigns for sexually transmitted diseases, plans agreed with local stakeholders, and which incorporate a range of health promotion alcohol abuse, prostate cancer, breast cancer and infrastructure-related projects as part of and healthy eating were also carried out. corporate social responsibility initiatives. The ambulance previously used at Quieroz In 2018, Geita embarked on health Metallurgical Plant, was donated to a noninfrastructure improvement projects in governmental organisation caring for the line with the social plans agreed with elderly in the town of Caeté. local authorities and contributed just over Similarly, in Argentina and Colombia, community $500,000 towards refurbishment of five health education and awareness campaigns dispensaries, two health centres and a are conducted in collaboration with local theatre in the Bukombe and Chato districts of the Geita region of Tanzania. health authorities. In San Julian, Argentina, this included awareness on the use of alcohol and Other community health programmes potential consequences to the community. In conducted by various sites included Colombia, breast cancer awareness campaigns awareness and screening programmes for included offering screening to women lifestyle conditions like hypertension, diabetes employees and community members. and cancer as well as infectious diseases like TB and HIV. In Ghana, Obuasi mine also South Africa embarked on a collaboration initiative with Community health initiatives in South Africa are an NGO from the Komfo Anokye Teaching incorporated into the operations’ agreed social Hospital (KATH), in Kumasi, called Greater and labour plans. Initiatives include health Works Restoration Foundation, to carry out infrastructure projects or support for district free surgical procedures for disadvantaged health-related programmes such as early people within the Obuasi community. childhood development. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 34 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED Silicosis litigation On 3 March 2011, in Mankayi vs. AngloGold Ashanti, along with other Settlement of the consolidated class compensation will vary depending on the AngloGold Ashanti, the Constitutional Court mining companies including Anglo action litigation was reached on 3 May nature and degree of the disease. As of of South Africa held that section 35(1) of American South Africa, ARM, Gold Fields 2018, after three years of extensive 31 December 2018, AngloGold Ashanti the Compensation for Occupational Injuries Limited, Harmony Gold Mining Company negotiations between the OLD Working has recorded a provision of $63 million and Diseases Act, 1993 does not cover an Limited, DRDGold Limited, Randgold Group companies and the lawyers of the to cover the estimated settlement “employee” who qualifies for compensation and Exploration Company Limited, and claimants. On 13 December 2018, the costs and related expenditure of the in respect of “compensable diseases” Sibanye Gold Limited, were served with High Court issued a Court order setting silicosis litigation. under the Occupational Diseases in Mines a consolidated class action application out the process of how members of the and Works Act, 1973 (ODMWA). This settling classes and any interested parties It is possible that additional class actions on 21 August 2013. On 13 May 2016, judgement allows such qualifying employee can object to the proposed settlement. and/or individual claims relating to silicosis the South Gauteng High Court of South to pursue a civil claim for damages against In the coming months, the High Court and/or other OLD will be filed against Africa ruled in favour of the applicants the employer. Following the Constitutional is scheduled to hold a hearing during AngloGold Ashanti in the future. AngloGold and found that there were sufficient Court decision, AngloGold Ashanti has which the Court will consider arguments Ashanti will defend all current and common issues to certify two industrybecome subject to numerous claims by the parties to the settlement as well subsequently filed claims on their merits. wide classes: a Silicosis Class and a relating to silicosis and other Occupational as arguments by other interested parties Should AngloGold Ashanti be unsuccessful Tuberculosis Class. On 3 June 2016, Lung Diseases (OLD), including class who are granted leave by the Court in defending any such claims, or in AngloGold Ashanti, together with certain otherwise favourably resolving perceived actions and individual claims. to participate, including parties filing of the other mining companies, filed an deficiencies in the national occupational objections to the proposed settlement. In November 2014, Anglo American South application with the High Court for leave disease compensation framework that The purpose of this second hearing is to Africa, AngloGold Ashanti, Gold Fields to appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeal were identified in the earlier decision by the determine the fairness and reasonableness Limited, Harmony Gold Mining Company (SCA). On 13 September 2016, the SCA Constitutional Court, such matters would of the settlement. Limited and Sibanye Gold Limited formed granted the mining companies leave to have an adverse effect on its financial an industry working group on OLD appeal the entire High Court ruling to the If the settlement is approved by the Court position, which could be material. (OLD Working Group) to address issues SCA. On 10 January 2018, in response to and all its other conditions are met, a relating to compensation and medical a postponement request from all parties trust (Tshiamiso Trust) will be established care for occupational lung disease in the involved in the appeal due to the advanced and will exist for a minimum of 13 years. For more information visit the gold mining industry in South Africa. The stage of settlement negotiations, the Eligible claimants will be able to seek silicosis settlement website working group now also includes African Registrar of the SCA postponed the specified payment from the Tshiamiso www.silicosissettlement.co.za Rainbow Minerals (ARM). hearing date until further notice. Trust and the amount of monetary S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 35 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED Our performance Maturity assessment of the health strategic focus areas In reviewing our performance, we consider our strategy and the integrity of our internal Strategic focus areas Objective 2016 2017 2018 health systems, as well as progress toward achieving the goal of “Healthy employees and Ensure effective structures and people competence, and healthy communities”. Health of disciplines actively manage the health discipline talent pool Embedding and Strengthening the health organisation’s integrity Business leaders understand health management and it is integrating health integrated into business processes and activities management Maturity assessment of application of the company health standard The right information is appropriately captured, modeled, shared, Process requirements 2016 2017 2018 Information and and used to improve business decision making – enabling knowledge management continuous and step change progress to achieve the goals Health hazard and risk identification Internal and external stakeholders are meaningfully engaged to Engaging with Employee education and training on hazardous exposures enable achievement of the health goals. Targeted partnerships stakeholders and are established to complement service offerings and for partnerships Identification of exposure to hazards in accordance with set limits leverage to maximise impact Early disease identification and fitness for work assessment in relation to Current and emerging health risks are understood, capacity for specific jobs Management of risk to critical controls are identified and established, and control achieve the goals effectiveness is demonstrated. Risk management is applied in Effective management of injury or illness including rehabilitation a dynamic and responsive way A common approach to service provision is in place, Ensuring access to provision of equitable and sustainable healthcare Common operating model underpinned by a set of minimum requirements which enable focusing on operational global consistency yet locally relevant application. There is a Monitoring and evaluation of health system effectiveness excellence systematic approach to ensuring continuous improvement Monitoring, evaluation LEGEND The business achieves its health performance outcomes and and reporting with effective oversight ensures integrity of the system Reactive Compliant Proactive effective governance Communicating with Targeted communication increases understanding of the health internal stakeholders on business and mobilises support across the organisation for health performance improved performance Communicating with Effective communication of health performance positions the external stakeholders on company as a responsible citizen beyond compliance health performance Demonstrating business The value protected and created for the business through value through health health initiatives is understood, demonstrated and articulated initiatives S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 36 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED Performance against the goals New cases of silicosis Noise induced hearing loss (NIHL) (number of new cases) (number of employees) 14 210 14 182 15 142 15 68 16 131 16 147 17 107 17 132 18 47 18 399 88 All occupational disease frequency rate (AODFR) 14 7.23 15 6.62 16 7.13 New cases of 17 7.03 occupational TB 18 3.29 (2017: 255) S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 37 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED Key performance indicators Indicator 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Noise induced hearing loss down by 70% Noise induced hearing loss (NIHL) (Number of employees) Americas * 3 77 72 0 0 Australasia 0 1 0 0 0 Continental Africa 1 0 4 4 152 South Africa 35 54 71 64 30 All occupational disease frequency rate (AODFR) Americas 0.16 3.67 3.56 0.1 0 Australasia 0 0.5 0 0 0 2018: 39 (2017: 132) Continental Africa 0.03 0 0.13 0.12 3.78 South Africa 10.18 12.39 11.8 12.11 12.05 New cases of malaria (Number of new cases) Ghana 383 477 342 307 NA New cases of malaria Guinea 563 959 965 1528 NA down by 31% Mali 115 127 101 274 NA Tanzania 103 123 96 135 NA Malaria lost time frequency rate Ghana 37 51.27 42.11 27.86 NA Mali 33 28.18 21.47 55.12 NA Guinea 61 127.84 125.38 203.77 NA Tanzania 9 10.65 9.25 15.77 NA 2018: 1,164 (2017: 1,686) * High numbers of NIHL cases in the Americas during 2016 and 2017 were due to the identification of historically undiagnosed cases. NA Data not collected. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 38 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES 03 KEY FEATURES THE CONCEPT OF SHARED-VALUE IS INCREASING IN PROMINENCE The company’s operating landscape continues to evolve, with growing societal expectations of the mining industry to contribute to the well-being and development of host communities and nations. The emerging concept and imperative of shared value is becoming increasingly prominent, with expectations from community and other stakeholders that they receive a fair deal from mineral extraction. $22.25 million While community demands, and the complexity of social challenges faced may be felt more acutely at our operations in emerging economies where the challenges of poverty, unemployment and inequality are most visible, the concept of shared value is relevant across all company operations. Global community investment S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 2018 39 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CONTINUED As the business landscape changes, it is immediate scope of activities and influence. levels, as well as to develop a strategic becoming more evident that the company’s Its significance, however, is that it describes framework that could be collectively owned, social performance is a powerful determinant company success in a way that is congruent enabling a consistent approach with locally of our continued ability to conduct business, with societal success. It also acknowledges relevant application. and indeed, our competitive positioning. This interdependence between company and is seen across the mining industry where a societal success. The first step was for the leadership group poor social performance, with a breakdown in to establish a common interpretation and trust between companies and their community Making progress toward achieving the understanding of self-sustaining communities, stakeholders, limits or inhibits a company’s goal cannot be done through philanthropic free from poverty and inequality. Through the abilities to pursue growth initiatives or continue activities only. Rather, it requires that the process, it was determined that achieving the existing business operations with ease. company re-imagines itself as an integral aspiration would be demonstrated when: part of society and ensures that communities • All socio-economic impacts are mitigated With the resource wealth of countries experience real and sustainable benefit according to societal norms and standards often being a part of their national identity, through our operating activities. It is likely community expectations for a fair deal • Communities can independently meet that this approach will become a stronger and meaningful existence include realising their basic needs – as determined by the determinant of our competitive positioning, current value from the mineral endowment, communities themselves especially with the growing trend towards as well as being able to thrive after • There is tangible independence of responsible investment. conclusion of mining operations. Related to governments and communities from this set of expectations, community voices Our actions in 2018 mining activities are becoming stronger and more influential, In 2018, our work focused on revising and • All commitments made in co-developed often facilitated by communications and enhancing our approach to achieving the socio-economic plans are met technology developments which enable expression of this voice on a global platform. 2030 goal. • We demonstrate meaningful contribution to We are also observing a convergence of alleviating poverty and reducing inequality, Enhancing the strategy to achieve as measured by economic growth formal mining licencing requirements at the goal national levels, with societal interpretation of The global Community & Government Following clarification of the company goal, the social licence to operate. Affairs (C&GA) leadership team met during a set of strategic focus areas were identified, Recognising these shifts and megatrends, the year to craft a group-wide strategy for with three-year work plans developed for in 2017 we established a 2030 aspirational the step change performance required for each strategic focus area. This final output goal for the company – “Communities are self-sustaining communities. Participants was congruent with the group sustainable self-sustaining – free from poverty and were drawn from all operations across the development framework and enabled inequality”. This is clearly an ambitious and company to ensure a full understanding of prioritisation of the SDGs, with their integration challenging aspiration, which goes beyond our challenges and opportunities at operational into the business strategy. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 40 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CONTINUED MAPPING THE PRIORITIES Building relationships and partnerships ensure due process in the management of issues identified, to mitigate their potential The basis of building relationships and PERSPECTIVE ST RAT E GIC F O C U S A R EA S impacts. Issues are tracked to their full establishing partnerships across all operations is through the collaborative and resolution. During the year, specific focus was Communicating Communicating co-designed development of socio-economic placed on the implementing the Community Communicating with internal with external development plans. This acknowledges that Information Management System (CIMS). This on social stakeholders stakeholders performance on social on social host communities must have an active say in will enhance integrity of the grievance and performance performance their desired future, while balancing this with complaints process. fair and realistic contributions made by the At a company level, complaints and grievances company towards a shared future. Leveraging off were most commonly related to land access core business Being a catalyst Measuring and Contributing to In support of our host countries’ socioand resettlement, youth demands for competences to strengthen improving social self-sustaining economic aspirations, we often collaborate employment, expectations for a greater sharing to create the business licence to operate communities multiple streams ecosystem score with the different spheres of government to of the benefits from mining operations and the of value find common ground. In Geita for example, we perceived impact of blasting activities. signed a memorandum of understanding with As an example, Geita Gold Mine has Monitoring, the district and town councils, on Geita Gold Baseline socioMitigating Socio-economic engaged with local government in relation to Internal evaluating Mine’s CSR plan, as per the provisions of the economic risk current and development systems and and reporting its directive to the mine to compensate 800 processes and impact legacy impacts for societal with effective new mining code. This made us one of the first assessments to achieve goals upliftment houses belonging to residents of Katomo governance mining companies to roll out a credible CSR plan as required by Tanzania’s new legislation and Nyamalembo Villages for alleged cracks governing the process of CSR in advance of to their properties from blasting activities. A Embedding its implementation. programme has been initiated in collaboration Ensuring health and integrating Building Building with authorities and the affected communities, Information Strengthening of the Community Community & relationships capability in and knowledge Building relationships with local communities at to repair homes and remedy grievances without the foundation & Government Government and partnerships socio-technical management Affairs discipline Affairs into the to achieve goals innovation the Quebradona project continue to be actively resorting to legal processes. The programme business managed. During the year, we developed commenced in the fourth quarter of 2018. and began implementing a Socio-Political Enablement (SPE) strategy. This focuses on In another example, early in 2018, several increasing engagement and dialogue with host land invasions were experienced in the Brazil communities to maintain transparency and operations’ concession in Nova Lima. This “The basis of building relationships and establishing build trust. is an ongoing challenge and is mainly due partnerships across all operations is through to migration into urban areas where there is Mitigating current and legacy impacts limited availability of living space. In response, the collaborative and co-designed development of an integrated team comprising the company All operations have community complaints socio-economic development plans.” and grievance mechanisms in place. The legal, security, property and community processes enable capture of grievances and relations departments engaged with municipal S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 41 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CONTINUED authorities seeking sustainable solutions. relevant stakeholders. At the end of 2018, signed off a group Local Procurement Policy. These included raising community awareness, 10 of 51 families have been resettled to new The policy seeks to establish a company-wide demobilisation of certain company structures homes in Crixás Town, and the relocation and sustainable local procurement programme and exploring options for the implementation of the remaining families is envisaged to be to safely and ethically stimulate economic and of low-cost housing programmes. In the latter completed in 2019. social development within the countries and part of the year, a notable decline in land Socio-economic development and communities where we operate. invasions was noted. societal upliftment At Iduapriem, the Ajopa resettlement project The socio-economic development of host Principles underpinning the group Local was completed and signed off with the relevant communities is a prerequisite, if they are Procurement Policy stakeholders. The Mankessim livelihood to be self-sustaining during and beyond • As a strategic imperative, we will restoration programme has progressed well and mining operations. In the group sustainable make every reasonable effort to completion is envisaged in 2019. development strategy, we focus on strengthening procure all goods and services locally. the mine value chain by driving local participation Non-local purchases will require At Siguiri mine, arbitration on the Area (ownership) and local value addition. requisite approval 1 Resettlement complaints lodged by • Beyond local ownership, we will drive local community members with the During 2017, a multi-stakeholder workshop strategic partnerships which create Compliance Advisor Ombudsman (CAO) involving group sustainable development, local employment, skills transfer, and of the International Finance Corporations group supply chain, and community and economic value-add (IFC) continued. The community members supply chain practitioners from the Continental are supported by Centre de Commerce Africa region was held to develop a local • We should actively develop local International pour le Dévelopement (CECIDE), business development and local procurement suppliers to create capacity Les Mêmes Droits Pour Tous (MDT) and strategy for Continental Africa operations. The and capability Inclusive Development International (IDI). The revised strategy represented a translation of • We will seek to create competitive and mediation process made progress in 2018, the group sustainable development strategic diverse options for supply that can be although several issues are unresolved. framework, and incorporated the emerging sustainable beyond life of mine Engagements will continue in 2019. The concepts of local participation and local value • Implementation will require extensive Block II compensation process at Siguiri addition. The workshop output enabled the internal and external engagement mine was initiated, and farm compensation development of a local business development payments were made to the project affected framework and guideline which was The policy recognises that building capability persons in Foulata and Saraya villages. subsequently approved as a group framework within the local value chain, along with in February 2018. A Voluntary Resettlement Agreement of the establishing partnerships to support Santos Reis community adjacent to our Serra To embed this new approach across the diversification of local suppliers, is central to Grande mine, in Brazil, was signed by the company, in August 2018, the Executive their sustainability in the long term. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 42 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CONTINUED Formal launch of the policy was followed by a creation in host and labour-sending AngloGold Ashanti Australia (AGAA) school Engagement; and Stakeholder Management. campaign across the International Operations, communities of South Africa. This is often partnerships with Eastern Goldfields College, During 2018, in CIMS Phase II, four more to mobilise and guide operations in its in the face of various challenges. With the Kalgoorlie Boulder Community High School modules were developed. These included: implementation. AmaMpondo aseMalangeni agricultural project and John Paul College. Community Social Investment; Land Access in the AmaMpondo Kingdom, the 2018 and Resettlements; Compliance Assessment; In addition to roll out of the local procurement agricultural production season was marred The academies provide on campus and and ASM/Illegal Mining. It is envisaged that policy, a range of enterprise development and by community conflicts. The company is extracurricular activities, mentoring and they will be rolled out in 2019, and the system social infrastructure related initiatives continued planning to increase its level of technical and out of school support to assist students’ will be integrated into company processes by across the company. For the year, the global governance support. An amount of R13.2m academic performance, and personal and the year 2020. community investment by the company was allocated for the 2018-2019 production general health and well-being education. totalled $22.25 million. season in partnership with Farmsol. Sport is an added incentive used by two of Using the company standards to the academies (Clontarf and Girls Academy). improve performance Continental Africa During 2018, two agricultural projects were End-of-year camps and mentoring initiatives During the year, the community management To implement the local procurement policy, the launched and handed over to the respective include former students. standards were reviewed with operational Continental Africa leadership group held a twocooperatives in the host communities of practitioners, in support of the strategic day workshop in October 2018, establishing Matlosana and Merafong. The Matlosana and AngloGold Ashanti Australia (AGAA) has been focus areas and in the context of operating five-year local procurement targets for each site Wedela agricultural projects were part of the a primary sponsor of these three groups for environments. These updated standards will and country. High-value contracts have been social and labour plan commitments to be nearly a decade and are a prime example of AGAA’s long-term funding approach to be ratified by the sustainability standards mapped, along with site-level action plans to implemented over a three-year period. key youth programmes. This assists the committee in early 2019. meet the targets. Monthly progress reporting has been scheduled for 2019. A similar The revitalised Masakhisane Enterprise programmes to plan well in advance with A compliance and assurance programme approach to that adopted by the Continental Development Fund continues to support local more sustainable outcomes over time. is in place to ensure that all business units Africa operations will be implemented in other business development projects by disbursing Monitoring, evaluation and reporting meet the requirements of the company parts of the business in 2019. interest-free loans to SMMEs in South Africa. with effective governance standards. Each site is evaluated every During 2018, the Fund disbursed a total of 36 Strengthening community information second year, with the current two-year In addition to local business development interest-free loans to a total value of R13.39m, management cycle started in 2018. Evaluations are initiatives, all sites in Continental Africa assisting business initiatives in both the Our Community Information Management undertaken as part of the company’s implement annual CSR plans and have Matlosana and Merafong communities. System (CIMS) has reached its second Combined Assurance reviews, which also social plans co-developed with community Australasia phase of development. The first phase form a platform for learning and performance stakeholder and local authorities. The Australasia region continued support for was implemented in 2017 comprising the improvement. During 2018, eight of our 10 South Africa three indigenous academies operating in the modules: Promises and Commitments; business units were assessed against the AngloGold Ashanti continues to support Kalgoorlie area. Kalgoorlie Clontarf Academy, Community Incident Management: standards. Gaps identified during the reviews sustainable socio-economic development Kalgoorlie Girls Academy and Follow the Complaints and Grievances; Socio-economic are being addressed by site management initiatives, including alternative livelihood Dream Programme all operate through Development; Project Management; and monitored by corporate office. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 43 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CONTINUED Measuring and improving social licence to operate (SLO) SCORE CRITERIA Despite frequent references to a social SLO LEVEL CONSIDERED licence to operate, the term is often illWithheld / • Business disruptions defined and without tangible metrics for Withdrawal due to community its measurement. It, however, remains unrest an important concept, and recognising • Allegations regarding its importance, the group C&GA function Tolerated potential human rights incorporated the research and development violations of an appropriate index to measure social • Litigation or formal licence to operate as part of the company mediation instituted wide three-year work plans. Approval against the mine • Evidence of partnerships Adapting leading work from Thomson and and collaboration with Boutilier (Modelling and Measuring the Social communities and other Licence to Operate, 2011), a simplified tool Contributor external stakeholders has been developed for the company and • Public perceptions preliminary mapping of all operations has regarding mine activities been undertaken. In the tool, four levels of social licence The tool will be tested and refined in 2019, to operate have been categorised and with the long-term aim of measuring the social operational performance is measured against a licence to operate through facilitated multiset of parameters. stakeholder dialogues. Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) For the company 2030 aspiration of “Communities are self-sustaining – free from poverty and inequality” we have prioritised SDGs 1, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 17. The strategic focus areas we have adopted, assist us in further refining our efforts which contribute to subsidiary targets of these goals. Refer to page 85-86 for additional detail. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 44 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CONTINUED Our performance Key performance indicators Indicator 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 78% Proportion of spending on local suppliers (%) Argentina 93 93 89 76 22 Brazil 69 66 88 94 94 United States 0 0 0 0 51 Australia 99 99 99 99 99 South Africa *66 68 68 99 99 Ghana **89 90 87 79 79 Mali 74 76 84 78 78 Guinea 76 68 73 72 72 Community incidents Tanzania 76 68 68 60 75 (number) Community Investment ($ million) South Africa 5.19 5.97 4.60 6.29 8.07 14 16 Continental Africa 8.12 9.02 7.56 6.01 3.93 Australasia 0.74 0.68 0.55 0.34 0.25 15 15 Americas 9.40 9.83 9.02 4.16 3.66 Less equity-accounted investments (1.21) (1.46) (1.56) (1.57) (1.11) 16 2 Group (less equity) 22.25 24.05 20.16 15.22 14.80 17 17 * BEE expenditure includes all spend for suppliers with valid BEE certificates as at 01 January 2018. This also accounts for the spend on suppliers whose certificates expired during the course of the reporting period. 18 26 ** Data excludes the insignificant spend for Obuasi as the mine was not operational in year 2018. $2.06 billion Community investment Total procurement spend (less equity-accounted investments) ($ billion) ($ million) 14 2.60 of Group total procurement spend 14 14.80 15 2.10 15 15.22 16 1.98 Total centrally Total regionally 16 20.16 17 2.29 69% managed procurement spend 31% managed procurement spend 17 24.05 18 2.06 $1.42 billion $0.64 billion 18 22.25 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 45 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 04 KEY FEATURES GOOD ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IS A PREREQUISITE FOR GOOD BUSINESS PERFORMANCE The environmental challenges facing AngloGold Ashanti vary across the portfolio. They are influenced by local conditions, the nature of the mining operations, and differing regulatory frameworks in the jurisdictions where we operate. 100% Notwithstanding differences across the portfolio, various environmental themes such as water and energy are relevant, presenting challenges to all parts of the business – in relation to both business practices and to local regulatory frameworks. At specific operations, the dynamics of the environmental themes may play out in different ways. For instance, while water as a theme is relevant to the whole business, at some operations the challenge is that of water scarcity while at others it relates to water excess. operating mines are now certified to the ISO 14001: 2015 standard. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 2018 46 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CONTINUED Recognising these dynamics, a common framework has been developed and the As part of this evolution, environmental practitioners are working towards becoming MAPPING THE PRIORITIES group Environmental Policy, Standards and strategic advisors within the company. This PERSPECTIVE S T R AT E GI C F O C U S A R E A S Guidelines have been designed in a way that entails representing thought leadership enables a globally consistent approach, yet in the technical aspects of environmental Integrated closure provides for locally relevant application. management; having a deep understanding management to create Business and protect reputational of the business and mining processes; and competitiveness Over the past decade, the group’s level of economic value for being adept at navigating and influencing the business environmental cultural maturity has progressively environmental policy and regulatory improved. From a previously reactive approach frameworks outside the organisation. to addressing environmental challenges, in parts Communicating of the company, the imperative of environmental Collaboration with The company’s environmental leaders with internal and Social licence to stakeholders to compliance is now well established across external stakeholders continue to take significant steps in this operate catalyse shared value on environmental the business. Central to this shift, is the from natural resources direction. The improved environmental performance increasing acceptance of line accountability performance over the past few years has for environmental performance. There is a been driven by optimising core business broader understanding that good environmental processes such as infrastructure design Innovative management is a prerequisite for good business Internal Capitalise opportunities Business integrity and maintenance, with the incorporation management of performance, and that the development systems and to use natural resources through effective environmental risk of environmental aspects into operational processes to drive zero harm optimally governance and maintenance of controls to prevent and planning and project design. Additionally, mitigate against negative impacts needs to be incorporated into business planning, resource operational leaders are assuming more allocation and work processes. accountability for reporting on and Information Embedding addressing environmental impacts. management to Securing capability and integrating Strengthening enable performance While good progress has been made, further of the environmental environmental the foundation tracking, learning and efforts are required to move the culture to a Building on the progress to date, in 2017 discipline management into communication to we reported on setting our 2030 aspirational the business consistently proactive level of maturity, where stakeholders a more forward-looking view is adopted, goal to “Eliminate harm and use natural and emerging issues are anticipated and resources optimally”. To achieve the goal, addressed pre-emptively. Achieving this the environmental strategic focus areas were The strategic focus areas are aligned and give effect to the group Sustainable requires environmental management to be fully revised by the company’s Environmental Development Strategic Framework, enabling explicit linkages with the relevant United integrated into the business – into strategic Leadership group, involving participants from Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals. Three-year work plans were developed for each initiatives and core business activities. operations across the company. strategic focus area. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 47 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CONTINUED Our actions in 2018 integration of environmental aspects into the business will accelerate achievement of our In 2018, activities focused on continued 2030 goals. implementation of the strategy, with good progress being made across several strategic One strategic process is the development focus areas. and implementation of capital projects. Recognising the importance of proactively Securing capability of the designing projects to prevent or minimise environmental discipline potential impacts, detailed environmental Design of the environment Health of Discipline planning requirements have been Framework was completed in 2018. It is substantially revised for concept, prefeasibility aligned to the group human resources and feasibility studies. requirements and defines the environmental structures, competences and talent The requirements enable a clear understanding management requirements to achieve group of potential social and environmental risks and environmental and business objectives. impacts; idea and option generation; financial modelling to make value-driven design Progress has been made by the company choices; detailed implementation and resource human resources function in setting up planning; and a monitoring framework to a digital platform which will be used to evaluate performance. These have been implement the framework across the company. applied in the Quebradona project in Colombia It is anticipated that implementation will begin and the redevelopment of Obuasi mine. in 2019 and will include engagement with site general managers to support the process. Management of environmental risk to Application of the framework at site level drive zero harm will ensure a consistent yet fit-for-purpose The top environmental risks faced by the approach to environmental management. It will company include water management, land also enable effective execution of work at an use, protecting biodiversity, use of chemicals, operational level. air quality, and waste management. These have been incorporated into site environmental Embedding and integrating risk registers and are reviewed in the group environmental management into Environment Review Programme. The the business management of risk related to tailings storage Consistent with the group sustainability facilities is multi-dimensional. The geoapproach to integration, strategic processes technical engineering function oversees their and activities have been identified where management from a stability perspective, S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 48 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CONTINUED and this includes water management and the West Wits remains a threat to Mponeng pollution. The consultants representing the were commissioned to the south of the facility, related risks. The environmental perspective Mine maintaining process water balance community and mine respectively, concluded and pumping capacity has been augmented considers, dust, rehabilitation, seepage and and its ability to absorb large rainfall events. assessments in the second half of the year. to the west of the facility. By year end, it was other runoff issues. The Blyvooruitzicht operations have been The findings of both studies were consistent, evident that the groundwater levels were purchased by Blyvoor Gold (Pty) Limited. demonstrating no evidence of mine pollution responding positively to the active pumping. Water management Through the year, Covalent Water Company (a of the ground water. Abnormalities detected No detrimental impact to the environment has As a scarce and shared resource, water wholly owned subsidiary of AngloGold Ashanti) were related to natural geological factors. been observed. management is a key performance area for pumped and discharged approximately The process to engage communities on the the company. Water import sources include 20Ml/day of extraneous water from findings commenced at the end of the year, At a global level, AngloGold Ashanti played utility companies, rivers and lakes, ground Blyvooruitzicht shafts, while the West Wits and Obuasi mine will offer guidance to an active role in the development of the water, and water draining into pits and deep operations absorbed around 5Ml/day of acidic the community in responding to its water ICMM water stewardship position statement underground workings. water from Blyvooruitzicht Mine 5 Shaft. To quality challenges. and subsequent implementation guidance eliminate the risk, Covalent Water Company document. As a participant in its design, Variances between water consumption At Cuiabá mine in Brazil, access to surface began evaluating options to intercept AngloGold Ashanti also presented an overview (imports) at company operations is influenced water was secured for the life of the asset and process the acidic water. Covalent of the position statement at a Future Water by differences in climate, the nature of Water Company owns and operates the with receipt of an updated water use license Institute, of the University of Cape Town, available water sources, as well as mine and Blyvooruitzicht 4 and 6 shafts in terms of a from the state environmental agency. thought leadership meeting in August 2018. processing plant designs. Over the past few registered servitude. Additionally, a water use permit for the years, the company has consistently focused AngloGold Ashanti owned hydro-electric Energy and climate change on reducing the absolute amount of water The containment and management of low facility, Rio de Peixe, was renewed. In 2008, AngloGold Ashanti announced a imported, as well as the intensity of water pH water seepage from waste rock facilities long-term target of reducing its greenhouse utilisation as measured by kilolitres of water at Iduapriem mine in Continental Africa also Cerro Vanguardia mine in Argentina has gas (GHG) emission intensity by 30 percent used per tonne treated. required attention during the year. Remedial faced the challenge of its water consumption from 2007 levels. The time-frame was later actions included the commissioning of an exceeding the annual abstraction allocation confirmed as 15 years (2022) and the metric During the year, asset reduction in South Africa automated plant to actively treat low pH which was set during a different phase of as tonnes of CO2 equivalent per tonne of had an impact on both absolute water imports seepage water from the base of the Block 1 operation. During 2018, the mine has engaged ore treated. While improvements have been and water intensity. Water imports in South waste rock facility at Iduapriem mine. directly with the Santa Cruz Province’s Water made over the past 10 years, the closure Africa reduced by 28% and intensity reduced Resources Directorate to secure approval for an The Sansu community in the vicinity of of underground South African assets in by 20%. This resulted in an improved company increased allocation. Obuasi mine has historically complained early 2018, provided a step change in the performance across both parameters. Work of the mine contaminating ground water At Tropicana gold mine in Australia, the rising company’s emission intensity profile, dropping will continue at all retained operations for resources. Two sets of consultants – the level of hypersaline groundwater at the tailings it to ~46% below the 2007 base year. Energy further improvements. Council for Scientific and Industrial Research storage facility has presented a challenge, efficiency gains in the South Africa region In South Africa, excess fissure water from and Envaserv Research – were commissioned despite monitoring bores showing a localised contributed much of the reductions achieved. the operations of Blyvooruitzicht Gold Mining to independently test the ground water decline after water recovery pumping was This included projects for which the South Company Limited (in provisional liquidation) in and investigate the allegations of mine introduced. Additional water recovery bores African region has been publicly recognised. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 49 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CONTINUED Between 2015 and 2017, absolute energy engagement and consideration of concerns, During the first quarter, in Colombia, the consumption was stable in the range of the Carbon Tax will be implemented in June Gramalote Project’s Flora Compensation Plan between 29 and 30 million GJ used per 2019. There is, however, less clarity on the to offset project-related biodiversity losses annum. 2018 saw a material drop in energy draft National Climate Change Bill. A number was submitted. Additionally, the Regional consumption following the divestment and/or of concerns have been raised, including areas Environmental Authority and the Environment closure of four underground, energy-intensive of incongruence with the Paris Agreement on Ministry’s Forestry Directorate issued a operations in South Africa. The South African Climate Change and the intent to introduce resolution allowing use of and cutting of priority operations’ energy intensity declined by 43%, criminal sanction for failure to meet a carbon plant species in areas not already permitted. contributing to an overall improvement of budget. Further discussion is anticipated over In the second half of the year, the Quebradona 9.3% by the company. the course of 2019. Project received its Biotic Research Permit from the Corantioquia Region Environment Notwithstanding this improvement, South In seeking to be proactive at a global level, Authority. This critical permit is required to Africa remains the major source of GHG the company has actively participated in the collect fauna and flora samples from within the emissions, due to the national energy work of the ICMM, focusing on engaging project’s area of influence, and to complete supplier’s dependence on coal for power with original equipment manufacturers and environmental baseline studies. generation. For the year, 51.6% of AngloGold suppliers on the development of safer and Ashanti’s total emissions arose from South cleaner mobile mining equipment. A coManaging tailings facilities Africa, although this is a marked reduction designed industry road map was developed in Understanding the integrity of our tailings from 2017, when South Africa represented August 2018 1 . facilities and actively managing the potential 69% of the company’s GHG emissions. risks posed by them remained a front of mind Overall, the company’s GHG emissions Protecting biodiversity activity in AngloGold Ashanti. The company intensity declined by 31% for the year. Through the year, the Great Victoria Desert is mindful that whilst the likelihood of a Biodiversity Trust (GVDBT) continued its work tailings failure is low, the consequences are The evolving regulatory landscape in to protect vegetation and threatened fauna in potentially catastrophic. South Africa presented further challenges the Great Victoria Desert. The trust launched through the draft Carbon Tax and National the Spinifex Land Management Projects, All company tailings and heap leach Climate Change Bills and their anticipated Minyma Uninypa, also known as the Seed facilities are actively managed in line with implementation. In this regard, the company Women. Purchase of laboratory equipment in international best practice and are audited supports submissions from Business Unity the Tjuntjuntjara Community was funded, as annually. These are inclusive of facilities South Africa (BUSA) and the Industry Task well as matching collected seeds to those in under development, active structures, those Team on Climate Change (ITTCC) to the the stockpiled Tropicana growth medium. In which are being reclaimed and dormant regulator. Both entities represent a wide range this way the project also supports Tropicana’s ones. Audit considerations and risk ratings of industry stakeholders. After substantive mine site rehabilitation. consider current and future stability, tailings S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 50 1 www.icmm.com/en-gb/news/2018/icsv_pr SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CONTINUED capability under various operating and Business integrity through In maintaining effective environmental Cyanide code certification climatic conditions, potential impacts such as effective governance management systems with appropriate We have previously reported on AngloGold groundwater contamination and preparedness AngloGold Ashanti continued to ensure compliance and governance, asset Ashanti’s participation and commitment as a for adverse events. Remedial actions are integrity of environmental systems through rationalisation in South Africa presented founding signatory of the International Cyanide actively monitored. In our 2016 report we a combination of internal reviews by group additional challenges. These include Management Code. The code focuses on the outlined our approach to tailings management environment and group internal audit, as well restructuring of environmental authorisations, safe manufacture, transportation and use of and governance 1 . as external certification of these environmental and the realignment of regional water cyanide in gold production. management systems. balances. Additionally, asset sales The prefeasibility study for the Kareerand During the year, Corrego do Sitio II and and closure resulted in changes to the tailings storage facility expansion project Internal governance and assurance Tropicana gold mines attained their maiden environmental team with transfer of skilled identified key design, geotechnical and The internal corporate environmental certifications. Additionally, attention was staff to the purchasing companies. The potential groundwater challenges that review process (CERP) involved site-based placed on preparing Mine Waste Solutions restructure also increased complexity of need to be overcome. Mitigation measures audits by a mix of corporate staff, and (MWS) for certification. This is the only active the ISO 14001 re-certification process. By included a combination of a groundwater environmental practitioners from other parts operation where cyanide code certification year end, the process of restructuring of interception borefield, phytoremediation and of the business. This allowed preservation remains to be achieved. Over the past three environmental authorisations, water use provision for water treatment after closure in of independence in the review, along years, approximately US$1.25 million has licences, atmospheric emission licences 2042. After successful review of the project been spent on upgrading and improving with cross-pollination of ideas and good and nuclear authorisations was progressing by the group planning and technical team, infrastructure of MWS cyanide facilities to practices across the company. Operational well, with finalisation dependent on meet the code’s requirements. Preparations work on the feasibility study commenced, risk management and risk registers are regulatory time frames. toward ensuring readiness for external including the environmental and social assessed, along with compliance to the Certification to ISO 14001:2015 certification continued during the year, with impact assessment. AngloGold Ashanti Group Standards. During the year, significant focus across all the final certification audit anticipated in 2019. During the year, the Ghana Environmental The reviews were also held in conjunction operations was placed on re-certification Alignment with the Sustainable Protection Authority approved crucial with the company’s combined assurance of the company environmental management Development Goals (SDGs) permits for the Obuasi redevelopment processes, where a multi-disciplinary team systems to the new ISO 14001:2015 standard. For the company 2030 aspiration of “Zero project and the tailings and water reviews an operation to understand all All operating mines in the company are now harm and equitable use of natural resources” infrastructure project. The permit conditions aspects of business integrity, including the certified to the updated standard. Obuasi we have prioritised SDGs 6, 12, and 13. are well-aligned with the mine’s updated linkages and dependencies between various mine will initiate certification processes after it The strategic focus areas we have adopted Reclamation Security Agreement. business functions. reaches steady state operations. assist us in further refining our efforts as we contribute to subsidiary targets of these goals. Refer to page 86 for additional detail. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 51 1 www.aga-reports.com/16/download/AGA-SDR16-environmental-stewardship.pdf SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CONTINUED Our performance Water use Energy Consumption GHG Emissions Water withdrawal by source (megalitres) (petajoules) (kilotonnes) (%) 14 63,721 14 32 14 4,613 Surface water use 42% 15 15 15 % 59,601 29 4,162 Ground water use 37% Utility and/or other 16 50,716 16 29 16 4,062 external water suppliers 21% 17 52,219 17 30 17 3,953 18 45,892 18 25 18 2,571 Water use efficiency Energy intensity GHG Emissions intensity (kilolitres per tonne treated) (gigajoule per tonne treated) (kilograms of GHG per tonne treated) 14 0.60 14 0.30 14 43 15 0.64 15 0.31 15 45 16 0.59 16 0.33 16 48 17 0.61 17 0.35 17 46 18 0.57 18 0.32 18 32 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 52 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CONTINUED 2018: Two reportable environment incidents Date Site Incident description Corrective actions 23 March 2018 Vaal River, After a rainfall event that exceeded 100mm Water quality analyses were taken from South Africa in less than 24 hours, Vaal River’s Bokkamp the release and from downstream in the Pollution control dam overflowed, releasing river. Results from the point of release an estimated volume of 1,000m³ that indicated that some of the International reached and entered the Vaal River. Finance Corporation’s effluent water quality standards were exceeded. However, no detrimental environmental impacts were detected in the Vaal River itself. The Department of Water and Sanitation was notified of the incident. 18 November 2018 Siguiri mine, In November, Siguiri’s process plant’s tailings The overflow from the plant was stopped Guinea pumping system experienced mechanical and peroxide detoxification was instituted at problems, resulting in slurry overflowing the pooled water. A review of the drainage the tailings area containment bund. This and spillage management infrastructure tailings slurry progressed along low-lying at the plant was undertaken. The capacity areas of the process plant and came to rest and function of bund area drainage pumps just outside the plant’s security fence but were reviewed to ensure that overflows are remaining within the mining lease area. After prevented. The erection of a 5km secondary the solids settled out, a pool of water was perimeter fence was initiated to prevent formed. Unfortunately, the residual cyanide domestic animals from grazing near the level in the tailings material was high enough process plant. to kill four birds and a cow that subsequently drank from the poisonous water. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 53 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES INTEGRATED CLOSURE MANAGEMENT 05 KEY FEATURES MINE CLOSURE REQUIRES A MULTIDISCIPLINARY EFFORT Over the past few years the mine closure challenge has become progressively more acute for AngloGold Ashanti. This challenge is twofold. On the one hand, some of our operations have faced closure considerations. On the other, poor closure management of neighbouring mines has negatively impacted on our operations. The closure process at Yatela mine has continued to unfold, 312 HECTARES along with uncertainty of the future of the Sadiola Sulphide Project. While not a formal closure, Obuasi mine went into a period of care and maintenance prior to obtaining approval for its redevelopment. In 2017 our Savuka and TauTona mines in South Africa ceased operations. of land rehabilitated during 2018 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 2018 54 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES INTEGRATED CLOSURE MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Beyond our own closure processes, communities being affected, the social fabric Mine Closure: Toolkit. AngloGold Ashanti played Designing with closure in mind our operations and local communities in of communities is typically impacted. In the an active role in the process. The revised All sustainable development disciplines are South Africa have been directly affected face of all this complexity, sound closure publication, Integrated Mine Closure: Good actively involved in the planning and review by unsatisfactory closure by third parties governance becomes increasingly important. Practice Guide provides up to date guidance of significant projects, from concept through of neighbouring mines. In West Wits, for companies, spanning the entire integrated to feasibility. The baseline studies and impact groundwater infiltrating into liquidated Traditionally, closure management has been closure process and considers certain special assessments cover economic, social and adjacent mines presents a flooding threat seen through the lenses of risk mitigation and circumstances. The guide is supported by a environmental dimensions, forming the basis of to our operations. Additionally, abandoned legal compliance. This viewpoint is shifting, series of tools, and aims to promote a disciplined operational design and closure planning. mine workings have been invaded by illegal with an emerging narrative that considers the approach with consistent application of good miners with attendant negative social impacts mine, its product and the associated waste practice across the mining industry. This Closure specific issues in the project are including contamination of water sources, from mining activities as part of a broader publication was released in early 2019 1 . outlined, and there is clear demonstration of conflict between illegal miners and a general ecosystem. Within this paradigm, economic how closure planning considerations have rise in criminality. succession is an integral aspect of closure. Our actions in 2018 influenced final project design. A closure plan Therefore, in addition to risk mitigation, framework and associated cost estimate is We have extensively described our approach The relevance of integrated closure increasing attention is being paid to possible developed for final project configuration. In to integrated closure management in previous management was reaffirmed in our materiality opportunities that need to be explored and greenfields projects the main closure elements reports 2 . It is multi-disciplinary and incorporates process, featuring prominently in both the capitalised on during the entire mining lifecycle and costs are detailed in the feasibility closure considerations across the mine cycle external threat analysis and its rating as a – from design, through operations and beyond report, forming the foundation of the new from exploration through planning and design, material issue. It interfaces with all dimensions closure. Considerations include active and mine’s closure plan. In brownfields projects, mining operations and beyond closure. of sustainable development, having economic, concurrent rehabilitation, repurposing of waste, incremental closure activities and associated social, environmental and governance supply chain development and alternative land Work has continued to embed integrated costs arising from the project are documented, aspects. From an economic perspective, and infrastructure use. To meaningfully address closure principles and practices into the core using the operation’s existing closure plan as a mining companies must contend with the the associated complexities and leverage off of the business. baseline and as a source of relevant rates. potentially high costs and liabilities associated opportunities, innovation and collaboration with closure, the loss of productive capacity must be embraced. In this way effective Integrating social and environmental The approach is being applied in AngloGold and their collective impact on company integrated closure management drives value aspects into closure management Ashanti’s two priority projects – the Obuasi valuation. Environmental considerations within and beyond the mine fence, seeking the In 2018, work on social closure planning mine redevelopment and the Quebradona relate to addressing the effects of historic or elimination of waste and impacts with economic continued, with the development of a standard project. In Obuasi, the sustainable ongoing pollution after closure, reclamation of diversification and thriving communities during and framework. To meet the requirements of development team formed part of the land for productive use during operations and operations and post-closure. the standard, all sites must have social closure project’s technical committee. In late 2018, post-closure, and effective management of plans in accordance with set requirements. the mine began preparations for the formation mining infrastructure. The social implications Recognising the evolution of thinking and Social closure requirements have been of a multi-stakeholder Closure Consultative of closure are likely to be the least understood practices in the important area of mine closure, incorporated into the compliance assessment Committee. It is anticipated that the and potentially the least well managed. during 2018 the ICMM reviewed and updated tool and as such, form an integral part of the committee will include internal and external In addition to the economic livelihoods of its 2008 publication Planning for Integrated combined assurance process. representatives who will track implementation 1 www.icmm.com/en-gb/news/2019/icmm-launches-new-closure-guide S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 55 2 www.aga-reports.com/17/download/AGA-SD17-integrated-closure-management.pdf SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES INTEGRATED CLOSURE MANAGEMENT CONTINUED of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Siguiri gold mine also initiated an accelerated post-mining. Our approach is described the project had been underway for several approved reclamation plan and assist in the concurrent rehabilitation programme during the in more detail in our 2017 Sustainable years, there was an acceleration during 2018. relinquishment of reclaimed sites that have year, aiming to reduce its closure liability and Development Report 2 . met the required criteria. At Quebradona, rehabilitation backlog. While challenges were The people part of the reduction is reported sustainable development team members experienced, by the third quarter, the planned During the year, a company policy on local in the section on “Talent Management, Skills form part of the project’s independent review 125 hectares of waste rock facility cover and procurement was released which aims to Development and Employee Relations” on team and in 2018 were focused on the prerevegetation was completed. drive local business development, beginning pages 72 77. Through Project Omega, feasibility study. with the mining supply chain. Operations, business processes were reviewed and more At Tropicana gold mine in Australia, a particularly in Continental Africa, have cost effective solutions for certain legacy Concurrent rehabilitation and land novel approach addresses rehabilitation, actively begun implementation, setting systems have been explored. management biodiversity and community participation. The targets and identifying opportunities at Concurrent rehabilitation and effective land launch of the Spinifex Land Management operational levels. More details can be found management continued to be central pillars project represents an example of innovation in the section on “Contributing to selfof our integrated closure management to drive mutual benefit and create multiple sustaining communities”. programmes. Where possible, rehabilitation streams of value. is accelerated to manage closure liabilities, The approach and this set of activities reduce costs and free up land for alternative Supply chain strengthening for clearly outlines the importance and value uses. Portions of our tenement which will economic succession of an integrated approach. It is led by the not be mined are also considered for early Contributing to strengthening the supply commercial function in the business, with relinquishment. In 2017, we reported on our chain is an important social and economic support from disciplines within the sustainable approach, as well as the innovative use of aspect of closure. Local business activity development portfolio, and represents how technology at Iduapriem mine to scientifically and economic productivity supports the integrating sustainability into the business and evaluate our rehabilitation performance 1 . development of resilient communities able to leveraging off core business competences is respond, adapt and thrive despite significant needed for sustainable outcomes. In 2018, Sadiola gold mine pursued challenges including mine closure. In areas preparations for accelerated rehabilitation, where the mine is the primary source of Managing the South Africa along with reviewing the closure plan for the livelihood, and inputs of products and services region footprint mine’s tailings facility. Areas of focus included for mining activities are imported, with high Due to the reduction of operations in South waste rock dumps and TSF rehabilitation trials. host community dependence on the mining Africa, through cessation of operations and The dramatic increase in illegal mining in the business, these communities are vulnerable, asset sales over recent years, it became mine tenement, however, poses a significant and closure has potentially harsh impacts. necessary to reduce the footprint supporting threat to the rehabilitation process, with the our South African underground mines and potential for illegal miners to begin mining on Strengthening the local supply chain’s surface operations. The reduction in footprint already rehabilitated waste rock dumps. Any capability within the mining value chain is a is not limited to land, but it extends to people, damage is likely to incur additional closureprecursor for diversification beyond the mining addressing environmental liabilities as well as related expenses. enterprise and ultimately economic succession re-configuring business processes. Although 1 www.aga-reports.com/17/video/iduapriem-mine-reclamation.mp4 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 56 2 www.anglogoldashanti.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/AGA-SD17.pdf#page=15 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES INTEGRATED CLOSURE MANAGEMENT CONTINUED A key aspect of the footprint reduction exercise, As previously reported, we have been pursuing Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) was bringing some rehabilitation projects formal incorporation of some of our villages Considering our integrated approach to closure management, the material issue cuts across forward. The Vaal River retained business, into neighboring municipalities. Our intention many SDGs. We have adopted a conservative approach to prioritising the SDGs in this area, as comprising the Vaal River operations after is to either donate the villages or assist certain aspects are better addressed by other material issues. the asset sales, and excluding Mine Waste employees in acquiring them. Solutions, will close in the next two-and-aRefer to page 87 for additional detail. half-years after the processing of marginal Integrated closure management rock dumps is complete. This is a key step in at Yatela mine rehabilitating these footprint areas. The remaining The current project timeline is for closure rehabilitation relating to tailings storage facilities activities to continue until end of 2021 with will be managed over a longer period. the site relinquishment at the end of 2022. Economic empowerment of our communities As part of the company objective to leave a has also been an area of focus. During the positive legacy in the surrounding villages, the fourth quarter of 2018, various agricultural mine continued to implement projects agreed with the local community. This included construction projects in both West Wits and Vaal River of teachers’ accommodation at a local school; were transferred to local communities. drilling wells and boreholes to supply water for Negotiations are currently underway to market gardening and cattle rearing; building a transfer a rock dump to the Matlosana bridge along a local community road; and fencing Municipality for the benefit of the Khuma of a local community forestry project. community. In addition to the rock dump, implementation of a commercial scale pecan Rehabilitation activities focused on care and nut project is underway, and a biofuels project maintenance of previously rehabilitated areas is at a pre-feasibility stage of planning. In both as well as continuation of the heap leach projects, we are leveraging off our access pads rinsing. to land and water and are working with appropriate specialists in agri-business After the reporting period, in February 2019, the and biofuels. company announced the sale of Yatela mine. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 57 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES INTEGRATED CLOSURE MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Performance Land disturbed and rehabilitated (ha) Total amount of land newly Total amount Total amount of rehabilitated within of land land disturbed the reporting rehabilitated and not yet Total land Location period to date rehabilitated managed Geita 6.0 557.4 2,783.3 19,627 Sunrise Dam 56.9 810.7 1,428.8 15,866 AGA Brazil 22.8 465.9 476.6 26,083 Sadiola 25.1 167.1 2,192.1 30,260 Obuasi 1.0 207.5 1,691.1 20,146 Serra Grande 18.5 97.4 643.3 2,607 Cerro Vanguardia – 45.4 1,599.6 54,000 Iduapriem 8.5 259.5 1,519.2 11,000 Yatela – 547.0 483.3 22,252 Tropicana 48.5 272.9 3,107.4 105,800 Siguiri 125.0 485.0 1,445.8 159,233 West Wits – 296.0 1,310.0 3,744 Vaal River – 1,010.0 4,244.1 8,253 Mine Waste Solutions – 16.3 3,329.3 6,722 Group 312.3 5,238.1 26,353.9 485,593 Rehabilitation liabilities per operation ($ million) 2018 2017 Operation Restoration Decommissioning Total Total South Africa* 12.4 63.3 75.7 118.5 Continental Africa 234.8 143.5 378.3 430.9 Australasia 54.8 33.7 88.5 88.3 Americas 101.6 35.9 137.5 146.6 Less equity accounted investments (18.6) (38.9) (57.5) (59.6) Less liabilities held for sale – – – (29.1) Group 385.0 237.5 622.5 695.6 * Comparative include Moab Khotsong, Kopanang and TauTona S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 58 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE, COMMUNITY AND ASSET SECURITY 06 KEY FEATURES OUR SECURITY THREATS DIFFER IN TYPE AND INTENSITY WORKING AngloGold Ashanti operates in an increasingly complex security landscape. Across the four continents and nine countries where we have a significant presence, security threats differ in type and intensity. TOGETHER Underlying drivers of the threat include political and economic instability; armed conflict and terrorism; social determinants of conflict such as poverty, inequality and unemployment; illegal mining; and general criminality. Security risk is also influenced by the stage of operation, where down-scaling, sale, or closure of operations are all associated with escalating security risk. with communities is a core element of our strategy. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 2018 59 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE, COMMUNITY AND ASSET SECURITY CONTINUED Notably elevated security risk was experienced in isolation. The security, well-being and in Colombia, Mali, South Africa, Tanzania, resilience of our host communities is also a Guinea and Brazil. Colombia continued prerequisite for our success. Linked to the to navigate the transition from decades of interface and interdependence between mining armed conflict to a peaceful dispensation. operations and communities, expectations of Nevertheless, organised crime groups and how the business responds through security various guerrilla groups remained a threat in interventions have changed. Traditional, labour the country. In Mali, the threat of pit invasions intensive and militaristic approaches, with the by illegal miners escalated during the year, potential for human rights violations are no associated with community agitation related longer adequate, or appropriate. to Yatela mine being in closure mode. Additionally, while not directly affecting Over the past decade, the security function AngloGold Ashanti operations, the threat of has evolved, becoming more engaging and terrorist activity in northern and certain parts proactive in its approach. The most significant of central Mali persisted. Ongoing threats of shifts have been moving from a militaristic to a illegal mining and criminality persist at our humanistic approach in security management; operations in Tanzania and Guinea. Escalating engaging with communities as partners Our actions in 2018 to develop a shared understanding across the group, and to describe how successful criminal activity, on and adjacent to AngloGold in mutual protection; and leveraging off Over the past few years we have actively achievement of the goal would be measured. Ashanti’s South African operations was technology to radically improve predictive and implemented the AngloGold Ashanti global The critical success factors for achievement experienced during the year. This is mainly preventive capability. security framework, demonstrating good were also outlined. related to neighbouring mines which had been progress in our security performance. In As part of the journey towards improved 2018, our efforts focused on building on closed and subsequently invaded by illegal Through the process, it was agreed performance, in 2017 we established our 2030 our successes and enhancing our strategic miners, along with an associated increase in that achieving the 2030 goal would be aspirational goal of “No human rights violations approach to achieve our 2030 goal. This general criminality. In Brazil, a rising incidence demonstrated by evidence of: and communities assist us in protecting our included intentionally supporting achievement of armed robbery was observed, possibly • building trust and meaningful engagement business”. The goal reflects the importance of the United Nations’ Sustainable related to economic instability in the country. with stakeholders of protecting human rights, especially in Development Goals. The nature of threats and their complex the context of security management and • acting with integrity, transparency and good interplay is dynamic, and protecting the reinforces our commitment as a signatory Enhancing the strategy to governance business – people, assets and product – is to the Voluntary Principles on Security and achieve the goal • establishing partnerships for the goals increasingly seen as a strategic determinant Human Rights. The goal also recognises The AngloGold Ashanti security leadership • business protection and continuity of business continuity and success. With that harmonious and mutually supportive group met during the year to review the mining operations being an integral part relationships between mining operations and strategy and refine it for further performance A set of strategic focus areas which are of host communities where we operate, communities serve as a powerful defence for improvement. All company operations were aligned to the group sustainable development protection of the business cannot be seen both sets of stakeholders. represented. The 2030 goal was clarified framework were developed. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 60 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE, COMMUNITY AND ASSET SECURITY CONTINUED MAPPING THE PRIORITIES Embedding and integrating security into Proactive identification, analysis and the business management of threats and risks PERSPECTIVE ST RAT E GIC F O C U S A R EA S The security discipline is well positioned to play Identifying, monitoring and analysing security an integrating role within the company. During threats is central to understanding and the year, integration has been strengthened proactively managing them – to effectively Extending the at three levels – collaborating with other protect the business. Monitoring and Enabling business Integrated ASM human rights performance management sustainable development disciplines, analysis is done at regional, country and programme integrating into strategic business processes operational levels, wherein travel risk is also and activities, and strengthening interactions evaluated. Up to date and valid information and relationships with host communities. is sourced on a “live” basis from various Scenario information services and operational reports. Protecting the Internal protection Community-based planning and next Two key areas where integration into the In areas where the threat goes beyond the business initiatives protection initiatives generation crisis business was consolidated were in major operation, we engage with government management business projects, namely in Colombia and law and order agencies to ensure a the Obuasi redevelopment project, and in coherent and collaborative approach. crisis management. Security input has been Obtaining information and collaborating Monitoring, particularly valuable given the dynamic and with other agencies is underpinned by Proactive Operational Driving technology Internal evaluating complex landscapes in which the projects identification and excellence and innovation the principles of integrity, transparency systems and and reporting processes analysis of threats for consistent for step change with effective are being undertaken. Insights beyond the and good governance. and risks performance performance technical parameters for project success are governance given. The security discipline continued to Analysis of the underlying causes and coordinate crisis management across the contributing factors of security threats company, keeping abreast of, and responding is undertaken, as well as assessing the Ensuring health Embedding Building Information to developments related to security challenges potential implications for the business and Strengthening the of the Group Security and integrating relationships and and knowledge foundation and Human Rights GSHR into the partnerships to affecting the mining industry. Online crisis possible outcomes. Crime incidents are management (GSHR) discipline business achieve the goals management training for team members also monitored and investigated, analysing at corporate and operational levels was individual incidents and trends. On this implemented during the year. Training content basis, we have a good sense of the pulse is aligned with international best practices and vital signs of each operation, as well and includes raising awareness, the principles as insight into current and emerging issues These focus areas enabled prioritisation of the relevant Sustainable of crisis management, and protocols to be in each country where we operate. This Development Goals, and the development of three-year work plans to achieve followed. Additionally, a secure, centralised enables forward thinking and well considered both business and societal success. hosting platform for all crisis management responses in the event of escalating threats plans was established. or actual incidents. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 61 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE, COMMUNITY AND ASSET SECURITY CONTINUED Country and operational security dynamics increasing their mindfulness in potentially in improving our ability to protect. Remote shared purpose is established. Through the are routinely reported on a weekly basis to dangerous situations. The company has monitoring for instance, creates virtual forums, the company supports awareness business leaders at group and operational also actively supported achieving the United perimeters, removes people from risk and creation and assists in building capacity levels. A summary dashboard with Nations’ Sustainable Development Goal 16, allows rapid, targeted and fit-for-purpose in human rights and security through comparative trend analysis enables business which focuses on peace, justice and strong responses to breaches of our operations. educational programmes. leaders to understand key security issues at institutions. Work has included ongoing human a glance. Where urgent issues not suited to During the year, various technology solutions In 2017 we reported on the Geita Community rights training to third party security providers weekly reporting arise, they are immediately were explored or implemented, focusing on Policing Forum. In early 2018, the Nyakabale and government law enforcement agencies investigated and analysed with the sharing of enhancing existing monitoring capability, Community Policing Centre was vandalised with whom we collaborate. issue-based reports and analyses as required. protective barriers and access control; by a group of illegal miners. Renovations were Review of the security landscape is applying advanced technology for fixed or undertaken, and the centre was reopened During the year, this proactive approach consolidated on a quarterly basis and reported mobile monitoring; and introducing artificial in the third quarter of 2018. In a testament has enabled us to navigate and respond to to the Social, Ethics and Sustainability intelligence capability, most notably the use to the success of community policing, 48 different challenges in the various countries Committee. This enables greater transparency of drones to strengthen virtual perimeter members of the community policing team where we operate. The company has and ensures appropriate governance in capability and facial recognition technology were recruited by the Tanzania Forestry engaged proactively with stakeholders in potentially sensitive activities. powered by artificial intelligence algorithms. Services in collaboration with Geita gold mine. relation to potential threats; dialogue has Their role was to assist in the protection of been established where there is conflict with Driving technology and innovation for Community-based protection initiatives the local forest reserve. The team has since communities; numerous collaborative security step change performance Working together with communities is a core apprehended more than 1,000 deforesters and initiatives have been held with authorities; and The application of technology and digitisation element of the company security strategy. dismantled the associated deforester camps. guidance for employees travelling to various in security is essential as we seek to become Given the intimate relationship between the countries helps to protect them as well as less manpower dependent and more intelligent mining operation and host communities, both Having demonstrated successes in community groups often have shared challenges. Through policing in Tanzania, the approach is being a shared value approach, protecting the rolled out across the Continental Africa interests of the company and the community operations. At Siguiri mine, a joint security and together is a powerful way to build trust. community operation cleared illegal mining Communities who trust the company and have activities in the Saraya area. Large-scale use a stake in its success, and vice versa, enable of chemicals for gold processing was identified the identification of threats and all forms of and all chemical bags and drums were mutual protection. successfully removed from the area without any contamination. In collaborating with communities, we have made progress with the establishment of The company will continue to build on the community policing forums, comprising local successes of community policing in 2019, law and order authorities, local communities and we anticipate that the approach and and other representatives from civil society. related benefits will be extended to community The roles of all parties are clarified, and a challenges beyond mining. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 62 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES EMPLOYEE, COMMUNITY AND ASSET SECURITY CONTINUED Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Our performance For the company 2030 aspiration of “No human rights violations and communities assist us in protecting our business” we have prioritised SDGs 16 and 17. The strategic focus areas we have adopted assist us in further refining our efforts as we contribute to subsidiary targets of 11% REDUCTION these goals. Refer to page 87 for additional detail. in theft and loss incidents compared to 2017. Fatalities and injuries to AngloGold Ashanti security personnel in the line of duty 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Fatalities 0 0 2 0 0 Injuries 30 22 35 71 38 Fatalities and injuries to communities related to security intervention 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Fatalities 2 1 0 3 1 Injuries 40 32 36 34 42 Fatalities and injuries to community members while engaged in illegal activities, not related to security intervention 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Fatalities 37 33 11 10 12 Injuries 9 18 5 8 11 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 63 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING (LEGAL AND ILLEGAL) 07 KEY FEATURES ARTISANAL AND SMALLSCALE MINING IS A HIGHLY COMPLEX ISSUE Artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) has long been recognised as an important issue with complex social, economic, environmental and governance dimensions which need to be addressed in an inclusive way. Considering that most activities in the ASM sector are informal and outside of legal frameworks, numbers of participants in the sector 11 SITES are uncertain. Recently the Intergovernmental Forum (IGF) on Mining, Minerals, Metal and Sustainable Development estimated that those directly involved are in the order of tens of millions, with more than 100 million people dependent on economic benefits from the sector. The IGF, which is a voluntary platform for United Nations’ member states and other relevant stakeholders, has become a leading voice in the formulation of global mining policy and governance. where ASM takes place adjacent to or near the mine. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 2018 64 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING (LEGAL AND ILLEGAL) CONTINUED Calls for formalisation of the sector have operations. In addressing the material issue, mining activities. For 2018, almost all the Union, providing strategic and operational been made for many years, with ASM being AngloGold Ashanti categorises ASM as legal, fatalities were seen on the Sadiola and Yatela support for the AMV and its action plan. included as a significant component of the illegal or criminal in affected areas, as they relate mine tenements, with 27 illegal miners fatally IGF’s Mining Policy Framework published to prevailing jurisdictional legal frameworks. wounded in a single incident where their use of In 2018, the company continued participation in 2013. Acknowledging that ASM, and its Using this approach, the primary challenge explosives in the dormant Yatela mine main pit with the IGF, attending its annual general formalisation and integration into the formal faced is around illegal mining where there is meeting and related events. At an operational gave rise to a fall of ground. economy is a government accountability, a the actual or potential threat of mine tenement level, our Geita gold mine contributed guidance document to assist governments in invasion. Dormant or active workings may be In dealing with such a complex challenge, to training and capability building on developing and implementing ASM strategies invaded. In this setting, although the company and with the toll it exacts on communities, a environmental management under the in their jurisdictions was released in 2017. takes every effort to secure its property and humanistic, inclusive and multi-stakeholder auspices of the IGF. Delegates from several In 2018, activities focused on training and people, the company is often dependent on approach is necessary for meaningful solutions African countries participated in the training. capacity building, and providing support to government authorities for the maintenance of to be found. Over the past few years we have interacted governments who were receptive to making law and order, and protection of the company’s Our actions in 2018 with the AMDC to nurture a good working progress in this area. continued ability to conduct business. relationship and to consider how the African Our position and approach to ASM has been For the African continent, the African Mining Mining Vision would inform our broader The impacts of illegal mining are felt by both the articulated in detail in previous reports 1 2 . Vision (AMV) recognises the important sustainable development strategy. In 2018 our company and the illegal miners. Impacts on the We seek harmonious co-existence with role that ASM plays in sustaining rural dialogue continued, including the head of the company include operational disruptions, gold legal ASM through a two-pronged approach economies, and the opportunity to harness AMDC presenting perspectives and socioand production losses and, where previously focusing on providing direct support for its potential contribution to integrated national political trends to the AngloGold Ashanti Board rehabilitated areas are targeted, additional formalisation of ASM, and local enterprise development. Notwithstanding the stated strategy meeting during the year. rehabilitation costs are incurred. Impacts development which contributes to creating intent of the AMV, the absence of policy experienced by illegal miners are mostly safety alternative livelihoods. We also work with Navigating ASM dynamics at a frameworks constrains a country’s ability to and health related, with injuries and fatalities country law enforcement agencies who assist country level obtain a greater contribution from the ASM occurring on the mine tenement and illegal in protecting our mining tenement. The main countries where AngloGold Ashanti sector. Where policy frameworks are present, miners’ use of chemicals impacting negatively has operations and projects affected by ASM their limitations include a lack of distinction on their health and environment. While such Supporting global ASM policy and are South Africa, Tanzania, Ghana, Mali, between large-scale mining (LSM) and ASM, injuries, fatalities, health and environmental formalisation Guinea and Colombia. Efforts to strengthen or bureaucratic processes that are unworkable impacts are caused by illegal activities and Our approach to supporting ASM policy and for ASM. Compounding the policy challenge, local economic development to reduce not by the company, AngloGold Ashanti has formalisation is in the broader context of global in the absence of long-term financial and dependence on illegal mining is described in been reporting on them publicly because of and regional mining policy and frameworks technical support, individual ASM operations the material issue on “Contributing to selftheir association with the mine tenement, and – of which ASM is a subset. Two important sustaining communities”. are unlikely to be sustainable. ASM as a sector in the interests of transparency. Where the focal points which we interact with are the IGF however will persist, with ebbs and flows of injuries of fatalities have any relation to security and the African Mining Development Centre In the West Wits area of South Africa, invasion activity, mostly related to economic conditions. intervention, these are subject to external and (AMDC). The AMDC is an entity of the United of the closed Blyvooruitzicht gold mine by ASM is often considered in relation to the internal investigations. Sadly, 2017 and 2018 Nations Economic Commission for Africa illegal miners was related to organised criminal level of technical sophistication applied at its saw a sharp rise in ASM fatalities due to illegal which works with member states of the African syndicates. The mining involves the use of 1 www.aga-reports.com/17/download/AGA-SD17-artisanal-mining.pdf S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 65 2 www.aga-reports.com/16/download/AGA-SDR16-asm.pdf SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING (LEGAL AND ILLEGAL) CONTINUED heavy machinery and large haulage trucks leadership, faith groups and local NGOs has for the removal of material. With escalation been established to address the issue. of the illegal mining activities, the company actively participated in work with the Minerals Beyond protecting the tenement, in Council South Africa to formulate a framework collaboration with IGF and other partners, in response to the issues. The framework Geita gold mine participated in a 10-day is in support of a directive set out by the workshop focusing on environmental Department of Mineral Resources and is management in mining. The workshop was applicable to the entire mining industry. held in Mwanza, Tanzania with site visits to Geita mine focusing on acid mine drainage ASM and illegal mining has been endemic and tailings storage facilities. in the Geita region of Tanzania. During the year, aggression and confrontation from illegal In Ghana, protection of mine tenements miners was experienced. In responding to the has been embedded in the security challenge, we have adopted a collaborative agreement established as part of the Obuasi approach between the company, law redevelopment project, and is within the context enforcement agencies, local government and of government’s constitutional responsibility community leadership through a Community to ensure the rule of law and to protect the Policing Forum 1 . Established in 2016, country’s infrastructure as it deems appropriate. training of Community Policing Forum During the year, the government response was members has included security techniques escalated through “Operation Vanguard”. A as well as an understanding of human rights combined police and military task force of about requirements. The approach has matured 400 members was deployed to clear illegal over the past few years, driving reductions mining activities. The ban on small-scale mining in illegal mining intrusions, crime within was lifted on 17 December 2018, and the increase was related to the difficult economic illegal mining activities at the dormant Yatela the community and enhanced protection ongoing protection of mine tenements is being conditions prevailing in the country, as well main pit, some 300 public security force of local forest reserves. During the year, it discussed between industry, Chamber of Mines as community uncertainty around the future members were deployed. They succeeded was recognised that minor children were and relevant authorities. of the operations. The invasions have been in clearing the area of illegal activities and becoming involved in illegal mining activities. limited to non-operational pits, although preventing further unauthorised entry. After A multi-stakeholder task team comprising Escalating illegal mining activity with active the risk remains that they could extend to gaining control of the area, a contingent of company representatives, authorities including community participation was noted at our rehabilitated waste rock dumps. Following 50 security force members were deployed social development structures, community Sadiola and Yatela operations in Mali. The the incident involving multiple fatalities due to to maintain the progress made. These were S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 66 1 www.aga-reports.com/17/video/community-policing-forum.mp4 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING (LEGAL AND ILLEGAL) CONTINUED however demobilised three weeks later with a Alignment with the Sustainable recurrence of pit invasions. Company security Development Goals (SDGs) members were subsequently withdrawn for As a material issue, artisanal mining cuts safety reasons and to prevent any possible across many SDGs. These range from poverty, conflict. Monitoring of illegal mining activity hunger and inequality to life on land, peace using drone technology has continued, as justice and strong institutions and partnerships has engagement with authorities to maintain for the goals. In prioritising the SDGs, we have law and order. With continued illegal mining adopted a conservative approach in this area, activity, the risk of injury and death to illegal as certain aspects better addressed by other miners remains high. material issues. In Guinea, limited progress has been made Refer to page 88 for additional detail. by the country to reform gold mining, with the persistence of high numbers of illegal miners Our performance on mining concessions. At Siguiri mine in Guinea, illegal mining activities are associated with the large-scale use of chemicals for gold processing. Aligned to our community security Reporting on our performance framework and transferring our successful in ASM, particularly in our experiences with community policing in support for global ASM policy Geita, a similar approach was adopted at and formalisation, is qualitative. Siguiri. A combined company and community Where specific issues arise intervention was successful in clearing illegal at country levels, these are mining activities in the Saraya area, part of addressed in the section on our the Siguiri mine tenement. This included the performance. Other aspects removal of drums and bags of chemicals of our efforts to improve local without any environmental contamination. economic development to provide alternatives to ASM, There has been good progress with the particularly illegal mining, are implementation of the ASM co-existence described in “Contribution to project at the Gramalote project in Colombia. self-sustaining communities”. Agreements between the local authorities, AngloGold Ashanti and 19 artisanal miners have been concluded to initiate the pilot project. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 67 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS 08 KEY FEATURES UPHOLDING HUMAN RIGHTS IS THE RESPONSIBILITY OF ALL In 2018 the world celebrated the 70 th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which acknowledges that upholding the basic rights and dignity of all people is a responsibility of nations, organs of society and individuals. Where human rights 18,100 are not valued, respected and upheld there is inevitable breakdown of trust, freedom, justice and peace. Global adoption of the United Nations’ SDGs has added further impetus to the world’s human rights agenda. The protection of human rights is explicitly embedded into the intent of the SDGs, along with the resolve to combat inequalities and to build peaceful, just and inclusive societies. employees and contractors received human rights training. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 2018 68 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS CONTINUED As an organ of society, the business well as processes to enable the remediation and difficult human rights dilemmas we In 2018, we contributed to cascading the enterprise has obligations for the realisation of any adverse human rights impacts we may face. Where we, or our related parties, have Voluntary Principles to a country level, with of human rights – within the business, across have caused or contributed to. potentially violated a human right, we need to the formation of national or industry based its value chain and in its interactions with all investigate this rigorously and independently in-country platforms and working groups. In its stakeholders. Where human rights are Our 2030 aspiration of “No human rights in search of the truth and for sustainable Ghana, we participate in a VPSHR working compromised, the business fails as a good violations” embraces the spirit of the SDGs solutions, in support of the UNGPs’ intent to group which was formed to influence citizen and is unlikely to be sustainable. and goes beyond the UN Guiding Principles protect, respect and remedy. adoption of the Voluntary Principles and This is particularly relevant to the mining which have a softer expectation that related practices within the country. In South sector, with the growing recognition that businesses should avoid infringing the human Shaping and influencing a pro human Africa, under the auspices of the Minerals building trust is a prerequisite to ongoing and rights of others. In eliminating human rights rights narrative Council South Africa, we contributed to the successful operations. violations, we recognise that we have distinct In our ongoing commitment to the UNGPs, in development of a human rights framework challenges, with various aspects influencing 2018 we continued to participate in the UN for the South African Mining Industry. It is AngloGold Ashanti’s commitment to upholding human rights beyond our immediate control. Forum for Business and Human Rights. Other anticipated that this framework will shape and respecting human rights is an expression These include traditions and cultures in the forums where we are active members and practices across the industry, as well of our company value of Dignity and Respect. areas where we operate, embedded poverty participants included the Voluntary Principles as influencing human rights policy more In this sense, it permeates all aspects and on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) broadly. While the industry is focusing on its and inequality in various jurisdictions, weak functions of our business, and contributes initiative and the UNGC. AngloGold Ashanti’s implementation beginning in 2019, AngloGold governance zones and working with third to defining who we are. The commitment is VPSHR participation is at a global level, and for Ashanti has already implemented and met all parties who may not share our viewpoint on enshrined in our global Human Rights Policy the UNGC we are active participants globally, the framework requirements. human rights. Notwithstanding the challenges, which applies to employees, contractors as well as members of the Global Compact our commitment and resolve is steadfast. and other business partners including the Network, South Africa Board. Embedding human rights into supply chain, state actors and joint venture the business Our actions in 2018 As a member of the ICMM, AngloGold partners. We refer to all internationally Being an effective voice to positively influence recognised human rights as expressed in the Considering the complex human rights Ashanti participates in the ICMM Security and shape the human rights narrative, is International Bill of Human Rights and the challenges in our operating landscapes, and Human Rights Working Group which underpinned by authentic demonstration of International Labour Organisation Declaration compliance is necessary, but more is needed. for the past two years has focused on our actions. on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Our 2030 aspiration calls for us to be a human establishing a network to assist members in Work. The policy is consistent with the South rights champion, positively influencing others meeting VPSHR requirements and to deal In giving effect to our policy we have African Bill of Rights and our commitments to through our authentic practices. with complex security and human rights progressively implemented our Human Rights the 10 principles of the United Nation’s Global challenges facing the industry. In support of Framework across the company from 2015. Being a champion requires that we actively Human Rights Day and the 70th anniversary As part of the framework implementation, Compact (UNGC). support and participate in strengthening the of the Universal Declaration of Human in 2017 all sites undertook due diligence In line with implementing the United Nation’s evolving human rights narrative at global, Rights, the ICMM reaffirmed its position assessments and gap analyses. For 2018, Guiding Principles on Business and Human regional and national levels. To be authentic, on respect for human rights by member sites worked to address the issues they Rights (UNGPs), we have due diligence we need to embed human rights into the companies, and embraced the concept of had identified. Internal collaboration with processes in place to identify, prevent, mitigate heart of our business, and this positions companies and individuals playing a role as group compliance enabled the process and report on our impacts on human rights, as us to grapple more effectively with the real human rights defenders. further. Online human rights training was S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 69 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS CONTINUED integrated into the compliance training Similarly, working with public and private platform, and managerial training on human security service providers poses complex rights and business was extended to cover challenges when they are required to all management levels. Site level progress provide support in protecting our people in addressing their specific human rights and property. Training and awareness challenges was reviewed as part of the briefings pre-deployment is prioritised to company’s combined assurance process. ensure security service providers comply with our standards and obligations under In 2019, formal group level due diligence the VPSHR. In cases where public security assessments will be undertaken to assess is deployed to deal with emergencies, this is progress against 2017 baselines. not always possible and proactive and regular engagements with Public Security command Special human rights challenges structures is required. facing the business Two areas, where ensuring that we continue Addressing potential human to uphold and respect human rights, have rights violations special challenges. In our supply chain and Identifying potential human rights violations where we work with public or private security and addressing them in an honest and providers, the potential for human rights transparent way, with appropriate remediation violations is increased. In both circumstances, is a prerequisite for building trust. while related parties are required to work according to our policy and universal human Over the past few years, potential human rights principles, governing their day-to-day rights violations have generally been selfactions is more difficult. reported. This is an indication of a maturing human rights culture within the business. In the emerging markets where we operate, All operations also have grievance and one of our objectives is to strengthen the value independent anonymous whistle-blowing chain through local business development and mechanisms accessible to internal and local procurement. At the same time, there is external stakeholders. All allegations are often corruption and weak governance in these rigorously investigated using accepted areas, increasing the potential for human rights investigation protocols, and where applicable, Alignment with the SDGs violations. In responding to the challenge, roll investigations are independent. Upholding and respecting human rights is a central theme for the SDGs, cutting across all 17 goals out of the supplier assessment programme in implicit or explicit ways. In prioritising the SDGs, we focus on SDGs 10 and 16, which are relevant in collaboration with group compliance has We continue to report allegations of human to our strategic approach. continued. Further tools to evaluate supplier risk rights violations and confirmed violations ratings are under development. openly and transparently. Refer to page 88 for additional detail. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 70 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS CONTINUED Our performance Number of human There were no human rights rights violations violations recorded for 2018. 0 Human rights awareness training showed One allegation of potential POSITIVE RESULTS human rights violation was reported and investigated during 2018: during 2018, and 18,100 employees and Date: 2018/07/15 contractors received awareness training. (2017: 3) Allegation: A female employee from a contracting service Percentage of security provider alleged that a male personnel trained in the security officer conducted a Key performance indicators organisation’s human rights 98% physical body search on her in 2018 2017 an inappropriate manner. The complainant later withdrew Number of human rights reported incidents under VPSHR 0 3 the case, and an investigation Number of human rights allegations under VPSHR 1 2 also revealed no evidence to Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisations’ substantiate the allegation. It was further established that human rights 98 94 (2017: 94%) the complaint was a malicious attempt to discredit the Key performance indicators security officer. Indicator 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Corrective action: Regular Percentage of new suppliers screened using (%) awareness training on voluntary principles, including Human rights criteria 77 78 100 48 10 re-emphasising search and Labour practices criteria 82 31 100 48 10 arrest procedures. Environmental criteria 45 31 100 48 10 Criteria for impact on society 70 31 100 48 10 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 71 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS 09 KEY FEATURES OUR EMPLOYEES DETERMINE OUR BUSINESS SUCCESS In a changing world of work, the relevance of talent management, skills development and employee relations is established and its importance as a determinant of business success continues to increase. This was clearly reflected in the 2018 company materiality process, where they were rated as a priority which the company needs to address and excel in. Changes to the way in which we work continue to be influenced $15.2 MILLION by demands for lower operating costs, improved efficiency and greater productivity. These expectations drive and are supported by the rapid development of technology, including the emergence of artificial intelligence. Through technology advances, work processes are made quicker, cheaper and less labour intensive. spent on training and development S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 72 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS CONTINUED The evolution of technology and its interface greater potential are also increasing. Khotsong and Kopanang mines in the Vaal Engagement sessions with group heads of with people presents an array of implications Embracing diversity and creating fair and River operations. This resulted in a sharp the various functions in the business were to society, business at large, the mining inclusive workplaces is a prerequisite to reduction in the AngloGold Ashanti workforce. held to ensure a common understanding sector and AngloGold Ashanti. In emerging building trust, and to getting the best out of Additionally, in the latter half of the year, a of the framework, its principles and economies where most of our operations the people who make up the organisation. new Chief Executive Officer took the helm design requirements, and expectations for are located, shifting from a dependence on at AngloGold Ashanti. Both dynamics have implementation. This set the context for each Against this background, the fierce function to design its own Health of Discipline manual labour, to developing a population the potential to individually and collectively competition for talent continues unabated. Framework in a consistent way, but with of knowledge workers is needed to manage influence and reshape the culture of the The mining sector faces a difficult set of sufficient latitude to enable interpretation the threat that technology application brings company over the next few years. challenges, in that competition for talent is and discipline-specific translation. To ensure to increasing unemployment. This also not limited to companies within the sector. applies within the organisation where roles, Our actions in 2018 consistency and good governance, final The industry competes with other sectors that design of each discipline framework is qualifications, capabilities and methods In 2018, we continued the work begun in are often seen to be more attractive. This is reviewed in conjunction with group Human of learning must all keep abreast with 2016, giving effect to the six prioritised Human especially relevant to new generations who are Resources. technological developments. In addition, Resources focus areas across the group 1 more socially aware, and who may perceive we need to consider the interdependence 2 . In addition to implementing our planned the mining industry as having a tainted history. During the year, several functions completed between people and technology, activities, there has been a maturation in our their discipline frameworks and began understanding that technology is designed Regulatory shifts within our operating approach to the strategic frameworks, as well implementation. The process also enabled and developed by people, and people use landscape are placing greater emphasis as greater coherence across the global human conversations, sharing of ideas and learning technology. This relationship continues to on the development and utilisation of local resources portfolio. across different functions. The development of evolve as we adapt to new dimensions of skills. This is most evident on the African an information platform to host the discipline work in business. continent, reinforcing the organisational People and organisational effectiveness frameworks and enable their online application imperative to continue localisation of staff, During the year, continued focus was placed was commenced during the year and work will Also influencing the world of work are on increasing people and organisational especially in senior managerial and technical continue in 2019. changing expectations of society and effectiveness across the company. This roles. Notwithstanding the requirements for the individuals within it. Employees are entailed extending the roll out of the group In addition to setting the direction for the legal compliance, we believe that localisation increasingly realising their rights and their Health of Discipline Framework to ensure a group, the human resources discipline also strengthens organisational performance and own worth, and policies reflecting the consistent and coherent approach to: launched their own Health of Discipline resilience in the long term. importance of people to the organisation project. After scoping, the project was • the availability of functional competence and must be translated into consistent practices Moving from the external landscape to initiated and supported by a task team with proficiency for all roles and employee experiences. Greater the internal operating environment, two representatives from the corporate office, consideration is being placed on purposesignificant factors influenced the people side • planned and controlled succession planning regions and centres of excellence. The focus driven work, as well as designing work to of the business and are likely to continue for key critical roles has been on developing the Human Resources suit the changing needs of our employees. doing so going into 2019. Early in the year, • the facilitation of clear and relevant career Competency Framework, priority role profiles, Expectations around how we effectively rationalisation of the South African business pathing within and across AngloGold career paths for human resource practitioners manage diversity and use it to unleash was concluded, with the sale of Moab Ashanti regions and disciplines and capability assessment tools. 1 www.aga-reports.com/16/download/AGA-SDR16-talent-management.pdf S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 73 2 www.aga-reports.com/17/download/AGA-SD17-talent-management-skills-development.pdf SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS CONTINUED Supporting the development of managerial IV and above, with a 92% retention rate. A the ages of 18 and 35, to come together and leadership capability, the “How We Work” total of 84% of key leadership positions was and engage in business and social priorities suite of tools and training materials developed filled by internal candidates. Between 2016 across the world. It reflects a recognition that in 2016 were converted into an interactive and 2018, 9% growth of female successors emerging young leaders will face different e-learning solution. The content has been identified as part of the talent pool was and increasingly complex challenges as they installed on the company’s online learning recorded, however, this remains a key focus assume leadership roles in the future. The platform and planning for roll out in 2019 is area for the group going forward. Also, while young leaders have now become a part of the underway. This includes translation of material steady progress has been made in reducing One Young World Network made up of around into French, Spanish and Portuguese for the expatriate workforce in Continental Africa, 800 young leaders from some 200 countries. locally relevant application. and the appointment of local nationals, further work is underway to map talent internally Other individuals with leadership and critical Additionally, building on the Leadership skills talent received development support and externally to create a robust pipeline of Competency Framework designed for senior through exposure and participation in various local talent. leaders in 2017, a similar framework for development initiatives. These included Stratum I to III employees has been developed, Our work to develop emerging leaders coaching, mentoring, and formal learning leveraging and aligning with existing leadership continued to go well. 2018 was a year of at local and international business schools frameworks in the business or regions e.g. consolidation after the company decision such as the Graduate School of Business Australia, Colombia and South Africa. The not to have an intake into the Chairman’s at the University of Cape Town and Harvard work is being adapted for application across Young Leader’s Programme for the year. Business School. Increased focus was the company and represents an example of Attention was placed on those who had come placed on development through informal and shared learning and the transfer of leading through the programme from 2015, with their experiential interventions such as on the job practices within the company. participation in various initiatives. learning and secondments. Talent and succession management The Future Leaders Mentorship Programme An intake of eight Chairman’s Young Leader findings by region and business unit – human Active management of the talent and was launched in September 2018, with 57 Programme delegates is planned for 2019. resources business partners (HRBP’s) succession pools continued during the year. delegates comprising matched mentees and More focus is being placed on women partnered with operational leadership to The talent review cycle has become well mentors undergoing programme training. delegates from core technical disciplines. The identify and implement measures to improve established, with completion of the Executive Regional launches were subsequently held in target is to have women making up at least employee engagement. Committee talent and succession planning South Africa, Ghana and Australia. 60% of delegates. review in October followed by an update to Progress on implementation of the measures the Remuneration Committee in November In October, eight young leaders from Employee engagement was shared with the board, identifying the 2018. Significant growth of the crossAngloGold Ashanti, representing South Africa, In 2017, we reported on the findings of a need for an additional group-wide intervention functional and regional talent and succession Continental Africa and the Americas attended global employee engagement survey done to translate the AngloGold Ashanti values into pools was recorded, with a 15% year-on-year the One Young World Summit in The Hague, during the year 1 . Following the sharing of leadership behaviours and enable their adoption improvement. We continued to experience Netherlands. The initiative provides a global the 2017 engagement survey results with the across the company. The initiative commenced good leadership talent retention at Stratum platform for bright young leaders between business – detailing employee engagement in 2018 and will be concluded in 2019. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 74 1 www.aga-reports.com/17/download/AGA-SD17-talent-management-skills-development.pdf SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS CONTINUED This will entail: Diversity and inclusion have been identified, largely around a cultural pipeline. Twelve women from middle and junior • conducting one-on-one interviews with an Our business success is underpinned by the mindset creating barriers to embracing gender management have attended this initiative from extended leadership cohort (Stratum IV and need to achieve an inclusive culture which equality and diversity. Assessments will be its inception. leverages off the diversity of our employees and conducted across other sites in the company above) to solicit further input on how the stakeholders. Embracing diversity drives social with completion by May 2019. Linked to creating Awards and recognition values should manifest in behaviours, and to cohesion and enables us to tap into the full a culture which leverages off diversity, internal Our efforts to further a diversity and identify immediate actions to address areas talents and potential of all those we work with. targets have been reviewed and included into inclusion agenda were recognised in of concern company key performance indicators to drive various ways during 2018. At the annual • synthesising the senior leadership feedback A key aspect of diversity and inclusivity which greater operational accountability at a business Gender Mainstreaming Awards evening and insights, translating them into role we must relentlessly address, is gender unit level. hosted by Business Engage South Africa, model behaviours required from leaders equality. This entails the inclusion of women at the company won the Empowerment of Specific actions have been developed to • embedding the values and behaviours into all leadership levels, along with women having Women in the Community award, as well address the number of women representatives leadership and managerial practices in the equal opportunities and equal pay for work of achieving runner up status in several other at senior and junior management levels. “How We Work” material and training equal value. While progress has been made categories. Women leadership in AngloGold These include prioritising the filling of at the Board and Executive Committee levels, Ashanti also received various accolades with • rolling out a company-wide values and senior management vacancies by women, challenges have been experienced at senior Tirelo Sibisi, our Executive Vice President behaviours campaign, with regional accelerating development plans for emerging and junior management levels in recent years Human Resources, being awarded the dialogues to raise awareness and drive female talent and the creation of development where the number of women in these roles has coveted ‘2018 Human Resources Director adoption and implementation roles at a senior level specifically for women. not met internal company targets. Similarly, of the Year’ award from South Africa’s At a junior management level, activities • facilitating regional focus groups to further work is required to increase the number have focused on targeted recruitment from Institute of People Management. Ria cascade the leadership behaviours through of females in technical roles. universities; designing and implementing Sanz, our Executive Vice President: Legal, the organisation, and to develop regional internship programmes; and increasing Commercial, Governance and Company implementation plans to address areas During the year, AngloGold Ashanti focused the proportion of women representatives Secretary, was honoured by her inclusion of concern on two broad and complementary sets of in company led or supported leadership in the prestigious list of the Top 100 Global activities to further gender equality. The • ensuring that values and behaviours form programmes to at least 60%. Inspirational Women in Mining. first set related to creating conditions to a critical component of performance enable women to thrive in the organisation. Over and above the actions outlined, management and reward processes Our CFO, Christine Ramon, was the first Secondly, activities focused on attracting, an ongoing challenge is to improve the runner-up for the Positive Role Model and for • incorporating leadership effectiveness retaining, developing and promoting women attractiveness of the mining industry for Gender Reporting by JSE-listed companies, assessments, which focus on values within the company. women, which is important to increasing the and behaviours, into the employee and was second runner-up in the Woman in current talent pool of women. engagement survey Roll out of the company gender diversity Executive Committees in Multinationals Award. programme commenced with initial work done As reported previously, the company continued Christine is also the first woman to be named Ultimately, our intent is for all employees to in Continental Africa. A focused workshop was to support the 30% Club Board Walk and South Africa’s CFO of the Year at the 2018 CFO live the company values, and for this to be held with the Continental Africa leadership team, Women in Mining initiatives. AngloGold Ashanti awards. She was honoured with Compliance demonstrated through their behaviours as well as a site-based workshop at Geita gold also joined the 30% Club Leader Walk which and Governance, High Performance Team and and practices. mine. At an operational level, clear challenges focuses on growing the middle management Moving into Africa awards at the same event. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 75 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS CONTINUED Labour relations 102-41 disadvantaged South Africans and women Siguiri gold mine South Africa were reasonably successful. Despite a few labour stoppage challenges The large-scale restructuring, rightsizing and during the year, the industrial and labour As part of giving effect to AngloGold Ashanti’s relations climate remained generally peaceful downsizing of the South Africa operations has mining right obligations to ameliorating the and stable. Drawing from past lessons, a threebeen undertaken over the past two years as impact of restructuring and downsizing, an day joint capacity building workshop for the a composite part of an Employee Transition extensive portable skills training intervention mine negotiating team (general management Framework (ETF). The ETF is a framework was initiated to assist retrenched employees representatives and union leadership) resulted in of policies, procedures and practices that guide the manner in which typical human to acquire skills which would assist them in the design of an internal mediation framework, resource management functions are applied re-entering the job market outside of mining. providing a mechanism for resolving disputes within a rapidly declining business and rapidly Skills development training offered ranged with restricted recourse to a third party. reducing workforce. The ETF was originally from engineering and construction work, to Following this, the 2018 wage negotiations formulated with a six-year progressive agriculture and e-learning related skills. Various were successfully concluded in 10 days, in a implementation timeline aligned to the life entrepreneurial programmes were also offered. spirit of mutual understanding and trust. of mine of the South Africa region assets. The initiative was supported by the internal publication “Skills for Tomorrow: Employee Efforts to increase the proportion of However, decisions taken in 2017 to proceed Prospectus 2018”, which guided leaving local nationals employed continued, with with the immediate cessation of operations coordinated succession plans for identified was used in 2018 for bargaining unit at TauTona and Savuka mines, and the sale employees on how to access psycho-social Guinean employees. employees and will be applied again in 2019. of Kopanang and Moab Khotsong mines as and financial planning support to help deal with The industrial climate had been peaceful, and a job loss avoidance measure, required that the separation process, as well as to select Sadiola and Yatela gold mines no adverse labour incidents were recorded the ETF be implemented within a two-year from a wide range of portable skills training In Mali, the mine labour relations climate during the year. period. The need to fast-track the ETF with programmes supported by the company. continued to be influenced by uncertainty the concomitant restructuring, rightsizing and about the Sadiola Sulphides Project and Geita gold mine The separation process was successfully downscaling had a significant and immediate the decision to place the mine in restricted The overall labour relations climate at finalised within a highly-regulated environment impact on our people as the South Africa operations. Negotiations relating to the Geita gold mine is good. Since signing the and with active involvement of the trade recognition agreement in August 2013, region workforce was reduced by some phased retrenchments necessitated by unions. At the same time, the company management and the union have continued 18,800 employees (a 74% reduction). The restricted and suspended operations were was involved in wage negotiations under to engage and address labour issues through processes met legislative requirements and successfully concluded and implemented the auspices of the Minerals Council South dialogue and negotiations. Toward the end entailed extensive and rigorous internal and in May 2018. At Yatela, the retrenchment Africa. Along with the challenging political and of 2017, management and union concluded external consultation. process, as approved by the labour inspector socio-economic landscape in South Africa, the a compressed working week agreement that in 2017, was concluded. The South African operations now comprise separation process was successfully finalised, was implemented in 2018. The agreement was Mponeng mine, Mine Waste Solutions and the wage negotiations were successfully Iduapriem gold mine concluded with a full review of the collective and a closure business with a combined concluded, with regulatory approval and In Ghana, Iduapriem successfully concluded bargaining agreement, which is effective for workforce of around 6,500 people. Efforts without strike action. A three-year wage deal a two-year salary adjustment framework with two years. Annual wage negotiations were to protect employment ratios of historically was reached through the wage negotiations. the Ghana Mineworkers Union. The framework successfully concluded in December 2018. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 76 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS CONTINUED 0 Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Our performance Managing talent, developing skills and nurturing sound employee relations touches on several Number of SDGs. In prioritising the SDGs according to our strategic intent and the work we are doing, our grievances focus is on SDGs 5, 8 and 10. Board gender representation relating to unfair Refer to page 89 for additional detail. labour practices (2017: 14) % Male Female 73% 27% Expatriates in Continental Africa region (number) Executive management gender representation 14 211 15 183 16 % 166 Male 67% Female 33% 17 142 18 133 Training and development expenditure Global female representation (2018: $m) Americas 9% South Africa % (including corporate) 11 Australasia 19% Continental Africa Corporate office 8% 46% $m Americas Australasia 2 1 Continental Africa 1 South Africa 18% S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 77 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES NAVIGATING POLITICAL AND REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY AND RISK 10 KEY FEATURES GLOBAL UNCERTAINTY AND RISK ARE INCREASING In the year under review, political and regulatory uncertainty and risk remained one of the most significant material issues facing AngloGold Ashanti. It is characterised by an evolving global socio-political landscape $760.1 million where uncertainty and risk are increasing, influenced by a range of factors including the global challenges of poverty and inequality. Aggravated by populist and nationalist approaches in certain host countries, navigating political uncertainty and risk is likely to remain a difficult challenge for the foreseeable future. Payments made to governments in 2018 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 2018 78 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES NAVIGATING POLITICAL AND REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY AND RISK CONTINUED The resources sector is often at the forefront practices and business models. Additionally, of conflict between national governments and negative sentiments directed at the mining civil society on the one hand, and the private sector are exacerbated by social, health sector on the other. In the setting of conflict, there appears to be a breakdown of trust and environmental impacts attributed to the industry over several decades. THE NEW SA MINING CHARTER between the various stakeholders. This is often Our interpretation and readiness to meet the requirements related to mineral resources being regarded In response to the perceived inertia of the Following the release of Mining Charter III in September 2018, a gap analysis as a significant part of national heritage and mining sector, the emergence of a broad was undertaken to understand implications for the company. This analysis identity, and often seen as an inadequately philosophy of resource nationalism is seen was done on the basis of “what is”, recognising that guidelines for tapped source of wealth for national in various jurisdictions. It manifests itself in implementation of the charter were only published in December 2018. development. The argument for countries in a number of ways, ranging from changing In this context, further synthesis is needed, along with continued engagement emerging economies, especially during times licensing, ownership and royalty requirements between the industry and the Department of Mineral Resources to align of economic hardship, is strengthened in that to imperatives for local procurement, interpretations and manage expectations. they have not overtly benefited from upswings staff localisation and increasing taxation. in commodity cycles yet are perceived to bear Legislative changes include convergence Our objective is to ensure alignment with and compliance to the new Mining Charter. the brunt of negative social and environmental of the social licence to operate with formal consequences related to mineral extraction. licencing requirements, and inclusion of social aspects and requirements into the licencing Regulatory uncertainty coupled with increasing process. Increasing community and NGO demands placed on mining companies drives activism contributes to escalating tension in a perceptions of escalating risk dramatically. dynamic and often volatile environment where This is inevitably associated with reduced stakeholders are demanding a greater share of investment appetite, tightening of margins and the benefits from resources. reduced industry and company value. Where industry or company responses are defensive In 2018, specific challenges and opportunities or adversarial, there is often escalation of were experienced in various jurisdictions where conflict and further polarisation of relationships. we operate. In South Africa, the revised Mining Considering the changes in the global Charter was gazetted, along with withdrawal landscape, mining companies and the of the contentious Mineral and Petroleum sector at large are increasingly expected Resources Act Amendment Bill. This was to play a constructive and developmental broadly welcomed by the industry and its role in economic, social, environmental stakeholders although certain elements of and governance issues. The expectation the revised Mining Charter remain a concern. may be from shareholders and other The consultative and reconciliatory approach stakeholders alike. The industry, however, is by the new Minister of Mineral Resources is often perceived to be slow in responding to anticipated to contribute towards improving these challenges, with retention of historic sentiment in the South African mining industry. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 79 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES NAVIGATING POLITICAL AND REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY AND RISK CONTINUED In Continental Africa, high or increasing socioThis entails moving beyond traditional • Evolution of the policy and regulatory focus areas were defined to frame a common political risk was experienced in Tanzania, approaches of community investment and landscape at global, regional and national approach across the company: Guinea and Mali. Tensions between the philanthropy, to creating real value for the levels is inevitable and will directly influence • Societal contribution as a responsible citizen Tanzanian government and mining companies enterprise and for host communities through the way in which resource companies • Innovative business and operating remained elevated, with the threat of VAT leverage off core business activities and operate and compete model design lockups, fines, directives and various demands redefining business practices. Dimensions • Host communities where we operate for compensation. Political instability at a local • Skills development, localisation and of shared value as it relates to the mining are enduring beyond changing political government level was experienced in Guinea, talent management industry, include: dynamics, and the way in which they and the socio-economic challenges of poverty experience the mining operations will directly • Value chain strengthening and • responsible extraction and product and unemployment contributed to strained influence business continuity local procurement development with minimal relationships between communities and the • Leverage off existing capabilities for environmental harm mine. Frequent community opposition and During 2018, further work was done to economic succession grievances related to employment and land • focus on the value chain, as well as the translate this high-level approach into a • Meaningful communication and engagement access were experienced. In Mali, presidential shared use of natural resources coherent set of actions which could be applied and parliamentary elections during the year • building supportive industry clusters as appropriate across all jurisdictions where The strategic focus areas are consistent heightened political tensions and instability. adjacent to operations, focusing on broadthe company operates. with our group sustainable development Additionally, community discontent continued to based infrastructure, supplier and human strategic framework and were approved at the escalate due to concerns and uncertainty around In seeking to be proactive in anticipating resource development AngloGold Ashanti Board strategy meeting in the future of the Sadiola and Yatela operations. and responding to socio-political risk, the July 2018. Importantly, navigating political and regulatory company adopted a systematic approach In the Americas, Colombia continued the uncertainty is an issue which must be actively for evaluating comparative socio-political Societal contribution as peace process after decades of conflict. In the managed, and using traditional approaches is risk across different operations. The tool a responsible citizen transition, illegal mining and its association with unlikely to be successful. New approaches must used considers a range of incidents and An indispensable requirement as a the conflict presents a challenge. Opposition to be underpinned by building trust across the inputs from independent risk reports, media responsible citizen is compliance with laws, mining by various communities and civil society different stakeholder groups, with demonstration reports and operational information. These accepted norms and standards. Integral groups continued to hinder the development of of good citizenship by the company. inputs are classified as either risk drivers or to this is the necessity for openness and mining projects. In Brazil, as the country deals impacts, and they are further categorised as transparency. In the absence of compliance with issues of corruption and political change, Our actions in 2018 relevant to national government, regionaland transparency, it will not be possible to after the presidential elections, uncertainties local government or community levels. The build trust with our stakeholders. In 2017, we reported on a two-pronged arose around how potential policy changes might tool allows relative scoring and rating of strategic approach to navigating political AngloGold Ashanti’s group compliance affect the mining industry. In September 2018, socio-political risk and resource nationalism and regulatory uncertainly and risk 1 . The function continues to provide active oversight the government of Argentina introduced the activities, presented as a dynamic risk approach focuses on influencing the policy of compliance across the company, giving payment of exported duties on exported goods. barometer which enables reporting at landscape at national and regional levels, and on guidance where potential or actual issues operational, executive and board levels. Against this background, the concept of strengthening community relationships through arise. The function reports to the company shared value is acknowledged as becoming a shared value approach. It is underpinned by Having established a rational mechanism to Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee on increasingly relevant to the mining sector. two assumptions: assess and track risk profiles, six strategic business activities in line with the Organisation S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 80 1 www.aga-reports.com/17/download/AGA-SD17-navigating-risk.pdf SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES NAVIGATING POLITICAL AND REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY AND RISK CONTINUED for Economic Cooperation and Development’s and guidance from group compliance, sites (OECD) recommendations on corruption and developed and implemented management the 10 principles set out by the United Nations actions to further improve their systems. Global Compact (UNGC). The company also Progress in implementation and changes to adheres to the Business Leadership South risk status were routinely reported. Africa’s (BLSA) Business Integrity Pledge to actively combat corrupt practices and to have Tax management and the appropriate zero tolerance for corruption. paying of taxes is an important aspect of compliance and demonstrating responsible The independent whistleblowing system citizenship. In previous reports, we have continued to work well, with the investigation outlined our tax management strategy, along of whistleblowing complaints and the with the controls in place to manage the risk evaluation of potential ethical misconduct and and to provide appropriate oversight and violations of the company’s Code of Business governance. During the year, we continued Principles and Ethics. The company continued to exercise diligence and transparency in line to focus on the protection of whistleblowers with our group Tax Management Policy. This and strengthening the independence of has included open and transparent reporting investigations as a prerequisite to building trust consistent with the ICMM principles and in the organisation. During the year, a review of position statement on transparency of whistleblowing incidents concluded between mineral revenues, the Extractive Industries 2016 and 2018 was conducted to ensure Transparency Initiative (EITI), and other continued adequacy and effectiveness of the relevant mandatory reporting of payments system. The findings were presented to the to governments. Additionally, we have Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee. developed in-country Tax Management Policies to comply with the specific After the 2017 review of the company requirements in several countries such as Ashanti’s anti-corruption approach, as well officials, including regional and district compliance programme by external legal Australia and the UK and continue to comply as using education and dialogue to prevent commissioners, members of parliament and counsel, group compliance facilitated a with country by country tax disclosures. unlawful or inappropriate requests from council representatives. Senior religious series of engagements with the Board, key stakeholders, while showing respect leaders also participated. Following Executive and Operational Management Moving beyond compliance, several proactive for cultural norms and country-specific successful conclusion of the workshops, Committees to socialise the findings. While and preventive initiatives were undertaken requirements. In Tanzania, three day-long both the government and the PCCB have the review confirmed a strong and wellduring the year. The company held workshops workshops were undertaken in collaboration requested that they be conducted annually. designed compliance programme, relevant in Ghana, Guinea and Tanzania, with with the Prevention and Combating of In 2019, these external stakeholder to challenges in our operating jurisdictions, government officials and community leaders Corruption Bureau (PCCB) as a follow up to workshops will continue at our Continental various opportunities for further strengthening actively participating. The conversations similar workshops held in 2014. Participants Africa operations and will be extended to were identified. During 2018, with support focused on explaining and clarifying AngloGold comprised almost 200 government Colombia and Brazil. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 81 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES NAVIGATING POLITICAL AND REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY AND RISK CONTINUED Relationships with suppliers and supplier incorporated into agreements between host community and host country ability to survive preferred partner through their experiences integrity present another area with significant governments and mining companies. Success and thrive beyond our mining operations. interacting with us. Our positioning and potential risk, and where proactive initiatives in this area is also likely to improve business In the process of mineral extraction, mining engagement framework is guided by a set are important to prevent bribery and performance, with greater stability, embedded companies develop substantial infrastructure of principles: corruption. In 2018, we continued the groupknowledge and cultural insight from local skills. and have competences in addition to those • Promises made are promises fulfilled wide roll out and application of our supplier Approaches and activities in this area are specifically required for mineral extraction. • Compliance to legal and other requirements assessment questionnaire. The assessment discussed in more detail in the material issue Additional competences would include covers safety, environment, human rights on talent management, skills development and • Clear demonstration of socio-economic capabilities such as water management and and governance (anti-corruption) issues. employee relations. benefit in the short-, mediumand land management. Innovative application of long-terms The most significant challenge experienced competences and sharing or repurposing is that many of the jurisdictions where we Value chain strengthening and increasing the of infrastructure is likely to assist and • Embrace participation and transparency operate do not have sophisticated online local proportion of products and services accelerate successful transition to a postused for business activities is another cluster By contributing to national economic supplier databases to verify ownership mining economy. This is a cross-cutting of national priorities for emerging economies. development, and to resilient communities and government ties. To address this, we strategic focus area and we acknowledge As with skills development, specific targets during and after mining operations we create are developing screening tools which can that our thinking and actions are not fully are often incorporated into agreements and a compelling reason for the company to be a be applied at site level to risk-rate existing developed on this issue. More details on mine licence requirements. During the year, trusted partner and for communities to have a and potential suppliers. This will assist in our approaches and activities are outlined this was most clearly seen in the approvals stake in our success. determining which suppliers require further in the material issues on contributing to due diligence investigation. process for the Obuasi Mine Redevelopment self-sustaining communities, responsible During the year, engagements and Project, where stringent local procurement environmental stewardship and integrated communication across our operations have An integrated approach to protecting targets were a prerequisite for government closure management. taken a range of forms. These have included the business approval. At the same time, strengthening open days and information sharing sessions The three strategic focus areas addressing the value chain and increasing use of local By adopting this integrated approach, we for potential local suppliers, as well as skills development, value chain strengthening products and services creates opportunity believe that these specific focus areas formalising fixed-schedule Town Hall sessions and leveraging off existing business capabilities and value for the business. If the value have been elevated in importance across to engage with communities on a regular are key aspects in the integrated sustainable chain is strengthened, benefits may include the business. We also anticipate that the basis. The sessions focus on giving feedback development strategic framework. They reflect lower input costs, greater flexibility in stock approach will contribute to further embedding on company performance, including payments a prioritisation of existing strategic focus areas management and improved security of sustainable development into the business, to government, outlining company intentions being led by various business functions, as supply. Approaches and activities in this driving greater impact as we seek to build and discussing any potential impacts on the they relate to enabling AngloGold Ashanti to area are discussed in more detail in the trust with stakeholders and make a positive community. More details are presented in the successfully navigate political and regulatory material issue on contributing to selfdifference in their lives. section on Stakeholder Engagement. uncertainty and risk. sustaining communities. Refer to page 40 for additional detail. Meaningful communication Skills development, localisation and talent and engagement management are priorities in emerging By leveraging off existing business Our intent is to create and shape a positive economies. They often form part of National capabilities for economic succession narrative among stakeholders, of AngloGold Development Plans and are increasingly we seek to proactively strengthen local Ashanti as a responsible citizen and the S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 82 SECTION 4 / MATERIAL ISSUES NAVIGATING POLITICAL AND REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY AND RISK CONTINUED Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Our performance All the SDGs prioritised within the AngloGold Ashanti strategic framework are relevant to Payments to governments ($ million) navigating political and regulatory uncertainty and risk. In the context of the strategic focus areas outlined above, SDGs 8, 9 and 17 are most relevant. The strategic focus areas also assist us in Region 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 further refining our efforts as we contribute to subsidiary targets of these goals. Argentina 112.5 151.7 89.8 111.1 96.1 Refer to page 89 for additional detail. Australia 82.5 74.0 84.1 42.6 67.1 Brazil 107.4 126.0 129.1 87.9 119.1 Colombia 9.7 11.8 11.8 11.3 15.1 DRC 32.5 27.8 26.1 30.9 21.7 Ghana 47.5 37.7 26.1 26.9 55.9 Guinea 78.3 100.2 40.5 69.2 67.8 Mali 25.5 24.7 33.5 29.6 29.4 South Africa 91.3 118.1 106.3 104.6 143.6 Tanzania 168.2 141.0 133.3 134.5 123.7 USA 4.7 7.7 6.2 24.6 30.5 Categories of payments to government: • Dividends paid to government • Taxation paid • Withholding tax (STC, royalties etc) • Other indirect taxes and duties • Employee taxes and other contributions • Property tax • Other A detailed breakdown per country is available at www.aga-reports.com/18/download/AGA-SDR18-sdg-toolkit.pdf S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 83 SECTION 5 / ALIGNMENT WITH THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) SECTION 5 ALIGNMENT The integration of the United Nations’ SDGs is an important part of our strategy. We have prioritised the relevant SDGs for each of our material WITH THE issues. This section summarises the outcomes of this detailed mapping process by bringing together the subsets of each SDG. While this does not reflect specific internal targets, we believe it strengthens our work SDGs to align our business agenda more closely to a societal one. IN THIS SECTION No poverty Good Gender Clean Decent work Industry, Reduce Sustainable Responsible Climate Life on land Peace, justice Partnerships health and equality water and and innovation, inequalities cities and consumption, action and strong for the goals well-being sanitation economic infrastructure communities production institutions growth S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 84 SECTION 5 / ALIGNMENT WITH THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) ALIGNMENT WITH THE SDGs Prioritised Prioritised SDG WHERE WE CONTRIBUTE SDG WHERE WE CONTRIBUTE 3.9. Employee safety By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from SDG 3: 3.6. hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination. Good health By 2030, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic 3.d. and well-being accidents. Strengthen the capacity of all countries, in particular developing countries, 3.9. for early warning, risk reduction and management of national and global By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from health risks. hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination. Contributing to self-sustaining communities Employee and community health SDG 1: 1.2. SDG 3: 3.3. No poverty By 2030, reduce by half the proportion of men, women and children of all Good health By 2030, end the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and neglected ages living in poverty in all its dimensions according to national definitions. and well-being tropical diseases and combat hepatitis, water-borne diseases and other communicable diseases. SDG 8: 8.2. 3.4. Decent work Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, By 2030, reduce by one third, premature mortality from non-communicable and economic technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on highdiseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and growth value added and labour-intensive sectors. well-being. 3.5. Strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance abuse, including SDG 9: 9.2. narcotic drug abuse and harmful use of alcohol. Industry, Promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and, by 2030, 3.8. innovation and significantly raise industry’s share of employment and gross domestic infrastructure Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, product, in line with national circumstances, and double its share in least access to quality essential healthcare services and access to safe, developed countries. effective, quality and affordable medicines and vaccines for all. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 85 SECTION 5 / ALIGNMENT WITH THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) ALIGNMENT WITH THE SDGs CONTINUED Prioritised Prioritised SDG WHERE WE CONTRIBUTE SDG WHERE WE CONTRIBUTE 6.5. Contributing to self-sustaining communities continued By 2030, implement integrated water resources management at all levels, SDG 10: 10.1. including through transboundary cooperation as appropriate. Reduced By 2030, progressively achieve and sustain income growth of the bottom SDG 12: 12.2. inequalities 40 per cent of the population at a rate higher than the national average. Responsible By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of consumption national resources. and production 12.4. SDG 11: 11.4. By 2030, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals Sustainable Strengthen efforts to protect and safeguard the world’s cultural and natural and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed cities and heritage. international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water communities and soil in order to minimise their adverse impacts on human health and the environment. 12.5. SDG 17: 17.1. By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, Partnerships Strengthen domestic resource mobilisation, including through international reduction, recycling and reuse. for the goals support to developing countries, to improve domestic capacity for tax and 12.6. other revenue collection. Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle. Responsible environmental stewardship SDG 13: 13.1. SDG 6: 6.3. Climate action Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and Clean water and By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping natural disasters in all countries. sanitation and minimising release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the 13.3. proportion of untreated wastewater and substantially increasing recycling Improve education, awareness raising and human and institutional capacity on and safe reuse globally. climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. 6.4. By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of fresh water to address water scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from water scarcity. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 86 SECTION 5 / ALIGNMENT WITH THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) ALIGNMENT WITH THE SDGs CONTINUED Prioritised Prioritised SDG WHERE WE CONTRIBUTE SDG WHERE WE CONTRIBUTE Integrated closure management Employee, community and asset security SDG 11: 11.4. SDG 16: 16.1. Sustainable Strengthen efforts to protect and safeguard the world’s cultural and natural Peace, justice Significantly reduce all forms of violence and related death rates cities and heritage. and strong everywhere. communities institutions 16.3. Promote the rule of law at the national and international levels and ensure equal access to justice for all. 16.5. SDG 12: 12.5. Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms. Responsible By 2030, reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling 16.6. consumption and reuse. Develop effective, accountable and transparent institutions at all levels. and production SDG 17: 17.16. Partnerships Enhance the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development, for the goals complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilise and share SDG 15: 15.1. knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources, to support the Life on land By 2020, ensure the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals in all countries, in terrestrial and inland freshwater ecosystems and their services, in particular particular developing countries. forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line with obligations under 17.17. international agreements. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society 15.3. partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of By 2030, combat desertification, restore degraded land and soil, including partnerships. land affected by desertification, drought and floods, and strive to achieve a land degradation-neutral world. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 87 SECTION 5 / ALIGNMENT WITH THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) ALIGNMENT WITH THE SDGs CONTINUED Prioritised Prioritised SDG WHERE WE CONTRIBUTE SDG WHERE WE CONTRIBUTE SDG 17: 17.14. Artisanal and small-scale mining (legal and illegal) Partnerships Enhance policy coherence for sustainable development. SDG 1: 1.2. for the goals 17.17. No poverty By 2030, reduce at least by half the proportion of men, women and Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil children of all ages living in poverty in all its dimensions according to society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies national definitions. of partnerships. SDG 8: 8.2. Respecting human rights Decent work Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, SDG 10: 10.3. and economic technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on Reduced Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcome, including growth high-value added and labour-intensive sectors. inequalities by eliminating discriminatory laws, policies and practices and promoting 8.3. appropriate legislation, policies and action in this regard. Promote development-orientated policies that support productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalisation and growth of micro-, smalland medium-sized SDG 16: 16.10. enterprises, including through access to financial services. Peace, justice Ensure public access to information and protect fundamental freedoms, and strong in accordance with national legislation and international agreements. institutions SDG 16: 16.3. Peace, justice Promote the rule of law at national and international levels and ensure and strong equal access to justice for all. institutions 16.7. Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory and representative decisionmaking at all levels. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 88 SECTION 5 / ALIGNMENT WITH THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) ALIGNMENT WITH THE SDGs CONTINUED Prioritised Prioritised SDG WHERE WE CONTRIBUTE SDG WHERE WE CONTRIBUTE Talent management, skills development and employee relations Navigating political and regulatory uncertainty and risk SDG 5: 5.1. SDG 8: 8.2. Gender equality End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere. Decent work Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, 5.5. and economic technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on highEnsure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities growth value added and labour-intensive sectors. for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and 8.3. public life. Promote development-orientated policies that support productive activities, SDG 8: 8.8. decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and Decent work Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments encourage formalisation and growth of micro-, small-, and medium-sized and economic for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, enterprises, including through access to financial services. growth and those in precarious employment. SDG 9: 9.2. Industry, Promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation, and by 2030, innovation and significantly raise industry’s share of employment and gross domestic infrastructure product, in line with national circumstances, and double its share in least SDG 10: 10.2. developed countries. Reduced By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and political inequalities inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status. SDG 17: 17.1. Partnerships for Strengthen domestic resource mobilisation, including through international the goals support to developing countries, to improve domestic capacity for tax and other revenue collection. 17.17. Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 89 ASSURANCE STATEMENT 102-56 We engaged Ernst & Young to Specifically: Development Report 2018, our assurance •  Subject Matter 1: Alignment of AngloGold approach also includes a review of this report undertake an assurance engagement Ashanti’s sustainability policies to the and of our ongoing sustainability performance for selected sustainability key performed by AngloGold Ashanti’s Group ICMM’s 10 SD Principles and Mandatory performance indicators (KPIs) and Requirements in ICMM Position Statements. Internal Audit team. related disclosures in the AngloGold •  Subject Matter 2: Material sustainable Group Internal Audit provided assurance in Ashanti Sustainable Development development risks and opportunities and the terms of the Group Internal Audit Charter Report 2018. This was done with views and expectations of our stakeholders. as approved by the company’s Audit and •  Subject Matter 3: The existence and Risk Committee. The audits were performed reference to the International status of implementation of systems and in accordance with the Institute of Internal Council on Mining and Metals approaches that the company is using to Auditors’ Standards for the Professional (ICMM) requirements contained in manage material sustainable development Practice of Internal Audit. the ICMM Sustainable Development risks and opportunities. Internal assurance includes a programme Framework: Assurance Procedure • Subject Matter 4: Performance against key of combined assurance assessments, performance indicators chosen for reporting (ICMM Requirements) and the comprising site visits and reviews, undertaken which reflect the issues which are material during the year. These assessments determine Global Reporting Initiative for the business. the validity, accuracy and completeness of the (GRI) Standards. • AngloGold’s self-declared assertion that relevant GRI Standards in our reports, together the Report is “in-accordance with” the GRI with various data transfer and integrity checks. Standards, at a core level. This Sustainable Development Report 2018 In addition to obtaining external assurance was approved by the Social, Ethics and for selected key sustainability performance Sustainability Committee and the Board of indicators as reported in the Sustainable Directors on 29 March 2019. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 90 NOTES S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 91 NOTES S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2018 92 ADMINISTRATION AND CORPORATE INFORMATION AngloGold Ashanti Limited Ghana Investor Relations contacts Australia Registration No. 1944/017354/06 Gold House, Stewart Bailey Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa Patrice Lumumba Road Level 11, 172 St George’s Terrace Telephone: +27 11 637 6031 (PO Box 2665) Perth, WA 6000 Mobile: +27 81 032 2563 Share codes: Accra, (GPO Box D182 Perth, WA 6840) E-mail: sbailey@anglogoldashanti.com Australia ISIN: ZAE000043485 Ghana JSE: ANG Telephone: +61 8 9323 2000 Telephone: +233 303 773400 Fundisa Mgidi NYSE: AU Telephone: 1300 55 2949 Fax: +233 303 778155 Telephone: +27 11 637 6763 (Australia only) ASX: AGG Mobile: +27 82 821 5322 Fax: +61 8 9323 2033 GhSE: (Shares) AGA Directors E-mail: fmgidi@anglogoldashanti.com GhSE: (GhDS) AAD Executive Ghana Debt securities code: BIANG KPM Dushnisky§ (Chief Executive Officer) Sabrina Brockman NTHC Limited KC Ramon^ (Chief Financial Officer) Telephone: +1 646 880 4526 Martco House JSE Sponsor: Mobile: +1 646 379 2555 Off Kwame Nkrumah Avenue The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited Non-executive E-mail: sbrockman@anglogoldashantina.com PO Box K1A 9563 Airport Auditors: Ernst & Young Inc. SM Pityana^ (Chairman) Accra AM Ferguson* General e-mail enquiries Ghana Offices Telephone: +233 302 235814/6 AH Garner# Investors@anglogoldashanti.com Registered and Corporate Fax: +233 302 229975 R Gasant^ 76 Rahima Moosa Street AngloGold Ashanti website DL Hodgson^ ADR Depositary Newtown 2001 www.anglogoldashanti.com NP January-Bardill^ BNY Mellon (BoNY) (PO Box 62117, Marshalltown 2107) MJ Kirkwood* BNY Shareowner Services South Africa Company secretarial e-mail MDC Richter# PO Box 30170 Telephone: +27 11 637 6000 Companysecretary@anglogoldashanti.com RJ Ruston~ College Station, TX 77842-3170 Fax: +27 11 637 6624 United States of America JE Tilk§ Share Registrars Telephone: +1 866-244-4140 Australia * British Canadian American § # South Africa (Toll free in USA) or AMP Building, ~ Australian ^South African Computershare Investor Services (Pty) Limited +1 201 680 6825 (outside USA) 140 St George’s Terrace Rosebank Towers, 15 Biermann Avenue, E-mail: Perth, WA 6000 Officers Rosebank, 2196 shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com (PO Box Z5046, Perth WA 6831) Executive Vice President – Group Legal, (PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107) Website: www.mybnymdr.com Australia Commercial and Governance and Company South Africa Global BuyDIRECTSM Telephone: +61 8 9425 4600 Secretary: Telephone: 0861 100 950 (in SA) BoNY maintains a direct share purchase Fax: +61 8 9425 4662 ME Sanz Perez Fax: +27 11 688 5218 and dividend reinvestment plan for E-mail: queries@computershare.co.za ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI Website: www.computershare.com Telephone: +1-888-BNY-ADRS 3172/18 w w w.an g log old as h an t i.com / w w w.a g a-rep ort s .c o m
