Photo: Yapı Kredi Bank Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 Contents 3 About the Report 33 In Practice: Women Power 4 Chairperson's Letter 35 Health and Safety 5 CEO's Letter 6 Koc Group At a Glance 36 Act for the planet. Together 7 Our Manifesto 39 Climate Change 9 Pathway to Lead. Together 40 Improving our Energy Efficiency 11 Part of the bigger picture: delivering the UN Sustainable 41 Managing water risks Development Goals 42 In Practice: Addressing Climate Change Impacts 44 In Practice: Circular Economy and Tackling Plastic Wastes 12 Grow the business. Together 14 Digital Transformation 46 Strengthen communities. Together 16 In Practice: In Practice: KoçDigital & KoçDigital Academy 48 For My Country: I Design the Future 17 In Practice: Code.YapiKredi 49 Investing in 21st Century Skills in Vocational Training 18 Privacy and Cybersecurity 50 Gender Equality 19 Innovation 51 HeForShe 21 In Practice: Aykargo 52 In Practice: Addressing Stereotypes in Communications 22 Suppliers and Distributors and Marketing 23 Empower people. Together 54 Corporate Governance and Risk Management 26 Future Talent 56 Sustainability Governance across Koç Group 27 Talent Management 59 Making It Happen with Stakeholders 28 In Practice: Personal Development Program 61 The way we engage with stakeholders 29 In Practice: BeGlobal Silicon Valley and BeGlobal China 62 Stakeholder Groups & Engagement Methods 30 In Practice: Partnering with Udacity 63 Materiality Analysis 31 In Practice: LiderSensin (You are the Leader) 65 Performance Indicators 32 Diversity and Inclusion 69 GRI Index Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 2 About the Report Our 2018 Sustainability Report is prepared to share Compact (UNGC) and Women Empowerment Principles our environmental, social and corporate governance (WEP) indicators. In the Report, we also share our performance with our stakeholders. The sustainability contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) performance of our subsidiaries, Arçelik, Aygaz, Ford within the framework of global agenda. Otosan, Koç Information Group*, Opet, Otokar, Otokoç Otomotiv, Tat Gıda, Tofaş, Tüpraş, TürkTraktör and Yapı The scope of the report is between January 1, 2018 and Kredi, are included in the Report. The scope of the Report December 31, 2018. In order to demonstrate comparative covers 73.8% of employees and 83.5% of the combined results, we present our performance from previous years, revenues. Group-wide initiatives and best practices from where necessary. Additionaly, developments in line with our Koç Group companies are presented in the Report in sustainability approach and our future plans are covered in addition to the sustainability data. the Report. We are committed to disclose our sustainability performance annually. The report is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative standards: Core option and linked For inquiries, opinions and suggestions regarding the our sustainability performance with United Nations Global report, please contact us via sustainability@koc.com.tr 102-45 / 102-46 / 102-49 * Koç Information Group does not represent a legal entity, but a common name for KoçSistem and Bilkom all of which are Koç Group companies. Within this report, unless otherwise stated, all performance and practice related information disclosed regarding Koç Information Group consists of the shared data and practices of these enterprises. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 3 Ömer M. Koç / Chairperson’s Letter Dear Stakeholders, It is a very special time. We are faced with new and Development Goals provides such a purpose. After extremely complicated problems due to geopolitical all, we are all dependent on each other to increase difficulties, disruptive changes due to technological prosperity and be the stewards of our common climate advancements and threats to our very foundation – our and environmental resources which sustain us all. environment. Conclusive scientific research is showing that there has been a dramatic decline in biodiversity This is also our greatest opportunity, the creation of a globally and that climate change is happening quicker new paradigm, driven by the need to ensure we maintain Our commitment a strong ecological foundation, inclusivity and equity, that than had been previously understood. as presented in can support our societies and our economies. The key I believe it would not be incorrect to define this period to the future lies in openness, transparency, integration our Lead.Together as the “era of contrasts”. Global economic development and cooperation. Koç Group has a special responsibility framework and our has delivered huge advances to our societies and yet as we can collaborate at scale and accelerate progress. continued support this has not been shared equitably by all. We have made Our commitment as presented in our Lead.Together for the UN Global significant advances in efficiency and pollution reduction framework and our continued support for the UN Global and yet environmental challenges are greater than ever. Compact Principles reiterates our aspiration to create a Compact Principles Rapid change in technology and travel have enabled more sustainable future for us all. reiterates our people to trade, cooperate and share experiences and aspiration to create I thank all our employees, shareholders, customers, yet xenophobia is on the rise. a more sustainable distributors, suppliers and business partners for enabling We are living through a period when people need our mutual success. The challenges loom large, however future for us all. ethical values more and are increasingly searching the power of our collaboration is strong; therefore it is for “meaning” a common purpose. A vision for with optimism that I invite you to continue to support us sustainability as presented by the UN Sustainable on this journey. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 4 Levent Çakıroğlu / CEO’s Letter Dear Stakeholders, The role of business is crucial in delivering the global Empower people. Together sustainability agenda. We, as Koç Group, believe that the We continue to champion diversity and inclusion, as we world’s greatest challenges provide us with the greatest strive to reduce inequalities. Our focus on future talent opportunities. Improving the quality of life for all while helps us create a community of empowered and engaged operating in a world with resource constraints, in an employees with the skills to reinvent the business models uncertain global economy, requires significant shifts in of the next era. The framework of mindset and action. Lead. Together Act for the planet. Together With 11 years to go to the 2030 deadline of the UN Sustainable economic development will only happen when provides the Sustainable Development Goals, we have the ambition to protecting the environment and this is core to our decision foundation of maximise our contribution to these Goals. This can only making. We recognize the impact of our industries and our structured be achieved through guiding our respective businesses leverage our scale with efficiency, collaboration and programmes, so that they lead on sustainability opportunities and innovation. risk management, focus on the most significant cross enabling us to cutting themes and collaborate effectively. Technological Strengthen communities. Together advance our innovation and the digitisation of industries provide Our scale means we have the potential to create a strategic priority paradigm shift in the areas in which we invest. And our opportunities that enable us to scale solutions, transform strength lies in the effectiveness of our collaboration. areas of digital our products and services and collaborate in ways Together with our partners we work to build resilience in transformation, previously unimaginable. society and strong communities. innovation, future We continue to guide our actions under the framework of These four pillars provide the foundation of our structured talent, diversity Lead. Together: programmes, enabling us to advance our strategic priority and inclusion and Grow the business. Together areas of digital transformation, innovation, future talent, climate change. Our technology, innovation capability and brand assets diversity and inclusion and climate change. have long been key to our success and they will be vital tools for the future. We leverage digital technologies and Our stakeholders expect us to lead and work together innovation to radically transform our products, services, with our employees, distributors, suppliers, customers and business processes and business models to create added business partners at local and global level. We can only value for our businesses. then realise our potential for profitable, sustainable growth. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 5 92,500 Employees 12.5 million Customers Exporting to more than 4 main 145 countries business areas • Energy 11% of Turkey's private sector R&D expenditure • • Automotive Consumer Durables • Finance 1o% of Turkey's total exports Revenues equivalent to 8% of Turkey's GDP Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 6 Our Manifesto Lead. Together is our approach positive role model that drives change for sustainable, profitable growth at in society. It means we will act bravely Koç Group. It sets a framework for to transform our business for the better. making collective progress and helps us harness the power of our network Lead. Together reflects the difference to drive positive change. We believe we can make across Koç Group and sustainability is directly connected our commitment to partnership. The to our business growth, and to our expectations of our stakeholders unique role in society, which drives us inspire us to make a difference and the to inspire others and develop every diverse abilities of our people mean Lead. Together person and organization we engage with. we can bring our promise to life. We are progressing collectively across the is a journey. Lead. Together means we will innovate board. and collaborate to find solutions to big, Lead. Together is a journey. And our And our potential is huge. complex issues. It means we will be a potential is huge. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 7 Our founder Vehbi Koç once said that our prosperity is connected to the prosperity of our country. Our aspiration to become a global leader means elevating Vehbi Koç’s vision to a global scale. We believe our prosperity is connected to the prosperity of our country and the world we live and work in. Grow the business. Together Our heritage, Empower people. Together Act for the planet. Together our future. Strengthen communities. Together Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 8 Pathway to Lead. Together Our sustainability approach was formulated based on Koç In addition to the internal workshops and interviews, a Group’s global vision and evolving sustainability agenda qualitative external stakeholder research was conducted. driven by SDGs. Our main purpose is to maximize Koç Stakeholder opinions were included into the process, in Holding’s impact by focusing on cross-cutting issues, to order to ensure the integration of stakeholders’ vision and manage sustainability risks and opportunities effectively, to expectations in the way we approach to sustainability. guide Koç Group companies to lead sustainability in their respective business areas. The Koç Group Sustainability Guide was developed to enable standardization of sustainability management across Lead. Together and its focus areas are a result of an the Group. In order to effectively implement this guide, we iterative process that includes cross-functional teams from organized workshops with participation of a wide range of Group companies, including senior management across experts from the Group companies. The Guide provides different industries, external stakeholders and opinion direction firstly on defining how to manage material issues leaders. and focus areas, stakeholder integration, performance management as well as standards on best practices. In accordance with the Sustainability Guide, each Group company held cross-functional workshops to determine We launched the processes by organizing preliminary the material issues and 5 focus areas for their respective workshops with 12 Group companies that represent companies. As a result, each item covered in this section, the major operations of our business, to get a better were consolidated and presented to the final approval of understanding on the status of sustainability management Koç Holding’s senior management. 5 of key issues and their across the Group. Different functions like human resources related SDGs were prioritized under 4 focus areas which (HR), environment, corporate communications, supply formed our new sustainability framework, Lead. Together. chain and innovation participated in these workshops. Following the workshops, we conducted 20 semi-structured We continuously review and validate it considering interviews with Group companies’ General Managers stakeholders opinions, external trends and risks, global and and other members of senior management to identify local policies and Group strategy. Within this framework, the material areas to focus regarding sustainability. Initial we revisited our materiality analyis in early 2019. For futher findings revealed the need to have a holistic approach details, you may refer to the Materiality Analysis section. to manage sustainability issues since each function or department focused on their respective expertise area. 102-47 / 102-49 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 9 Pathway to Lead. Together 102-47 / 102-49 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 10 Delivering the UN Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Financial Services, Energy, Durable Goods and Automotive. offer a global agenda from the public sector to the business The report highlights how our sustainability framework world. The SDGs address the global challenges related Lead. Together guides us to deliver the SDGs through to poverty, inequality, climate change, prosperity, peace our sustainability commitments.All Group companies, and justice. At Koç Holding, we believe that the business representing over a half million people, need to seize our needs to contribute to these goals as a driver for innovation approach to SDGs and the implications to their industries. and generator of economic growth. Our sustainability To have a common ground, we held an SDG workshop with framework Lead. Together ensures that we are positioned Group companies, where we discussed our sustainability to contribute to the solutions for sustainable development. model and its relationship with Lead. Together and the Besides, we are aware of the fact that the SDGs also could SDGs. open up several opportunities for the private sector. We will continue to create value through our business We published a report to reveal the implications of the model, and our products and services. However, we know SDGs on our business and our opportunities to contribute. that collaborative action plays a very important role in In the report The Sustainable Development Goals and achieving the SDGs. We urge governments, civil societies Their Implications on Business, we showed the key mega and peers to realize the SDGs together. trends and their impact on our main industries, which are 102-47 / 102-49 Grow the business. Together Empower people. Together Act for the planet. Together Strengthen communities. Together Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 11 Photo: Ford Otosan Yeniköy Plant Grow the business. Together Grow the business. Together Aiming for sustainable, profitable growth Growth is good for us, and good for society Our aim is to create a business that delivers sustainable, We’ve always believed our prosperity is connected to the profitable growth. Our vision shows that this growth prosperity of the world; we only reach our goals if we align will come through expanding our global presence and with changes in society, the environment, technology and establishing brands that have a competitive edge, wherever business. Sustainability means maximizing our potential by we do business. We will succeed by developing business developing products and services that meet the pressing models that are flexible, efficient and focused on creating needs and expectations of society. long-term value. Our stakeholders expect us to lead by example. When we Taking the lead with innovation, technology and our grow, others grow. When we innovate for the better, others brands follow. When we create more added value and respond to changes in technology, business and society, we trigger Our technology, innovation capability and brand assets a ripple effect that extends out to all our industries, our are key to our success and they will be vital tools for the business partners and the wider community. future. Our influence extends far beyond the businesses and brands we manage. As a role model and through our At the Koç Group, we aim to maintain our pioneering long-term relationships with employees, partners, investors, position by leading change. In this path, digital suppliers and distributors we have an opportunity to drive transformation and innovation are our strategic priorities to positive change on a global scale. As an investor, we also seize current and potential opportunities and SDGs serve create long-term shared value through the decisions and as a drivers of inclusive economic growth. investments we make. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 13 Digital Transformation Digital technologies are dramatically reshaping sectors We started the Program by creating a road map to achieve and changing the way we interact with each other and the our goals, set out with more than 300 digital projects. At the world. New technologies present new approaches and end of 2018, 190 had been completed and with the addition opportunities for businesses. Believing that the leaders of of new ones 240 projects are ongoing. The main topics are the digital world will be the leaders of the future we change digital marketing and customer experience, digital supply how we deliver value to our customers and wider society chain and manufacturing and digital lean workplace. Now and make use of the revolutionary effect digital has over in its third year the Program is an integral part of the annual industries. and long-term plans and objectives of all Group companies. Digital transforms customer experience and enables to serve customers better, faster, with a customized approach. It makes production processes more efficient and leaner, Digital Transformation Group-wide Enablers Cultural Transformation enables increased employee participation and creativity Themes and opens up opportunities for new products and business models. Digital Marketing and Customer Data ve Analytics Awareness and Communications Experience Industry 4.0 Competency Development Digital Transformation Program Digital Supply Chain and Operations Readiness in IT Teamwork To maximize opportunities offered by digital technologies Digital Lean Workplace a cultural change is vital. It requires a cross-departmental Digital New Initiatives Governance cooperation, fostering collaboration with inner and Digital Participation of Employees external stakeholders and enhancing employee skills. The Koç Digital Transformation Program aims to radically transform products, services and business processes and build the digital skills required to implement and improve digitalization. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 14 Digital Transformation In addition to the projects in our main themes key topics • Awareness and Communication: We launched such as data and analytics, Industry 4.0 and digital new the next generation interaction and communication initiatives are managed across several Group companies platform “KoçHub”. The digital transformation activities under the leadership of Koç Holding. started to be shared on one platform which is open to all employees. • Data and Analytics: KoçDigital is a 100% subsidiary of KoçSistem in collaboration with BCG and focuses • Competency Development: We sustained different on big data and advanced analytical solutions training programs by providing access online programs through collaborations with Group companies and its on data analytics, programming, digital marketing, customers. autonomous vehicles and machine learning offered by Udacity. In addition, “Personal Development • Industry 4.0: An Industry 4.0 working group consisting Program” was offered to senior executives to develop of 12 managers from manufacturing companies in their leadership competence and vision for the digital the Group collaborate to find solutions to common world, “Lead Digital” program was developed with problems in this field. Koç University focusing on topics such as, designoriented thinking, data analytics, Industry 4.0 and • Digital New Initiatives: Inventram the technology digital marketing, Koç University Modular MBA in investment company of Koç Holding evaluates and Technology and Innovation Management Track for the invests in start-ups with new digital ideas. Group’s engineers were among the trainings offered to employees. A Group-wide cultural transformation is an essential part of the Program. Digital transformation leaders, teams and More information on digital transformation and awards can steering committees are the champions of the Program and be found in Koç Holding 2018 Annual Report. drive the change throughout the organization. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 15 Digital Transformation In Practice: KoçDigital & KoçDigital Academy KoçDigital, has been Being one of the most important priorities of Koç Group; digital transformation will strengthen Group companies in rapidly changing competitive markets. As an important part of this established in partnership program, KoçDigital focuses on IoT and Advanced Analytics technologies and services, to support the digital transformation requirements in hundreds of projects related to Industry 4.0 with BCG (Boston Consulting applications, sales processes, customer experience and new product development. Group) as a 100% subsidiary As a game changer, KoçDigital’s strategy is to provide end to end services including product of KoçSistem; targeting to design, product development, assessment, consultancy and support. This initiative boosts data democratization for companies which provides opportunity to further monetize their provide local and international valuable data. KoçDigital started developing and implementing projects with Ford Otosan, Otokoç, Demir Export and Koçtaş. For Ford Otosan Digital Twin Project has been implemented. customers with cutting-edge With this project a virtual model of the production facility and processes has been created. technologies using an agile and The simulations run on this model enables to optimize the processes and increase efficiency. flexible approach. KoçDigital The digital transformation of the companies will only be sustainable if digitalization and improvement is continuous. One of the critical mission’s of KoçDigital is to create qualified and KoçDigital Academy, human resources via training the digital skills required for implementing and managing digital projects with KoçDigital Academy. The aim is to invest in the human capital and bring the will bring global know-how to global know-how and expertise to Turkey. This will enable us to contribute to the future of the Turkish market; and support country and to create a value-added economy. enterprises prepare for future The Academy developed and started offering trainings to specialists from Group companies as well as to customers. 4 employees received abroad training and 45 employees received digital world and competence. more than 50 trainings and also received 4 days in Foundations Training. The Academy also designed KoçDigital Data & Analytics for Business Program for mid level managers from Group companies. KoçDigital Data & Analytics for Business program aims to train its participants on data & analytics topics, helping them to readily bridge the business & technical perspectives for analytics initiatives. Online pre-sprint courses provide introduction to core data and analytics topics. Trainees completed their online curriculum in Coursera than later Koç University Academicians and BCG experts share their expertise in Bootcamp week in 5 days (3 days İstanbulKoç University and 2 days Paris-BCG Immersion Center). With this class trainings, trainees also implement real time capstone projects during the Program. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 16 Digital Transformation In Practice: Code.YapiKredi Yapı Kredi initiated the Rapid change in digital technologies evolve the way we do business in the financial sector and the future requires adaptation Code.YapıKredi Acceleration to the digital world of finance. With this vision Yapı Kredi launched Program in 2018. The Program Code.YapıKredi Platform. The Platfom aims to contribute to aims to transform enterprises developing the digital and algorithmic capabilities of new generations and supporting the growth of Fintech ecosystem. It is into sustainable and scalable a free Platform open to everyone aiming to pave the way for young companies by enabling entrepreneurs who can produce their own software and turn it into selected entrepreneurs to innovative products. expand the products and The program has four stages: Coding trainings, financial services they have developed. consultancy, incubation and investment. Hundreds of participants As part of the Program Yapı received coding trainings and attended different events and Kredi provides training, seminars through the platform. Hackathons are also organized every year, which received more than 1000 applications last year. consultancy and mentoring In addition, Yapı Kredi offers 54 different banking programming support for 6 months. interfaces (Open Banking APIs) open to everyone in order to Entrepreneurs can also benefit contribute to product development. The number of users of these programs exceeds 12.000. from KWORKS’ technical support and infrastructure. Code.YapıKredi aims to continue the coding trainings while reaching a wider audience, supporting and investing in successful entrepreneurs, in addition to developing the Fintech ecosystem by opening more APIs. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 17 Privacy and Cybersecurity Rapid digitalization brings also the increased risk of The Koç Group IT Security Committee is responsible cybercrime. According to the World Economic Forum for setting security policies, evaluating new threats Global Risks Report cyberattacks are among the top five and reducing risk of intrusion, loss of data integrity and risks with high-impact and high likelihood. Data breaches compliance violations. Both the IT Committee and the IT not only cause financial loss but also considerable damage Security Committee are chaired by senior executives. We to reputation. work towards compliance with all relevant requirements and legislations on cybersecurity and privacy. We perform Since Koç Group is increasing its efforts on digital annual audits for each Group Company based on globally transformation, we also give high importance to privacy recognized frameworks (i.e. COBIT, ISO27001, CIS 20 and cybersecurity while preparing the companies for the etc.) and Koç Group IT Standards. Audit and maturity digital future. It is very important that our customers know assessment results are presented to the CEO. that we will keep their data safe and process it according to legislations. In addition to the Koç Group policies and guidelines every company implement safeguards to protect the data We manage cybersecurity and data privacy in line with our of its stakeholders. Every company is responsible for Group Policy on the Protection and Processing of Personal developing and implementing an IT continuity and disaster Data. In addition to this, each Group company has its recovery strategy. Cyber Security Risk Management own Data Security Policy they follow when managing all System is in place to identify, assess, monitor and report on their operations. The Koç Group IT Committee is the main cybersecurity threats including sensitive data such as trade governing body and composed of the IT managers of major secrets, credit card, customer and healthcare information. Group companies. The committee meets monthly and The companies also identify the required data security sets the IT Standards such as policies, procedures and trainings according to their sectors and employees receive guidelines which are followed by all Group companies. trainings on these issues. Every company has a set training target for 2019. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 18 Innovation We build a group-wide culture of view that innovative businesses are sustainable ones. We believe innovation and sustainability go hand in hand, innovation and intrapreneurship, especially when it comes to delivering business growth and with the ultimate goal of integrating solving complex sustainability challenges. innovation into our core business. We frequently partner with other business actors – including Breakthrough innovation to improve lives and enhance start-ups and innovative small firms – to drive enthusiasm services for innovation through our ecosystem. We also aim to gain competitive advantage by bringing a structured approach We aim to grow our business with new business models, to innovation and entrepreneurship in our own businesses. products and services that improve lives in bold and innovative ways. Our customers are often the first to benefit Innovation with a sustainability focus improves quality of from our innovations but, by finding new ways of thinking life, protects the environment and serves communities. and working, we also support the wider society to become By looking for scalable, transformative ideas and taking more sustainable, connected and prosperous. calculated risks when we find them, we can make substantial contributions to all the SDGs and ensure our Keeping innovation on the agenda for sustainable customers, society and our business thrive together. success Attaching tremendous importance to technology, R&D and To stay relevant and resilient, businesses need to develop innovation, we allocated approximately TRY 1.8 billion to innovative processes and business models that are based those areas in 2018. This amount is approximately 11% of on creative and new ideas. Our stakeholders have a clear the total expenditure of the private sector in Turkey in the field. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 19 Innovation Koç Innovation Program the entrepreneur mindset in order to ensure business model innovation and increase open innovation capacity. The keystone of our profitable and sustainable growth, Within the scope of the program, we support corporate competitiveness and powerful global presence is to entrepreneurs through various training programs, mentors, improve our innovation capability. Innovation is among the new project management techniques and awards. top strategic priorities for Koç Group companies. As a result of the program, the open innovation capacity In order to implement its innovation strategy, we conduct is increased, and new products and services have been the Koç Innovation Program since 2014. It focuses on; launched leading to generate additional revenues. The commercialization periods and costs are cut drastically. 1. Building a culture of innovation and creating the right Built with volunteering aspirations rather than driven by work environment to enhance our innovation capacity corporate targets, the program is spreading rapidly across the Group. 2. Cultivating corporate entrepreneurship (intrapreneurship) across the Group and supporting Designed both for companies with R&D departments as employees’ entrepreneurial spirit and efforts well as sales and service companies, the program supports our strategy of embracing innovation across every business 3. Extending innovative endeavours not only across line. We monitor the performance of Group companies’ product and service development activities, but in all performance on an annual basis through the Koç business units and operations Innovation Index which comprises of KPIs relating to inputs, processes, outputs and outcomes of technology, R&D and 4. Increasing partnership with external stakeholders, an innovation activities. important source of innovation, and managing these collaborations more effectively As of end of 2018, Koç Innovation Program is carried out across 10 Koç Group Companies and with the participation 5. Managing innovative operations via clear processes to of Koç University and K-Works incubation center. To date, ensure sustainability thanks to more than 500 intrapreneurs, we gathered 4400 ideas, ran 24 acceleration programs and worked on 155 As part of this program, innovation management intrapreneurial project. We generated more than TRY 51 competences are developed at Koç Group companies. million through 16 new product, service or business model. We aim to grow, build a culture of innovation profiting from In addition to our internal efforts, with open innovation, we currently work with 49 start-ups. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 20 Innovation In Practice: Aykargo E-commerce has grown more rapidly than anticipated. Global online sales in Europe increased by 13 per cent making worth of 547 billion euros in 2018.* The growth Aygaz, the first and only LPG rate is even higher in Turkey with 38 per cent increase in one year.** Yet the main challenge of e-commerce sector company in Turkey, provides services is timely and effective delivery without any damage. in every city of the country with 4,000 Customers’ lack of trust for the process of transportation distributors/stations and approximately and staff is another aspect. one million vehicles, and enters more Aykargo was brought to life with this idea, incubated in than 60 thousand homes every day. Aygaz Innovation Program and launched as the new line Corporate entrepreneurs of Aygaz of business of the company in 2017. thought that the company with its After a series of interviews with e-commerce customers existing network of distributors, and logistics companies, the business model including vehicles and credible staff can solve software development, stakeholder management and operational processes has been established. the delivery and trust problems of e-Commerce customers. Aykargo was Started as a pilot in 3 districts and with 4 distributors, brought to life with this idea, incubated Aykargo currently serves in 39 districts of Istanbul. In in Aygaz Innovation Program and partnership with Koçtaş, Arçelik, Unilever, Enerjisa, Zipcar and Tazemutfak, the start-up has successfully delivered launched as the new line of business 32,000 packages till now. Aykargo aims to become a of the company in 2017. leading player of the logistics sector. Its distribution network has been expanded all around Istanbul, and new provinces will follow in the upcoming years. * European Ecommerce Report 2018 https://www.haendlerbund.de/de/ downloads/ecommerce-europe/european-ecommerce-report-2018.pdf ** Ecommerce in Turkey https://ecommercenews.eu/ecommerce-in-europe/ ecommerce-turkey/ Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 21 Suppliers and Distributors The size and scale of our business gives us the environmental and human rights as well as forming a opportunity to drive positive change across a broad list of strong company culture based on business ethics. industries. We realize the importance of becoming a rolemodel for our business partners, suppliers, distributors, We are aware of the importance of quality training for the contractors and focus on analyzing and improving our realization of this goal. Therefore, we provide out diverse operations for a positive influence. With the goal of leading training programs for our suppliers and distributors. In by example, we strive to first transform ourselves and then 2018, the total hours spared for these trainings was 6550 drive this wave of positive change throughout our value hours. Aside from trainings we also place great importance chain. into making sure all our supply chain operations are supervised to be in line with our company’s standards. We require our business partners to share our values of We have introduced the Supplier Audit Program with this honesty, integrity and business ethics. These values which goal in mind and continue to conduct quality and product form the basis of all our operations are protected by laws safety audits as well as assessments centering around and regulations and we place great care into making social, environmental and ethical criteria. This year, 20.8% sure that they are followed by every link that comprises of our 13,671 suppliers, dealers and service points were our value chain. Each link is responsible for delivering audited based on the criteria. Our goal is for our audits to products and services in line with international standards, cover our entire value chain by increasing their numbers laws and regulations. We encourage cooperation as a every year and spreading our sustainability goals beyond principle and support our business partners in improving the business sphere. their performance in quality production, awareness of Training on Environmental Issues Training on Social Issues Trainings on Ethical Issues Supplier Training Hours in 2017 1702 1803 3045 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 22 Photo: Aygaz HQ Empower people. Together Empower people. Together Aiming for an equal, empowered workforce Group employees to reach their full potential and seen us become a role model in our industries. Our aim is to create a community of empowered and engaged employees who have the knowledge and skills to Empowering people drives sustainable development reinvent the future’s business models. In accordance with our vision to grow globally, we attract, retain and develop We focus on giving people the skills they need and building multi-skilled talents and strengthen employee engagement the most talented and inclusive workplace in line with in all the countries where we operate. Koç Group Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the SDGs. Within this scope, we maximise our collective Building on our people-first principles potential to develop the solutions of the future: solutions that will meet some of society’s most pressing challenges. In our business model, we’ve always put people first to empower and help them to thrive in an agile business environment. The people-first approach has enabled Koç Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 24 Koç Group Employees in 2018 As of end of 2018 Koç Group is the largest employer in Turkey with 92,631 people, including 78,407 in Turkey and 14,224 abroad. 99% of our employees work full time. This report covers 74% of total workforce representing 68,332 employees. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 25 Future Talent Finding, training and keeping the best challenges facing business and society. We need to grow When considering the future of our industries, it’s important and strengthen our talent pipeline and give people the skills to understand which skillsets will best support our globally and the motivation they need to build a resilient business. competitive business. We want our workplace to become more flexible, agile, dynamic, bold, collaborative and The skills shortage in Turkey is a major issue for businesses entrepreneurial, in order to attract the best emerging and it is expected to emerge in the medium to long term. talents. In 2018, 66%* of private companies are experiencing difficulties in finding employees with the required skills. Developing people is business as usual At Koç Group, we aim to provide solutions to tackle skills shortage and secure our successful growth in the long Since our beginning, we’ve been creating opportunities term. for our people to grow their potential. By training, we enable our people to meet Industry 4.0 demands with more Industry 4.0 has big implications for future talent sophisticated skills. Advancing our human capital is our priority. Disruptive changes in business models will deeply affect the employment. In near future workplace will see people Facing the skills shortage and machines working more closely alongside each other, while jobs and skills will change as processes become There’s a shortage of some of the most skilled talent in the ever more automated. The workforce will be expected world that businesses like ours need to grow and succeed. to integrate more to the technology and innovation. We Science, technology, engineering and math skills are in think this can be an opportunity for all, if we give people particular demand, as are multifaceted thinkers who can the skillsets, they need to succeed in the new business use their minds to tackle the complex interdisciplinary environment. * Manpower, Talent Shortage Survey, 2018. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 26 Talent Management We focus on strengthening talent management to empower our who are eliminated during the recruitment process. We send a survey business and our people. We offer our employees the skills and the to the candidates to evaluate their recruitment experience. In 2018, motivation they need to prosper in tomorrow’s workplace. 14,900 candidates participated the survey and recruitment process satisfaction ratio became %48. We design and implement talent management strategies at Koç Group. Firstly, potential employees are involved in competency-based Besides, we have started the “Ghost Candidate” project, which is evaluation processes designed for different organizational levels one of the unique examples in the world, enables us to observe if the and positions. Since 2011, employees who possess top executive improved recruitment process is adopted and applied at all Koç Group level competences are identified by the “Assessment Center”. This companies. Ghost candidates apply to job positions of Koç Group and enables an effective succession plan for top executive positions report their recruitment experiences to us. and proactively develops candidates for these positions via trainingdevelopment programs and job rotation opportunities. Almost 40% of Koç Group employs approximately 7,500 interns every year and only the participants at Assessment Center are female employees. 11% of them is recruited. We aim to make internship experience more efficient and structured. We give orientation training to the interns at Rotation method is talent mobility, which is one of the most important the beginning of the internship. We follow the jobs assigned to interns tools to develop Koç Group’s long term human capital. For rotation, we and evaluate their performance. We track the recruitment ratio of use KoçKariyerim (Koç Career), the internal job posting website, for the interns that we are satisfied with their performance. transfers within the Group. More than 300 employees were transferred within Group in 2018. Moreover, there are more than 100 international Koç Group employees at all levels deliver career development plans at assignees across the world. Rotation has become a must for Top widely used KoçAcademy platform. KoçAcademy provides employees Executive assignment at Koç Group. in-class and online training programs. Besides, one-on one coaching, mentoring and project initiatives are also essential tools to effectively In 2018, one of our focus points was improving the recruitment and manage talents and skills. In 2018, 416 employees attended coaching internship experience. We started the recruitment and internship programs and 366 employees took part in the various mentoring project and continued our efforts in 2019 as well. This year, we program. received 2.8 million job applications, while 10,000 out of were recruited. The scope of the project regarding recruitment includes As a part of talent management, we launched the LEAD platform process and inventory standardization, joint candidate pool, analytics in 2016 to support employees in a wide range of areas such as tool, ideal candidate journey, feedback and audit mechanisms. leadership, management, strategy and change management at According to our redesigned recruitment process, we contact with the different stages of their career. Including Personal Development candidate in 24 hours following the receipt of job application and we Program, BeGlobal Silicon Valley, partnership with Udacity, there are 36 send a notification regarding the process to the candidate every 15 different programs available under LEAD for all employees. day. We apply global assessment tools and systems, and English is More information on other employee programs can be found at Koç mandatory for job recruitment. We give feedback to the candidates Holding 2018 Annual Report. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 27 Future Talent In Practice: Personal Development Programs While upskilling employees’ The PDP is our first “must have” leadership program for top executives. The program is six-month comprehensive technical skills, we also attach leadership curriculum with 360 assessment, coaching, priority to empowering senior in-class trainings and online materials. It differs from other executives with future leadership programs with its digitalization focus, new leadership skills and intense body-mind activities. The program comprises competencies in the digital three phases in which senior executives take part in world. Therefore, we launched groups of twenty-five. To date, 150 general managers and Personal Development Program deputy general managers completed the program. We aim to cover all senior executives at Koç Group. (PDP) for all senior executives of Koç Group, in cooperation with The first phase is a one-week camp with a theme of Harvard University, McKinsey and Personal Awareness , aiming individual transformations Aberkyn, to enable our strategic through mental and physical awareness. In the interim period, the participants complete Harvard Business priorities. School's HBX – Disruptive Strategy program in smaller groups. The second phase, also a one-week camp, has the theme of Change. McKinsey instructors provide trainings on digital trends, design-thinking, digital marketing, big data, agility and change management, which are tailored to address leaders’ specific needs in the digital age. The last phase carried out abroad and focused on experience, has the theme of “Renewal”. It aims to empower senior executives’ adaptive leadership skills by uncovering the adaptability and flexibility of them in challenging natural conditions. The PDP has been selected as a best practice case for McKinsey globally. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 28 Future Talent In Practice: BeGlobal Silicon Valley and BeGlobal China The BeGlobal Silicon Valley We aim to turn senior executives into change leaders to adopt technological developments and innovation into Program is launched in 2016 to our businesses. In this scope, we designed the BeGlobal support our globalization and Silicon Valley and the BeGlobal China programs. innovation goals. The program We do not neglect to learn from different geographies as targeting senior executives well as steps we have taken to spread the best practices, focuses on both multi-disciplinary we have learned to all our companies. We believe that theoretical knowledge and handsthe rapid change in China, like the rapid change in technology, has a transformative effect. To understand on experience. We took 50 senior and evaluate what is happening in China, we designed executives in 3 groups to visit 20 BeGlobal China Program. In 2019, the first group of 20 companies in Silicon Valley in one senior executives will visit start-ups, universities and week. Inspired by these visits, the 20 companies from various sectors such as finance, technology and transportation in China. The program executives took actions in their enables our top leaders to learn new perspectives and companies. exchange ideas with Chinese experts. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 29 Future Talent In Practice: Partnering with Udacity At Koç Group, building future Koç Group’s employees are able to participate online programs in data analytics, digital marketing, machine skills is a very important aspect of learning, self-driving cars, coding and business analytics. digital transformation. To become By 2018, more than 400 employees have received a global company, we need to trainings, which help our employees to internalize the future skills of digital transformation and enable them to adopt the skills such as data quickly apply what they learn. analytics, machine learning and artificial intelligence, which are also To enforce digital transformation and expand the scope of online training, we will launch a new program highlighted as critical for driving LEAD Digital in 2019. We are set to collaborate with change in World Economic Forum’s outstanding universities such as Harvard Business School, The Future of Jobs Report. Since Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Columbia 2017, we have been in collaboration Business School. with Udacity, the world's most valuable online training company. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 30 Future Talent In Practice: LiderSensin (You Are the Leader) We offer opportunities to our In every period, 60 young executives participate the program. In the last period, 16% of the participants were employees to enable them to go female executives. Prior to the program, the participants beyond their potential. We aim to go through an evaluation process and training content are ensure that young executives that prepared in line with the evaluation results. In addition to team training, individual programs are provided as well. have high potential will continue their The program consists of different design approaches career in at Koç Group and take and learning methodologies. It is awarded as best talent part in the senior management in the development program in 2017. future. From this point of view, we In 2019, we plan to execute a new program that developed LiderSensin (You are the combines one of subprograms of the rotation project with Leader), 2-year program personalized LiderSensin. The new program LiderSensin IT is designed leadership development program for specifically for IT teams and 25 IT employees will take place in it. By the end of the training, the opportunities high potentials. for admission into rotation will be considered for the participants. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 31 Diversity and Inclusion Creating an equal opportunity workplace address the needs of our employees regardless of their gender, religion, sexual orientation, language, ethnicity, We work hard to cultivate a diverse and inclusive place race, beliefs, faith, disability or any other personal attribute to work where men and women feel valuable and valued, protected by law. Our human rights principles which is a whether they work in office or industrial roles. Our focus written declaration of our attitude regarding our workforce is creating an inclusive culture for a more productive and also comply with the international agreements issued collaborative workplace across our industrial plants. by the International Labor Organization (ILO) and its international equivalents. We follow Koç Group Code of Staying true to our progressive values Ethics and Business Conduct in our human resources Our values and compelling previous performance lead processes and expect our business partners to do so. us the way to champion diversity and inclusion for many Collective bargaining rights of employees are respected years. As a progressive organization, we take strength and supported at our company. from our values and continue to show our commitment to international best practices. We have specifically adopted gender equality since 2014 and pioneered many initiatives within the Group. Initially, we Diversity and inclusion is good for business… reevaluated our work environment from a gender point of view and improved our conditions to be more conducive to We regard diversity as a strength and value to adopt women. We enhanced child care and safety at workplace international business norms where everyone’s contribution and provide mentoring during and after maternity leave. In counts. We think that diversity and inclusion cover 2018, 1145 of our female employees took maternity leave many dimensions but all are good for business. Diverse and 91% returned to work after their official leave ended. organizations outperform those that have less balanced 20% of women employees benefit from child care while work environment. Organizations where all employees the ratio was 18% in 2017. feel valued, respected and equal have higher employee engagament scores which brings about productivity. At Koç Group, we have adopted a comprehensive approach in order to eliminate all kinds of discrimination … and good for sustainability and bias based on gender at workplace. We signed the We fundamentally believe that diversity and inclusion in Declaration of Equality at Work and published Koç Group workplace is essential in order to integrate sustainability Equality Guidelines and Implementation Principles to into business. Organizations with balanced workforce are ensure that the gender equality is adopted throughout the better governed and have richer skillsets which results company at all levels. We also signed the United Nations in creative thinking and aligning better with the diverse Women Empowerment Principles (WEPs) with 30 of our interests of customers and stakeholders. subsidiaries. We encourage our employees and business partners to recognize gender equality via the HeForShe In the direction of our aforementioned approach, we initiative. For more information regarding the initiative you launched a series of initiatives to provide the same may refer to the section of Strengthen communities. performance, training and career opportunities to all our Together employess both in office and industrial positions. We 102-41 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 32 Diversity and Inclusion In Practice: Women Power Opet, a Koç Group company, operating stations, Opet aimed to make workplaces more inclusive and contribute to women empowerment over-all the country. in fuel-oil distribution, has initiated The Women Power project focusing on The company took the leadership to alter social perception regarding increasing women employment in the women and provide equal opportunities in the work environment. In line with this purpose, Opet has reviewed its human resources processes industry. and set a goal to employ at least two female employees at each petrol station and 3500 in total. Following that, Opet has collaborated with In Turkey, only 28.9% of women above 15 years of age participate in the Ministry of Labor and Social Security and the Ministry of Energy the labor force while the ratio is 65.6% for men*. The business world and Natural Resources, thereby Opet distributors provide trainings and can have a key role in eliminating this considerable gender gap. vocational development programmes taking advantage of employment incentives of İŞKUR (Turkish Employment Agency). The starting point of the project was the fact that in Turkey, the number of female employees at the stations as well as in the energy industry Opet operates in Turkey with more than 1,600 petrol stations, therefore are very low. There is also a solid occupational gender segregation holds a great employment power country-wide. By putting the project in the field. In line with the goal to increase the employment rate of in to practice in March 2018, Opet has increased the ratio of female women in the stations, Opet aimed to make workplaces more in the employees at petrol stations by 30% by date and plans to make an increase of more than 2 folds by 2020. In addition to this achievement, Opet aims to increase the number of female employees in grocery clerk, station manager, shift supervisor, accounting clerk positions. During the course of the project, number of female employees rose to 389 from 27 for station attendants and to 789 from 576 for grocery clerks. As a result of encouraging practices of Opet towards women empowerment, 161 petrol stations country-wide achieved the goal in employing at least two female employees. Opet since adopted this approach in its head office, and female office employee ratio reached 37% by 2018. * TUİK (Turkish Statistical Institute) 2018. http://tuik.gov.tr/PreHaberBultenleri.do?id=30707 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 33 Performance Management We aim to create a community of empowered, engaged Our employees are assessed with regard to specific employees who have the knowledge and skills to carry our goals set previously, following that promotions are made business forward. Therefore, we consider performance according to performance appraisal results. In 2018, 99% management as a set of applications which enables us of office employees and 87% of employees in industrial to deploy our Group-wide corporate goals integrated positions were subjected to performance appraisal. to our strategy. Our performance management system is based on measuring and rewarding our employees’ The performance management system also provides achievements. During the process, we focus on creating inputs for the Compensation Management System long-term value rather than short-term accomplishments. including benefit packages. For details on performance As a part of this vision, we determine our employees’ management, remuneration and bonuses, please refer competencies and plan their individual development. to the Remuneration Policy for Members of the Board of Effective communication with employees, mutual feedback Directors and Senior Executives and Koç Holding 2018 and reconciliation constitutes the basic principles of Annual Report. performance appraisal. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 34 Health and Safety Attaining excellence in health and safety standards is an essential part safety issues at each Group company. In 2018, we established a central of our goal of achieving zero accidents throughout our operations. Occupational Health, Safety and Environment Unit which aims to contribute Occupational health and safety rules constitute the core value of our work to the transition towards an encompassing and integrated occupational culture without any compromise. health, safety and environment management policy and system. With a precautionary and risk-based approach, we progressively We believe that employee engagement is key to foster a healthy and safe develop health and safety related policies and management systems. In working environment. To that end, trainings play a significant role to form accordance with regulations and directives, globally-accepted standards a safety culture based upon shared responsibility. In 2018, we provided and the Koç Group Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, we manage 521,793 employee-hours of occupational health and safety training to health and safety issues and look to ensure the elimination of any relevant Group employees, and 94,306 employee-hours to contractors. risks. We regard OHSAS 18001 as an important framework to ensure systematical management of health and safety issues at our facilities. As Health and safety are amongst material issues for us and our stakeholders. of 2018, approximately 89% of facilities owned by Koç Group companies Despite this fact, workplace accidents and fatalities still occur. We are were certified with OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety deeply saddened for the loss of one Koç Group employee and three of our Management System. In parallel we are also in the process of updating the contractors’ employees who lost their lives while working for our company OHSAS 18001 to the newer version of this certificate, named as ISO 45001. in 2018. Our employee lost his life due to suffocation by nitrogen during Occupational health and safety management processes at our Group gas measurement exercise. A contractor’s employee lost his life during a companies mainly include risk assessments, continual measurement and construction work and one security personnel committed suicide using his tracking of occupational health and safety performance, trainings and, gun. A court process is still ongoing for a contractors’ employee who had making use of new technologies and implementing innovative practices. a heart attack. Following these incidents, relevant work procedures have been reviewed and measures has been taken to further ensure the safety The Koç Holding Occupational Health and Safety Coordination Board is of our colleagues and partners. responsible for reviewing practices and efforts on these issues with the aim to continuously improve Group performance, whereas Occupational Health Further information on our occupational health and safety management and Safety Committees are responsible for management of health and practices and awards is available in Koç Holding 2018 Annual Report. Health and Safety Performance 2016 2017 2018 Injury rate (IR)* 4.09 4.40 7.50 Occupational illness frequency rate(OIFR)** 0.10 0.12 0.14 * IR = (Number of injuries in given period*1,000,000) / Total hours worked in given period. The calculation method is revised in 2018 and it includes Lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)*** 3.86 injuries without a day lost as well. Occupational health and safety training provided ** OIFR: (Number of occupational illnesses in given period*1,000,000) / Total 561,916 588,156 521,793 hours worked in given period Koç Group (employee*hours) *** LTIFR: (Number of lost time injuries in given period*1,000,000) / Total hours Occupational health and safety training worked in given period. Calculations are based only on lost time injuries and 77,663 89,804 94,306 provided – contractors (employee*hours) exclude fatalities. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 35 Tüpraş İzmit Refinery Act for the planet. Together Act for the planet. Together Aiming for a balanced approach to doing business challenges that the humanity is facing ever since, with a potential to have irreversible hazards if action is not Sustainable economic development will only happen when taken on time. In order to mitigate climate change, protecting the environment is core to our decision making. businesses, governments, societies need to act together. Put another way, at Koç Group, we know our financial The internationally recognized 1.5°C limit for temperature wellbeing is worth very little without the human wellbeing increase is approaching, the challenge of climate change is that comes with a healthily functioning natural world. more acute than ever. A connected, long-term perspective Market players around the world have an important role responding the needs of the planet. Goals set in Paris We’re in a strong position to act on complex global Agreement and the climate relevant United Nations challenges with long time frames – like climate change. Our Sustainable Development Goals address the need for global scale and engagement present big opportunities to change especially for the areas being affected the most. contribute to the progressive climate agenda. In doing so, A global shared vision is of upmost need in order to raise we provide a role model for other businesses – both within awareness and trigger a transformation towards a more our own ecosystem and beyond. environmental sensitive business making. At this point the leadership of private sector and collaboration with different Global climate change has widespread unprecedented initiatives are essential, which is the core of our motivation social and environmental impacts. It is one of the biggest to act for a better planet. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 37 Act for the planet. Together Koç Environment Committee with representatives from over 20 of our companies. The key performance indicators in the field of environmental All the experts on environment, energy and sustainability management, according to which the companies prepare working in different Koç Group companies are united under their annual performance reports, are determined by the Koç Environment Committee and make coordinated efforts research and discussion conducted by the Committee. In in order to create sustainable solutions and strategies order to manage our environmental performance and to for all Group businesses. The Committee develops its carry out coordinated studies for the environment goals of strategies in the light of universal principles such as the the group more efficiently, a new position has been formed Paris Agreement, UN Global Compact and Sustainable with the title of Group Environment Manager. Development Goals Agenda. The core responsibilities of this position include Each of the Group companies is tasked with establishing improving Koç Group’s environmental strategy and policy, business plans in line with the long-term strategies determining the Group roadmap, implementing Koç Group designed by the Koç Environment Committee and adapting environmental management system and developing them to the unique conditions of the locations they operate projects according to the needs of the Group. In addition, in. Our current long-term strategy focuses on climate policy and performance-based audits of the Audit Group, action, resource and energy efficiency, green procurement, in coordination with the Koç Environment Committee, zero-waste operation, developing environmentallyare also handled by the senior Holding management. friendly products and obtaining internationally recognized All environmental policy and performance belonging to environmental management certifications for all our the Group companies are inspected internally as well as facilities. externally for an objective and detailed evaluation. To achieve these goals, we monitor our performance closely and evaluate our efficiency through monthly meetings Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 38 Climate Change Climate change and its adverse Adopting the best available technology to optimize our operations is essential for reducing emissions and impacts are a key material issue for improving energy efficiency, increasing our use of renewable energy and adapting to the impacts of climate the majority of our industries. We change across all our industries. Developing effective aim to demonstrate our commitment solutions to environmental issues requires coordinated efforts between all related parties. We work with industry to addressing this challenge, by and sector peers, government institutions, public bodies, innovating and collaborating for the academia and civil society to drive forward the climate change agenda and support policy development, both future, increasing our operational nationally and internationally. performance and taking adaptive Our stakeholder research indicated that NGOs, universities, measures to build a resilient opinion leaders and public institutions expect us to act on climate change, adapt to the shift towards a low carbon business. economy and invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency. Climate Leadership Since 2011, Koç Group represents Turkish business Disclosure Project (CDP), United Nations Global Compact community on climate change with its presence in many (UNGC), World Resources Institute (WRI) and World local and international platforms. The Group participates Wildlife Foundation (WWF) and committed to reduce its in the Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP) greenhouse gas emissions. Additionally, in 2018, Yapı annually and adheres to the United Nations Framework Kredi joined the CDP Water Program and conducted its first Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Koç Group reporting. companies Arçelik and Tüpraş participated in the panel arranged by the Republic of Turkey Ministry of Environment Since 2015, a senior executive from Koç Group leads the and Urbanization at COP24 in 2018, in order to share Environment and Climate Change Working Group under their practices and strategies with other businesses as Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD). With well as organizations. Arçelik is a signatory of the Science Koç Group companies, we regularly contribute to policies, Based Targets initiative, jointly launched by the Carbon position papers and research developed by TUSİAD. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 39 Climate Change Improving our Energy Efficiency With its shortand long-term implications for businesses, Furthermore, Arçelik, Ford Otosan, Opet, Tofaş, TürkTraktör climate change is an emerging risk. It is our responsibility and Yapı Kredi’s greenhouse gas emissions in 2018 were to act accordingly and carry out projects to improve energy certified in accordance with the ISO 14064-1 Greenhouse efficiency in our operations. We are committed to sustain Gas Emissions Reporting Standards. Tüpraş began to continuous improvement of our operational processes. We certify greenhouse gas reductions obtained from energy give high importance to increase energy efficiency and efficiency projects under ISO 14064-2 and included a life decrease greenhouse gas emissions caused by our direct cycle analysis approach in its work. or indirect operations. Energy Management Highlights of 2018 Energy intensity is an indicator which reveals the amount of energy consumed per income generated. The overall • Arçelik reached 64,890 GJ of energy saving and reduced 6,201 tons energy intensity of the Group companies in 2018 was 391.2 of CO2 emissions through 118 different energy efficiency projects. GJ/TL million of net income. Additionally, our greenhouse • Ford Otosan saved 6,955 GJ in natural gas usage and a reduction of gas emissions intensity was 26.6 tons CO2e/TL million of 362.7 tons in CO2 emissions with the Solarwall project. net income. In the energy sector these figures stand at • Opet used 526 GJ green electricity produced from the Mersin Terminal 642.8 GJ/TL million and 43.7 CO2e/TL million. The Group Solar Power Plant. companies operating in non-energy industries have an average energy intensity of 44.13 GJ/TL million and an • Otokoç reached 30% reduction in energy consumption due to LEED Green Office Certificate. average greenhouse gas emission intensity of 3.24 tons CO2e/TL million. • Tat Gıda’s efforts for energy efficiency projects have resulted in 17,694 GJ of energy savings and a reduction of 2,365 tons in CO2 emissions. We focus on ways to reduce the energy intensity by • Tofaş reduced its CO2 emissions by 5,383 tons. increasing the energy efficiency of our operations. Each group company focusses on their own business models • Tüpraş achieved a 243,666-ton reduction in CO2 emission with its energy efficiency projects. and processes and it contributes to the group total energy efficiency. Based on these efforts, in 2018 Koç Group saved 3.9 million GJ of energy, which resulted in a CO2 emissions reduction of 263,493 Tons. 2016 2017 2018 Energy 1,647.9 1,168.5 642.8 Automotive 107.2 85.2 66.7 Consumer Durables 262.8 77.5 54.2 Finance 50.1 50.0 11.5 Koç Group 828.4 633.8 391.2 Koç Group energy intensity (GJ/million TL) Energy intensity per sector (GJ/million TL) Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 40 Climate Change Managing water risks Achieving SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation is essential tracked on all of these fields across the Group companies. for human health, environmental sustainability and In 2018, Group companies consumed 38 million m3 of economic prosperity. In addition, water risk is a significant freshwater, which was equivalent to a water density of 149 concern for any of the industries that we operate in. m3 per million TL revenue generated. Recognizing the importance of managing water risks across our operations, Koç Group Environment Committee Water Management Highlights: prepared the “Koç Group Water Risks Analysis” to examine the physical, regulatory and reputational risks in the river • Arçelik saved 237,000 m3 of water through water saving projects. basins that we operate. • Otokoç achieved a 40% reduction in water usage due following the LEED Green Office Certificate. In order to manage our water risks, we aim to reduce • Tüpraş supplied 98.5% of its water needs through wastewater recovery freshwater withdrawals by boosting water efficiency in at İzmit Refinery. production through recycling and recovery, to lower the • TürkTraktör achieved 6,584 m3 of wastewater recycling through stress on water resources through source diversification, to recycling activities. cut wastewater and improve the quality of it. Performance is Koç Group water intensity (m3/million TL) Water consumption by sectors (%) Total water withdrawal by resource (%) Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 41 Climate Change In Practice: Addressing Climate Change Impacts Focusing on Energy Efficiency economically and environmentally viable conversion of CO2 waste into In accordance with its sustainability objectives, Tüpraş, recognizing it value-added products to be used as alternative fuels or chemicals, operates in an industry with high energy consumption, concentrates development and demonstration of new and advanced CO2 capture Tüpraş, Turkey’s on maximizing energy efficiency in all its facilities. Prioritizing energytechnologies, research and development of advanced waste water largest company and efficiency projects in its investments made it possible for Tüpraş to treatment technologies and the manufacturing of energy efficient reach an energy saving of 865,238 Gcal in 2018. This energy saving materials. Partnerships initiated by Tüpraş aim to produce biosynthetic the seventh largest is equivalent to 243,666 tons of CO2 emission savings and led to a fuel with the objective of supporting low carbon development, innovating refinery in Europe, financial saving of TRY 174.4 million. technologies which make the recycling of waste heat possible and active has been addressing sustainability on an industrial scale. climate change in its Adaptation to Climate Change Recognizing the significance of adapting to climate conditions, Tüpraş Furthermore, studies carried out on the Heavy Polynuclear Aromatics business strategy for prioritizes identifying and eliminating the effects of climate change problem in Diesel Production Units (Hydrocrackers) have led to a more than a decade. which pose as a threat to its operations. Accordingly, it has acted to monthly financial saving between USD 184,000 to 1,116,000. The studies Tüpraş is focusing on preserve the vital sources of its operations, by mitigating water risks and on this field have also contributed to the company know-how and helped R&D and maximizing adjusting its production processes to manage its resources effectively. In increase efficiency of the diesel production process. Another technical collaboration with the Körfez Municipality, Tüpraş has initiated the Urban study on internal processes enabling the usage of Near Infrared energy efficiency in Waste Water Recycling Project, investing $24.8 million in İzmit Refinery technology resulted in both resource and financial saving. The study all its facilities and between 2014 and 2015. Currently, the total municipal wastewater which was ongoing since 2015 in İzmit Refinery has led to a process production processes, recovery production capacity of the refinery is 1,500 m3/hour and 98.5% efficiency due to reduced analysis times, number of analysis performed effectively taking part of the water being used at the facility comes from the waste water of the and off-spec production. Dissemination of this project in four refineries municipality. İzmit andİzmir refineries of Tüpraş are gradually working to creates USD 620.000 potential saving. in climate action and recycle industrial waste water and reuse processed waste water in the adapting its business intermediate stages. As one of the few initiatives around the globe which Collaboration to the impact of climate focuses on repurposing urban waste water recycling project and the Recognizing sharing knowledge and making collaborations as an change. In virtue of recycled-reused industrial waste water, the projects lead to the recycling essential part of sustainable development, Tüpraş makes effort to of 66.5 million m3 of water in the last three years. This means that the share its own experience on climate change with the business world. various partnerships project saved an amount of water equal to the annual consumption Participating at the 24th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP and collaborations, of an urban area around 414,000 houses . Additionally, Research & 24), which was held in Katowice, Poland, Tüpraş presented MRV Tüpraş shares its Development Benefits on the Low Carbon Development Pathway Moreover, Tüpraş experience with a took part in the preparation of the Partnership for Carbon Market Tüpraş R&D departments work to present solutions to mitigate climate Readiness (PMR) conducted by the Turkish Ministry of Environment and wide community of change impacts on the company’s business. As part of the Horizon Urban Planning, as well as the “TUSIAD Position Paper on Addressing stakeholders. 2020 programme, which is the largest European Union Research & Climate Change”. As part of its collaboration with the Körfez Municipality, Innovation Programme, Tüpraş has established various partnerships the company held meetings with several local municipalities, the Ministry and has taken action to promote energy efficiency projects, the of Forest and Water Management, along with NGOs and universities. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 42 Waste At Koç Holding it is of the utmost importance to manage waste in the most environmentally friendly way, which is enabling circular methodologies in our operations. In other words, we aim to reduce the waste generated and continuously increase the proportion of waste which is recycled and reused. Furthermore, we practice ways to safely treat and dispose the residual waste. We identify possible effects of our waste and treat them accordingly. As of today, 17% of our total waste generated is labelled as hazardous waste, which is held as highly significant and treated accordingly. With our practices on waste management we aim to lead the industries we operate in and the communities we are in touch with towards a more circular way of managing the waste generated. We believe this transformation is significant in order to build a future with higher responsibility of the waste generated. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 43 Climate Change In Practice: Circular Economy and Tackling Plastic Wastes Arçelik aims to create shared value for Grundig electric vacuum cleaner was manufactured using plastic waste. 90% made of recycled plastic materials obtained in Arçelik’s recycling all its stakeholders, following its vision plants. In 2018, the product won the “Recycled Plastic Consumer and strategy, where business efforts and Lifestyle Product Of the Year” award, at “The Plastics Recycling Show sustainability are interlinked. In line to this, Europe” which was awarded by Crain and Plastics Recyclers Europe. Arçelik gives high importance to circular In order to further combat against the plastic pollution and contribute economy, which enables recyclable or to a circular waste management system, Arçelik uses PET bottles to reusable waste to be handled as input in manufacture some part of the washing machines. Using this approach Arçelik recycled 15 million PET bottles from the beginning of the project the new production processes. until 2018 year-end. As the project expands, the target is to recycle 25 million PET bottles; thus, to save 5.7 million kWh energy equivalent to In 2014, acting with extended producer responsibility, Arçelik 1,700 households annual electricity consumption and to prevent 885 tons established waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) recycling of carbon dioxide emissions. The ghost fishing nets constitute a major facilities in Bolu and Eskişehir in order to regain its products in nature threat to marine life. Arçelik has developed innovative high-performance and to encourage the evaluation of its products as a resource. In the plastic materials using those recycled fishing nets and the materials are same year, Arçelik initiated Turkey’s greatest recycling movement with the approved for oven productions. motto “Let’s Return to Nature.” In the campaign, all old white goods and televisions, regardless of their brands, were exchanged with the new and The efforts to reuse or recycle plastic are not the sole actions taken to efficient Arçelik products. combat plastic waste. Alternative methods to replace plastics are also being investigated for at Arçelik. The bio-plastic project developed by As a white goods manufacturer in Turkey, Arçelik, the first and only Arçelik enables plant-based resources such as corn starchto be used company to set up its own recycling plant, also initiated the Great instead of petrol-based plastics. Thanks to the bio-materials developed Renewal Movement in 2018 and took used white goods regardless of by Arçelik, the life-span and durability of bio-plastics are increased in their brand from end-users’ and replaced them with new environmentally durable goods and home appliance applications have increased. friendly products. Between the years of 2014 and 2018, the energy saving as a result of the recycling processes within the two plants was For a more efficient transformation towards the bio-plastics Arçelik works 202.1 GWh which is equivalent to annual energy production of 32 wind in collaboration with its European partners within the frame of EU Horizon turbines with a capacity of 2.5 MW. Also, as a result of this movement, 2020 BIO4SELF Project. 3.6 million tons of water was saved which is equivalent to the daily water consumption of about 4.5 million households. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 44 Biodiversity Human activity on a global scale has a potential to threaten the Conservation Centre, an NGO specialized in biodiversity biodiversity and ecosystems. The potential negative impacts protection. According to this plan, we are continuously seeking need to be dealt with in order to restore the environmental ways to minimize the impacts caused by our operations. We sustainability, as well as to ensure economic and human aim to provide effective land management and biodiversity development. In line with this, our environmental strategy protection. The biodiversity action plan incorporates includes the conservation of biodiversity, evaluation and ecosystem protection, habitat degradation, preservation for mitigation of potential negative impacts of our operations. We all species and particularly those whose existences are under prioritize these fields and summarize our biodiversity approach threat as well as endemic species and soil protection. Our under four pillars. actions in this area also help us contribute to the SDGs, in particular to Goal 14 (Life Below Water) and Goal 15 (Life on Koç Holding Environmental Committee has created Land). a biodiversity action plan in cooperation with Nature Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 45 .Community Volunteers at I Design the Future For My Country training Strengthen communities. Together Strengthen communities. Together our stakeholders. It all begins within our business networks before reaching out to the suppliers and the wider community. It is important to think carefully about where we focus our efforts. Through our community investments, we aim to create sustainable, scalable and Aiming for better, across society replicable models for wide dissemination and lasting impact in the five focus areas of Lead. Together digital transformation, innovation, future At Koç Group, we believe that strong and stable communities are vital talent, diversity & inclusion and climate change. With our leadership foundations for building successful business. Over the years, we have in sustainability, we help communities transform and build a better been a first-mover in supporting community investment initiatives. future. Therefore, we focus on the societal effects of complex issues Today, we focus on driving large-scale and long-lasting social change material to Koç Group and partnering with stakeholders to increase the programmes. Through the impact we have, our business becomes prosperity and equality in the world, where we do business. By doing stronger, our family becomes connected, future generations have more so, we aim to create shared benefits for the society and our business. opportunities, and everyone in society feels part of something that matters. It is important to think carefully about where we focus our efforts. Through our community investments, we aim for wide dissemination Leveraging our scale to drive change and lasting impact in the five focus areas of Lead. Together digital transformation, innovation, future talent, diversity & inclusion and Our scale means we have the potential to create a paradigm shift in the climate change. Focusing on the societal effects of complex issues areas in which we invest. When our employees, distributors, suppliers material to Koç Group and partnering with stakeholders to increase the and their families are combined, we provide access to an audience prosperity and equality of the world we work in benefits society as well of half a million people that other businesses cannot easily reach. as our business. Engaging this many people in effecting change can start a movement that spreads through communities and beyond, and positively Scrutinizing the future of community transforming society. Coupled with this, we work in a wide range of industries – from food processing to energy, consumer durables to At Koç Group, we aim to reflect future-oriented thinking in all areas finance. This means we can build interdisciplinary teams that are of our business. A digital future awaits us, where our daily lives, inclusive of diverse talents to make creative interventions and to scale relationships, working environment, economic and social lives are prosperity in many high impact areas. redefined by the increasing impact of digital technologies. In this emerging future, the focus areas of Lead. Together are all intersecting Building the world we want to live in and equally relevant. We, therefore, concentrate on the social change essential to digital transformation, innovation and future talents. Our stakeholders recognize us as a driving force in society. We, too, In addition, gender equality continues to stay on our community see ourselves as a unique part of the socio-economic landscape. In investment agenda, with respect to the great importance we give to parallel with the SDGs, we imagine and build the world we want in diversity & inclusion. 2030 through transformative partnerships and with the momentum of Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 47 For My Country: I Design the Future As Koç Group, through our community investments, we aim for delivered by Koç Group volunteers. The aim of the session wide dissemination and lasting impact for the society. Our target is to discuss how rapid change results in uncertainty, how is to understand the societal effects of complex issues material to technology is widely used and accessible, how technology Koç Group. is solving complex issues at scale and what each of us can do to shape our futures. The For My Country platform was launched as a social • Future Workshop-1: 1-day workshop that targets at responsibility initiative in 2006 to mobilize Koç Group’s vast deeply exploring the different perspectives on future and network of employees, suppliers and distributors in different technology. fields of sustainable development. The focus area of the platform • Future Workshop-2: It is a 1-day workshop that includes changes every three years. Over the course of next three years, futuristic methodologies. Participants work on future our motto will be “For My Country: I Design the Future”. We will scenarios, understand the trends and their impact. At the concentrate our efforts on understand the complex relationship end, each participant prepares a personal manifesto to between digital transformation, innovation and future talent. imagine their role in their desired future scenario. In a world of fast-paced change, technology is redefining The programme will help Koç Group employees, our ecosystem the way we live and the way we do business. In line with this of suppliers and distributors to get familiar with the rapid change transition, adaptation and transformation are key issues in order in technology and their impact on our business and daily lives. to sustain the business and further inspire communities. We will, These tools are disseminated through 120 volunteer employees therefore, focus our community investments on how technology as well as more than 80 volunteer distributors. We target at is shaping and changing our lives and how we can transform reaching out 95,000 employees, nearly 10,000 distributors and the way we do business accordingly. We target at empowering teenagers in 20 cities. While introducing these concepts at individuals to shape their futures and to rethink their relationships Group level, we aim to channel our community investments in the with technology. Koç Group has partnered with Deloitte Digital same direction for a larger impact. to develop the content of the programme and the Community Volunteers Foundation for dissemination of the project. The program offers several tools for individuals to explore their perception of the future and their relationship with technology. The tools are designed as different stages of progress. • Future compass: An online self-assessment tool that helps individuals to define their personal roadmap in this changing environment. With a 20-minute experience, individuals can explore their perception on shaping future as well as their relationship with technology. • Designing the Future Sessions: These are 1-hour sessions Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 48 Investing in 21st Century Skills in Vocational Training Koç Group has been investing in vocational training for One of the unique components of the project is that more than a decade and carried out a comprehensive students have a chance to meet the industry as early programme, Vocational Training: A Crucial Matter for the as possible in the 9th grade through design thinking Nation from 2006 to 2013. In collaboration with Vehbi Koç workshops. In addition, IBM volunteers inform the students Foundation and the Ministry of National Education, the and the teachers on concepts with growing importance, programme aimed at creating awareness in all segments of such as cloud technology, blockchain, artificial intelligence, society on the importance of vocational technical education cybersecurity and software development. In the pilot phase, as well as positioning business as a key stakeholder in we worked very closely with more than 50 teachers and 500 vocational training. students. Currently, a blueprint of the pilot phase is being prepared and disseminated to other schools in the coming The main outcome of the programme was “Schoolyear. Company Collaboration Model” which puts forward the major components of collaboration such as on-the-job trainings, mentorship opportunities and establishment of labs in schools with real time technologies. The Model has been disseminated with key stakeholders in vocational training. Additionally, with the adoption of Industry 4.0 technologies, there is an emerging need for 21st century skills. With the learnings of the previous vocational training investments, Koç Holding and IBM is partnering with the Ministry of National Education to pilot a sustainable business-school partnership model to strengthen the vocational training ecosystem for 21st century skills. The partnership targets to empower the school to put forward strategies which are adaptable to the changing conditions. Accordingly, teachers and students are equipped through trainings and workshops design thinking methodology, critical thinking skills and empathy. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 49 Gender Equality Gender equality is vital to advance social progress, improve finance sectors. These industries are traditionally male human development and build more equitable societies. dominant; thus we see that barriers in equal access to Yet, much remains to be done. According to the Sustainable economic participation and gender-sensitive workplaces Development Goals Progress of Goal 5 in 2018*, while can only be overcome by eliminating gender stereotypes in some forms of discrimination against women and girls are people’s minds. For that reason, Koç Group works to shift diminishing, gender inequality continues to hold women traditional norms and be a role model. More information on back and deprives them of basic rights and opportunities. Koç Group’s efforts on diversity and inclusion can be found in the Empower people. Together section. Turkey’s performance in the area falls below the world average.** While growing globally and recognizing the In the meanwhile, we also continue to create added value trends of the world, we feel the need to invest in the by organizing and supporting projects and events in communities that we operate in. Therefore, it is critical for us the areas such as sports, culture, contemporary art and to create the right environment to foster gender equality in education. For more details on these projects, please see our Koç Holding 2018 Annual Report and Vehbi Koç our workplace, among distributors and suppliers, and in the Foundation’s website. wider community. Koç Group companies operate in various industries including the energy, durable goods, automotive and * Sustainable Development Goals Progress of Goal 5 in 2018. https:// sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdg5 ** Turkey ranked 130 among 149 countries in WEF Gender Gap Report, 2018. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 50 Gender Equality HeForShe UN Women launched the IMPACT 10x10x10 Initiative Successfully completing the first two commitments through in 2015 in order to engage key decision makers in HeForShe communications campaign and the I Support governments, corporations, and universities around the Gender Equality For My Country trainings, our efforts to world to drive change from the top. IMPACT Champions transform our work environment continue. We work to make gender equality an institutional priority by developing increase female employment in male dominant sectors and three bold, game-changing commitments to advance and introduce diversity and inclusion filters to our marketing achieve gender equality for all. and communications processes and support HeForShe Turkey’s social media accounts. We monitor gender equality Mustafa V. Koç, former Chairperson of the Board of indicators annually and report them in our sustainability Directors of Koç Holding, was also selected as an Impact reports as well as in the HeForShe Parity Reports. Champion. He supported the efforts personally and served as one of the ambassadors of the campaign. Koç Holding Chairperson Ömer M. Koç took on the leadership role after late Mustafa V. Koç. Koç Holding's three commitments to the HeForShe movement are: 1. Fund implementation of the HeForShe campaign in Turkey and mobilize 4 million supporters by 2017. 2. Empower HeForShe mobilizers at Koç to shift gender norms across Turkey, reaching 100,000 people with gender sensitization training by 2020. 3. Strengthen gender sensitive work environment to drive towards parity. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 51 Gender Equality In Practice: Addressing Stereotypes in Communications and Marketing As Koç Group, we aim to mainstream gender • Positive role models appear in the campaigns for Mother’s Day, Father’s Day and International Women’s Day. However, in the half of equality in all areas of our business and the the main trust ads, we don’t see these role models, proving that we communities we operate in. Our experience need to increase the representation of both female and male role shows that unconscious biases constitute models. the single most important challenge. For that Koç Group’s Guide to Gender Equality in Communications has been reason, we focus on addressing stereotypes embraced by the TUSIAD, Turkey’s top business organization. All the major sector associations, including the Association of Turkish by advocating and empowering role models in Advertisers, Advertising Foundation, Association of Communications unconventional roles and mobilizing stakeholders Consulting Companies, Public Relations Association of Turkey and in and outside of business world. Association of Corporate Communicators, became dissemination partners for the guide. These organizations now circulate the guide In order to introduce a gender filter to our communications, we among their members and implement the workshops for their teams and developed “Guide to Gender Equality in Communications”. The Guide stakeholders. is designed as a communication standard for Koç Group; therefore compliance is a necessity. Through Gender Sensitive Communications Association of Turkish Advertisers, later, launched the RVD Platform Workshops, marketing and communications professionals from 8 Koç on Gender Equality in Advertising to tackle gender stereotypes in Group companies and 30 advertising/PR agencies have internalized the advertising. The first activity of the Platform was the academic research key criteria introduced in the Guide. based on the analysis of gender roles depicted in 489 Effie awardwinning television commercials in Turkey from 2007 to 2018. According We designed a digital monitoring mechanism to evaluate all TV to the results; commercials of our brands. With this mechanism, we provide gender auditing for TV commercials and also keep track of the teams’ gender• Only 35% of main characters in Turkish TV commercials are played sensitive communications skills. This provides us with a platform to by women continue the dialogue with the teams, to reward best practices and to • Only 10% of voiceovers are female better understand the current status and trends in our communications in • Women are largely associated with household products (91%), terms of gender equality. fashion (80%), beauty and personal care (63%) while men are associated with financial services (96%), electronics (83%) and According to the results of the evaluations; automotive (83%) • We observe that all brands avoid presenting women as objects of sexuality, and men as of power. Explicit gender biases are rare, Following these findings, the Platform launched The Turkish translation however, they can still can be seen in physical characteristics and of the World Federation of Advertisers’ Guide to Progressive Gender the positioning of women at home. Portrayals in Advertising. Koç Group’s video campaign for 2018 • Diversity is better reflected in the communications of social International Women’s Day is selected as an unstereotyping ad and responsibility projects; than in mainstream advertisements. explained in the guide as an example. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 52 Gender Equality In Practice: Addressing Stereotypes in Communications and Marketing Gender Stereotypes in TV Series While carrying out the Project, we realized that besides advertisements, The research results and the workshop we ran to have an in-depth visuals and language used in TV series reproduces and reinforces discussion on the roles and responsibilities of the stakeholders led to the gender discrimination as well. Moreover, when the average time spent creation of the Gender Equality Principles in TV Series. The Principles watching TV in Turkey considered, TV series offer a very important include promoting diversity in characters, rejecting stereotypes, platform to fight against traditional gender stereotypes and create a reflecting different roles and responsibilities in a balanced way, standing gender equal positioning. With this point of view, we started a project against the normalization of violence, adopting a gender-mainstreaming called Gender Equality in TV Series. Turkish Industry and Business discourse and increasing the visibility of different role models. Association became the umbrella organization of the project, and UN On March, 2018, a launch meeting was organized with the participation Women and UNFPA became the consulting partners. of major sectoral associations such as Association of Television and Cinema Producers, Screenwriters Association, Actors’ Union of Turkey In order to have a common and objective understanding around the and Advertisers Association. Together, as sector representatives, they issue, we partnered with the academicians of Kadir Has University to do commit to take action for realizing Gender Equality Principles in TV a research on the current gender situation of TV series. A consultative Series. committee including representatives from UN Women, UNFPA, Mother Child Education Foundation, Istanbul University, Kadir Has University Now we are establishing a Monitoring Platform for TV Series including and Koç University supervised the research procedure. The results of the these major sectoral associations, university and civil society study has shown that; representatives, and building a digital tool to easily monitor and evaluate ongoing shows. Under this platform, the stakeholders will have the • Having characteristics of a stereotypical woman is widely used to chance to work together and share recommendations on discriminative insult and humiliate female characters – even by women, with 62% scenes with relevant stakeholders and award best practices. of characters portrayed in this way. • 64% of shy characters are portrayed by women while 69% of vulgar From the learnings of Gender Equality in TV Series Project, we now want characters and 62% of aggressive characters are male. to speak the unspoken and bring implicit gender issues to the table to • The majority of scenes (73%) involving tears and grief belong to mobilize business world around them. We will support TUSIAD to be an female characters whereas 79% of violent scenes are played by umbrella organization that unites stakeholders around issues, initiates male characters. collaborations, generates clear solutions and develops policy and • Visibility of working women is limited. Female characters do 92% of position papers for the businesses. the household chores shown whereas businessand work-related matters belong to male characters 82% of the time. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 53 Corporate Governance and Risk Management Managing sustainability across diverse industries and Ethics and Transparency structures can be a challenging task. Our tailor-made As Koç Group, we pay high importance to ethics and approach allows us to integrate sustainability into our transparency. We have extensive global operations with business strategies by setting a central framework and numerous stakeholders around the world. Therefore, it is implementing through senior management in each essential that the Group continues to earn their trust while business. This distinctive way of managing sustainability ensuring high ethical standards and the cooperation of both enhances our competitive advantage, enables a internal and external stakeholders. continuously improving business environment and means we get the win-win of an overarching perspective that also The Koç Group Code of Ethics and Implementation reflects the specifics of the industries we work in. Principles provides guidance for all Koç Group employees on value-based and legally irreproachable conduct. Our As Koç Group, we believe that robust corporate aim is to provide clear guidance, to protect our employees, governance practice is key to the long-term productivity companies, and business partners. It outlines the basic and success of the Group Companies by helping to rules of conduct within the Group and takes a stance on improve performance and mitigate risks. For all the details ethical issues such as whether to give or accept gifts, on Corporate Governance, please refer to Koç Holding how to avoid conflicts of interest and how to deal with 2018 Annual Report. insider information. We regularly update the Code of Ethics and Implementation Principles to widen its scope and to emerging issues as well. Each Group Company's Human Resources Department is responsible for ensuring employees read and understand the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and Implementation Principles, and to document the employees' commitment to their execution. Every employee can report violations via email or the telephone line that is set up specifically for this purpose. Any such report is kept strictly confidential and is not shared with any third party. Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct also extends to our business partners. The Koç Group Code of Ethics and Implementation Principles document can be accessed here. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 54 Countering Bribery and Corruption Committee is set up under Board of Directors and therefore Our core values of honesty, integrity, and business ethics reports directly to it. The Board of Directors is periodically form the foundations of our business. Our business being informed regarding the outputs of the work carried principles require us to comply with all rules and regulations out in the Risk Management Committee, which convenes in each sector where we operate and not to accept any at least 6 times per year. In 2018, the Committee worked to form of corruption. We aim to act with integrity towards our assess the Company’s risk profile and identify the measures stakeholders while following our business principles. As to be taken in risk prone areas. Koç Group, we are sensitive and rigorous about fighting bribery and corruption. The Koç Group Code of Ethics and The speed and unprecedented scale of change introduces Implementation Principles states a zero-tolerance policy new risks constantly. We believe risk management is a on corruption and demands compliance with all relevant value-generating activity. Including non-financial risks, such laws and our own business principles. All employees and as climate change, talent management, biodiversity and all third parties acting on behalf of Koç Group are required occupational health and safety, to our risk management to comply with the rules on the fight against corruption and approach enables us to deal global trends, improve with the applicable laws and regulations. competitiveness of our Group. The Sustainability and CSR Unit is tasked with overseeing non-financial risks 5,386 employees have received training on anti-bribery, amid an accelerating change agenda. The Unit monitors nearly triple compared to last year's employees. In addition, the global trends and developments, regularly follows up 137 managers have received training on anti-bribery. with stakeholders and promotes improved sustainability We provided 3,045 employee-hours of ethics training to performance to manage these risks and address them in contractors in 2018, resulting in a 48% increase compared a pro-active manner. This approach enables us to identify to 2017. potential risk and impact areas in advance and helps Group companies to take necessary actions to mitigate and Risk Management manage non-financial risks. Sustainability management is closely tied to our management of risk and opportunities. We are investing For further details on our risk and opportunity management and preparing our companies for the future while and a detailed description of significant risks, please refer maintaining our prudence. to Koç Holding 2018 Annual Report. More information on how we manage sustainability risks and opportunities is Risk Management Committee is responsible for the overall available under “Empower people. Together” and “Act for process of risk management, which is the highest body the planet. Together” sections of this report. within the group and is led by the Finance department. The Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 55 Sustainability Governance Across Koç Group Sustainable thinking is embedded firmly at the core of Koç decide to incorporate it our business strategy enhances our Group’s business practices. Sustainability management competitive advantage, reduces costs and risks, increases enables us to take holistic view and implement it through revenues and helps safeguard the value of non-financial senior management level across diverse industries we assets. work in. The way we perceive sustainability, and how we Koç Holding Departments Sustainability Coordination Platform Koç Group Issue-Based Committees Corporate Communications Koç Holding Corporate Communications and Environment and External Affairs External Relations Director Innovation and Technology Human Resources Koç Holding Sustainability and CSR Coordinator Industrial Relations and OHS Legal Counsel Arçelik Sustainability and Corporate Affairs Director Strategic Planning Aygaz Corporate Communications Manager Investor Relations Ford Otosan Corporate Communications Finance Manager Otokar Finance Manager / Corporate Communications Manager Tat HR Director / Product Development and Quality Manager Tofaş External Relations Director Tüpraş Corporate Communications Manager/ Environment Manager Yapı Kredi CSR and Sustainability Manager Koç Group Sustainability Community Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 56 Sustainability Governance Across Koç Group How we coordinate sustainability at Group level is managed by the Holding’s Sustainability and CSR Coordinator. The Platform consists of members from Koç Our sustainability governance model at Group level Group’s publicly listed companies and report directly to provides a strong anchorage for implementing the General Managers or Assistant General Managers in their Lead. Together strategy. Sustainability and CSR Unit is respective organizations. The Platform members meet twice responsible for the overall coordination of sustainability a year to forge cross-sectoral links, to review global trends management at Koç Holding. The Unit is led by Koç and their potential impact, to discuss material issues and Holding Corporate Communications and External Affairs to share listed companies’ strategic priorities and best Departments’ Director, who reports directly to the CEO. practices. It ensures that we focus on embedding sustainability into the business by implementing decisions in the relevant Members of the Platform are: business areas. • Arçelik Sustainability and Corporate Affairs Director • Aygaz Corporate Communications Manager The main objectives and responsibilities of the Koç Holding • Ford Otosan Corporate Communications Manager Sustainability and CSR Unit include: • Otokar Finance Manager / Corporate Communications Manager • providing guidance for Koç Group companies on • Tat HR Director / Product Development and Quality cross-cutting issues, Manager • creating platforms to build a community of practice, • Tofaş External Relations Director • building relationships with internal and external • Tüpraş Corporate Communications Director stakeholders at different levels, • Yapı Kredi CSR and Sustainability Manager • acting as a hub for learning and development of managing sustainability priorities. Sustainability Coordination Platform is mainly responsible for informing Group companies about Koç Holding’s Koç Group Sustainability Coordination Platform sustainability agenda. The Platform contributes to the development of shared standards among the Sustainability Clear responsibilities and decision-making processes Community, strengthens stakeholder engagement, tracks assure the efficiency of our operations. Koç Group sustainability performance management and develops best Sustainability Coordination Platform is supported by a practice in line with Koç Group Sustainability Guide. wider network, known as sustainability community and Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 57 Sustainability Governance Across Koç Group Koç Group Issue-Based Committees How sustainability is organized at Koç Group: role of Koç Holding Sustainability and CSR Unit Three different issue-based committees monitor the progress – and potential risks – of the Lead. Together and The Unit focuses to build a community of practitioners and report to Koç Holding C-level in their respective areas. provide thought leadership to facilitate collective progress. Committee members meet several times throughout the The Unit develops platforms to bring together sustainability year. The Sustainability and CSR Unit works closely with professionals from Platform members Companies’, create issue-based committees within the Group. Members of the the suitable environment for sharing and learning, bring Unit regularly attend committee meetings to review how external know-how to reach international standards and sustainability and business strategies are aligned and to scale best practices and develops a tool, Koç Group ensure that the strategic direction and actions taken are in Sustainability Guide. line with Koç Holding’s sustainability agenda. Koç Group Sustainability Guide Koç Group Sustainability Community Through the Guide, we aim to: Koç Group Sustainability Community consist of • Build group-wide sustainability leadership capacity Sustainability Coordination Platform, Koç Group Issue• Develop an integrated approach for sustainability and Based Communities and Koç Holding Departments. business strategies The Community operates closely with the Sustainability • Align sustainability practices such as issue Coordination Platform in order to implement sustainability management, stakeholder engagement, setting up strategies within relevant functions of Group companies. and monitoring key performance indicators (KPIs) and The Community brings together mid-level managers from implementation and dissemination of best practices, a wide range of expertise areas, including environment, across industries and companies human resources, innovation, digital transformation, • Create a shared understanding for sustainability within auditing, purchasing, legal and corporate communications Koç Group companies. functions. The Community meets twice a year under the leadership of the Sustainability and CSR Unit to share best practices, discuss industry-specific issues, develop stakeholder engagement and highlight the contribution of each function within the overall Lead. Together strategy. These meetings include, but are not limited to, team members from companies represented in the Platform. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 58 Making It Happen with Stakeholders As Koç Group, we believe sustainability communication with stakeholders requires a goal-oriented approach and our foremost objective is to consistently create value for Lead. Together sets us a framework for our stakeholders. Therefore, our sustainability approach and the way we manage it, is aligned with SDG 17. The making collective progress and helps 2030 Agenda requires effective collaborations between us harness the power of our network to all stakeholders and an integrated approach in order to drive positive change and develop every achieve the seventeen SDGs. SDG 17 specifically aims at creating this commitment, partnerships and collaborations. person and organization we engage with. Increasing partnerships with external Stakeholder outreach and integration is key driver for stakeholders is crucial for progress group companies’ success. We created a comprehensive and managing such collaborations in approach to identify expectations and opinions of our stakeholders on environment, human and employee rights, a more efficient way. Our stakeholders transparency and ethics, innovation, diversity and inclusion expect us to lead by example. When we and bring stakeholder perspective into our sustainability grow, others grow. When we innovate strategy in order to nourish our business, gain profit and generate tangible. We aim to meet the competing for the better, others follow. When we expectations and interests of shareholders, investors, create more added values and respond employees, group companies, distributors, customers, civil to changes in technology, business society organization, governmental authorities and entities, industry associations and universities in a transparent and and society, we start a ripple effect equal way. that extends out to all our industries, our business partners and the wider Each Group company engages stakeholders at different ways and levels which provide essential input for us community. in creating sustainability strategies and practices. Stakeholder engagement is also is tracked via management performance targets. 102-42 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 59 Making It Happen with Stakeholders Stakeholder Groups Engagement Relevancy Material Issue Relevancy Our response (Related report sections) • Digital transformation • To ensure sustainable and profitable growth • Innovation Shareholders Corporate Governance and Risk Management • To deliver the digital transformation and innovation agenda • Social responsibility programmes and Investors • To become a role model that drives change in society • Stakeholder dialogue Grow the Business. Together • Risk Management • Employee rights and human rights • Talent management • To be more appealing to the best emerging talent • Employee engagement Empower people. Together Employees • To create an inclusive culture for a collaborative workplace • Occupational health and safety Corporate Governance and Risk Management • Diversity and inclusion • Ethics and transparency • Countering bribery and corruption • Leadership in sustainability • Climate change management • To transform our business for the better Grow the Business. Together Group Companies • To provide guidance on managing sustainability • Waste management Act for the Planet. Together • Biodiversity • Water stewardship • Leadership in sustainability Suppliers & • To support the transformation of SMEs Grow the Business. Together • Responsibility in the value chain Distributors • To increase the standards related to sustainability issues • Supporting local development Strengthen communities. Together • Customer satisfaction and • To serve our customers better, faster, with a fully Customers customized experience and personalised customer orientation Grow the Business. Together • Privacy and cybersecurity • Community investment programmemes • To unify efforts in order to offer solutions to sustainability issues • Stakeholder dialogue • To act in line with the expectations of beneficiaries and local • Climate change management Strengthen communities. Together Civil Society Organization Communities • Waste management Act for the Planet. Together • To commit resources on areas that matter to stakeholders • Biodiversity • Water stewardship • Community investment programmemes Governmental Authorities • To develop scalable action in order to solve complex • Stakeholder dialogue Strengthen communities. Together and Entities sustainability issues • Leadership in sustainability • Community investment programmemes • To develop scalable action in order to solve complex International Organizations sustainability issues • Stakeholder dialogue Strengthen communities. Together • Leadership in sustainability • To initiate joint action in order to contribute to crossindustry issues • Leadership in sustainability Strengthen communities. Together Industry Associations • Digital transformation Grow the Business. Together • To initiate self-assessment, self-regulation tools for the transformation of the business world • Partnerships, cooperation and joint projects, support for • Community investment programmemes Universities research projects, know-how transfer through internship • Stakeholder dialogue Strengthen communities. Together and courses • Leadership in sustainability 102-40 / 102-43 / 102-44 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 60 Making It Happen with Stakeholders The way we engage with stakeholders We engage with stakeholders on an ongoing basis and aim innovation, and foster creativity. This kind of two-way to establish continued trust-based dialogue. There are three communication develops meaningful opportunities and levels of stakeholder engagement regarding sustainability results as partnerships lasting for a pre-determined issues at Koç Group companies which help us to improve period. Increasing partnership with external stakeholders, our business and create added value for all stakeholders. an important source of innovation, and managing these The frequency of stakeholder communication depends on collaborations more effectively. the nature, expectations and needs of the target audience. 3. Multi-stakeholder Initiatives: Addressing and tackling 1. Supports: This level of engagement includes supporting complex environmental and social issues requires multievents aiming to increase awareness or capacity building. stakeholder initiatives. In line of our sustainability leadership It covers one way and short-term engagement with vision, our stakeholders expect us to trigger the change stakeholders such as sponsorships, scholarships, and reaching out to the whole community and we respond donations. effectively to stakeholder expectations With this in mind, we are ever-present in local and international multi-stakeholder 2. Partnerships: We believe that in order to achieve SDGs, initiatives that gather different parties such as private and strong partnerships are necessary at all levels and between public sector, international organizations, non-governmental different governments, the private sector and civil society. bodies and universities to manage material topics in large We work together with external stakeholder partners such scale. Koç Holding takes part in multi-stakeholder initiatives as private and public sector, international organizations, where an issue has wider effects within the society and non-governmental bodies, universities to manage common requires the presence of various stakeholders in order to and material sustainability issues. We assess partnerships Lead. Together narrative. according to the potential to create value, enable further 102-42 / 102-43 / 102-44 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 61 Making It Happen with Stakeholders Stakeholder Groups & Engagement Methods Stakeholder Groups Engagement Platforms & Tools Communication frequency General Assembly meeting, meetings upon requests in different Shareholders countries, road shows and conferences, quarterly webcasts, investor relations bulletin, website, and the iPad app; e-mails, teleconferences, At least once a week and Investors financial (quarterly and annually) and sustainability reports, credible stock exchange indices Intranet, electronic communication tools, monthly internal magazine “News from Us”, meetings and organizations on regular basis, Website Employees and the iPad apps, employee engagement surveys, volunteering On a daily basis programmes Internal meetings and workshops, issue, function and industry Group Companies specific committees On a daily basis Anatolian Meetings (with the participation of CEO, Chairman of Suppliers & the Board and Executives), “News from Us” magazine, capacity At least once a week Distributors building trainings, workshops Daily support by Communication form on the website, phone or e-mail, call telephone and email. Customers centers, satisfaction surveys Once a year by survey Memberships, cooperation and joint projects, workshops, project Civil Society Organization partnerships, annual and sustainability reports. Every two weeks Governmental Authorities Every two weeks Workshops, cooperation on joint projects and Entities Multi-stakeholder initiatives and partnerships, cooperation and International Organizations joint projects, roundtables, memberships Every two weeks Multi-stakeholder initiatives and partnerships, participation in Industry Associations management level, memberships Every two weeks Partnerships, cooperation and joint projects, support for research Universities projects, know-how transfer through internship and courses Every two weeks 102-47 / 102-49 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 62 Materiality Analysis With many industries we operate in, we have a great government institutions, international organizations, NGOs potential for positive impact. Sustainable economic business organizations, research centers, opinion leaders, development can only be possible if environmental and start-ups and universities both at national and international social needs are met. In order to address these needs level. and be part of solutions, we work in collaboration with our stakeholders. In line with our strategic approach We have enriched the stakeholder opinion and vision Lead. Together, where sustainability is put to the core of with the external trends, in order to have a more thorough our decision making, we executed a materiality analysis. assessment of external opinions on sustainability issues The aim of this analysis is to validate our sustainability relevant to Koç Group. We made this possible through approach Lead.Together and review material sustainability the assessment of the global initiatives and decision issues for Koç Holding. By reviewing these material mechanisms and inclusion of these outcomes to the issues periodically, we enable to both meet stakeholder materiality analysis. These parties which are directly expectations, generate shared value for all our stakeholders and indirectly linked to the many business areas we are on numerous industries and areas we operate in and be active in are also important in terms of setting the global in line with global sustainability trends. To achieve this, sustainability trends. World Economic Forum’s The Global this, we adopted a comprehensive methodology, including Risks Report 2019, UN Sustainable Development Goals, Holding strategy, internal and external stakeholders, global Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) trends and a SASB 4 Factor Analysis. materiality map considering an industry based assessment of potential impacts on companies, 2019 Strategy of Materiality Analysis Presidency of Republic of Turkey and other lawmaker institutions are some of the many parties which have been Priorities for Koç Holding Priorities for Stakeholders included to the study. Koç Holding Annual Reports and External Trends Investor Kit Stakeholder Analysis We have included our business and sustainability strategy Sustainability Approach to the study in order to determine our material issues. SASB 4 Factor Analysis Additionally, we have included the SASB 4 Factor Analysis, which reflects an integrated thinking and management Stakeholder expectations and appeals are critical in order structure in our analysis. It provides a risk analysis of the to understand the needs of the society and the planet. main sustainability issues, based on likelihood and impact In line with this, in our initial analysis, stakeholders were assessment. We analysed each issue, whether they have asked to respond to questions on critical mega trends a direct financial impact on the business, with respect to and sustainability issues, implications of megatrends and legal, regulatory and policy drivers, their potential to create issues on emerging markets, business’ role in contributing a differentiation opportunity regarding competitiveness and the SDGs, material issues for Koç Holding and roles and potential innovation opportunities. expectations from Koç Holding. The stakeholders included Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 63 Materiality Analysis Important Very Important Extremely Important Priorities for Stakeholders 100 17 90 10 80 1 18 20 The materiality analysis, which 11 6 8 70 2 3 served as a validation of our 4 19 12 22 16 priority issues revealed results 7 60 14 which comply with our existing 5 15 material issues such as digital 50 21 9 transformation, innovation, 40 13 talent management, diversity and inclusion, and climate 30 change. Risk management, ethics and transparency, 20 countering bribery and 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 corruption, employee Priorities for Koç Holding engagement and occupational health and safety have always been part of the way we do business. We will continue 1. Ethics and transparency 12. Responsibility in the value chain to manage and report our 2. Countering bribery and corruption 13. Customer satisfaction and customer orientation performance on these issues. 3. Talent management 14. Privacy and cybersecurity Furthermore, privacy and 4. Employee rights and human rights 15. Supporting local development cybersecurity came out as an 5. Employee engagement 16. Leadership in sustainability emerging issue which may 6. Occupational health and safety 17. Climate change management have a potential impact on our 7. Diversity and inclusion 18. Waste management business in the near future. 8. Digital transformation 19. Biodiversity 9. Product quality and safety 20. Water stewardship 10. Innovation 21. Community investment programmemes 11. Risk management 22. Stakeholder dialogue (Extremely important and very important material issues are marked with red) Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 64 Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 65 Performance Indicators Environmental Performance Indicators Energy Savings and Reduction in Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Year Water Consumption (m3) Waste by type (tons) Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 66 GRI Index GRI Standard GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Disclosure Page Number(s) and/or URL(s) GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational Profile 102-1 3 102-2 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/sectors https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/list-of-brands 102-3 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/about/headquarters 102-4 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/international-network-of-koc-group 102-5 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/corporate-overview-and-governance/shareholder-structure 102-6 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/financial-statements-and-statistics/AnnualReports/Koc-Holding-2018-Annual-Report.pdf 102-7 25, 65, https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/financial-statements-and-statistics/AnnualReports/Koc-Holding-2018-Annual-Report.pdf 102-8 25, 65 102-9 22 102-10 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/financial-statements-and-statistics/AnnualReports/Koc-Holding-2018-Annual-Report.pdf 102-11 9, 10, 22, 32, 35, 37, 38, 47, 54, 55, 56, 57, 59 102-12 3, 9, 10, 22, 32, 35, 37, 38, 47, 54, 55, 56, 57, 59, 62 102-13 32, 51 Strategy 102-14 4, 5 102-15 9, 11 GRI 102: Ethics and Integrity General Disclosures 2016 102-16 54, https://www.koc.com.tr/tr-tr/hakkinda/Documents/Koc-Group-Code-of-Ethics-and-Business-Conduct.pdf Governance 102-18 56-58, https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/about/organization-chart Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 60 102-41 32 102-42 59, 61 102-43 60, 61 102-44 60, 61 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Reporting Practice Services reviewed that the 102-45 3 GRI content index is clearly 102-46 3 presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-47 9, 10, 11, 64 102-49 align with appropriate 102-48 No such restatements were made in this report. sections in the body of the report. For the Materiality 102-49 3, 9, 10, 11, 64 Disclosures Service, GRI 102-50 3 Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly 102-51 3 presented and the references 102-52 3 for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate 102-53 3 sections in the body of 102-54 3 the report. The service was performed on the English 102-55 67-68 version of the report. 102-56 Information and data presented in this report has not been independently verified. Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 67 GRI Index GRI Standard GRI 200: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE SERIES 2016 Disclosure Page Number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Economic Performance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 13, 14 103-2 13, 14 103-3 13, 14 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/financial-statements-and-statistics/AnnualReports/Koc-Holding-2018-Annual-Report.pdf 201-2 https://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/financial-statements-and-statistics/AnnualReports/Koc-Holding-2018-Annual-Report.pdf GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS SERIES 2016 Energy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 37-39 103-2 37-39 103-3 37-39 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 40, 66 302-3 40, 66 302-4 40, 66 Water GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 37-39 103-2 37-39 103-3 37-39 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 41, 66 303-3 41, 66 Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 37-39 103-2 37-39 103-3 37-39 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 40, 66 305-2 40, 66 305-4 40, 66 305-5 40, 66 Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 37-39 103-2 37-39 103-3 37-39 GRI 306: Waste 2016 306-2 43, 66 Suplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 22 103-2 22 103-3 22 GRI 308: Suplier Environmental 308-2 22 Assessment 2016 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 68 GRI Index GRI Standard GRI 400: SOCIAL STANDARDS SERIES 2016 Disclosure Page Number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Employment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 24-27 103-2 24-27 103-3 24-27 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 65 401-3 32 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 35 103-2 35 103-3 35 GRI 403: Occupational Health and 403-1 35 Safety 2016 403-2 35 Training and Education GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 26-27 103-3 26-27 103-3 26-27 GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 27 404-2 27-29 404-3 34 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 32 103-2 32 103-3 32 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-1 65 Opportunity 2016 Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 32 103-2 32 103-3 32 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 32 Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 22 103-2 22 103-3 22 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 22 2016 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 69 GRI Index GRI Standard MATERIAL TOPICS Disclosure Page Number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Digital Transformation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 14, 15, 18 103-2 14, 15, 18 103-3 14, 15, 18 Innovation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 19-21 103-2 19-21 103-3 19-21 Risk Management GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 54, 55 103-2 54, 55 103-3 54, 55 Koç Group Sustainability Report 2018 70 Acknowledgements We would like to thank following individuals and companies for their support and collaboration. Sustainability Narrative and Design: Radley Yeldar Sustainability Performance and Reporting: S360 Report Design: Caretta Communication & Consultancy Photography: Muhsin Ergün For more information Koç Holding Corporate Communications and External Affairs Sustainability and CSR Unit sustainability@koc.com.tr
