KIRIN CSV REPORT 2019 Kirin Holdings Company, Limited KIRIN CSV REPORT 2019 Printed in Japan Kirin Holdings Company, Limited Published July 2019 Corporate slogan A bo u t t h e le g e n da r y k i r i n The KIRIN is a mythical creature that was thought to bring happiness and good fortune to people. According to ancient Chinese myths, the KIRIN was believed to appear during blessed occasions. It was portrayed as a merciful animal that could ﬂy, keeping its feet oﬀ the ground to avoid stepping on insects and grass. The KIRIN was also regarded as a symbol of the joy that comes with peaceful and tranquil times. Since ﬁrst appearing on the Kirin Beer label in 1888, this image of a KIRIN has been featured on Kirin products for over 130 years, expressing the Company’s hope to enrich people’s lives. Inspired by this symbol, all members of the Kirin Group will Joy brings us together strive to continue bringing happiness and joy to customers in the years to come. This phrase captures the Kirin Group’s spirit, guiding us into the future. We believe that no matter how much the world may change, the joy of living a full and healthy life, in mind and body, brings us happiness -for ourselves, for those we love, and for the whole society. Joy is the essence of what holds people and society together. Joy inspires us and generates positivity. The joy of healthy living. The joy of living in harmony with our local communities. The joy of connecting with other people. Kirin promises to keep working to spread the beneﬁts of joy. 1 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 2 KIRIN CONTENTS Editorial Policy CSV 1 4 Corporate slogan Editorial Policy/Publications available on Kirin’s global website REPORT Aiming to become a global leader in creating shared value (CSV), the Kirin Group is striving to create value in business 2027 and the new 2019 – 2021 Medium-Term Business Plan are explained in detail by the CEO and CFO of Kirin Holdings. 2019 5 Past and Present domains spanning from food & beverages to pharmaceutiThe report also features the Group’s model for creating 9 New Approach to Business cals under its long-term management vision, Kirin Group value, which incorporates the new vision and Kirin’s unique Vision 2027, now in its ﬁrst year in 2019. To signal its new strengths, along with its long history and current areas of Path to Sustainable Growth direction toward achieving this goal, Kirin Holdings changed operations around the world. Readers are invited to make 11 Message from Top Management the name of its annually published integrated report to use of this report to gain a better understanding of the Kirin 17 Value Creation Model Kirin CSV Report. In this year’s report, Kirin Group Vision Group’s new path forward. 19 Interview with the Chief Financial Oﬃcer 22 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Publications available on Kirin’s global website 23 Strengthening Our Non-Financial Assets Kirin’s global website oﬀers a wide range of clearly presented information for stakeholders, including integrated reports published annually, data books, and reports covering environmental initiatives, corporate governance, and ﬁnancial results. For detailed information about ﬁnancial results, ESG-related data, and other aspects of the Kirin Group’s performance, please refer to the following publications and webpages. The Stories behind Kirin’s Commitment to Creating Shared Value 31 Kirin Group CSV Purpose and CSV Commitment ESG Data webpage CSV Report 2019 Periodically updated 33 Case1 Health and Well-being: Improving quality of life of patients around the world Published in July 2019 The webpage shows various annual results related to 35 Case2 Health and Well-being: Leveraging technological assets to provide functional This entire booklet version of this CSV environmental, social, and governance criteria. ingredients that contribute to health Report is also available on Kirin’s https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/esg_gri/ website, along with integrated reports 37 Case3 Community Engagement: Aiming to boost sales of Château Mercian in published in previous years, all collaboration with grape-growing communities featuring ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial 39 Case4 The Environment: Reducing GHG emissions by 36% and annual fuel costs results, as well as initiatives taken 2019 – 2021 Medium-Term Business Plan webpage every year to increase corporate value. by 1 billion yen through a switchover to electricity https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/ Published in February 2019 41 Case5 A Responsible Alcohol Producer: Shaping a positive drinking culture that ir/library/integrated/ The webpage features the 2019 – 2021 Medium-Term brings people together in Australia and New Zealand Business Plan, a Group’s ﬁrst three-year plan focused on realizing the Kirin Group Vision 2027 long-term management vision. Advances in Each Businesses and Risk Management https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/ir/policy/medium.html Environmental Report 2019 43 Fiscal 2018 Segment and Business Overview Scheduled for publication in July 2019 45 Fiscal 2019 Market Conditions and Strategies by Segment The report details the Kirin Group’s annual environmental Corporate Governance Report 50 Risk Management activities as well as unique business-driven initiatives. Published in April 2019 It presents the Kirin Group’s annual environmental activities and how it makes use of the unique characteristics of its The report provides information on the Group’s approach Corporate Governance businesses in environmental initiatives. to and system of corporate governance, maintained in compliance with the Corporate Governance Code of Japan. 53 Discussion with Management https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/report/env/ https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/ir/governance/pdf/ 57 Evolution of the Corporate Governance System e_governance_report.pdf 58 Corporate Governance Systems 59 Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Data Book Consolidated Financial Statements and Executive Oﬃcers Periodically updated Published on March 31, 2019 61 Interview with the Outside Auditor The book presents ﬁnancial results for the past 11 years Compiled in accordance with Article 24-1 of the Financial along with data associated with each market the Group Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan, the report 63 Enhancing Management Eﬀectiveness operates in, information on the Group’s pharmaceutical includes Kirin Holding’s ﬁnancial statements along with development pipeline, and other important information. an overview of its recent performance, business results, facilities, and operations. https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/ir/library/integrated/ Financial Information https://pdf.irpocket.com/C2503/szUc/YyaT/xmRj.pdf 67 Management Analysis of Financial Position, Operating Results, and Cash Flows Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 73 Investor Information/Company Information Statements in this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements based on plans and expectations for the future. Accordingly, these forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other unpredictable factors, and may diﬀer considerably from actual results, business performance, and other future events. In addition, forecasts of ﬁscal 2019 ﬁnancial results were decided as of the disclosure of ﬁnancial 74 Third-Party Evaluations results on February 14, 2019. 3 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 4 Past and Present Creating an optimal business portfolio in response to changes in the operating environment Building a unique business portfolio spanning from Food & Beverages to Pharmaceuticals The Kirin Group has been able to ﬂexibly adapt to changes in Percent of revenue Percent of normalized society and the marketplace throughout its history. In the Beverages, operating proﬁt food and Japan Beer and 1950s, when demand for beer was on the rise in Japan in Spirits Japan Beer other products and Spirits 2018 tandem with the country’s rapid economic growth, Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd., succeeded in greatly expanding its beer 7.7% Beer 35.5% 35.1% production, sales, and shipments. By 1972, the company had 92.3% Japan Non-Alcoholic Consolidated revenue Japan Non-Alcoholic secured a domestic market share of about 60% for Kirin brand Beverages ¥1,930.5 Beverages beer, produced by its network of 12 breweries nationwide. 14.7% billion 9.9% Leveraging its ability to adapt and respond to new market trends and consumer needs, the Group established Kirin 1980 Oceania Integrated Beverages Consolidated normalized Oceania Integrated Beverage Company, Ltd., in 1963, which went on to expand Revenue Beverages Operating proﬁt ¥855.8 17.1% 22.0% ¥199.3 the soft drink business. Then in 1972, the Group launched its whiskey business with the establishment of the forerunner to billion Pharmaceuticals and billion Kirin Distillery Co., Ltd. Later, the Kirin Group created its ﬁrst Bio-Chemicals Pharmaceuticals and Bio-Chemicals long-term management vision in 1981, through which it set clear goals for continuous growth and proceeded to further 17.6% 25.0% diversify its business portfolio. Diversiﬁcation included entry Others Others into the life sciences market, which was projected to grow over the medium and long terms, leading to the establish15.2% 8.1% ment of Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., in 2008. Through this New reportable segments steady expansion, the Kirin Group has continued to oﬀer new The breakdown of operating proﬁt by segment was calculated before management fee deductions value to consumers while building a unique business portfolio equivalent to an amount excluding company-wide expenses and intersegment eliminations spanning from beverages to pharmaceuticals. (amounting to approximately ¥36.3 billion). Refer to page 44 Kirin Brewery Company founded in 1907 amid intense competition in Japan’s beer industry 10.3%* Operating proﬁt margin Japan Brewery Co., Ltd., was set up in 1885 by a number of foreign residents in Yokohama’s Yamate district, who envisioned great promise for a beer industry in Japan. To produce a 6.7% genuine German-style beer that suited the tastes of Japanese consumers, they imported 5.0% 4.8% ingredients and brewing equipment from Germany and hired a qualiﬁed German brewmaster. 2015 4.3% 2001 2008 Capital stake acquired Kirin Beer was sold in 1888 with a label featuring a kirin, a legendary creature from ancient Launch of Kirin Chu-hi Hyoketsu Establishment of in Myanmar Brewery Ltd. Chinese myths that is said to be a harbinger of good luck. When 1991 carbonated highball beverage Kyowa Hakko Establishment of 2005 Kirin Co., Ltd. Japan’s beer industry entered a time of intense competition after Kirin Beverage Co., Ltd. Launch of Kirin Nodogoshi 2007 the turn of the century, a group representing the Iwasaki family One year after the product launch, the (new genre) Establishment of Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd. original label of Kirin Beer was 1990 1998 and the companies Mitsubishi and Meidi-Ya took over Japan Brewredesigned as this label in 1889, which Launch of extremely popular 2006 Capital stake acquired in ery and, while leaving the brewery’s operations intact, established features a larger image of the kirin. This Kirin Ichiban beer Lion Nathan Limited Capital stake acquired label remains as the prototype for the * Normalized operating proﬁt from 2017 (currently Lion Pty Ltd) in Mercian Corporation Kirin Brewery Company in 1907. Kirin Lager Beer label used today. 5 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 6 Past and Present A wealth of technologies applied to strengthen In focus pharmaceuticals and bio-chemicals businesses Kirin Group 2007 1982 1990 Establishment of Kirin Pharma Co., Ltd. Entry into the Release of ESPO, 2008 pharmaceuticals business a treatment drug for renal anemia • Inauguration of Kyowa Expanding globally through mergers and acquisitions Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. • Bio-chemicals division The Kirin Group has been expanding its operations internaalcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages businesses in Austra1984 Development of a fully human split oﬀ and Kyowa Hakko tionally by actively pursuing mergers and acquisitions, focuslia, and Myanmar Brewery Ltd. Meanwhile, Kyowa Hakko Establishment of Kirin-Amgen, Inc. antibody generating Bio Co., Ltd. established ing on Asia and Oceania in particular as key markets. SubsidKirin is striving to develop global pharmaceuticals by drawing technology Kyowa Hakko Kogyo iaries around the world are now helping drive the Group’s on a wealth of bio-technologies. Development of 1949 POTELLIGENT technology, growth as a whole, including Lion Pty Ltd, an operator of Establishment of Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd. dramatically enhancing antibody activities The Kirin Group around the world 1951 Mass production of the antibiotic streptomycin for the Alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages businesses treatment of tuberculosis commenced for the ﬁrst time in Japan Pharmaceuticals and bio-chemicals businesses Entry into the pharmaceuticals business Drawing on bio-technology to break into the pharmaceutical business United Kingdom In 1981, as part of its ﬁrst long-term management vision, Guided by its long-term management vision, the Group Kyowa Kirin International plc the Kirin Group set out to expand its business into style-, stepped up eﬀorts to launch new businesses utilizing its health-, and culture-related markets, and to contribute to expertise in bio-technology, which was accumulated over people’s quality of life through its products, especially many years in fermentation and cell cultivation operations. beer, in the lifestyle industry. By proactively promoting Leveraging those technological capabilities, the Group United States more diversiﬁed operations, the Group worked to create a made advances in drug development, for which market The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of more balanced business portfolio that was less reliant on growth was projected over the medium to long terms, and Northern New England, Inc. Germany China its beer business, and forged a clear roadmap for improvfurther expands into the life sciences market. Kyowa Hakko Europe GmbH Kyowa Kirin USA Holdings, Inc. Kirin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. ing proﬁtability. China Resources Kirin Beverages ESPO® launched as the ﬁrst pharmaceutical product through a mutually beneﬁcial partnership Vietnam (Greater China) Co., Ltd.* with U.S.-based Amgen Interfood Shareholding Company Taiwan Kyowa Hakko The Group made a major step forward in its eﬀorts to anemia. Incredibly, the drug was commercialized after only Taiwan Kirin Co., Ltd. Bio U.S. Holdings, Inc. expand the pharmaceutical business in 1984, when it six years since forming the partnership, demonstrating formed a partnership with the U.S.-based biotech company Kirin’s entrepreneurial spirit and achievement for wellPhilippines Four Roses Distillery, LLC Amgen, Inc., a venture ﬁrm at that time. Combining Amgen’s collaborated work with the partner. San Miguel Brewery Inc.* leading R&D capabilities with Kirin’s manufacturing techniques, On the momentum of that success, the Group continued to Myanmar the partnership succeeded in mass producing human erythroapply its bio-technologies in drug discovery and development. Singapore Myanmar Brewery Ltd. poietin. That led to the launch of their ﬁrst pharmaceutical Its pharmaceutical business expanded as a result, and accounted Kirin Holdings Singapore Pte. Ltd. product in 1990: ESPO®, a treatment drug mainly for renal for about 10% of consolidated operating proﬁt in 2007. Kyowa Kirin Asia Paciﬁc Pte. Ltd. Accelerating outstanding growth in the pharmaceuticals business and cultivating new businesses Oceania * Company consolidated under bridging Pharmaceuticals and Food & Beverages the equity method Lion Pty Ltd In 2007, Kirin Pharma Co., Ltd., was established following 2018 with the approval and launch of Crysvita, a treatment the Group’s adoption of a pure holding company framedrug for X-linked hypophosphatemia, in Europe and the work and establishment of Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd. Kirin United States. Guided by Kirin Group Vision 2027, Kyowa Pharma then merged with Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd., in Hakko Kirin is aiming to take the next major step toward 2008 to form Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., and has been becoming a global specialty pharmaceutical company, creating new pharmaceuticals by leveraging the synergies while the Group is working to cultivate new businesses of the two companies’ antibodyand bio-related technolobridging Pharmaceuticals and Food & Beverages. gies. One of the accomplishments of this business came in 7 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 8 New Approach to Business The Kirin Group’s Corporate Philosophy has evolved Educating employees about the Kirin Group’s new approach to business The Kirin Group is committed to helping communities take ment to express its basic management concept of creating to reﬂect its new long-term management vision on challenges and creating new value for them in the process new value to stakeholders in and outside the Group. Finally, as it works to bolster its alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages the Group created a new corporate slogan, “Joy brings us business, pharmaceuticals and bio-chemicals businesses, and together,” to simply convey its fundamental business businesses bridging Pharmaceuticals and Food & Beverages. approach to customers and the public. In February 2019, the Group formulated the Kirin Group On the momentum of these initiatives, all members of Vision 2027 as a long-term management vision with the goal the Kirin Group—numbering 30,464 worldwide—are set to of making progress toward becoming a global leader in creatput the concept of CSV into practice while striving for susing shared value (CSV). It also created a new mission statetainable growth going forward. Four initiatives launched to raise awareness and guide the actions of employees The Kirin Group recognizes that to become a global leader in which employees understand the importance of the concept CSV, it will be vital to raise awareness of the basic concept and and principles of CSV, and incorporate them into their own The Kirin Group’s Corporate Philosophy principles of CSV among employees, and provide guidance so work. At the same time, the activities provide a basis for KIRIN brings joy to society by crafting food and that they can perform their responsibility of putting CSV into evaluating the performance of employees and paving the practice. Therefore, the Group has launched an educational way for their actions in the future. healthcare products inspired by the blessings of nature and campaign based on four categories of activities: top manageEach of the four types of activities will be reviewed the insights of our customers. ment-led initiatives, job-based initiatives, education and through a plan-do-check-act cycle, and the extent to which hands-on training programs, and awards and promotional the CSV concept is practiced in the workplace will be periodiactivities. These steps were taken to create an environment in cally assessed using employee questionnaires. 2027 Vision 2019 schedule of each category of activities A global leader in CSV, creating value across Main initiatives Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. our world of Food & Beverages to Pharmaceuticals 1.Top management-led initiatives 2.Job-based initiatives Group-wide newsletter ★Special edition ★Special feature on the Kirin Group Awards issued on February 15 Distribution of management messages ★Video of the president’s message “One KIRIN” Values Executive management inspections distributed on February 14 Year-round executive management inspections Passion Integrity Diversity Top management-led initiatives ★Top management workshop on June 22 Our determination to Our gratitude to our Our respect for diﬀerent Group workshops ★Executive management workshops continuously provide our stakeholders for always perspectives and values Management by objectives and customers and society with helping us move forward, that enable constructive self-control system, principles of CSV Goal setting Feedback Interim review Results assessment new value propositions and our promise to remain discussions, and our belief Performance evaluations based on innovative ideas, honest and humble in that the “diﬀerences” have and our enthusiasm to every business activity to the power to change the Workplace and departmental forums meet goals with pride in serve them better. world and create better Informational sessions led by heads of workplaces and departments the companies we work for solutions. and the brands we oﬀer. 3.Measures for providing education and hands-on training Personnel training programs for Group training sessions used for explaining the Kirin Group’s Corporate Philosophy various job levels The job levels include newly hired employees, personnel who have reached designated years of employment, newly promoted managers, middle managers, and senior managers Hands-on CSV training 4.Measures for providing awards and promotional activities Nominations ★Awards ceremony during the group-wide company Awards system president conference on June 10 Note: Underlined sections have been added or revised from the previous approach to business ★Kirin Group Corporate Philosophy promotional posters distributed on February 15 Various promotional channels Kirin Group Vision 2027 and CSV principles promoted year-round via the intranet and other internal communications 9 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 10 Path to Sustainable Growth Message from Top Management Revitalization ignites growth – creating economic and social value in Kirin’s unique portfolio of Progressive revitalization of the Kirin Group aligning each and every employee toward our common goal. food to pharmaceuticals through structural reforms raises cash flow in Through Group-wide communication and face-to-face conexisting domains while strengthening versations we drove home the fact that without following financial base through on structural reforms the Group’s future was dire. We also enhanced organizational competencies by filling The Kirin Group attained all quantitative targets of the 2016 leadership positions with talent from our own ranks and from Medium-Term Business Plan (MTBP) ending December 2018 outside the Group. This was particularly true in Marketing President & CEO which sought group revitalization through structural reforms. where we greatly improved our organizational capabilities. When I was appointed to the position of CEO in 2015 the Our business situation could not wait. We faced issues Group faced many challenges. Domestic sales of beer and not envisioned in the 2016 MTBP. Lion had no choice but to beverages were sluggish, and Brasil Kirin and Lion Dairy & end its beer distribution agreement in Australia for internaDrinks of Australia had structural issues. Our share price was tional premium brands. Sales of Nodogoshi, our new-genre depressed as investors noted our record of missed targets beer brand slowed since the launch of the 2016 MTBP. One for the then-current MTBP. investor said, “You became CEO because you were capable In formulating the 2016 MTBP we selected three key of tackling many issues at once.” Speed was of the essence issues based on our decision that revitalization required a as I demanded results and regularly discussed strategy with single-minded focus on raising profitability. Group companies while pursuing structural reforms. The first was to ”invest, strengthen and grow the profit Every Group company and employee did their best to base” of our beer business. Here we placed the highest priachieve results regardless of which issues they grappled with. ority on restimulating growth in the Group’s core , our Japan By overcoming these difficult obstacles our organizations and beer business. Second was to “invest to achieve outstanding employees gained experience and self-confidence which will growth” in our pharmaceuticals and bio-chemicals businesses. reinforce performance in a virtuous cycle. Certainly, this will Centered on Kyowa Hakko Kirin (KHK), these businesses’ boost their ability to take successful action going forward. potential as growth drivers was already recognized, though We sold off Brasil Kirin and decided we would divest ourwe had not yet clearly positioned them as core businesses. selves of Lion Dairy & Drinks business as well. This became Given that these initiatives began in the 1980s, however, the possible only because our rapid structural reforms restored time had come to make their centrality official and promote profitability so quickly. The other businesses surpassed their them to core status alongside alcoholic and non-alcoholic 2018 guidance, and cash flow of our existing businesses is beverages. Third and lastly was the task of restructuring and on a solid footing. Decisively liquidating non-core assets revitalizing low-profit businesses. Regarding these we took generated free cash flow greatly exceeding the projections the decisive position that if a low-profit business did not upon which 2016 MTBP was premised. Besides putting our achieve revitalization then we would sell it and withdraw from financial affairs on a firm foundation, this also allowed us to that domain. This would remove any temptation to try again, repurchase our own shares valued at about 100 billion yen. which would only hinder our major push in structural reforms. To pursue such a rigorous plan required motivating and Review of 2016 Medium-Term Business Plan Reached all targets Indicator Target Result ROE 15% plus 17.5% A video presentation Normalized EPS CAGR +6% plus +12.6% of the Message from Top Management is Consolidated Normalized OP ¥196.0 bn plus ¥199.3 bn accessible via QR code. 11 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 12 Path to Sustainable Growth Message from Top Management New long-term management vision for related health risks, pressure for a “sugar tax” on soft drinks, strive to create economic and social value at the same environment. While taking quick action to mitigate risk, we sustainable growth and regulatory efforts to rein in medical costs. time. Sustainable growth is simply unattainable through an will execute three growth scenarios. Though our current businesses may be buffeted by approach that makes trade-offs in putting profit above all First, in the food & beverages domain of alcoholic and Our alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages businesses have these winds of change, the new environment presents fresh else. To the contrary, by seeing social issues as new growth non-alcoholic beverages we will strengthen our brands and become an unshakable foundation, and our pharmaceuticals opportunities for growth. Since we can expect our existing opportunities and thereby growing in step with society, CSV solidify our profit base to withstand changes in the business and bio-chemicals businesses are ready to achieve outstandbusinesses to generate sufficient cash flow, now is the time is the one beacon lighting the path to sustainable growth in environment. At the same time we will pursue emerging ing growth. The question on the lips of investors is “How do to take a long-term view toward building a business portfolio this age of uncertainty. growth opportunities where we can put CSV into practice. you propose to pursue growth now that revitalization has targeting sustainable growth. From a risk standpoint taking our core alcoholic beverSecond, in pharmaceuticals domain we are enhancing been accomplished?” To provide clear answers we have forThe Kirin Group has an unusual portfolio comprising ages business as an example, WHO is considering regulations our marketing capabilities and expanding distribution of mulated in 2019 a new growth-oriented long-term managethe strong core businesses of alcoholic beverages and nonregarding alcoholic beverage sales on a global scale. This global products to deliver new treatments to patients around ment plan, Kirin Group Vision 2027. alcoholic beverages, together with pharmaceuticals and would have an increasingly significant effect. It means that the world. In this way we are steadily progressing in our leap What kind of world will we inhabit in the future? No one bio-chemicals. Moreover, we have proven our ability to cregrowth is premised on winning the support of not only conto become a global specialty pharmaceutical company (GSP). really knows. All we can say with confidence is that we are ate innovative products and services by leveraging the techsumers of alcoholic beverages but also non-drinkers. Third, we are exploiting opportunities to establish entering an age of increasing uncertainty. nologies that are our strengths. In Kirin Group Vision 2027 For growth to continue into the future we must become future-oriented businesses bridging Pharmaceuticals and Businesses of all kinds already feel the effects of Japan’s we envision ourselves in 2027 as being a global leader in a Group that enjoys the support of future generations as well Food & Beverages. dwindling population and workforce shortage. The very strucCSV, creating value across our world of Food & Beverages as that of current stakeholders. Taking on social and environWhy are we expanding into this area? Wellness is a social ture of industry is being transformed with the accelerating to Pharmaceuticals. Since adopting CSV in 2013 we aim to mental issues to mitigate future burdens is a vital element in issue not only in Japan but worldwide. Japan is a hyperaging pace of technological innovation. The Kirin Group’s business achieve sustainable growth by working through our busistaying attractive to the generations of tomorrow. society where a 100-year lifespan is not unusual. The popudevelopment faces such factors as rising awareness of alcoholnesses to help resolve social issues. In short, we always To align everyone in the Group with the CSV approach, lation of “active seniors” who hope to maintain their health we reformulated our Corporate Philosophy and set CSV regardless of age is only increasing. Meanwhile, the younger 2016 MTBP performance by business long-term and non-financial targets as our CSV Purpose. Our generations’ interest in wellness is also growing much stronphilosophy now incorporates the words “KIRIN brings joy ger. Providing services and products that support people’s 1．Beer business: Invest, strengthen and grow the proﬁt base to society” to stress our commitment to achieving growth well-being enhances the quality of life. This initiative also helps Kirin Brewery Lion (Beer, Spirits & Wine) Myanmar Brewery with society. The initiatives we will take in pursuit of our CSV constrain burgeoning medical and social security costs while 2018 27.9% 2018 2018 Guidance: Purpose are laid out in our CSV Commitments, as part of our bringing sorely-needed people into the workforce. These are 19.3% 20.8% Results FY2015 Results 19.0% 26.4% 28.8% Maintain market position ＆ business plan. extremely valuable outcomes from a social-issues perspective. 2018 20.8% 27.0% 28.8% capture share of market growth Guidance * Excluding 27.0% Recognizing our responsibility as an alcoholic beverages Leveraging the resources of the Kirin Group with our 17.0% 17.4% liquor tax 25.8% manufacturer, we are committed to the three major areas strengths covering food to pharmaceuticals, we can answer 2018 Results: J-GAAP OPM Acquired a market share of approx. 80% of health and well-being, community engagement, and the wellness needs unmet by current medical and nutritional 15.1% IFRS Increased production facilities 2015 2016 2017 2018 Normalized OPM 2015 2016 2017 2018 KV2027 and its ﬁrst stage 2019 MTBP 2．Low-proﬁt businesses: Restructure, revitalize Kirin Beverage Lion (Dairy & Drinks) Brasil Kirin Goals for 2027 8.2% 2018 2018 2018 2018 Guidance: 7.6% Results Guidance Results Achieve proﬁt in 2019 2027 Vision 8.2% 3.6% • Construct a business portfolio capable of sustainable growth 2018 5.9% 5.0% 4.0% Guidance • Strengthen organizational capabilities for innovation to transform social issues 4.9% 3.4% 3.5% 3.6% Decision Transfer of all shares completed into growth opportunities for the Group 3.0% 2.3% made to sell business A global leader in CSV, 1.5% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 creating value across Goals for 2019-2021 our world of Food & 3．Pharmaceuticals & Bio-chemicals businesses: Invest to achieve outstanding growth Beverages to • Grow proﬁt from existing businesses (Food & Beverages, Pharmaceuticals) Kyowa Hakko Kirin • Establish and foster new businesses bridging Pharmaceuticals and Pharmaceuticals Launched global products, Crysvita in Europe Food & Beverages and the US, Poteligeo in the US 13 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 14 Path to Sustainable Growth Message from Top Management approaches. Through foods that help prevent illness, slow the itself. In terms of technology creating trusted value, we will based on growth, and improving the profit base. progression of disease, or maintain health, for example, we are put our experience and technical expertise behind idea genWe aim to expand profitability at Kirin Brewery and Lion, building a third pillar to support Group growth in future decades. eration in existing businesses and new businesses alike. To which have a high return on assets (ROA) and large market create new products and services we have embraced open size. By concentrating investment in Kirin Brewery’s core Business model for new businesses bridging innovation and other ways of seeking synergy from outside brands, we intend to increase total sales volume in the beer, Pharmaceuticals and Food & Beverages and within the Group. Here we recognize that if we are to RTD, and non-alcoholic beverages segments, while improving attract good partners we must enhance our own technologproduct mix through a raised percentage of premium catego• Targeting the consumer segment with health and well-being related issues, Kirin aims to establish multiple businesses that ical capabilities. Regarding ICT accelerating value creation, ries such as craft beer and Japanese whisky. Through ongoing comprehensively provide personalized products and services we anticipate that the credibility of a strategy premised efforts to elevate marketing ROI and cut costs, we will implethrough new channels based on strong evidence. upon mass consumption and mass production will continue ment a model that raises both revenue and profits. Lion will • Kirin positions Kyowa Hakko Bio at the core of “Businesses bridging Pharmaceuticals and Food & Beverages,” and aims for to erode. In its place, we are boosting our ability to respond strengthen marketing efforts in the contemporary, craft, and growth by maximizing the Group’s resources. to individual consumer needs based on what Big Data tells us premium beer categories, which are growth segments in the about personal values and purchasing behavior. Australian market. Domestically and internationally Lion will Prevention and management We consider diversity of human resources to be the prialso allocate more management resources to high-profit cat(disease mary driver of innovation. Marketing, engineering, and ICT are egories. Regarding Kirin Beverage and Myanmar Brewery, we ance of Kirin Holdings. Consumers prevention and Medical without health health promotion all fields that call for highly specialized personnel, mid-career are continuously targeting profit generation based on growth. We will preferentially allocate cash generated by our treatment concerns to slow progression professionals whom we are seeking from outside the Group. Kirin Beverage is carrying out integrated marketing existing businesses to create a foundation for future growth. of medical conditions) We look forward to a future where mid-career hires predomthat leverages consumer data, while also taking measures to Budgeting about ¥300 billion investment in growth over a inate in divisions of our workforce. The Kirin Group needs to strengthen cost competitiveness and build a robust brand three-year period, we will allocate most to alcoholic and nonbecome an employer sought out by diverse talent who demonportfolio. Myanmar Brewery will seek growth exceeding that alcoholic beverages, and a lesser amount to establish and foster strate specialized expertise and high motivation. To attract of the market by focusing on specific brands and channel businesses bridging Pharmaceuticals and Food & Beverages. such talent we must offer a comfortable work environment strategies. Mercian and CCNNE* are focusing on improved A basic thrust of 2019 MTBP is to elevate shareholder where everyone can exhibit their full potential regardless of profitability. returns. Taking into account the increase in normalized EPS their values and mindset or their skill-set and experience. Bearing responsibility for our pharmaceuticals domain, resulting from profit growth in existing businesses together Leveraging the power of diversity for innovation Developing organizational capabilities and a corporate KHK is a growth driver in the Group's MTBP. KHK will continue with high consolidated dividend payout ratios of 40% or culture that can achieve innovation and create value is not to maximize value in global markets as it leaps forward while more, our sights are set on providing stable shareholder To implement our growth scenarios we are developing more something that can be accomplished overnight. It requires expanding its drug discovery pipeline of global products. returns on an ongoing basis. We are also considering addiadvanced technological resources and organizational capabilia long-term view; even if results are not immediate we must Each Group member company will autonomously and tional shareholder returns in light of current cash generation, ties focused on innovation. The Kirin Group has a long history of press on with tenacity and determination. Indeed, KHK's expediently enhance its management, while Kirin Holdings growth investment, and other aspects of our situation. Like innovation born of our advances in technology and persistent global strategic product Crysvita was born of precisely this smartly assesses our business situation and exercises corpoour own share repurchase in FY 2018 this also contributes to R&D efforts. If, however, we look at global innovators such as long-term approach. rate governance. maximizing shareholder value. GAFA (Google, Apple, Facebook, and Amazon), we have much With profit growth in our existing business as a cornerFollowing through from 2016 MTBP I will maintain a room for improvement. Their business domains may not overLaunching 2019 MTBP to create a foundation for stone, we plan to establish and foster businesses bridging strictly results-oriented stance to attain the goals of 2019 lap ours, but in comparison we need to reorient our corporate new growth in KV2027 Pharmaceuticals and Food & Beverages. We are reinforcing MTBP. With everyone in the Kirin Group striving to create new culture toward innovating in new business sectors and reconbusiness development of the iMUSE line and of applications value while staying mindful of social responsibilities, we can ceive our existing businesses to be ever more resolute pioneers. The first step toward realizing KV2027 has begun. Our 2019of high-performance materials created by Kyowa Hakko Bio look forward to sustainable growth and enhanced corporate In KV2027 we fortify our organizational capabilities for 2021 Medium-Term Business Plan (2019 MTBP) is a 3-year which in 2019 has come under the direct ownership of Kirin value. As we progress along the path we have set for ourinnovation which encompass expertise in four areas: conplan establishing a launchpad for new growth. Our top priorHoldings. Moreover, we are configuring a distinctive business selves, I can never stress enough that the continued trust and sumer centric marketing, technology creating trusted value, ity here is growing profits in our existing businesses – from model to provide products and services tailored to individusupport of our stakeholders is something to be earned and ICT accelerating value creation, and diversity and inclusion food & beverages domain to pharmaceuticals domain. als' physical characteristics and lifestyles. In initiatives such never taken for granted. culture for innovation. Consumer centric marketing is an area Our first agenda is solidifying our food & beverages as these, we are leveraging the maximum capabilities of our we continue to strengthen. Going forward we will enhance domain foundation which supports Group growth. To Group's domestic and overseas organizations under the guidmarketing capabilities company-wide by adopting a marketstrengthen profitability we are allocating to each of our busiYoshinori Isozaki * The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Northern New England, Inc. (U.S.A.), serving a ing perspective in every division, in addition to marketing nesses the tasks of enhancing profitability, generating profits President & CEO territory of seven states in the New England region of the United States. 15 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 16 Path to Sustainable Growth Value Creation Model Enhancing economic and social value with the concept Throughout its management, the Kirin Group has integrated the model of creating shared value (CSV), a business and bio-chemicals businesses, and businesses bridging Pharmaceuticals and Food & Beverages. Through the “creating shared value” positioned at the heart of all concept ﬁrst introduced by Michael E. Porter. Accordingly, it is driving innovations through its marketing products and services oﬀered by each of these businesses, the Group is bringing economic and social value to people management expertise, leading-edge technologies, advanced information and communications technology (ICT), diverse human around the world. Looking ahead toward its next stage of growth, the Group plans to bolster its innovation drivers resources and motivated workplaces. By leveraging these even more so that it can continue creating value and growcompetitive advantages, the Group is expanding its alcoholic ing sustainably into the future. and non-alcoholic beverages businesses, pharmaceuticals Kirin Group Corporate Philosophy INPUT BUSINESS OUTPUT OUTCOME Foundations for The Kirin Group is helping society with various The Group is leveraging its The Kirin Group gives value back to the society it serves driving innovations issues while treating those challenges as foundations for driving opportunities for business growth innovations that enable its businesses to help society around the world settle the issues Consumer centric marketing expertise Business domains Financial key Health and performance Well-being indicators* Providing products and ROIC Food & beverages services to build bonds Technology domain between people creating (Alcoholic and Community Engagement trusted value non-alcoholic CAGR of beverages normalized EPS ¥58.1 billion businesses) in R&D expenses in ﬁscal 2018 For more details, please refer to page 22. Social value Businesses bridging Providing products and Non-ﬁnancial key Economic value CSV long-term and ICT accelerating Pharmaceuticals and performance Maximized cash ﬂows non-ﬁnancial targets value creation services to improve indicators* Achievement of CSV Purpose Food & Beverages For more details, people’s quality of life please refer to page 19. For more details, please refer to page 31. ¥16.7 billion CSV Commitment in ICT expenses in ﬁscal 2018 ¥13.5 billion in ICT investment in ﬁscal 2018 Corporate brand value Pharmaceuticals The Environment Employee Diversity and Continually developing engagement score inclusion, culture innovative new drugs for innovation For more details, A Responsible please refer to page 22. Alcohol Producer 30,464 employees (consolidated) * The indicators are used in the (As of December 31, 2018) 2019 MTBP Kirin Group corporate governance More details are available from page 55. 17 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 18 Path to Sustainable Growth Interview with the Chief Financial Officer The Company also beat its targets for all key perforbusinesses that use assets efficiently and supply highly marmance indicators and profit guidance we gave priority to ketable products, while restraining investment in the mainteunder the 2016MTBP. Specifically, by the final year of the nance and upgrade of existing facilities to the extent possible. Aiming to establish a new 2016MTBP, return on equity reached 17.5%, exceeding our target of 15%, the compound annual growth rate of normalWith respect to growth investment, the highest priority will be given to existing businesses that have potential launchpad for sustainable ized EPS was 12.6%, beating our target of 6%, and consolidated operating profit totaled ¥199.3 billion, surpassing our for earnings growth. Among them, we will give priority to the beer business, as its profitability is forecast to be very growth and to maximize guidance of ¥196 billion. stable in the global market. With respect to these priority businesses, we are also interested in investing in mergers corporate value through Financial strategies of the 2019 MTBP and acquisitions. Through a balanced variety of investments, including in new business areas, we will allocate resources Establishing a launchpad for achieving growth proactive and disciplined over the medium to long term to businesses that have strong potential to generate cash. Q How does the Group intend to achieve growth Q In the beer business, what specifically will the investments going forward? Company invest in? Noriya Yokota We formulated a new long-term management vision called We will invest in region and business domains that are growing. Kirin Group Vision 2027, and as the first step toward realizAmong the regions, we are exploring opportunities primarily in Director of the Board, Senior Executive Officer & CFO ing it, we intend to create a foundation for the Kirin Group Southeast Asia. Among businesses, we will continue to expand aimed at achieving new growth under our 2019 MTBP. We the Group’s craft beer portfolio with a view to market it globTo watch a video of the succeeded in revitalizing the Group, but it will be necessary to ally. Furthermore, in the Japanese market, growth is projected interview, please scan make proactive investments for achieving continuous growth for product categories besides beer, such as RTD beverages the QR code to the right. over the medium to long term. Our existing businesses are and Japanese whisky, so we are looking to proactively channel expected to generate substantial cash flows, so we plan to capital investment in and expand those categories. further invest in them. Q What do you plan to invest in to “bridge” those Review of the 2016 Medium-Term Business Plan cash flows increased substantially. Over the three years of Q What does the Company plan to invest in? main businesses? the plan, cumulative free cash flows amounted to about Over the three years of our new plan, we have earmarked There are various kinds of possibilities. For instance, in the conBusiness restructuring successfully carried out ¥680 billion, far exceeding our original target of ¥260 bilabout ¥300 billion for growth investment and another ¥310 text of providing better medical treatment and healthcare, and all quantitative targets achieved lion. Consequently, we were able to greatly improve the billion for capital investment. Furthermore, we plan to invest which is an important challenge for society, we aim to “help Q To begin, how would you sum up the Kirin Group’s Company’s earnings structure. Before the plan in 2015, interin initiatives for improving organizational capabilities in order people independently lead healthy lifestyles and support preachievements under the previous medium-term est-bearing liabilities totaled around ¥750 billion and the gross to realize long-term growth. ventive healthcare.” That is a major pillar of the Kirin Group CSV business plan (MTBP)? debt-to-equity ratio was over 1.0, but in 2018, the final year of We will work to maximize returns on the capital investCommitment (see page 32 for more details). Accordingly, we Under our previous MTBP, which spanned from 2016 to 2018, the 2016MTBP, interest-bearing liabilities had been reduced ment by proactively and preferentially allocating funds to will make the most of the Group’s operational resources that we carried out restructuring with the goal of revitalizing the to about ¥415 billion and the debt-to-equity ratio came in at span from food and beverages to pharmaceuticals in order to Kirin Group. 0.45. The Company repurchased around ¥100 billion of its own Three-year cash ﬂow plan create new businesses that benefit society. For example, based We succeeded in bolstering the earnings platform of the shares in 2018, thereby boosting shareholder returns. Flexibly consider increasing shareholder returns after giving top on personal genetic characteristics determined via DNA tests, beer business by shifting our approach from costs to investpriority to growth-oriented investment using cash ﬂows from individually optimized healthcare and services are being offered operating activities of growing existing businesses ments, as well as concentrating investment in key brands and Three-year cumulative results from 2016 to 2018 in various countries of the world. In that context, Kirin Holdings more efficiently allocating marketing expenses in Japan. In Balanced investment acquired a capital stake in Thorne Research, Inc., which develCash ﬂows from Shareholder returns Capital • Restrain capital investment in the pharmaceutical business, we made steady progress in operating activities Approx. investment facility maintenance and upgrades • Proactively and preferentially ops and sells personalized supplements in the United States. releasing global products to the market and boosting their Approx. ¥244.8 billion ¥310 billion invest in businesses that use assets We plan to expand that company’s business by supplying the ¥652.0 billion Free cash ﬂow Including share Cash ﬂows from eﬃciently and supply highly marketable products sales. Meanwhile, we decided to terminate certain lowKirin Group’s highly functional ingredients and products, and to Above ¥550.0 billion Approx. repurchases of operating activities ¥100.0 billion profit businesses, and, accordingly, sold off Brasil Kirin as target ¥680.0 billion ¥700 billion Total dividend payments Increase consolidated dividend payout ratio develop our own business model for Japan. We will also take well as Lion Dairy & Drinks. We also sold off non-core assets Cash ﬂows from Repaid interest• To an amount equivalent to at steps to acquire or enhance any capabilities that may be lacking. investing activities Exceeding target of bearing liabilities ¥210 billion least 40% of normalized EPS from and repaid interest-bearing debt in order to strengthen the the previous target of 30% Approx. ¥260.0 billion Approx. Company’s financial base. ¥28.0 billion ¥326.7billion Growth investment Disciplined investment Q How do you intend to enhance organizational Approx. • NPV (applicable to the cost of As a result of those accomplishments, the profitabilAbove -¥290.0 billion Above ¥135.0 billion capital in each business and region) capabilities? target target Sale of assets, etc.* ¥300 billion • ROIC ity of our existing businesses improved and consolidated Positioning issues facing society and the needs of customers * Total sum for sale of Lion Dairy & Drinks, other assets, etc. yet to be determined 19 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 20 Path to Sustainable Growth Path to Sustainable Growth Interview with the Chief Financial Officer Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Financial Highlights (Fiscal 2018 Results) CAGR of Capital eﬃciency indicator Proﬁtability and growth indicator at least as opportunities for growth, we are taking steps to improve does not require dependence on interest-bearing liabilities. the capabilities of our existing organizations involved in both Instead of relying on easily available credit with interest for Return on invested capital (ROIC) Normalized EPS 5%* (%) (yen) existing and new businesses. Moreover, we are incorporating funds needed for future growth, we intend to carefully man16.2 200 20 167 capabilities acquired from outside the Kirin Group to drive innoage volatile assets with a view to create investment reserves. 151 10.7 11.9 125 vations that create value. Therefore, we intend to enhance the For example, we intend to continue reducing cross-sharehold118 117 At least Group’s intangible value—namely brands, research and develings that are incommensurate with the cost of equity, and will opment, ICT, and HR and organization—as organizational capaaim to sell off assets worth a similar amount as those sold off 10 6.0 10% 100 1.5 bilities that underpin growth. over the past three years of the previous MTBP. 0 0 Q Concretely speaking, how do you intend to enhance Q Please tell us about your outlook for cash flows. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2021 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2021 (Target) (Target) those value? The Company is expected to generate a cumulative total of JGAAP IFRS JGAAP IFRS Notes * The target is averaged over a three-year period We intend to maximize the outcomes of investments earover ¥700 billion in cash flows from operating activities over • Results prior to ﬁscal 2015 exclude amortization of goodwill • ROIC = Earnings before interest and after tax /(Average interest bearing debt marked as expenses in the financial statements. Among our the next three years. Besides using it for growth investment between the beginning and the end of the FY + average total equity between the beginning and the end of the FY) initiatives in the past, investment was lacking in some respects, and capital investment, we plan to allocate ¥210 billion for • FY2018 ROIC is 9.4% if calculated excluding transient impacts such as income from sale of assets, etc. but now we are clearly specifying how much investment should dividends, which will raise the consolidated dividend payout be allocated for the capabilities we need and then taking steps ratio from over 30% to more than 40%, a level commensurate Non-Financial Highlights to improve them. For example, we will install systems for utilizwith normalized EPS. Results in each category of KB Kirin Brewery Company, Limited KBC Kirin Beverage Company, Limited ME Mercian Corporation ing AI and robotic process automation, and improve core dataQ Finally, what message would you like to give to the Kirin Group’s CSV Commitment LN Lion Pty Limited MB Myanmar Brewery Limited KHK Kyowa Hakko Kirin Company, Limited bases used for digital marketing. Using the latest technology, The Kirin Group sets targets for its key performance indicators in each category of its CSV Commitment with the goal of becoming a global the Group will quickly collect information on customers and shareholders and investors? leader in “creating shared value” (CSV). drive new innovations aimed at providing high-value-added Having revitalized the Kirin Group, management is now able * Since some of these indicators were newly created in ﬁscal 2018, results for that year are not yet available. products and services to consumers. We are also proactively to proceed to the next stage. Kirin Group will help communiA Responsible Alcohol Producer Health and Well-being investing in programs for promoting the diversity of our human ties take on challenges while bringing economic benefits by Responsible drinking / passing a culture of enjoying alcoholic beverages resources. Whether contributing to higher sales in the future positioning “Creating Shared Value” at the heart of all business Evolution in medical treatment to the next generation or bringing down costs, these investments will lead to returns. activities. While we plan to proactively invest under our current Number of participants in appropriate drinking education Number of new drugs discovered in-house and MTBP, we will maintain discipline when making investment programs / viewers of drinking manner advertisements launched in multiple regions Key performance indicators and cash allocation decisions for the purpose of maximizing corporate value. Number of countries with markets for these new drugs 2018 2021 target 2018 2021 target Maximizing corporate value through disciplined investment decisions Ideal balance sheet composition by 2021 130 thousand 1 million Crysvita and Poteligeo were launched in multiple regions. Three or more products launched Limit the combined amount of growth investment and volatile participants/viewers participants/ Benralizumab was launched in in over 50 countries Q Why were key performance indicators changed in assets to a level not requiring reliance on interest-bearing liabilities viewers KB ME LN MB multiple regions by AstraZeneca. KHK the new business plan? Disciplined investment decisions to maximize returns Community Engagement The Environment Given that the Company will proactively invest, how to make More sustainable production of raw materials Actions regarding containers and packaging disciplined investment decisions became an important issue. Noninterest-bearing Current assets Contracted farming ratio of procured rice in Conversion rate of PET bottle resin to recycled resin Interest-bearing liabilities are included under invested capital Liabilities Myanmar for brewing in the calculation of return on invested capital (ROIC), so we can 2018 2021 target 2018 2027 target more accurately determine the profitability of investments. Business Assets Using ROIC and net present value (NPV) as indicators allows us Balanced capital investments (High-proﬁt business assets) Interest-bearing Liabilities 0% 10% 3% 50% to more effectively evaluate investment targets and maintain (Low-proﬁt business assets) Ratio of materials from Myanmar discipline when making investment decisions. As for quantitative Stocks of subsidiaries KB KBC ME 2018 2021 target key performance indicators, we are aiming for at least a 5% comand aﬃliates pound annual growth rate (CAGR) of normalized EPS with a view Solid capitalization Goodwill Equity Can materials: 47% 70% MB to increase shareholder value. We are also targeting a minimum Marketable securities ROIC of 10% in order to boost returns above the cost of equity. Growth investment Employee engagement score (%) Corporate brand value Q How do you plan to manage the balance sheet? Sell cross-shareholdings to reduce non-business assets 2018 2021 target 2018 2021 target We want to limit the combined amount of volatile assets and Volatile assets have relatively strong potential to generate cash and comparably high levels of volatility with respect to asset value 70% At least 72% $1,731 million $2,200 million assets associated with growth investment within a range that Source: Best Japan Brands 2018 published by Interbrand Growth investment Equity * Conceptual diagram 21 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 22 Path to Sustainable Growth Strengthening Our Non-Financial Assets The new strategy scores a success with Honkirin The first step Kirin Brewery took in the development of Honkirin was to analyze its past products. The company applied what it learned to product development, the marInnovation for sustained growth. Organizational capabilities that promote innovation keting plan, and every aspect of its Honkirin plan. Because The Kirin Group sees innovation as the key to sustained Kirin Brewery had so many products in its portfolio, it had growth and seeks to generate innovation by strengthenbecome difficult to get all departments aligned behind the Consumer centric Technology creating ing its four fundamental organizational capabilities of marketing expertise trusted value one brand strategy. With Honkirin, however, the marketing “Consumer centric marketing expertise,” “Technology and sales departments were communicating from the very creating trusted value,” “ICT accelerating value creation,” early stages of the product development, and over time all and “Diversity and inclusion, culture for innovation.” Our recent efforts reconceptualizing our marketing expertise ICT accelerating Diversity and inclusion, of the departments came to understand the central role of to raise the brand value of Honkirin is a prime example of value creation culture for innovation the strategy and brand value. This enabled Kirin Brewery to how innovation leads to success. effectively coordinate the sales promotions and activities it needed for success. Kirin Brewery was able to put in place the organizational structure for an all-encompassing marketing effort covering the full range of customer contact points. The result was instant and sustaining sales momentum. Honkirin and our marketing reform Honkirin sales volume in each quarter Turning its marketing into a strength (KL) Katsuya Nagai, the Marketing Department assistant brand 50,000 Internal changes were key to successful marketing Strategies to break out of a downward spiral manager in charge of Honkirin, believes marketing is key to 40,000 building competitiveness. “We are confident that we can The 2018 launch of Honkirin was a resounding success with Kirin Brewery introduced more than 10 malt-type new genre use marketing to create a competitive edge.” The Marketing initial year total shipments surpassing 300 million bottles. brands in the past decade. However, the company struggled 30,000 Department combined Kirin’s manufacturing technology and One of the primary factors that produced the immense sales to attract sales for every brand. As its market share started its approach to quality with new knowledge and expertise 20,000 volume was the internal reform Kirin Brewery carried out to to shrink, Kirin Brewery turned to short-term fixes by releasing learned outside the company to form the new organizational become “the company that puts consumers first,” as chamderivative products with impromptu promotions and with10,000 structure for delivering high brand value to customers. Kirin pioned by Kirin Brewery President Fuse. out thought for building up the brand. The company was Brewery will also use the latest information and communicaalso worried about releasing products that would compete 0 2018.1Q 2018.2Q 2018.3Q 2018.4Q 2019.1Q tion technology to further deepen customer understanding. against its own brands. In short, the company was not providKirin Brewery’s consumer centric marketing will be ing products that customers really wanted. As a result, it was spread throughout the Group to strengthen the Group’s organot building the brand from a long-term perspective of being nizational capabilities and create industry-leading innovation. Katsuya Nagai a brand that customers would view as having high value. Assistant Brand Manager of Honkirin Marketing Department A focused marketing strategy to stop Kirin Brewery the contraction Mr. Nagai joined Kirin Brewery in 2005 as sales representative for One of the key reform strategies Kirin Brewery implemented supermarkets and other mass retailers. He then moved to to break out of this downward spiral was to focus its marUsing the latest ICT to create added value and further grow the leading brands the Marketing Department in keting on fewer products. Before the reforms, Kirin Brewery 2011 to oversee brand management and product thought that decreasing its brand offerings would reduce its Kirin Brewery is aiming to generate further growth by maintaining and building the strong appeal of its leading brands development for Nodogoshi Nama and Hyoketsu. Since sales volume. However, it took a new tact of investing in a while leveraging ICT to create further added value. October 2017, he has been involved in every aspect of small, select number of brands, which it would then continue Honkirin brand development to invest in with a focus on developing and strengthening AI at our sales sites Digital marketing from the initial production concept development stage. them for the long term. With this approach, rather than aimKirin Brewery is harnessing the latest technologies to Kirin Brewery will continue to deepen the marketing ing to create a hit product now, the marketing department further increase customer satisfaction. In 2018, the compause of its insights into customer preferences gained would advance strategies for the medium and long term and ny introduced sales support tools using AI to maximize the through direct customer contact. The company will also conduct Consumer-centric marketing to build a brand with effectiveness of sales sites and customer contact points. use social networks, e-commerce channels, and data a large customer following ten years in the future. The first The new technology has the additional potential benefit matching between its in-house sources and external brand Kirin Brewery applied this approach to was its flagship of reducing man-hours needed for sales managers. databases to uncover latent customer needs. brand Kirin Ichiban that it relaunched in 2017. 23 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 24 Path to Sustainable Growth Strengthening Our Non-Financial Assets Focus R&D Strategy: Technology creating trusted value Pioneering smart cell culture technology using plant cells to meet needs in the medical field Kirin’s unique platform to produce simplicity so it can be operated by just a few people. beneficial substances Kirin’s development of this technology put the Food & Beverages Domain Pharmaceuticals Domain Platforms for manufacturing biopharmaceuticals Group at the forefront of plant “smart cell” propagaKirin Brewery, Mercian Kyowa Hakko Bio Kyowa Hakko Kirin mainly use microorganisms and animal cells. Animal tion technology using plant cells to produce functional Kirin Beverage cells are usually used to produce proteins with the substances. At the same time, the achievement of complex structures of protein. However, the process enabling sterile conditions for the propagation created Kirin Holdings requires high-precision environmental control of the an entry point for R&D directed at the medical field, technology and equipment. In recent years, simplified which requires strict quality control. Non-alcoholic and Biopharmaceutical alcoholic beverages Lifestyle support Immune system Brain function Plant “smart cells” products manufacturing equipment and production platforms using plants have been coming under the spotlight. The Aiming to manufacture pharmaceutical ingredients Non-alcoholic beverages Decaﬀeination Lactococcus lactis Citicoline Active vitamin D3 Nesp Controlling caﬀeine strain plasma (NEDO Smart Cell Project) Kirin Group has extensive experience developing plantfrom plant cells in 2027 Alcoholic beverages Ingredients derived Poteligeo intake Lactobacillus strain KW from food & Pharmaceutical materials based mass propagation technologies, and combining Kirin joined the government-led New Energy and Crysvita High functioning beverages (hops/milk) (beneﬁcial proteins) amino acids our expertise with the technologies of Kyowa Hakko Bio Industrial Technology Development Organization Functional ingredients in microorganisms and Kyowa Hakko Kirin in animal cells (NEDO). In 2016, NEDO launched a five-year plan to gives us an unmatched global scale with capabilities develop production techniques for highly functional across three functional substance cultivation platforms. biomaterials using smart cells of plants and other Kirin has amassed a wide variety of plant-related organisms. We are developing a propagation process Using unique Applying Applying plant Using leading-edge technologies since the 1980s. One of our biggest sucusing plant-based propagation technology that can Oﬀering products Beverages for a technologies and immunological “smart cells” to meet biotechnology to and services for cesses is the development of our unparalleled technolefficiently mass-produce active-form vitamin D3 used pleasant and providing functional research to create needs for create new medicines “one-stop self ﬂourishing society foods to support new beverage and control solutions” high-quality, that contribute to ogy for mass propagation using liquid culture media in drug treatments for osteoporosis and other diseases. comfortable lifestyles medical businesses low-cost products health and well-being from plant bodies from stems and sprouts to somatic In 2018, we built the Plant Research Center on the embryos. Technology for mass propagation already grounds of our Fukuura Research Park to serve as a pilot Fermentation and biotechnology existed, but it was mainly labor-intensive manual work. facility with cleanroom specifications for demonstraPackaging technology Quality assurance technology The techniques we developed using highly production of medical research reagents and production proManufacturing technology tion-efficient liquid cultures that enabled commercial cesses of ingredients for pharmaceuticals from plant production of a wide range of plant species played a key cells. We are fine-tuning our technology for plant biolrole in the development of our agribio business. ogy platforms and laying the groundwork to enter the We will consolidate Kirin Group technologies to form new businesses in the food & beverages In commercial manufacturing, cost is also important. pharmaceutical ingredient business. domain, pharmaceuticals domain, and “bridging Pharmaceuticals and Food & Beverages” where we Our unique research has led to the development of a lowOur development roadmap for these operations will create new value that contributes to solving social issues around the world. cost bag-type culture vessel system that can take the place is to launch the medical research reagent business in The Kirin Group’s operations spanning both food and pharIn the pharmaceuticals domain, we aim to create new of expensive, large culture systems. We streamlined the 2021 and the veterinary medicine raw material business maceuticals ideally position it to create value and address medical value by leveraging our leading biotechnologies and mass propagation system to reduce both input and labor in 2024. We will then aim to enter the high value-added social issues by combining its specialties in fermentation advancing R&D mainly in the four areas of nephrology, oncolcosts by using specially designed plastic bags for the culfield of pharmaceutical ingredients in 2027. technology and biotechnology developed through our origogy, immunology/allergy, and the central nervous system. ture vessels to make it lightweight and by designing it for inal beer business and the pharmaceutical and biochemical The mission of the new businesses bridging Pharmaceuticals technologies acquired through our diversification strategy and Food & Beverages segment is to provide new value in the since 1980s. We are also building the new businesses bridging four areas of lifestyle support, immune system, brain function, Pharmaceuticals and Food & Beverages to be a core part of and plant-based “smart cells.” The new segment’s consumer 2018 2021 2024 2027 the Kirin Group’s portfolio. In this domain, we will combine targets fall into the categories of individuals with specific Plant Biotechnology Project Reagent for Materials for Materials for launch (Plant Research Center) medical research veterinary medicine pharmaceutical our unique evidence-backed food ingredients and competineeds and preventive healthcare. We will support specific products tive technological capabilities with open innovation to make needs by applying the high-function materials developed in this new domain a sustaining pillar of the Kirin Group. our food & beverages business to address unmet medical In the food & beverages domain, we will contribute to needs. In preventive healthcare, we will apply the Kirin Group’s society by developing products with new value by advancing proprietary expertise in the pharmaceuticals business to build technology throughout the supply chain to improve product a unique operation that meets specialized needs. quality and business profitability. 25 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 26 Path to Sustainable Growth Strengthening Our Non-Financial Assets Focus Human resources strategies: Enhancing individual professional capabilities with Diversity and inclusion, culture for innovation competency evaluations Initiatives taken by Kirin Brewery’s Marketing Department Aiming to speed up the development of Employees know what is happening in their respective To offer value to customers and communities, realizing Group will continuously create value through innovations by capabilities by improving the fairness and departments and understand the issues at hand. If they innovations is essential. Diversity and inclusion, culture for bringing together employees who have diverse values and transparency of employee evaluations think an issue can be solved through their own profesinnovation are necessary for the organizational capabilities specialties, and are sympathetic to its corporate philosophy In the Marketing Department, Kirin Brewery has been sional expertise in marketing, brand business, manthat provide a basis for realizing such innovations. The Kirin and strategies. training personnel and working to create a sustainable agement, or something else, they actively hold study system of human resource development in order to sessions to share their knowledge and then go about Realize innovations through the combination of diverse values, ways of thinking, skills and experience improve its organizational marketing capabilities. More trying to solve it. Kirin Brewery also has leaders who crerecently, Kirin Brewery has been improving training to ate teams of employees that are struggling, encourage Diversity Professionals groom marketing leaders based on the goal of strengthand coach those employees to develop their skills, and ening human resources in its MTBP. Above all, Kirin lead efforts to solve problems. Recruiting diverse employees Realize Brewery has been focusing on competency evaluations. By promptly putting the conditions in place for Attracting diverse employees innovations Grooming individual professionals The most beneficial aspect of a competency evalfacilitating these kinds of activities, Kirin Brewery Make the Group more open to diversity uation is that it breaks down all of duties required of intends to continuously develop marketing professionpersonnel at the level of specific actions, and clarifies als while helping achieve the performance targets set • Review recruiting strategies • Cultivate professionals through how the performance of those duties is evaluated, by the company. • Revise personnel systems work and the expansion of thereby improving fairness and transparency. That • Reform workplace practices individually driven training systems allows Kirin Brewery to standardize coaching terminolExpanding similar systems group-wide based on Corporate philosophy and vision • Manage employees so that they can exercise and contribute their ogy and approaches for helping employees develop and the successes at Kirin Brewery Values achieve goals. Consequently, the performance indicaHaving consistently achieved success at Kirin Brewery, diverse expertise The basis for managing diverse human resources tors required for professional goals and evaluations are the Kirin Group plans plan to have its competency manlaid out clearly for employees, and they become more agement system adopted by the marketing departments • Promote Kirin Group Vision 2027 motivated in their work because they understand the of other companies in the Group in the future. By proand new corporate philosophy specific goals they need to achieve. It also fosters a gressively adopting the system group-wide and putting it • Reform organizational culture spirit of challenge in the workplace and speeds up the into practice, the Kirin Group intends intend to continue development of professional capabilities. developing marketing leaders at each group company The Kirin Group’s diversity The Kirin Group’s professionals while meeting the expectations of stakeholders. Diversity was included under the Group’s shared values in Each member of the Kirin Group is committed to working in Selecting young employees with necessary Kirin Group Vision 2027. The Group is confident that diverhis or her respective workplace and position, refining indicompetencies—even as a brand manager of sity will be a driver of its efforts to create value in business vidual skills, and pursuing very high standards of expertise in flagship products We will keep improving the capabilities of domains spanning from food and beverages to pharmaceutiterms of becoming the best in one’s occupation and industry. Another advantage of adopting a competency-based marketing personnel so that we can help cals, and to become a global leader in creating shared value. The Group believes that its businesses will be strengthened evaluation system is that it gives employees excellent achieve the Group’s goals The Group hopes to generate new value and innovations by and a new future will be opened up by having employees volopportunities regardless of their age when they acquire By adopting clear indicators of competency, we have encouraging open dialogue while accepting internal differuntarily take on challenges while thinking outside the box. the necessary competencies. For example, the brand implemented a system for fairly and objectively ences like one’s values, sensitivities, and experience, without The source of that is the desire by each person to grow. By manager in charge of the renewed Kirin Ichiban and evaluating each employee. As a result, we have fostered regard for external characteristics such as gender, nationality, actively supporting and encouraging employees who mainHonkirin brands is aged mid-30s. Such young personnel workplaces that can take on challenges and created a culture in which employees are highly aware of their and whether one is abled or disabled. The Kirin Group is protain a desire to grow and aim higher, regardless of their age, who have similar lifestyles as Kirin Brewery’s customwork responsibilities. Moreover, marketing personnel moting changes to its diverse human resources by reviewcareer, or job, and by creating opportunities for them, the ers carry out their duties seriously and with a sense of have been steadily improving their capabilities. We will ing recruitment procedures and carrying out organizational Kirin Group is developing human resources who can promote responsibility for the brand business they are in charge continue with these initiatives so that our highly skilled reforms of workplace practices. By leveraging these changes, its business. of. That has led to good results. marketing personnel strengthen the company as a the Group will aim to realize innovations going forward. As another new development, employees are indewhole and help achieve the Kirin Group’s goals. pendently starting up exciting projects together. On Mitsuharu Yamagata Two of the Group’s initiatives for promoting diversity and professionalism their own initiative, they are developing the best marSenior executive oﬃcer and general manager of Marketing Helping employees The Kirin Group has a unique program in which employees who have no children work as if they actually do in order keting professionals for Kirin Brewery and improving Department, Marketing Division, Kirin Brewery understand challenges to experience how working mothers and fathers deal with time constraints and child-related emergencies. Through faced by working improved individual productivity, awareness of the workplace, and management by superiors, the initiative has helped the collective capabilities of the entire organization. mothers and fathers create an organizational culture that continues to produce results. This program allows young employees to work for a non-profit organization or company in an emerging country. The aim Work-abroad program of the program is to develop human resources early on to support CSV management by having them make use of their talents and gain experience in initiatives aimed at solving social problems in emerging and other countries. 27 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 28 CSV Stories Working towards the sustainability of society and the Kirin Group The Group’s operating environment is undergoing major changes, and it is expected to play an active role in solving By solving issues confronting people today and creating new value, the Kirin Group is aiming to evolve as issues that communities face today. In that context, Kirin a global leader in creating shared value (CSV). Toward that end, we formulated our CSV Purpose, which Holdings became a signatory of the United Nations Global includes the Group’s long-term goals and direction, and our CSV Commitment as an action plan. In Compact in September 2005, and since then, we have connection with these initiatives, we have set priority tasks to pursue under four broad themes of a been working towards the sustainability of society and the responsible alcohol producer, health and well-being, community engagement, and the environment. Kirin Group based on the compact’s 10 Principles, which are organized under four main categories*. Furthermore, guided by our CSV Purpose established in 2019, the entire Group is striving to help solve social issues associated with the United Nations Sustainability Development Goals through its business activities over the medium to long term. Health and * The four categories of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption Well-being were selected and agreed upon internationally as universal values. Kirin Holdings CASE Pharmaceuticals 1 business Page 33 President & CEO Improving quality of life of patients around Kirin Group CSV the world Purpose and CASE 3 Community Engagement Page 37 CSV Commitment Aiming to boost sales of Château Mercian in collaboration with grape-growing communities Page 31 Health and Well-being CASE 4 CASE Businesses bridging pharmaceuticals The Environment Page 39 2 and food & beverages Page 35 Reducing GHG emissions by Leveraging technological assets 36% and annual fuel costs to provide functional ingredients by 1 billion yen through that contribute to health a switchover to clean energy CASE 5 A Responsible Alcohol Producer Page 41 Shaping a positive drinking culture that brings people together in Australia and New Zealand 29 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 30 The Stories behind Kirin’s Commitment to Creating Shared Value Kirin Group CSV Purpose and CSV Commitment New guiding principles and targets set for value together with people across society CSV Purpose established The approaches and targets of the CSV Commitment In 2017, the Kirin Group selected Aiming to realize its long-term management vision, Kirin in 2019 MTBP. Kirin will actively report on its progress in being “a responsible alcohol Group Vision 2027, the Kirin Group set 19 CSV Commitachieving these targets as the entire Group strives to create producer” “health and well-being,” ments for each business segment as non-ﬁnancial targets even more shared value in the future. “community engagement,” and “the Health and Well-being Community Engagement The Environment WEB For more information about our CSV Commitment, the approach and targets, please refer to the following website: environment” to be key social issues https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/commitment/pdf/CSV_all_E.pdf among the various social issues Raise the number of healthy Create more opportunities Realize a society based on that aﬀect the Group. To face these people, lower the number of for customers to spend time 100% resource circulation sick people, and contribute to with their families and by 2050 CSV Commitment Approach 2021 target issues, the Group has set CSV the people who are involved friends, and develop the long-term and non-ﬁnancial targets in the healthcare communities within our Responsible drinking / 1. Do an education program of appropriate drinking 1. Number of participants: One million supply chain A Responsible in the Kirin Group Vision 2027, our passing a culture of 2. Label products with its alcohol to support participants/viewers Alcohol long-term management vision and enjoying alcoholic responsible drinking habits 2. Percentage of products with alcohol Producer beverages to the [Kirin Brewery, Mercian, Lion, and Myanmar content labels*1 formulated our CSV Purpose as a CASE5 P.41 next generation Brewery] guideline to create shared value with society and promote sustainSupporting self-care 1. Develop and expand sales of no-sugar products and 1. Rate of sales increase*1 able growth in connection with for healthy people products with scientiﬁcally proven health beneﬁts 2. Number of countries capable of the United Nations Sustainable and people with [Kirin Beverage and Koiwai Dairy Products] purchasing: Five countries (roughly 650 Development Goals. A Responsible Alcohol Producer pre-disease 2. Continue to create new value in ingredients with million people) Health and health beneﬁts (e.g. Lactococcus lactis strain WEB For more information about the Make steady progress toward eradicating the harmful Well-being Plasma) [Kirin] establishment of the CSV Purpose use of alcohol in all countries of operation (Zero Harmful Drinking) CASE1 P.33 https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/ CASE2 P.35 Evolution in Strengthen our drug discovery foundation to develop Number of new drugs released to english/csv/purpose/ medical treatment and provide new drugs globally based on the market in multiple regions and number strengths of R&D and production capability acquired of countries: Three or more products through developing and providing biologics launched in over 50 countries [Kyowa Hakko Kirin] Contributing to Create and increase opportunities that bring people Number of products and service that community vitalization together at dining tables, recreational activities, create opportunities to bring people seasonal events, and sports and music events with together*2 Kirin Group’s products [Kirin Brewery, Mercian, Kirin Beverage, and Kirin Group Materiality Matrix revised by the Group CSV Committee Myanmar Brewery] Chaired by the president of Kirin Holdings, the Group CSV Kirin Group Materiality Matrix More sustainable Take a long-term perspective to enhance the value of 1. 100 tons in 2027 Community production of raw materials and support production area and 2. 200 tons in 2027 Committee meets each year as a rule with the task of facilitating Engagement raw materials contracted ﬁrming toward achieving sustainable 3. 10 % in 2021 proactive and independent eﬀorts by the Kirin Group as a whole Responsibility A responsible Safety and CASE3 P.37 procurement and revitalization of production areas 4. 10,000 farmers in 2025 Sustainable as a Health and alcohol security of towards creating shared value. supply chain pharmaceutical producer our products well-being 1. Amount of Japanese hops procured [Kirin Brewery] manufacturer As members of the committee, the presidents of the 2. Volume of grapes produced for Japan wine Impact on social sustainability Group’s main operating companies* attend the meetings to [Mercian] The Community 3. Contracted ﬁrming ratio of procured rice for discuss optimal CSV policies, strategies, and action plans, as Human rights environment engagement brewing [Myanmar Brewery] well as to assess the progress made under ongoing plans. 4. Number of small-scale farmers supported for At a meeting held in May 2018, the Group CSV Committee Human acquisition of Rain Forest Alliance certiﬁcation revised the scope and content of the Kirin Group Materiality resources Corporate [Kirin and Kirin Beverage] and governance corporate Matrix in order to integrate it with the new medium-term culture Actions regarding Introduce renewable energy and promote energy Reduction ratio of GHG*3 emission: 30% business plan, and incorporate the views of stakeholders. climate change conservation [Kirin Group] in 2030, compared with 2015 * Kirin Brewery Company, Limited; Kirin Beverage Company, Ltd.; Mercian Corporation; The Lion Pty Ltd.; Myanmar Brewery Ltd.; and Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. Environment Actions regarding Strive to maintain the 3Rs and resource circulation for Conversion rate of PET bottle resin to CASE4 P.39 WEB Various management tasks for ensuring sustainable growth Impact on the Kirin Group’s business containers and containers and packaging recycled resin: 50% in 2027 https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/materiality/ packaging [Kirin Brewery, Kirin Beverage, Mercian] *1 Target set by each company *2 Target under consideration *3 Greenhouse gases 31 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 32 The Stories behind Kirin’s Commitment to Creating Shared Value Case 1: Health and Well-being CSV Commitment Evolution in medical treatment The corporate philosophy of Kyowa Hakko Kirin, which conducts the Kirin Group’s medical Our Achievement business, is to contribute to the health and well-being of people around the world by creating Number of in-house drug discoveries new value through the pursuit of advances in life sciences and technologies. Under this philosmarketed in multiple regions Number of countries with markets ophy, we are focusing research and development eﬀorts on the four key areas of nephrology, for these new drugs oncology, immunology/allergy, and the central nervous system leveraging our cutting-edge 2021 target biotechnology anchored in antibody technology. One recent example of our R&D achievements is the development of burosumab (develThree or more products marketed in multiple regions oped with the code name KRN23) as a treatment for X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH). The Over 50 countries in total drug was approved in 2018 by the European Commission and the Food and Drug AdministraPipeline tion of the United States, where it is sold under the name of Crysvita. KRN23 (as of December 31, 2018) Country or region of Indication Development phases development X-linked Submitted Israel / Swiss / hypophosphatemia 1 2 3 for approval UAE X-linked North America / hypophosphatemia 1 2 3 Europe / Japan / in adult patients Korea North America / X-linked Europe / hypophosphatemia 1 2 3 Australia / in pediatric patients Japan / Korea Tumor-induced osteomalacia / U.S.A. / Japan / CASE 1 2 1 Health and Well-being Epidermal nevus Korea syndrome Pharmaceuticals business Improving quality of life of patients around the world Discovery FGF23 regulates phosphate When I was researching bone metabolism in the Pharmaceutical Laboratory, Kirin Brewery, I turned my focus to Revolutionizing treatment of intractable phosphate to apply my knowledge and experience to the Approved in Europe and the United States Takeyoshi Yamashita, disease XLH ahead of Japan ﬁeld of nephrology, a core ﬁeld for our business. Phosphate Ph.D. Crysvita, otherwise known as KRN23 or burosumab, was is the second most abundant mineral in the body after calcium KRN23 became a promising candidate for XLH treatment, Director approved for sale as a treatment for XLH in the United States and is also essential for the formation of bones and teeth. and clinical development began in 2006 in the United States. Corporate Strategy & and a part of Europe in 2018. However, the worldwide research of mechanisms to regulated Since XLH is a rare disease, progress was slow in the early Planning Department Kyowa Hakko Kirin X-Linked hypophosphatemia is a disease that causes the phosphate was far behind the research on calcium. I thought phase of the study because of the limited number of patients. kidney to waste phosphate and vitamin D needed to maintain that presented an opportunity. However, KRN23 development quickly accelerated after we PROFILE and grow bones. Although relatively rare, occurring in one in In 2000, while doing pathological research on hypophospartnered with Ultragenyx Pharmaceutical, which specializDr. Yamashita joined Kirin Brewery in 1987 where he researched bone 20,000 individuals, people with XLH often suﬀer from phatemia (low phosphate in the blood), I was the ﬁrst to es in developing treatments for rare diseases. metabolism while working in the deﬁcient growth development. discover the central role that ﬁbroblast growth factor 23 The European Commission granted conditional marketformer Pharmaceutical Laboratory, Kirin Brewery. In 2000, he was the Existing treatments for XLH mainly focused on suppleplayed in regulating phosphate levels in the blood. However, ing authorization for KRN23 in February 2018, and the U.S. ﬁrst to identify the ﬁbroblast menting phosphate and Vitamin D, but this still requires taking since FGF23 is a hormone that reduces phosphate produced in Food and Drug Administration approved it for sale in April growth factor 23 (FGF23) biomolecule’s role as a bone multiple daily medicines and has the side eﬀect of kidney bone cells, this did not directly lead to the creation of a that year. It became the world’s ﬁrst drug with an indication phosphate regulator, which led to calciﬁcation. Treatment with KRN23 vastly improves the treatment. However, suppressing FGF23 allowed vitamin D for treatment of XLH. the discovery of KRN23 as an anti-FGF23 antibody. quality of life of XLH patients. With one injection every two or levels to rise, and that could reduce the amount of phosphate We are aiming to receive approval for KRN23 in Japan four weeks, KRN23 raises and maintains blood phosphorous the kidney excretes. I thought this could lead to a way to treat and across Asia and Oceania. As a pharmaceutical company, levels in a normal range, supports improved bone growth, XLH, so I continued researching. we will pursue our mission to discover revolutionary new reduces pain, and improves bodily functions. The challenge was to ﬁnd a way to suppress the FGF23. drugs and ensure a steady supply of treatments that help Using Kirin’s human antibody producing technology, we resolve social issues in the health ﬁeld, contribute to the ﬁnally produced the fully human antibody KRN23 that acts quality of life of people around the world, and support to suppress FGF23. sustainable growth for the company. 33 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 34 The Stories behind Kirin’s Commitment to Creating Shared Value Case 2: Health and Well-being CSV Commitment Supporting self-care for healthy people and people with pre-disease The Kirin Group has expanded its alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverage businesses in the food Our Achievement industry and its pharmaceuticals business in the healthcare industry. Leveraging synergies in Number of countries capable of these two business areas, the Group has launched a new business “bridging pharmaceuticals purchasing Kirin-made ingredients with positive health and food & beverages” in an eﬀort to create new value. Recognizing that healthcare needs are eﬀects (and total population) not being fully met by current medical and food products, the Group is aiming to establish this 2021 target new business a pillar of its continuous growth. Speciﬁcally, the Kirin Group is proceeding to develop and supply functional healthcare Five countries products with scientiﬁcally proven beneﬁts by applying its expertise and technological assets as (roughly 650 million people) well as by collaborating with academic research institutes around the world. By 2021, it aims to make these products available in ﬁve countries with a combined population of 650 million people. The countries include Japan, Vietnam, other countries in Southeast Asia, and countries in North America. One of the product ingredients that has been developed is Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma. The Kirin Group has already launched numerous products made with Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma, and begun licensing it to companies outside the Group. In order to ensure that the beneﬁts of Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma will be widely underCASE stood and made available to broader range of people, we are 2 Health and Well-being providing scientiﬁc information and providing the Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma products to healthcare professionals, such Helping improve people’s QOL through the as medical doctors, pharmacists, nurses, and nutritionists, who widespread use of Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma can understand and share its scientiﬁcally proven beneﬁts. The unique beneﬁcial feature of Lactococcus lactis strain The Group is also globally developing products that Businesses bridging Pharmaceuticals and Food & Beverages Plasma is that it directly activates plasmacytoid dendritic use various other healthy functional ingredients, such as cells, which act like the “commander-in-chief” of the ornithine, glutathione, and citicoline. Our department will Leveraging technological assets to provide immune system with respect to protecting the body from viral infections. Our discovery of this activation was a play a major role in developing and launching new businesses that are relevant to social issues related to health functional ingredients that contribute to health world-ﬁrst. Our accumulated ﬁndings have been critically acclaimed by various medical societies around the world. and well-being, while focusing on ways to improve the QOL of people around the world. Tomomasa Yagisawa Senior Manager, Pursuing product development using only Partnership with Thorne Research Health Science Department, scientiﬁcally proven ingredients Kirin Holdings In October 2018, Kirin Holdings and Mitsui & Co., U.S. Supplement Sales and Forecast by Channel from 2011 Ensuring that one does not become ill is a fundamental Billions of USD Forecast PROFILE aspect of quality of life (QOL). With that in mind, there are Ltd., jointly invested in the holding company of 60 55.6 Thorne Research, Inc., which has a strong business 52.1 2.3 Tomomasa Yagisawa joined Kyowa many possibilities for the beverages and food we consume 49.2 2.2 46.3 4.9 Hakko Kogyo, in 1997 as a medical base as a developer, manufacturer, and supplier of 43.7 2.2 4.3 representative. After studying strategic in our daily lives. Our Health Science Department has been 38.8 41.2 2.0 2.1 3.4 3.9 5.0 5.4 high-quality supplements backed by extensive 36.8 2.0 3.1 4.6 management in the United States, he exploring such possibilities. 40 1.8 1.9 2.8 4.0 4.3 8.0 8.4 was put in charge of product strategies scientiﬁc evidence. Its highly functional supple2.3 2.5 3.4 3.7 7.2 7.6 and assigned as a product manager for The scientiﬁc basis of many so-called “health food” ments are made with ingredients that have better 3.2 6.2 6.5 6.9 14.9 5.9 13.2 14.0 the North American market. After the products is unclear. In contrast, mechanisms of action* of potency, absorption, and digestibility, and are 10.5 11.1 11.8 12.5 company was re-established as Kyowa 20 10.1 Hakko Kirin, he was put in charge of ingredients are the basis of our products, and we commerprimarily sold in the U.S.’s growing supplement human resource development for the cialize them after demonstrating statistically signiﬁcant beneﬁts market through healthcare practitioners and 13.5 14.3 15.1 15.9 16.8 17.7 18.6 19.7 entire Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group and the international pharmaceutical business. through trials on human subjects. Generally, such evidence is online retailers, a rapidly expanding sales channel. 0 2014 2015 2016 2017E 2018E 2019F 2020F 2021F Mr. Yagisawa was seconded to Kirin diﬃcult to demonstrate because the eﬃcacy of health food Thorne Research specializes in clean supplements Holdings in 2013, where he examined CAGR% 2011-16E 2016E-21F new healthcare businesses after gaining products is mild compared with pharmaceuticals. Neverthethat do not contain any harmful or unnecessary Mail order and telephone sales 3.9 2.9 experience in overseeing management less, we have conducted medically advanced studies utilizing ingredients, as compiled in its “No” List. Through strategies for the Kirin Group as a whole. Online retailers 12.6 12.0 In 2016, he started up the Healthcare the Group’s strengths including Kyowa Hakko Kirin’s medical this partnership, the Kirin Group aims to enhance Healthcare practitioners (including ﬁtness clubs) 8.5 8.1 Professional Business in the Business expertise. In addition to collaborative projects with academic the corporate value of Thorne Research’s business Multi-level marketing 6.3 6.3 Creation Department* of Kirin Company. with collaborative activities such as new product research institutes, we have put assets and systems in place Mass market retailers 4.8 4.8 for linking research results to business creation. One outcome development and further expand its business into Specialty natural product retailers 6.6 6.6 other markets, such as Japan. Total 6.4 6.4 of this is Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma. The Thorne “No” List: https://www.thorne.com/thorne-no-list Source: Nutrition Business Journal * Currently the Health Science * Mechanisms of action: The processes by which a functional ingredient Department of Kirin Holdings produces an eﬀect on tissues, organs, and cells. 35 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 36 The Stories behind Kirin’s Commitment to Creating Shared Value Case 3: Community Engagement CSV Commitment More sustainable production of raw materials The Group’s boutique winery joins hands “Create more opportunities for customers to spend time with their families and friends, and Our Achievement with the local community develop the communities within our supply chain” is one of the items in the Kirin Group’s CSV Volume of grapes produced at A boutique winery is a comparatively small-scale winery Purpose. Accordingly, the Group is making eﬀorts to improve the sustainability of agriculture in our own vineyards that produces high-quality wine using hand-picked the areas that grow raw materials for its products, such as hops and grapes in Japan, rice in 2027 target grapes. When it opens in the autumn of 2019, the Myanmar, and tea leaves in Sri Lanka. Among those eﬀorts are activities intended to help solve Mariko Winery will be a boutique winery that “joins issues confronting suppliers in various communities. The Group also aims to create even more 200t hands with the local community,” based on the economic value and new social value. As an example of such activities, the following initiative is concepts of integrating with the regional economy being carried out by Mercian Corporation, which is collaborating and industries, harmonizing with the local ecosyswith vineyards to strengthen its brand of Japanese wine. tem, and being an integral part of the community’s future. Staﬀ at the Mariko Winery plan to oﬀer valuable experiences to visitors with tours of every wine production process spanning from grape harvesting to cultivation, as well as wonderfully scenic views from the terrace seating set up on the second ﬂoor. CASE 3 Community An exterior view of the Mariko Winery (artist’s rendition) Inside the Mariko Winery (artist’s rendition) Engagement opportunities to experience agriculture, and to hold festivals on the winery grounds in the future. By operating the three wineries, we can oﬀer valuable Aiming to boost sales of Château Mercian in Contributing to the growth of suppliers and experiences and plenty of satisfaction to people who are new to wine as well as wine connoisseurs. I also believe the collaboration with grape-growing communities their communities through the development of three wineries development of the wineries will help revitalize the surrounding region. Our wine business is agricultural, and I believe in developing the areas that produce our brands. With that in mind, I am Envisioning the future of Japanese wine Enhancing the Château Mercian brand in terms of leading a plan involving three wineries in grape-growing At our wineries, we are oﬀering satisfying experiences to both quality and quantity areas that neighbor each other. We have been operating visitors, promoting sales of wines, and creating opportuniAya Jindo In recent years, wine consumption has been on the rise in the Katsunuma Winery, which is like the gateway to our ties for customers to enjoy wine with family and friends. By Chief brand manager of Japan, but the market share of Japanese wine* is only brands, in the city of Koshu, Yamanashi Prefecture, and the creating such memorable experiences, we can encourage Château Mercian, about 5%. Against that backdrop, we set the goal of increasKikyogahara Winery, a premiere facility open to public 10 customers to visit again and again. We are also promoting Marketing Department, Mercian ing our sales volume of Japanese wine, led by our Château days each year, in the city of Shiojiri, Nagano Prefecture. sales via Mercian’s informative and interesting website, and PROFILE Mercian brand, by 1.5 times the current volume to 67,000 In the autumn of 2019, we will open the Mariko Winery steadily increasing the number of wine lovers. IncorporatAya Jindo joined Mercian in 1996. cases by 2027. To achieve this goal, it will be important to in the city of Ueda, Nagano Prefecture, as our third winery. ing success stories at wineries outside Japan, we are working Having studied wine business and marketing in England, she was cultivate a customer base that regularly drinks Japanese Covering 29 hectares, it is the largest area managed by the to boost proﬁt ratios and increase our direct sales ratio of responsible for the brand wine with pride. That is our raison d’être. company. The buildings are located on the highest elevawine to 20%. management of imported wines for 10 years. In 2014, she was Château Mercian has been highly praised for its quality tion of the plot and surrounded by vineyards on all sides, The company has begun exporting Château Mercian to transferred to Kirin Brewery, at international wine competitions in the past. Nevertheallowing us to establish it as a boutique winery capable of markets overseas. The wine is being oﬀered by three-star where she gained experience in developing craft beer and cider less, for it to be widely selected as a wine of high value, overseeing every process from grape growing to wine restaurants in Hong Kong, and we will aim to have it recogproducts. She returned to which includes its price in the marketplace, it will be necesproduction (more details are provided on the top right side nized as a high-value wine in cities like London and New Mercian in 2017, and is currently creating plans for three wineries. sary to raise its quality and expand its quantity. Therefore, of this page). York in the future. We will continue these eﬀorts and strive we are currently working to double our grape supply by The theme of the Mariko Winery will be “joining hands to have Château Mercian recognized around the world as expanding the size of company-managed vineyards from 50 with the local community,” as it will be diﬃcult for the Japan’s leading brand of wine. hectares to 76 hectares by 2027, while also training the company to operate the winery on its own. With assistance * Japanese wine is deﬁned as wine produced domestically with 100% of the personnel needed for growing grapes. from a local senior citizen center, we will hire older people grapes grown in Japan. It is distinct from domestically produced wine made to help work in the vineyards. We also plan to give children with imported concentrated fruit juice or imported wine as ingredients. 37 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 38 The Stories behind Kirin’s Commitment to Creating Shared Value Case 4: The Environment Applying our leading engineering capabilities with that realizes the world’s lowest amount of GHG emissions. the aim of realizing the world’s best energy system Through these eﬀorts, we expect to reach our GHG emission CSV Commitment Actions regarding climate change Heat pump systems are a key technology for reducing GHG reduction target before 2030. Moreover, reducing annual emissions. We have been able to both save energy and shift energy costs by 1 billion yen appears to be achievable. For the Kirin Group, global warming is a serious issue. In 2009, it set an ambitious target to Our Achievement to electric power by installing heat pump systems. Simply While monitoring results at the Okayama Factory and reduce CO2 emissions by half across the Group’s entire global value chain by 2050 compared installing equipment, however, will not necessarily produce using it as a model, we plan to successively replace the Reduction of GHG emissions with the 1990 level, and has been working towards that goal ever since. (Scope 1 and 2) results. Before installation, it is essential to analyze the entire energy systems at each of our other factories in Japan and In March 2017, the Group set a medium-term target to reduce GHGs, whether directly heat ﬂow of the production process and optimize it through abroad from 2019. 2030 target emitted from its business activities or emitted in the value chain, by 30% by 2030 compared advanced designs. The Kirin Group has accumulated leading Kirin Brewery will continue applying its technological with the 2015 level*2, and began working to achieve this target in its business operations. As 30% engineering capabilities, and my team made use of that experience while aiming to put in place a production system strengths with a view to realize the world’s best energy system. an aspiring initiative, Kirin Brewery introduced a production system that realizes the world’s (compared with 2015) lowest amount of GHG emissions*3. *2 This goal was the ﬁrst GHG reduction target in Japan’s food and beverage industry to be recognized by the international initiative Science Based Targets. *3 Based on an in-house study Heat pump system Electricity as the energy source High-temperature, Collection of Low-pressure gas high-pressure gas discharged heat Can use a greater amount of (exhaust heat from CASE energy than the amount of 4 production processes and ambient air heat) energy consumed Low High temperature temperature Utilizing the heating process The Environment Low-temperature, High-pressure ﬂuid low-pressure ﬂuid Reducing GHG emissions by 36%*1 and Method of reducing GHG emissions annual fuel costs by 1 billion yen through a switchover to Result of energy-saving initiatives GHG emission clean energy *1 Kirin Brewery has set a higher target for achieving the targets of the Kirin Group. reduction of 36 Aiming to end dependence on fossil fuels in an Greater use of Sosuke Yoshikawa GHG renewable energy eﬀort to reduce GHG emissions emissions Manager, Technology Development Department, Kirin Brewery reduced its GHG emissions by about 70% over %*1 Scope 1 Production Division a 25-year period from 1990 to 2015 by applying its leading (fossil fuels) Fuel costs cut Kirin Brewery technological capabilities in the global beer industry and by 1 billion yen carrying out numerous forward-looking initiatives. annually PROFILE Sosuke Yoshikawa joined Kirin Now the company is taking on the challenge of applyBrewery in 2005. He was ing even more technological innovations to achieve GHG responsible for all energy systems emission reduction targets set by the Kirin Group in 2017. Shift to when the company’s Shiga Factory electric power was upgraded in 2007. After that, As a means to achieve this, we are aiming to shift our Scope 2 he was involved in engineering operations at the head oﬃce, and energy sources from fossil fuels to electric power. Both (electric was assigned to work in Brazil in electric power and fossil fuels are currently used as energy power) 2014. Mr. Yoshikawa succeeded in substantially reducing energy sources at our breweries. Comparatively, the largest amount consumption while overseeing the of GHG emissions comes from fossil fuels, which are used to 2015 construction of the company’s beer Renewable and beverage factories and generate heat. Therefore, in order to reduce GHG emissions, energy implementing innovative we need to improve energy eﬃciency and reduce the amount energy-saving initiatives. At present, By 2030 he oversees environmental and of energy consumption. At the same time, we believe that energy-related engineering and is in shifting the energy mix to electric power, and, furthermore, charge of devising forward-looking GHG emission reduction strategies. using electricity generated by renewable energy sources are the most eﬀective ways of reducing GHG emissions. 39 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 40 The Stories behind Kirin’s Commitment to Creating Shared Value Case 5: A Responsible Alcohol Producer CSV Commitment Responsible drinking / passing a culture of enjoying alcoholic beverages to the next generation For many, alcohol can bring joy and happiness at social gatherings, but it can also be harmful Our Achievement if not consumed responsibly. Kirin Group’s Zero Harmful Drinking project aims to combat Number of participants in irresponsible drinking in all the regions it operates in while creating a positive drinking culture appropriate drinking education programs / viewers of drinking that can be sustained for generations to come. Kirin strives to fulﬁll these aims by undermanner advertisements standing and valuing local attitudes, as well as producing diﬀerent ways to educate responsi2021 target ble drinking according to each region. Kirin does this by creating more drinking options, such as non-alcoholic and low-alcoholic beverages, and by improving consumer acceptance One million towards these products. Kirin also encourages labeling alcohol content on beverages to participants/viewers ensure important information is visible at all times. Learn more about the CSV commitment of Lion, Australia below. CASE 5 A Responsible Shaping a more responsible and social drinking culture Alcohol Producer To create shared value for Lion and the communities we operate in, we help shape a positive drinking culture that brings people together in Australia and New Zealand. There are numerous ways we do so, such as oﬀering lower-alcohol options that don’t compromise on ﬂavor and quality. And Shaping a positive through our marketing campaigns, we consistently promote drinking culture that The major alcohol-related issues facing Australia responsible drinking and encourage people to savor the experience rather than drinking purely for the eﬀect. brings people together in and New Zealand The majority of adults in Australia and New Zealand who We also invest in initiatives and partnerships that improve drinking behavior and attitudes. This includes our partnerships Alcohol-related problems Australia and New Zealand drink do so safely and sociably. Indeed, irresponsible alcohol with DrinkWise Australia and Cheers! New Zealand. Confronting alcohol-related problems is a global consumption in both countries has seen a downward trend DrinkWise Australia is an independent not-for-proﬁt for almost a decade, with underage drinking at its lowest level. organization that aims to address alcohol misuse and underchallenge. In 2015, the United Nations included the Nevertheless, alcohol misuse is still prevalent in today’s age drinking. Lion is the largest investor in the organization prevention of harmful use of alcohol in the Sustainsociety and must be taken seriously. One of the biggest and contributes annually to high-proﬁle campaigns. Cheers! able Development Goals. In that context, the Kirin Group joined the International Alliance for Responsialcohol-related issues faced in Australia and New Zealand New Zealand aims to help New Zealanders understand the ble Drinking (IARD), an international NPO, through today is removing the perception that alcohol fuels anticauses and eﬀects of their drinking behavior and make smartwhich it is working together with major alcohol producsocial behavior. Findings have actually revealed that the er choices as a consequence. Our online interactive training ers from around the world to promote responsible causes of such behavior are typically social and cultural, which program, “Alcohol & Me,” reinforces this goal and is now drinking and reduce harmful drinking. Libby Davidson means policymakers need to focus on social and cultural used in workplaces across New Zealand. In September 2018, the CEOs of each member Lion Group General Counsel & solutions. A recent report from Lion showed people who Educating consumers on the risks of alcohol is one of company gathered in Paris and announced a new External Relations Director have a local place to drink in Australia are more trusting and our priorities, which is why all our labels include the message initiative: through a cooperative agreement with the PROFILE satisﬁed with life, have broader friendship and support that it is safest not to drink alcohol while pregnant. Our social media services Facebook, Instagram, Google, Libby Davidson joined Lion in 2005 networks, feel less isolated, and identify more closely with labels also display easy-to-understand symbols that indicate YouTube, Twitter, and Snapchat, alcohol ads would not and has gained experience over the past 14 years in a wide range their community. With this in mind, we actively support the amount of alcohol contained in each beverage, enabling be shown to users of operations, including legal local solutions to local problems. For example, we particidrinkers to keep track of how much they are consuming. who are not of legal aﬀairs, client relations, mergers drinking age, while and acquisitions, and corporate pate in government-led strategies that deal with alcoholUltimately, our goal to create a more responsible and governance. At present, she related problems in local areas, such as violence and antisocial drinking environment is driven by our determination adult users would concurrently serves as a social behavior. We also back local licensing laws to help to address and alleviate social isolation. We want our products be given the choice sustainability director and plays an important role in responsible maintain a more cohesive society. to be at the center of life’s sociable moments. By supportto have alcohol ads drinking awareness campaigns appear or not. while executing numerous Above all, alcohol regulation should be focused on ing those moments and breaking down barriers, we can innovative initiatives. unhealthy and harmful drinking, not on reducing consumpcreate a world where people live and work in communities tion in general. which take care of each other and our environment. 41 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 42 Advances in Each Businesses and Risk Management Fiscal 2018 Segment and Business Overview The new reportable segments Japan Integrated Beverages Kirin Holdings’ reporting segments through fiscal 2018 were Japan Integrated Beverages, Oceania Integrated Beverages, fiscal 2019 after determining the best structure for realizing the Group’s future business strategies beginning with 2019 Core operating companies Revenue (Billions of yen) Normalized operating proﬁt (Billions of yen) Other Overseas Integrated Beverages, Pharmaceuticals & BioMTBP. Kirin Holdings determined that the most effective chemicals, and Other. In fiscal 2019, the reporting segments way to further strengthen the integrated management of • Kirin Company Others and 1,051.01,078.3 elimination were revised to Japan Beer and Spirits, Japan Non-alcoholic the group companies was to merge with Kirin Brewery to • Kirin Brewery Mercian (-0.8%) 72.5 81.2 Mercian (-34.4%) Beverages, Oceania Integrated Beverages, Pharmaceuticals formulate a flexible organizational structure and also to Kirin Beverage and Bio-chemicals, and Other. revise the components of the internal monitoring within the Kirin Beverage (-0.3%) (+7.5%) The segment organization was revised at the start of Kirin Group. Kirin Brewery Kirin Brewery • Kirin Beverage • Mercian (+3.3%) (+13.0%) Through ﬁscal 2018 Starting ﬁscal 2019 2017 2018 Others and elimination 2017 2018 Japan Beer and Spirits Others Japan Integrated Beverages Japan Non-alcoholic Beverages Note: Figures in parentheses are comparisons with the previous ﬁscal year. Other Overseas Integrated Beverages Oceania Integrated Core operating companies Revenue (Billions of yen) Normalized operating proﬁt (Billions of yen) Beverages Oceania Integrated • Lion 496.9 Beverages • Myanmar Brewery 448.6 Others and elimination 66.3 65.1 Others and elimination Myanmar Pharmaceuticals and Myanmar Brewery Bio-chemicals* Brewery (+2.1%) (+2.2%) Lion Other Overseas Lion (-1.7%) (-5.5%) Integrated Beverages Other 2017 2018 2017 2018 Pharmaceuticals & Other Bio-chemicals Pharmaceuticals & Bio-chemicals Other Other Others Core operating companies Revenue (Billions of yen) Normalized operating proﬁt (Billions of yen) • Kyowa Hakko Kirin • Kyowa Hakko Bio 346.7 339.3 62.2 58.8 * The segment name will be changed to Pharmaceuticals Business in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 following the acquisition of 95% of all outstanding shares of Kyowa Hakko Bio Co., Ltd. from Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. on April 24, 2019. Bio-chemicals Bio-chemicals (-3.2%) (+13.1%) Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals (-1.6%) (-8.4%) 2017 2018 2017 2018 43 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 44 Advances in Each Businesses and Risk Management Fiscal 2019 Market Conditions and Strategies by Segment Japan Beer and Spirits Japan Non-alcoholic Beverages Market environment Market environment Kirin Brewery expects the domestic total beer market to consumption tax in October 2019, Kirin Brewery expects Kirin Beverage expects the non-alcoholic beverages marto directly impact sales but it may have an indirect impact continue shrinking amid the declining birthrate and aging deteriorating consumer sentiment to continue increasing ket to continue growing at a brisk pace in 2019, but to if overall consumption slows. population in Japan and as consumer preferences becomdemand for lower-priced products in new genre categoultimately remain flat or contract modestly year on year At the same time, Kirin Beverage expects sales to grow ing increasingly diversified. ries while evolving consumer preferences continue to shift primarily owing to the strong sales during last year’s in the lowand sugar-free products category supported by In addition, the revision to the Liquor Tax Act in 2017 demand to RTD products. Anticipating a certain level of unseasonably hot weather. Because non-alcoholic beveryounger consumers’ preference for sugar-free drinks and the followed by the price increase on a portion of its on-premprice differential between beer and new genre product ages are exempt from the consumption tax change, Kirin overall trend for health-conscious choices on the backdrop ise products in 2018 increased concern that higher retail prices in 2021, the year after the tax revision, Kirin Brewery Beverage does not expect the tax hike in October 2019 of the country’s declining birth rate and aging population. prices would reduce demand for beer products, and Kirin expects the share for traditional beer (defined in the narBrewery saw a shift in demand to low-priced and readyrow sense) in the overall alcohol market including RTDs to to-drink (RTD) products. With the plan to increase the remain at roughly 40%, about the same as in 2017. Strategies Kirin Beverage has vastly improved its profitability through Kirin Beverage will further strengthen the foundathe structural reform achieved under the previous MTBP. tions of its flagship brands Gogo-no-Kocha, Nama-cha, and Strategies The company has fortified its business foundation through FIRE. In response to consumer demand, in April 2019 Kirin Kirin Brewery continues to pursue the objectives of the previous happo-shu Tanrei Green Label, which it believes has promising better income and expense management and reduced supply Beverage introduced FIRE brand products in PET bottles and MTBP to raise both revenue and profit by emphasizing profitgrowth potential. chain management costs. Successes strengthening its leading expanded its lineup of offerings in the sugar-free and health ability and investing in its core brands. Kirin Brewery has also set developing the craft beer operbrands led to sales volumes bouncing back sharply for Namaand well-being domains. In April, Kirin Brewery introduced a refreshed version of ation into a profitable business as a mediumto long-term cha and reaching a record high for Kirin Lemon, which marked Its container strategy is to continue to center its manageits flagship Kirin Ichiban brand designed to appeal to a broader target. Kirin Brewery will continue developing the craft beer its 90th anniversary since its debut. ment targets on high-margin smaller PET containers while customer range. market by creating more opportunities for consumers to taste Since Kirin Beverage will also be strengthening its localmaximizing value by linking the strategy with its strategy for Kirin Brewery will also strengthen consumer recogniits products. Kirin Brewery plans to increase the number of ization strategy, advancing its integrated marketing, and conthe Nama-cha, Kirin Lemon, and other brands. tion of its new genre products positioned close to our beer restaurants and drinking establishments equipped with our tinuing to promote the development of the FIRE brand, it will Kirin Beverage will also fortify the procurement, proproducts, specifically the popular Honkirin, launched in 2018, Tap Marché beer dispenser units from roughly 7,000 stores in follow the same strategic framework in 2019 that it had in duction, logistics, and other elements of its supply chain to and the revamped Nodogoshi. Kirin Brewery fully expects 2018 to close to 13,000 in 2019. 2018 aimed at generating profits by expanding its business. establish a sustainable operating structure. rival breweries to launch products to try to counter its sucKirin Brewery also plans to fortify its offerings in the RTD catcess with Honkirin. Rather than relying on extension products egory, particularly the core Hyoketsu and Honshibori brands. Kirin Grow Existing Domains or new products designed solely to boost sales volume, Kirin Brewery will be prepared to meet growing demand for RTD prodBrewery will prioritize generating further growth for its existucts when its new ¥5 billion RTD production facility at the Nagoya Strengthen three core brands ing products. Kirin Brewery will remain constantly focused on Plant commences operations in May 2019. Kirin Brewery will also Strengthen sugar-free and health and its customers as Kirin Brewery seeks to stimulate demand by boost its profit margins in the RTD category through more effiwell-being domains offering attractive beer products in all categories. cient transport operations between eastern and western Japan. Kirin Brewery is also developing a product portfolio stratKirin Brewery will also work to boost sales of its nonegy for the upcoming revision to the Liquor Tax Act in 2020 alcohol beer-taste beverage Kirin Zero ICHI and its Japanese Initiatives in New Domains and beyond. In 2019, Kirin Brewery will therefore increase whisky offerings, which Kirin Brewery is aiming to develop its investment in its signature beer Kirin Ichiban and also in its into a high margin business category for the company. Develop KIRIN naturals Consumption Liquor tax Changes in 2019 tax hike Aﬀordability × added value 2020 revision purchasing behavior Create a Sustainable Structure Growth in beer category Opportunity in valuable new genre products Growth in RTD category Increasing attractiveness of happo-shu category Promote SCM cost reduction Build a stable distribution network Renewal Renewal Renewal From From From mid-January early April late February 45 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 46 Advances in Each Businesses and Risk Management Fiscal 2019 Market Conditions and Strategies by Segment Oceania Integrated Beverages Pharmaceuticals & Bio-chemicals Market environment Market environment Lion anticipates beer sales volume in Australia to either At the same time, Lion expects the markets to continue The Japanese government is taking steps to preserve the efforts to control medicals costs by overhauling the drug remain flat or decline modestly in the broad trend of growing for contemporary and craft beer categories. public health insurance system as the country deals with a pricing system and allowing more generic drugs on the increasing health consciousness. Lion also expects higher Lion expects the growing health consciousness declining birthrate and aging society. Although the pharmarket could further slow the market growth. purchase prices from the introduction of container deposit among consumers to support moderate overall growth in maceutical market is still expanding, we think government schemes aimed at reducing waste, such as those launched the dairy product and non-alcohol drink markets although in New South Wales in December 2017 and Queensland in with some variation in specific categories. November 2018, to affect consumer purchasing behavior. Strategies The Kyowa Hakko Kirin is committed to contributing strongly In the bio-chemicals business, after considering and disto the health and well-being of people around the world and cussing the possibility for further collaboration in the busiStrategies becoming a Japan-based world-leading R&D-focused life sciness domain of health and well-being on which Kirin Holdings In the Beer, Spirits and Wine business, Lion will harness the ence company by engaging in “Creating Shared Value (CSV)” is focusing as a future growth driver, Kirin Holdings and Kyowa Build our brands to grow the beer business business potential from the shift away from traditional clasmanagement that helps boost corporate value. To this end, Hakko Kirin came to the decision that by making Kyowa Hakko sic categories to the contemporary and craft categories by the company will continue to rely on innovation as its founBio a direct subsidiary of Kirin Holdings, it would be possible boosting its brand power in the growth categories while condation, utilize state-of-the-art biotechnology to changes and to more effectively use each other’s strengths and managetinuing to concentrate investment on its leading brands. The roll out products and services that meet true customer needs ment resources, as well as raise the speed of business develcompany is aiming for a higher sales ratio of high-priced and and have high unique value. opment, beginning with the health and well-being domain, high-margin products to improve profitability in the medium In the Pharmaceuticals business, although Kyowa Hakko and so open the way to maximizing group synergies and the and long term. Initiative to generate new growth Kirin expects impacts from a reduction in drug price standards corporate value of Kyowa Hakko Bio. In addition, the share The company will also increase investment to develop Premium crafted in Japan, Kyowa Hakko Kirin anticipates year-on-year revenue acquisition would allow Kyowa Hakko Kirin to concentrate Global craft beer business the markets for craft beer overseas and for premium beer adult beverages growth supported by expanding sales of the global strategic management resources on the Pharmaceuticals business, prias it seeks to develop them into a pillar of profit growth in products Crysvita and Poteligeo, which Kyowa Hakko Kirin marily new drug development, and to further accelerate the the future. released in the United States and Europe in 2018. Moreover, pace of growth. Kyowa Hakko Kirin shareholders approved Kirin Holdings has determined that selling Lion’s Dairy & although Kyowa Hakko Kirin expects increases in selling the proposal at the shareholders’ meeting in March 2019, Drinks business to a third party would be the most beneficial expenses for expanding revenues and maximizing the value and Kirin Holdings acquired 95% of the share of Kyowa Hakko to Lion in terms of business value and to the Kirin Group in of global strategic products and in research and development Bio on April 24. Invest to establish a sustainable business terms of shareholder value. The Company is examining the expenses, core operating profit* is expected to increase due * Revenue − cost of sales − selling, general and administrative expenses − Establish ICT systems research and development expenses + share of profit of equity-accounted feasibility of such a move in 2019. Business structural reform to growth in overseas revenue. investees for the future Energy costs are rising in Australia as the country seeks to convert to clean energy and the closing of aging coalKirin Holdings Acquisition of Kyowa Hakko Bio Maximize the value of global strategic products Accelerating the creation of synergies fired power plants is reducing available power supply. Lion Maximize the corporate value of Kyowa Hakko Bio, is stepping up its ongoing efforts to reduce costs by making Crysvita Continue to penetrate markets focus Kyowa Hakko Kirin resources on Pharma business the supply chain more efficient and also by reformulating Poteligeo Plan to launch in EU Kirin Holdings Kirin Holdings the functions of its headquarters, including by introducing KW-6002 Plan to ﬁle for regulatory approval in US Kirin Kyowa Hakko Bio enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems. Merger Establish the One Kyowa Kirin structure New business New business segment segment Establish North America as an independent business region Kyowa Hakko Kirin Kyowa Hakko Kirin Begin management on a regional x functional axis Focus on Kyowa Hakko Bio (Japan, EMEA (Europe/Middle East/Africa), North 95% acquisition further growth America, Asia/Oceania) 47 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 48 Advances in Each Businesses and Risk Management Advances in Each Businesses and Risk Management Fiscal 2019 Market Conditions and Strategies by Segment Risk Management Approach to risk management Other The Kirin Group defines risk as uncertainty with the potential The Kirin Group’s basic risk management policy is to seek Strategies to seriously impede the accomplishment of business targets to prevent risk from being actualized, to effectively maintain Mercian aims to capture demand from the growing number of cusor impact business continuity. A “crisis” refers to a situation compliance, and to continue earning the trust of customers, Mercian is strengthening its brands by selecting and concentomers in the beer-entry segment and from customers movin which a risk is actualized at a certain point and therefore employees, shareholders, and society over the long term. trating on the core brands in each category and is formulating ing up to higher price categories. Myanmar Brewery will focus needs to be addressed on an urgent basis. a portfolio of products with high growth and profit potential. investment and sales promotions on its core Myanmar Beer Château Mercian is using its three wineries as a foundation for and Andaman Gold brands as it heightens its presence in the strengthening its activities to create shared value by helping country’s growing beer market. Risk management structure invigorate local areas into active grape-growing industries. The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Northern New The Kirin Holdings Group Risk and Compliance Committee Each Kirin Group company also has a committee dediMyanmar Brewery England (CCNNE) oversees the risk management activities of the Kirin Group. cated to risk management. The risk management committees Myanmar Brewery expects the Myanmar beer market to CCNNE is reorganizing its production bases as it continues to Kirin Holdings internal directors and executive officers serve of Kirin Holdings and the Kirin Group companies meet quarcontinue expanding at an annual percentage rate in the high radically overall its operating structure to fortify its earning on the committee, and an executive officer serves as the comterly to conduct risk monitoring. single digits. As the country’s economy grows, the company power. mittee chair. Risk management structure Risk management PDCA cycle Group Risk and Compliance Committee Kirin Holdings FY2019 Full-year Forecast — Normalized Operating Profit Chairman Board of Directors (Kirin Holdings Executive Oﬃcer) Group Risk and Compliance Committee 2019 Forecast 2018 Actual YoY % (bn yen) Consolidated Normalized OP 190.0 199.3 -9.3 -4.7% ACTION PLAN Risk management Quarterly risk PDCA monitoring CHECK Japan Beer and Spirits 84.7 82.7 2.0 2.4% DO Kirin Brewery 83.5 80.9 2.6 3.2% Internal Directors Executive Oﬃcers ACTION PLAN Group operating Risk management Others 1.2 1.8 -0.6 -31.9% companies PDCA CHECK DO Japan Non-alcoholic Beverages 24.0 23.3 0.7 2.9% * Domestic and overseas consolidated subsidiaries Kirin Beverage 24.0 23.3 0.7 2.9% Oceania Integrated Beverages 48.2 51.8 -3.6 -7.0% Lion 48.2 51.8 -3.6 -7.0% Beer, Spirits, and Wine 52.1 53.3 -1.2 -2.3% Process for designation of serious risk Dairy and Drinks 5.7 5.1 0.5 10.0% Corporate -9.6 -6.7 -3.0 Kirin Group companies, in conformance with the group risk veys and investigates all risks. The committee defines serious Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals 62.0 58.8 3.2 5.5% management policy, identify and examine the quantitative risks to the Group as risks considered to have a potentially and qualitative risk associated with their business activities. strong impact, a high likelihood of occurring, or widespread Pharmaceuticals (Kyowa Hakko Kirin) 54.0 50.4 3.6 7.1% The Group Risk and Compliance Committee Administrative ramifications. Bio-chemicals (Kyowa Hakko Bio) 8.0 8.1 -0.1 -1.6% Office (Kirin Holdings Corporate Strategy Department) surOthers 0.3 -0.3 Other 18.4 19.0 -0.6 -3.3% Designation of serious risk Mercian 2.5 2.6 -0.0 -1.9% Risk management policy Myanmar Brewery 9.5 10.1 -0.6 -5.9% CCNNE 3.8 2.8 1.0 33.5% Identify and examine speciﬁc risks for each Group company (all companies) Identify and examine risks for the overall Group (Kirin Holdings) Others 2.5 3.5 -0.9 -27.0% Corporate expenses/inter-segment eliminations -47.3 -36.3 -11.0 Kirin Holdings investigates the risks identiﬁed by each Group company and examines the potential overall quantitative and qualitative impact of serious risks from the Group perspective The Group Risk and Compliance Committee designates serious risk 49 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 50 Advances in Each Businesses and Risk Management Risk Management Climate-related risks and scenario analysis based on TCFD initiative Business risk impact and countermeasures The Kirin Group was the first company in the Japanese food sourcing materials for our paper container and packaging forThe Kirin Group quantitatively and qualitatively evaluates the each group company, establishes clear roles for each com& beverage industry to endorse the recommendations of ests, preserving water resources and reducing greenhouse potential impact and probability of occurrence of each risk. pany and department, and prescribes risk reduction meathe Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related gas emissions, are strengthening our resilience to the impacts Risks determined to have a strong potential impact are dessures. The Group regularly monitors the risk conditions and Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The Group conducted a trial of climate change. ignated as serious risks. The Group communicates the serious the progress with countermeasures and when necessary scenario analysis following the TCFD recommendations from We are applying the information we learn from the trial risks to the executive managements of Kirin Holdings and reviews the status of the serious risks. January to May 2018 to assess the impact of climate change analysis to strengthen our business planning. We are presently on its business. in the very early stage of comprehending the full environment Serious risks in each business domain The analysis confirmed that by the end of this century impact of climate change on our financial operations and are Serious risk Potential impact on business Countermeasures climate change would likely have a major impact on the agrideepening our examinations of transition risk scenarios. Changes in consumer preferences, such as The Group’s competitive Strengthen customer-centric cultural products that are important raw materials for the WE B Further details related to our climate-related scenario analysis are available in the Kirin Group Environmental Report online at: from price polarization and diversiﬁcation of advantage weakens due to sales marketing capability to maintain and Group. We also reconfirmed that existing strategies, such as https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/report/env/pdf/ preference, alter the market environment of core products falling short cultivate strong brand power and competition and impact sales of of targets supporting tea estates to obtain sustainability certifications, environmental2018_2_06e.pdf 1. Food & Beverages domain core products (Alcoholic & non-alcoholic beverages The impact of climate change, torrential Supply chain disruptions halt or Expand and strengthen delivery businesses) rain, drought, unusually cold summers, delay product deliveries capabilities; prepare and implement Action to plastic waste issue weather abnormalities or large-scale natural a business continuity plan; establish The Kirin Group established the Kirin Group Plastic Policy Promoting resource circulation of PET bottles disasters such as an earthquake crisis task forces in February 2019 to specifically address the issue of plastic The Kirin Group is actively promoting resource circulation of Inability to adequately accelerate business Delayed business development Develop business in Europe, the waste, one of the most pressing environment-related social its PET bottles and aims to increase its recycled plastic ratio in overseas along with developing and United States, and Asia; establish a 2. Pharmaceuticals domain issues. The Kirin Group understands the fundamental chalJapan to 50% by 2027 while also redesigning its PET bottles, launching global strategic products ﬁrm foundation for sustained (Pharmaceuticals & Bio-chemicals business growth lenges concerning the use of plastic, and we are accelerating such as trimming the weight of its bottles, to improve the businesses) efforts regarding the use of plastic containers, packaging, and sustainability of PET raw materials. We are also seeking alterTechnical or legal problems at Product supply disruption, delay, Formulate a global supply chain manufacturing and logistics facilities or shortages management structure other items by group companies to promote the sustainable native sustainable materials to reduce the use of single-use use of plastic and resource circulation. plastic by our group companies. Slow progress formulating a competitive Stalled establishment or • Use Kirin Group expertise and business model and suitable organizational fostering of new businesses experience to develop businesses The Kirin Group Plastic Policy is online at: 3. Businesses bridging WE B and governance structures • Incorporate insight received from https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/news/2019/0207_01.html Pharmaceuticals and customers into our operations and Further details on the Kirin Group activities to reduce plastic waste are available Food & Beverages improve our organizational ability to online at: integrate customer insight https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/report/env/pdf/ environmental2018_2_04e.pdf Opportunity, risk, and our plan for businesses bridging Pharmaceuticals and Food & Beverages Human rights impact assessment for our Myanmar operations With the amazing advances in medical technology helping the successful development of products like the iMuse with The Kirin Group inaugurated its Human Rights Policy in negative impacts on human people enjoy longer lives, attention in Japan and overseas is Lactococcus lactis strain plasma. We are developing innovaFebruary 2018 and has since been actively working to address rights, areas to improve, and starting to focus on health management and disease preventive products and formulating a business model for long-term human rights issues related to its group operations. The first areas to monitor, and we tion, or what is being called the “pre-disease” area between business growth. step under the policy was to work with outside experts to further set specific action being healthy and being treated for illness. We believe this We also know that it is essential to use new information determine the scope of a human rights impact assessment, targets to achieve by 2021. is an opportunity for us to carry out the Kirin Group mission and communications technology (ICT) and to ally with specialand in May 2018 we conducted a human rights assessment of We are putting particular to contribute to resolving social issues and are applying our ists and business operators outside the Group to effectively our operations in Myanmar in reference to local laws and the effort into strengthening expertise and strengths in the food and health fields to create develop markets, cultivate sales, and advance R&D for the conventions of the International Labor Organization. After conrice supply chain manageMeeting with rice farmers “businesses bridging Pharmaceuticals and Food & Beverages,” new businesses. To this end, the Kirin Group is applying insight ducting a further assessment in June of that year, we convened ment and transparency. which will be a pillar of the Group’s future growth. derived from a deeper understanding of customers to create a meeting of outside experts, advisors, and local stakeholders The Kirin Group will continue to follow international At the same time, we are fully aware that creating new ICT platforms and solutions and is enhancing its organizational who determined that our operations in Myanmar presented a standards and employ best practices and will regularly review businesses is a huge undertaking involving not just formulatcapabilities by infusing our human resources with people relatively high level of risk of negative human rights impacts and revise its business practices and action targets as we step ing a winning business model but also establishing effective offering diverse perspectives and expertise. The Group is also in the areas of occupational safety and health, workers’ rights, up activities to ensure we conduct our operations with full organizational and governance systems, conducting new actively promoting open innovation, establishing legal, internal forced labor, child labor, supply chain working conditions, and respect for human rights. research, and developing new technologies. Without being and external regulation, and social norm compliance and qualimpact on local communities. WE B Further details on the Kirin Group human rights impact assessment for our Myanmar operations are online at: fully developed in each of these areas, business launches ity assurance systems, and utilizing productivity assessments to We then applied what we learned to categorize areas https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/human_rights/pdf/myanmar_en.pdf could be delayed and business plans could be put on hold. To set investment parameters and budgets. In addition, the Group where our business practices and policies created high risk of ensure success, the Kirin Group is organizing a group-wide is carrying out extensive due diligence prior to business and effort to utilize our expertise and experience gained from capital alliances and monitoring subsequent business activities. 51 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 52 Corporate Governance Discussion with Management Our governance structure Committee, along with your deep understanding of business in both countries, I believe you are ideally suited to chair the Lion board. And adopts a global approach, you deserve a lot of credit for the successful integration between our companies, by acting as a bridge between Kirin and Lion. Sir Rod Thank you. The structure Kirin has put in place certainly helps the resulting in long-term bridge work effectively, while the people inside both our companies deserve praise for collaborating closely together in order to make Kirin successful. success and strengthened Isozaki CEO On top of your work with Lion, you also serve as a nonexecutive director on the boards of global companies such as 21st relationships Century Fox, Swire Group, and others, as well as being a member of the APEC Business Advisory Council. Paula Dwyer (Lion board member) also concurrently serves as the Chairperson of Tabcorp, a non-executive director of ANZ Bank, and is a member of the Australian Takeovers Panel. With Implementing Lion’s governance structure within Kirin Holdings such high-profile commitments, may I ask why you have continued to stay Isozaki CEO When Kirin acquired 100% of Lion in 2009, we made a engaged as non-executive directors of the privately-owned Lion for so long? strategic decision to retain the Lion board of directors in order to benefit Sir Rod The answer is because you value what we have to say. Plus, we from the highest levels of governance and discipline of an Australian-listed share your commitment to the success of not just Lion, but Kirin as a global company. At the time, it was quite unique for a privately-owned company business. We’re proud to represent Lion, but you have always made us feel to have a full board, including independent directors, but I believe our part of the Kirin family. decision has proven to be the right one. Sir Rod Yes, despite the fact that Lion was no longer publicly listed, Kirin took a conscious decision in 2009 to ensure it had sensible and appropriate The effectiveness of the International Advisory Board governance, which is a combination of independent directors and Kirin Isozaki CEO As a founding member of the International Advisory Board appointees. It also gives our own staff confidence using a governance (IAB)*, could you share your views on its effectiveness? structure they understand and have used in Australia. What’s more, since Sir Rod Since Kirin set up the IAB in 2012, the agenda of our biannual Kirin became the majority owner, Lion’s subsequent performance has meetings has changed over time, due to the company’s continual evolution shown that the decision the Kirin board took has been justified. and expansion overseas. We have effectively met this change because our Isozaki CEO What have you focused on most during your tenure as senior executives have operated in many different jurisdictions, so you chairman of Lion? can be sure to receive sound and reliable advice concerning new ways to Sir Rod I’ve worked very hard on ensuring a good working relationship enhance Kirin’s international reputation and prospects. between the Lion CEO (Stuart Irvine), CFO (Stephanie Nixon), and the Isozaki CEO That’s an accurate assessment because at our IAB meetings leadership team, as well as the team here in Japan. And the way in which we have discussed many important global agendas such as our Southeast you have set up the structure for Lion means close working relationships Asia strategy, anti-bribery and compliance, the human rights measures, and can be easily forged between executives at our respective companies. the opportunity of growing in the global craft beer market. I find that the Sir Rod Eddington discussions and recommendations from the IAB are always very productive. Sir Rod Yes, I feel this is a direct consequence of Kirin’s governance Yoshinori Isozaki Member of the International Advisory Board Building a strong bridge between Kirin and Lion structure being organized in a way that facilitates constructive dialogue and President & CEO Sir Rod Eddington was appointed as Chairman Since joining Kirin Beer in 1977, Mr. Isozaki to the board of Lion in March 2012, having been Isozaki CEO A successful global business requires both localized decisionprioritizes long-term success. And thanks to these invaluable meetings, Kirin has held position as director of San Miguel appointed to the board in March 2011. One of making and an alignment with group strategy. For example, the local will continue to make sound decisions now and in the future. Corporation and as senior executive officer Australia’s most experienced and accomplished and general manager of corporate planning business leaders, Sir Rod had a long career in board, along with the local CEO, can act as a crucial bridge between the Isozaki CEO The IAB didn’t used to require the presence of the CEO, but at Kirin Holdings. Mr. Isozaki was appointed the aviation industry and is a former CEO of chief executive officer and president of Kirin Cathay Pacific Airways, Executive Chairman of subsidiary and headquarters. we have changed our policy to meet in person. Holdings in 2015. Ansett and CEO of British Airways. In 2005, Sir Sir Rod That’s right. It’s really important our senior executives come to Sir Rod For me, the IAB without the CEO present is not nearly as valuable. Rod was awarded a Knighthood by the British Government for services to civil aviation. Along Japan to talk with you and your team. As you yourself do when you attend It’s really important that you’re there. There’s also another benefit in with a number of non-executive directorships, our leadership conference every year and speak with our senior team. that it brings our senior executives to Japan and it provides us with the Sir Rod also serves as President of Australia Japan Business Cooperation Committee. Isozaki CEO Yes, I believe in the power of face-to-face communication. opportunity for constructive dialogue – both formal and informal. As the long-standing Chair of the Australia Japan Business Cooperation 53 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 54 Corporate Governance Discussion with Management How the IAB influences decision-making with global viewpoints technology and consumer behavior. We are well aware that some of these Isozaki CEO The purpose of the IAB is to infuse global diversity into changes can be painful because they disrupt our business model. But if we our decision-making. Consequently, importing western perspectives to don’t seize the opportunity of these changes, our business won’t survive in shape our decisions has resulted in us becoming more reactive and able to the long-term. proactively adjust more easily to our changing environment. Isozaki CEO I agree with you. The key concept for our long-term management Sir Rod Absolutely. Kirin’s structure ensures you and senior executives vision is CSV. I keep stressing the value of contributing to society and have access to informed diverse thinking. And the IAB, along with the Lion solving social issues. With this in mind, we have even changed our board, provides you with a framework to take advantage of this. corporate philosophy to reflect this, which is, “Bringing joy to society by Isozaki CEO That’s a valid point. And on a number of occasions, I am crafting food and healthcare products inspired by the blessing of nature asked by many investors about the appropriate governance structure for and the insights of our customers.” Do you have some thoughts on CSV, Kirin as a Japanese publically listed company, and whether that is likely to especially with regards to combatting social issues? change over time. The question ultimately leads to the issue of the board’s Sir Rod The way to be profitable and successful in the long-term is to function and composition, including whether non-Japanese non-executive sensibly address societal obligations and community expectations. If you directors add value, and how they can best contribute. I am also asked why don’t, consumers won’t buy your products, employees won’t want to work I don’t have a foreign member among the Kirin board. for you, and the community won’t welcome you. You have demonstrated Sir Rod By setting up an international advisory board, Kirin is well placed your awareness of these potential risks by clearly outlining your values in to answer many of these questions. Furthermore, you use the IAB as if it your corporate philosophy. We will now make sure our business decisions *About the International Advisory Board were part of the Kirin Holdings board with its focus on critical strategic reflect those values. After all, people want to feel confident that what we The International Advisory Board was set up as a consultative body to the CEO of Kirin issues, which makes you unique among other Japanese companies. do is consistent with what we say. Holdings. It offers advice and proposals Isozaki CEO Yes, a lot of our IAB discussions are really reflective of our Isozaki CEO Thank you very much for your valuable insight today, Sir Rod. regarding the Group’s global growth global strategy. For example, we made important decisions regarding our strategies, which include mergers and Southeast Asia strategy such as investing in the Myanmar opportunity, acquisitions, as well as risk management and corporate governance. The board is which involved entering into a compelling and promising new market. comprised of four members from countries And we also assessed the opportunities and risks investing in SABECO in outside Japan who have diverse backgrounds Vietnam, even though that didn’t go as well as we planned. Needless to and abundant international experience, along with three executive officers from say, a lot of valued contributions come from members of the IAB. Kirin Holdings. Kirin Holdings appoints the Sir Rod The important thing about the IAB is that it encourages open and chairperson of the board from among the free conversations and helps to nurture exciting new ideas. As a result, the international members. The board meets Kirin Group is perfectly equipped to consistently deliver the right results. at least twice annually, submits an official report to the CEO on the issues discussed, and, if requested by the CEO, reports to Kirin Holding’s Board of Directors. Kirin Group Vision 2027 and CSV International Advisory Board Isozaki CEO In 2019, the Kirin Group announced our new long-term management vision — Kirin Group Vision 2027. What do you think are the Chairperson Gavin Walker opportunities and challenges of this strategy? Sir Rod One of the great things about the 2027 vision is that it seeks to encourage everyone at Kirin, including those who work at Lion, to think holistically about our goals and ambitions for the future. And because the vision recognizes Kirin as a truly global business, we need to find ways to ensure it remains a success worldwide, as well as delivering the best longExecutive officers of International experts from Kirin Holdings outside the Kirin Group term outcomes for the shareholders. We also mustn’t lose sight of other responsibilities such as producing great products for customers in order to Keisuke Nishimura, Sir Rod Eddington, maintain Kirin’s leading status and longevity in the marketplace. In terms of Ryosuke Mizouchi, Paula Dwyer, Shinro Fujita Steve Burrows challenges, businesses need to be agile when dealing with the changes in 55 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 56 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Evolution of the Corporate Governance System Corporate Governance Systems General Meeting of Shareholders 1999–2006 2007–2012 2013–2015 2016–2018 2019-2027 Long-term management vision Kirin Group Vision 2015 Kirin Group New Kirin Group Kirin Group Audit & Supervisory Board of Directors 1 • Implementation of • Pursuit of rapid growth Vision 2021 Vision 2021 Vision 2027 Board 2 Group management • Aggressive overseas expansion Chairman • Organic growth utilizing • Clariﬁcation of Kirin • Value creation in all Auditing Auditing Business plans • Overseas expansion through M&A activities established foundations Group’s unique CSV domains from Independent of global businesses Food & Beverages accounting auditor 2 acquired under Kirin to Pharmaceuticals Inside Outside Inside Outside Group Vision 2015 auditors 2 auditors 3 directors 5 directors 4 • Become a global • Revitalization of Japan leader in CSV Integrated Beverages Business Nomination and Remuneration 2007–2009 2010–2012 2013–2015 2016–2018 2019-2021 Advisory Committee 3 Auditing MTBP Chairman Auditing • Promotion of • Three-year shift to • Restructuring and • Shifting Gear from “qualitative expansion” “organic growth” revitalization of Kirin Revitalization to and the Group Growth Inside Outside directors 2 directors 3 1999 2007 2013 2019 Kirin Holdings President • Introduction of • Introduction of pure holding company system • Introduction of regional headquarters system • Integration of Organization in-house company and establishment of Kirin Holdings with Kirin Holdings as global headquarters Kirin Holdings and system with Kirin • Establishment of Kirin Company as regional Kirin Company Group Executive Committee 4 Brewery as operating headquarters for the Japan Integrated and holding company Beverages Business Internal Group CSV Committee 4 2015 auditing Executive oﬃcers Group Risk and Compliance Committee 4 • Introduction of integrated operation system for Kirin Holdings and Kirin Company Internal Audit Department 2 Group Information Disclosure Committee 4 Departments 1999 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Internal auditing 2010-2012 2015 Group companies Operating companies Functional companies • Liquidation of marketable • Introduction of new executive oﬃcer system at securities and other assets Kirin Holdings and Kirin Company • Appointment of executive oﬃcers in charge of overseas operations at Kirin Holdings 1 Desired functions of the Board of Directors of the Kirin Group 3 Advisory body to the Board of Directors Corporate governance evolution Enhance long-term corporate value by making important corporate Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee: In 2016, Kirin Holdings 2016 decisions and providing supervisory functions through verifying executive uniﬁed the Appointment Advisory Committee and Compensation Advisory 2003 • Announcement of corporate governance policy and business company strategies (proposals), making sound recommendaCommittee to form the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee. • Establishment of Appointment Advisory Committee • Formation of Nomination and Remuneration tions from a broad perspective, and providing oversight. An advisory body to the Board of Directors, the committee is responsible and Compensation Advisory Committee Advisory Committee for discussing from an objective and fair perspective the appointment/re• Establishment of Group Risk Management Committee • Reorganization into Group Risk and Important decision-making Compliance Committee moval and remuneration of directors, Audit & Supervisory Board members, • Focus on important matters and discuss them from a medium and and executive oﬃcers of major Group companies. The committee is also long-term management perspective by using a compact decision-mak2006 2018 responsible for the Kirin Holdings CEO successor plan. ing structure that delegates responsibility to executing managers. • Establishment of Group Executive Committee • Speciﬁcation of cross-shareholdings Oversight As for the composition of the committee, the chairman and the majority • Establishment of Group Information Disclosure Committee 2014 reduction in the corporate • Establish corporate governance policy and enhance performance of committee members are outside directors, thus ensuring objectivity • Establishment of Group CSR Committee • Change of name to governance policy Group CSV Committee evaluations and other monitoring activities and transparency. The term of oﬃce is one year. 2017 • Promote input by outside directors to contribute expertise from an • Revision of oﬃcer remuneration system Outside directors: Shoshi Arakawa (Chairman), Katsunori Nagayasu, objective perspective 2012 • Introduction of restricted stock Hiroyuki Yanagi • Establishment of compensation system International Advisory Board (performance-based) 2 Mutual cooperation between Audit & Supervisory Board members, Inside directors: Yoshinori Isozaki, Toshiya Miyoshi independent accounting auditor, and internal control divisions • Audit & Supervisory Board members regularly attend Board of 4 Advisory bodies to the president Directors meetings and other important corporate meetings, and visit Group Executive Committee: The Group Executive Committee assists the 2002 Outside 2003 2012 2016 Group companies in Japan and overseas to audit directors in the president & CEO in decision-making on matters related to strategies and Change in number of directors 2 • Streamlining of Board of Directors • Appointment of female • Appointment of female director performance of their duties. Members also work closely with corporate investments that will have a signiﬁcant impact on the Kirin Group. Audit & Supervisory Board member • Appointment of outside director auditors of Group companies to enhance the eﬀectiveness of audits. Outside 2007 Outside Group Information Disclosure Committee: Delegated by the president, directors 2 directors 4 as chairman of the board • The Internal Audit Department audits the Group’s major risks and • Termination of the retirement beneﬁt and the committee deliberates and decides the importance of information • Appointment of outside internal control system. The Internal Audit Department, Audit & Superviexecutive oﬃcers consultancy systems including its timely disclosure and the necessity of timely disclosure. 25 10 9 director as chairman of the sory Board members, and independent auditors exchange information Nomination and Remuneration Group CSV Committee: Refer to page 31. Advisory Committee and views and hold discussions when necessary. The Internal Audit Inside directors 23 Inside Inside directors 8 directors 5 Department and Audit & Supervisory Board members obtain pertinent Group Risk and Compliance Committee: Refer to page 50. information by attending meetings of the internal control divisions and • Reduction of term of directors from two years to one the independent accounting auditor interviews internal control division staﬀ as necessary to conduct an eﬀective audit. * Number of directors. Indicates the number as of April 1 of each year 57 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 58 Corporate Governance Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and Executive Officers (As of March 28, 2019) Directors Audit & Supervisory Board members Yoshinori Isozaki Keisuke Nishimura President & CEO Representative Director of the Board, Senior Executive Vice 1977 Joined the Company President 2015 President & CEO of the Company (current position) Investment Strategy, Overseas Business, Global Craft Beer Akihiro Ito Keiji Kuwata Chieko Matsuda Nobuo Nakata Yoshiko Ando 1980 Joined the Company Standing Audit & Standing Audit & Outside Audit & Outside Audit & Outside Audit & 2017 Representative Director of the Board, Senior Executive Vice Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member*3 Supervisory Board Member*3 Supervisory Board Member*3 President of the Company 1983 Joined the Company 1985 Joined the Company 1987 Joined The Long-Term 1985 Admitted to the Japanese 1982 Joined the Japan Ministry (current position) 2015 Director of the Board, 2019 Standing Audit & Credit Bank of Japan, bar and joined Ishiguro of Labor Senior Executive Oﬃcer Supervisory Board Limited Law Oﬃce as an associate 2003 Lieutenant Governor of Major Concurrent Positions of the Company Member of the Company 2006 Representative Director 1987 Associate of Masuda & Shiga Prefecture Director of Lion Pty Ltd (current position) of Matrix, Inc. Ejiri (currently Nishimura 2018 Standing Audit & 2006 Director of the Equal Director & Vice Chairman of Supervisory Board Auditor of Kyowa Hakko 2011 Professor of School of & Asahi) Employment Policy Div. Myanmar Brewery Limited Member of the Company Kirin Co., Ltd. (current Business Administration, 1991 Admitted to the New of Equal Employment, Director of San Miguel Brewery Inc. (current position) position) Department of Urban York Bar Children and Families Director of China Resources Liberal Arts at Tokyo Bureau of the Ministry of 2019 Auditor of Kyowa Hakko 1992 Partner of Masuda & Ejiri Kirin Beverages (Greater China) Bio Co., Ltd. (current Metropolitan University (currently Nishimura & Health, Labour and Company, Limited position, appointed April (current position), Asahi) Welfare (MHLW) 25, 2019) Professor of Department 2007 Partner of Allen & Overy 2013 Director-General of the of Business 2012 Representative Partner of Industrial Accident Administration, Social Hibiya-Nakata (current Compensation Dept. of Sciences at Tokyo position) Labour Standards Bureau, Metropolitan University 2018 Outside Audit & MHLW (Graduate School) Supervisory Board 2014 Director-General of the (current position) Member of the Company Equal Employment, 2016 Outside Audit & (current position) Children and Families Supervisory Board Bureau, MHLW Member of the Company 2015 Director-General for Labour (current position) Policy Planning, MHLW 2016 Director-General for Statistics and Information Policy, MHLW Toshiya Miyoshi Noriya Yokota Noriaki Kobayashi 2017 Director-General for Human Resources Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Development, MHLW Senior Executive Oﬃcer Senior Executive Oﬃcer Senior Executive Oﬃcer 2019 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board HR and General Aﬀairs Chief Financial Oﬃcer, IR, IT, R&D, Quality Assurance, Member of the Company Business Transformation Health Strategy (current position) 1982 Joined the Company 1984 Joined the Company 1983 Joined the Company 2015 Director of the Board, 2018 Director of the Board, Senior 2019 Director of the Board, Senior Executive oﬃcers Senior Executive Oﬃcer of the Executive Oﬃcer of the Executive Oﬃcer of the Company (current position) Company (current position) Company (current position) Major Concurrent Positions Major Concurrent Positions Major Concurrent Positions Director of Kirin Brewery Company, Limited Director of Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. Director of Kyowa Hakko Bio Co., Ltd. Director of San Miguel Brewery Inc. Director of Kirin Business System (appointed April 25, 2019) Company, Limited Hiroshi Ogawa Ryosuke Mizouchi Toru Yoshimura Junko Tsuboi Masao Maehara Senior Executive Vice Senior Executive Oﬃcer Senior Executive Oﬃcer Senior Executive Oﬃcer Senior Executive Oﬃcer President Public Relations, CSV, Digital Strategy, General Manager of the Marketing, Supply Chain Management Risk Management, Legal North America Beer Business Corporate Planning Department Corporate Brand Strategy, (Production, Logistics, Director of Kirin Brewery Director of Lion Pty Ltd Director of Kirin Beverage Co., Ltd. General Manager of Strategic and Procurement) Company, Limited Director of The Coca-Cola Branding Department Director of Kirin Beverage Co., Ltd. Bottling Company of Northern New England, Inc Director of Mercian Corporation Information on matters related to the nomination of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members can be found on the Company’s Shoshi Arakawa Katsunori Nagayasu Masakatsu Mori Hiroyuki Yanagi corporate website. Outside Director of the Board*2 Outside Director of the Board*1 Outside Director of the Board*2 Outside Director of the Board*2 Chairman of the Nomination and Member of the Nomination and Chairman of the Board Member of the Nomination and WE B Management (proﬁle and reasons for nomination) Remuneration Advisory Committee Remuneration Advisory Committee Remuneration Advisory Committee https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/company/board/ 1968 Joined Bridgestone Corporation 1970 Joined The Mitsubishi Bank, Limited 1969 Joined Arthur Andersen, LLP 1978 Joined Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. Criteria regarding the Independence of outside oﬃcers 2006 CEO and President, Representative 2008 Representative Director, 1995 Japan Representative of Andersen 2007 Executive Oﬃcer of Yamaha WE B https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/ir/governance/pdf/ Board Member of Bridgestone President of The Bank of Consulting (currently Accenture Motor Co., Ltd. Corporation Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. Japan Ltd.) 2009 Senior Executive Oﬃcer of e_criteria_outsideoﬃcer.pdf 2012 Chairman of the Board of 2012 Representative Director, 2015 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. Bridgestone Corporation Chairman of The Bank of Member of the Company 2010 President, CEO, and *1 Outside Director as described in Article 2–15 of the Companies Act of Japan 2013 Advisor of Bridgestone Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 2018 Senior Advisor of International Representative Director of *2 Fulﬁlls the requirements for designation as an Independent Director Corporation (current position) 2016 Senior Advisor of The Bank of University of Japan (current Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. Takayuki Fuse Hideki Horiguchi stipulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and complies with the Company’s 2015 Outside Director of the Company Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. position) 2018 Chairman and Representative Senior Executive Oﬃcer Senior Executive Oﬃcer criteria regarding the independence of outside oﬃcers (current position) Outside Director of the Company 2019 Outside Director of the Company Director of Yamaha Motor Co., *3 Outside company auditor as described in Article 2–16 of the Companies (current position) (current position) Ltd. (current position) Act of Japan. Also fulﬁlls the requirements for designation as an Independent President and CEO, President and CEO, 2018 Senior Adviser of MUFG Bank, Ltd. 2019 Outside Director of the Company auditor stipulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and complies with the Kirin Brewery Company, Limited Kirin Beverage Co., Ltd. (current position) (current position) Company’s criteria regarding the independence of outside oﬃcers 59 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 60 Corporate Governance Interview with the Outside Auditor understanding of the business and its operations. Creating theme of our new Medium-Term Business Plan is to earn a consuch learning opportunities at Kirin Holdings has enhanced glomerate premium. This calls for Kirin Holdings to optimize effective governance. its business portfolio and leverage the Group’s management Maximizing group Diversity of board members is also essential to assure resources, such as capital, human resources, and customer effective governance. Diversity is often discussed as gender base. Here, it is important to maximize intra-business synersynergy to gain a diversity, that is, appointment of female executives. This simgies in unique ways, as only a diversified business can. plistic formula is not enough. The important point here is to Worldwide we are seeing that skillful business portfoconglomerate premium expand the definition of diversity to include each individual’s lio management is crucial to a diversified company’s perforknowledge, expertise, experience, and values. mance and its attractiveness to investors. Since Kirin Holdings The diversity of Kirin Holdings’ outside directors and outitself is an investor in its several business domains, the finanside auditors shows breadth and balance spanning the legal cial markets demand a finely honed ability to gauge risk and sector, government sector, corporate management and other return. Again, investors also expect Kirin as a whole to strive areas. Looking ahead to overseas expansion, diversity of the for intra-business synergies. Above all, the Kirin Group must Chieko Matsuda board could, possibly, be further reframed to encompass firmly establish its identity as a model of CSV management. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member nationality, ethnicity, and more. I think we will win the support of stakeholders in genMs. Matsuda was appointed as a member of the Outside Audit & eral and investors in particular by actively engaging them in Supervisory Board of Kirin Holdings in 2016. She had joined The Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan, Ltd., in 1987, after which she Skillful investment for maximum synergies positive dialogue about matters of concern to them. As an worked for Moody’s Japan, Ltd. Corporation, Corporate Directions, outside auditor, I am committed to carrying out my duties in Inc., and Booz & Co., Inc. Ms. Matsuda is also a professor on the In January 2019 the Kirin Group began executing Kirin Group a way that fulfills society’s expectations for the Kirin Group. faculty of the Economics and Business Administration and the Graduate School of Management of Tokyo Metropolitan University. Vision 2027 and the 2019-2021 Medium-Term Business Plan (2019 MTBP). In the planning process the board held spirited discussions focusing on CSV management as the core of our long-term-management vision and on growth scenarios in regard to the medium-term plan. More effective governance requires a more supervisory functions a consistent level of effectiveness. It is common for firms to bring in their outside directors diverse board Auditing offers many opportunities to visit a company and only after a plan has been more or less finalized internally. observe operations. By gathering information on the spot, an Kirin Holdings distinguishes itself by involving outside direcMany companies have been focusing on corporate goveroutside auditor learns first-hand about a firm’s inner workings. tors in many discussions from the start. Giving outside direcnance in recent years. Superficial changes cannot, however, At Kirin Holdings, the Audit & Supervisory Board arranges tors many chances to share their thoughts with management ignite the frank and open boardroom discourse that would inspections of manufacturing sites and other facilities, invitis also worthy in terms of the governance goals of enhancing enhance oversight. At Kirin Holdings, our Board of Directors ing the outside directors as well, so they may gain a valuable transparency and fairness. and Audit & Supervisory Board meetings benefited from addition to their formal duties. A major pillar of our 2019 MTBP is launching and growing engaged outside members who contributed their honest Outside auditors and directors need to take an indepenbusinesses bridging pharmaceuticals and food & beverages. opinions based on personal experience and specialized knowldent, third-party view of management. On-site inspections Progress in this direction will mean further diversification for edge. This kind of discussion gives our decision-making and and conversations with employees deepen our objective the Group. From an investor’s viewpoint, I think the unstated 61 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 62 Corporate Governance Enhancing Management Effectiveness Expertise and experience of directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Evaluations of the Board of Directors’ effectiveness members, and executive officers Kirin Holdings routinely evaluates the operation and discussion content of the Board of Directors and strives to ensure the proper functioning of important decision-making and oversight. Expertise and Experience Corporate Human Academic management, Overseas Technology, Marketing, Finance, Government resources Legal teaching and Corporate business R&D sales accounting agency strategy management research Fiscal 2018 initiatives based on the 2017 eﬀectiveness evaluation President & CEO Yoshinori Isozaki Representative Director of the Board, Keisuke Nishimura 1. Discussion from the standpoint of non-ﬁnancial topics including the environment, society, and governance (ESG) Senior Executive Vice President Director of the Board, 2. Discussion of enterprise risk management (ERM) associated with globalization and increasing risk complexity Toshiya Miyoshi Senior Executive Officer Director of the Board, Noriya Yokota Senior Executive Officer & CFO Director of the Board, Noriaki Kobayashi Senior Executive Officer Director (outside)* Shoshi Arakawa Initiatives to enhance Board of Director eﬀectiveness in ﬁscal 2018 Director (outside) Katsunori Nagayasu Director (outside)* Masakatsu Mori 1. Broader discussion of non-ﬁnancial information Director (outside)* Hiroyuki Yanagi The Board of Directors formulated the Kirin Group Vision 2027 plan through a thorough discussion of growth scenarios Standing Audit & for the Group’s overall business portfolio from the perspective of resolving key CSV issues. The deep discussion of ESG Akihiro Ito Supervisory Board Member Standing Audit & topics led to the Board setting the fulﬁlment of its CSV commitment as a key performance indicator in 2019 MTBP. Keiji Kuwata Supervisory Board Member Outside Audit & 2. Full discussion of risk management Chieko Matsuda Supervisory Board Member* Potential global risks were reported in a timely manner and scenarios of risks escalating to a major crisis were considered. Outside Audit & Nobuo Nakata Risk strategy and business execution were also discussed as they pertained to the 2019 MTBP. Supervisory Board Member* Outside Audit & Yoshiko Ando Supervisory Board Member* Senior Executive Vice President Hiroshi Ogawa Senior Executive Officer Ryosuke Mizouchi Fiscal 2018 eﬀectiveness evaluation and result Senior Executive Officer Toru Yoshimura Senior Executive Officer Junko Tsuboi The Board of Directors discussed the eﬀectiveness evaluations and the results of surveys conducted on “evaluation Senior Executive Officer Masao Maehara criteria” based on assessments by third-party advisors and the status of measures and improvements. Senior Executive Officer Takayuki Fuse Senior Executive Officer Hideki Horiguchi 1. Supervision of development, execution, and 5. Supervision of executive remuneration and * Outside Director as described in Article 2-15 and outside corporate auditor as specified in Article 2–16 of the Companies Act of Japan. The appointment fulfills the requirements for monitoring of strategies plans such as succession planning for designation as an outside auditor stipulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and complies with the Company criteria for the independence of outside officers. 2. Risk management and supervision of crisis control next-generation leaders Evaluation 3. Thorough understanding and implementation of 6. Supervision of overall disclosure to stakeholders Criteria healthy corporate ethics and supervision thereof 7. Structure and management of the Board Candidate plan for President & CEO (succession planning) 4. Supervision of decision-making such as business of Directors acquisition/withdrawal 8. Items to improve to increase the eﬀectiveness The Kirin Holdings Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Board of Directors. Committee deliberated on the formulation of policy for the Based on this report, we have been selecting, evaluating The Board of Directors was found to be operating properly and generally functioning eﬀectively. President & CEO succession planning in 2016 and reported and training candidates since 2017 under the supervision of We will strive to maintain and improve the eﬀectiveness of the Board of Directors through constructive discussion as outlined below. the requirements (an image befitting the President & CEO of the Board of Directors in order to determine the future sucKirin Holdings) and the decision process for candidates to the cessor in a highly objective and transparent process. Succession planning process Requirement as Enhancement Policy in ﬁscal 2019 a person with Identify candidates Agree on skill Development Select successor an image beﬁtting and issues development plan 1. Discuss risk management related to risks from globalization and increasing risk complexity the President & CEO 2. Discuss topics from the standpoint of non-ﬁnancial topics, including CSV commitment, corporate brand value, and employee engagement Rolling process 3. Discuss “speciﬁc business strategies” needed to implement the overall strategy, including for businesses bridging the Pharmaceuticals and Food & Beverages operations, the development of craft beers, and “function-speciﬁc Board of Directors strategies,” such as for the brands, research and development, digitalization, and human resources and Nomination and Remuneration organization Supervise succession process, decide ﬁnal candidate Advisory Committee 63 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 64 Corporate Governance Enhancing Management Effectiveness Group company governance and performance assessment Overview of remuneration system for executive oﬃcers Fixed remuneration Performance-linked remuneration Operational execution and monitoring system for seats a director on each company’s Board of Directors to help Approximately 50% Approximately 50% Group companies maintain a high level of corporate governance. Restricted stock Kirin Holdings formulates and promotes Group strategy, Basic remuneration Yearly bonus compensation monitors all Group businesses, and creates synergies across Group company performance evaluations the Group. The indicators used to evaluate the performances of Group comEach Kirin Group company is located close to its customers panies are the quantitative targets of return on assets (ROA), Restricted stock compensation Basic remuneration Yearly bonus (performance-based) and stakeholders and administers its operations autonomously which is directly linked to return on invested capital (ROIC), and and speedily with full authority to make business execution earnings before income tax (EBIT), which directly affect guidMediumto long-term Position Fixed remuneration Short-term incentive remuneration incentive remuneration decisions tailored to their specific strategies. Kirin Holdings ance for the growth rate of normalized operating profit. • Directors (excluding outside directors) Eligible • Outside directors Directors (excluding outside directors) Directors (excluding outside directors) recipients Earnings before interest and after tax EBIT • Audit & Supervisory ROIC = ROA = Board members Average interest bearing debt between the beginning and the end of the Total assets Stock (monetary compensation receivables FY + average total equity between the beginning and the end of the FY Allocation policy Cash Cash for the allocation of restricted stock) • Consolidated normalized operating proﬁt Evaluation • ROIC — • Individual performance evaluation indicators • Normalized EPS (excluding President & CEO) Remuneration system for executive officers • Shares with transfer restrictions will be allocated each ﬁscal year, in principle Kirin Holdings revised the remuneration system for execu• Specific decisions concerning remuneration are based on the • The rate at which shares with restrictions Remuneration is 100% when tive officers in March 2017 with the aim of providing stronreport of the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee. Allocation Establish remuneration that are to be lifted is set at a variable targets are achieved and varies ger incentive for officers to achieve the business plan and The Board of Directors decides director remuneration and Audit policy for each role and duty rate between 33% and 100% according to within a range of 0 to 200% the achievement of targets in the ﬁrst to further promote mediumand long-term value sharing & Supervisory Board members deliberate and decide Audit & year of the transfer restriction period (in with shareholders and investors. Remuneration levels are Supervisory Board member remuneration within the total remuprinciple, three years). reviewed each year versus those at other major domestic neration amount previously determined at the General Meeting of Calculation formula for individual Calculation formula for the rate of lifting corporations and using data for the period gathered by thirdShareholders. remuneration the restrictions party agencies. The performance evaluation benchmark for stock-based compensation with transfer restrictions was Individual remuneration changed from ROE to ROIC upon the launch of 2019 MTBP. Position remuneration = Rate of lifting the restrictions Standard bonus Basic policy Directors (excluding outside directors) × = 1. Remuneration shall emphasize the link to business performance Because directors are responsible for the execution of 200% 100% and corporate value in the medium to long term, and shall encourbusiness, the remuneration structure takes into account 150% Company Rate of lifting age the sharing of value with shareholders. achievement of short-term consolidated performance performance 100% 67% 1 × A the restriction × targets and the improvement of corporate value over pay rates 50% based on ROIC 33% 2 2. Remuneration shall be at a level commensurate with the roles and the medium to long term. Calculation 0% Consolidated (%) responsibilities of a director of the Group. — normalized 0% ROIC formula Lower limit Target Upper limit operating proﬁt Lower Target Upper 3. Executive remuneration shall be reviewed by the Nomination and Outside directors + limit limit Remuneration Advisory Committee. To ensure objectivity and Because they are responsible for supervising and advis200% + transparency, outside directors shall account for the majority of ing Company and Group management from an objective Individual 150% 100% the committee members. performance 100% × B Rate of lifting perspective, outside directors are provided basic remupay rate 50% the restriction 67% 1 neration (fixed remuneration) only. Evaluation indicators for based on × 0% commissioned 33% 2 Decision process Lower Target Upper work normalized EPS limit limit • The Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee, the chairAudit & Supervisory Board members (%) 0% Normalized EPS Lower Target Upper • A standard bonus is set for each oﬃcer based man and majority of which are outside directors, conduct deliberaBecause of their role of auditing the performance of on internal regulations limit limit tions and report to the Board of Directors. directors’ execution of their business from an objective • “A” is the ratio of the part linked to company performance, and “B” is the ratio linked to individual position, Audit & Supervisory Board members are properformance. The ratios are set for each position based on internal regulations. vided basic remuneration (fixed remuneration) only. WE B Please refer to the Corporate Governance Report for details about director and Audit & Supervisory Board member compensation in ﬁscal 2018. https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/ir/governance/pdf/e_governance_report.pdf 65 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 66 Financial Information Management Analysis of Financial Position, Operating Results, and Cash Flows 1. Operating Results to achieve the long-term New Kirin Group Vision 2021, we (2) Performance by reportable segments (1) Overall business conditions also stepped up activities to create shared value. We prioriResults by segment are as follows. In fiscal 2018, the final year of the Kirin Group 2016-2018 tized fulfilling our CSV commitments in the alcoholic beverMedium-Term Business Plan (2016 MTBP), the Kirin Group ages and non-alcoholic beverages and pharmaceuticals and Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017* Increase (decrease) Increase (decrease) aimed to “revitalize the Kirin Group through restructuring” bio-chemicals businesses, including in the areas of health and Consolidated revenue 1,930.5 billion yen 1,863.7 billion yen 66.8 billion yen 3.6% by prioritizing strengthening the profit base of Kirin Brewery well-being, community engagement, the environment, and Japan Integrated Beverages 1,078.3 billion yen 1,051.0 billion yen 27.4 billion yen 2.6% while reinvigorating the maturing domestic alcoholic bevera responsible alcohol producer. Oceania Integrated Beverages 329.5 billion yen 348.6 billion yen (19.1 billion yen) (5.5%) ages market. Following the Kirin Group CSV Commitment Other Overseas Integrated Beverages 167.4 billion yen 99.9 billion yen 67.5 billion yen 67.5% Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals 339.3 billion yen 346.7 billion yen (7.4 billion yen) (2.1%) Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017* Increase (decrease) Increase (decrease) Other 16.0 billion yen 17.5 billion yen (1.5 billion yen) (8.4%) Consolidated revenue 1,930.5 billion yen 1,863.7 billion yen 66.8 billion yen 3.6% Consolidated normalized operating profit 199.3 billion yen 194.6 billion yen 4.7 billion yen 2.4% Consolidated normalized operating profit 199.3 billion yen 194.6 billion yen 4.7 billion yen 2.4% Japan Integrated Beverages 81.2 billion yen 72.5 billion yen 8.6 billion yen 11.9% Consolidated operating profit 198.3 billion yen 211.0 billion yen (12.7 billion yen) (6.0%) Oceania Integrated Beverages 51.7 billion yen 52.6 billion yen (0.9 billion yen) (1.7%) Consolidated profit before tax 246.9 billion yen 233.7 billion yen 13.1 billion yen 5.6% Other Overseas Integrated Beverages 13.4 billion yen 13.7 billion yen (0.4 billion yen) (2.6%) Consolidated profit attributable to owners of the Company 164.2 billion yen 242.0 billion yen (77.8 billion yen) (32.1%) Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals 58.8 billion yen 62.2 billion yen (3.4 billion yen) (5.5%) * Fiscal 2017 figures have been revised retroactively in accordance with the settlement of the provisional accounting treatment related to the acquisition of a business that year. Other (5.7 billion yen) (6.5 billion yen) 0.8 billion yen * Fiscal 2017 figures have been revised retroactively in accordance with the settlement of the provisional accounting treatment related to the acquisition of a business that year. Fiscal 2018 overall revenue grew as expanded sales volume from the previous fiscal year level, which was elevated by at Kirin Brewery boosted revenue in the Japan Integrated gains on sales of fixed assets. Profit before tax attained a Consolidated revenue Consolidated normalized operating profit Beverages Business and increased sales volume at CCNNE record high on contributions from the share of profit of equi(Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 1,800.0 1,850.0 1,900.0 1,950.0 190.0 195.0 200.0 205.0 generated strong growth in revenue in the Other Overseas ty-accounted investees from higher year-on-year sales volIntegrated Beverages Business. Normalized operating profit ume at San Miguel Brewery and the booking of a gain on sale 2017 1,863.7 2017 194.6 reached a record high as strong results at Kirin Brewery supof equity-accounted investees from the transfer of all shares Japan Japan ported a substantial profit increase for the Japan Integrated of Kirin Amgen. Profit attributable to owners of the Company Integrated 27.4 Integrated 8.6 Beverages Business that more than overcame decreased profdecreased from last year when the Company booked a gain Beverages Beverages its in the Oceania Integrated Beverages Business due to foron the transfer of all shares of Brasil Kirin. However, profitOceania Oceania eign exchange rate fluctuations and in the Pharmaceuticals ability remained steady, considering that the level was essenIntegrated (19.1) Integrated (0.9) Beverages Beverages and Bio-chemicals Businesses from removing Kyowa Medex tially the same as last year when factoring out the impact of Other Overseas Other Overseas from the consolidated accounts. Operating profit declined the transfer. Integrated 67.5 Integrated (0.4) Beverages Beverages Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals and (7.4) and (3.4) Bio-chemicals Bio-chemicals Other (1.5) Other 0.8 2018 1,930.5 2018 199.3 67 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 68 Financial Information Management Analysis of Financial Position, Operating Results, and Cash Flows • Japan Integrated Beverages Business • Oceania Integrated Beverages Business • Other Overseas Integrated Beverages Business selling, general and administrative expenses as the company Kirin Brewery focused on enhancing the appeal of its beer In the Beer, Spirits and Wine Business, Lion Pty Limited continMyanmar Brewery’s promotional campaigns and product sought to establish global strategic products overseas. products and on cost-efficient marketing for select brands. ued strengthening its brands in growth categories following revamp generated strong sales for its flagship Myanmar Beer, In the Bio-chemicals Business, sales declined 2.6 billion The increased sales volume worked to increase marginal its brand portfolio strategy to reestablish profit growth in particularly the canned beer offering, as the brand continyen, or 3.2%, year on year due mainly to the impact of the profit and decrease selling costs. In the beer category, yearthe medium-to-long term. The Container Deposit Scheme ued to command high market share in an expanding market. previous year’s sale of the plant growth regulator business and on-year growth in the sales volume of the flagship Kirin Ichiban introduced in December 2017 in New South Wales, Australia, Sales volume for Andaman Gold in the economy category the intensifying competition for some products overseas. At brand exceeded the industry average. Installations of the impacted the sales result, but sales were strong for the Iron rose sharply year on year after the company expanded its the same time, improved costs from full-scale operations of Tap Marché beer dispenser unit reached near 7,000 stores Jack and James Squire brands and for the Furphy brand the production capacity and stabilized supply. Increased sales the overseas plant and a revised product mix helped increase nationwide during the year. Tap Marché, which is strategically company is rolling out nationwide in Australia as part of an volume and reduced costs offset the negative impacts from normalized operating profit by 0.9 billion yen, or 13.1%. aimed at expanding and invigorating the craft beer market, active effort to accelerate the development of craft beer an increased ratio of economy category sales and increased * G-Lasta is a treatment to increase the number of neutrophil white blood cells. offered 19 brands from seven breweries during the year. markets overseas. Lion’s sales volume ultimately remained import material costs due to local currency weakness, and Substantial contributions from the increased sales volume of essentially unchanged at -0.1% year on year. The company’s the company posted growth in sales of 9.4% and profits of (3) Progress toward achieving management indices Honkirin launched in March in the new genre category and success lowering supply chain-related costs, notably in the 9.4% on a local currency basis. Despite the foreign exchange The Kirin Group 2016-2018 Medium-Term Business Plan (2016 the revamped Nodogoshi Nama released in May fueled yearprocurement activities, helped lift the normalized operating impact (-1.9 billion yen in revenues and -0.7 billion yen in norMTBP) to “revitalize the Kirin Group through restructuring” on-year growth of 5.2% in sales volume for Kirin beer prodprofit ratio on a local currency basis from 27.9% a year ago malized operating profit), revenues grew 0.6 billion yen, or set raising ROE to 15% or higher and lifting the CAGR in noructs amid an overall contraction in the domestic beer market. to 28.8%. In the Dairy and Drinks Business, Lion continued to 2.2%, year on year and normalized operating profit increased malized EPS to 6% or higher as key performance indicators. RTD category sales volume rose 13.1% year on year on solid strengthen its brands in key categories. Sales volume rose 0.2 billion yen, or 2.1% year on year. We achieved both targets by steadily raising profitability and sales of the core Hyoketsu and very brisk sales of Honshibori TM year on year for the leading brand Dare in the dairy beverage The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Northern New diligently reducing costs throughout the Group. Chu-hi and KIRIN The STRONG, which launched in April. category and for the Farmers Union brand in the yogurt catEngland (CCNNE) recorded sharp growth in sales volume Revenue rose by 21.1 billion yen, or 3.3%, year on year egory. Smaller sales volume of ambient and chilled juice in from the September 2017 expansion of its marketing area Performance 2015 2016 2017 2018 CAGR indicator and normalized operating profit grew 9.3 billion yen, or large containers led to overall sales volume in the Dairy and in North America. ROE (6.3%) 17.6% 29.1% 17.5% 13.0%, year on year, helping to lift normalized operating Drinks Business decreasing 3.9% year on year while a betprofit ratio (versus sales revenue excluding liquor taxes) to ter product mix from higher unit prices held the decline in • Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Business Normalized EPS 117 yen 125 yen 151 yen 167 yen 12.6% 20.8% year on year, compared with 19.3% in the previous revenue to just 1.3%. Cost cutting measures helped lift the In the Pharmaceuticals Business, Kyowa Hakko Kirin continued fiscal year. normalized operating profit ratio on a local currency basis to its drive to make the leap to a “Global Specialty Pharmaceutical 2. Financial Status Kirin Beverage strengthened its business base and built 3.6%, up from 3.5% a year earlier. Lion’s profits rose 3.7% year Company” by maximizing the value of global strategic prod(1) General overview a more robust brand portfolio. Sales volume of the flagship on year on a local-currency basis, and its overall contribution ucts, infusing new products into its existing product lines Total assets at the end of the current consolidated fiscal year brand Gogo-no-Kocha declined overall, largely due to heavy to consolidated earnings was also impacted by the foreign to increase market penetration, strengthening customer amounted to 2,303.6 billion yen, a decrease of 94.9 billion rains in Western Japan temporarily suspending shipments exchange rates (-16.8 billion yen in revenues and -2.9 billion relationships in each region, and filling out its new product yen from the end of the previous consolidated fiscal year. of large PET-bottle products while sales volume of smaller yen in normalized operating profit). As a result, the Oceania development pipelines. Domestic sales declined year on year. The decline was mainly due to decreases in property, plant PET-bottle products increased. Sales grew for a third straight Integrated Beverages Business recorded a revenue decline of Sales were solid for G-Lasta*, an agent for decreasing the and equipment, goodwill and other intangible fixed assets, year for Nama-cha, which was boosted by a brand makeover 19.1 billion yen, or 5.5%, year on year and a normalized operincidence of febrile neutropenia; NOURIAST, a treatment for financial assets (non-current), and non-current assets held in March. Helped by a revamp in April, sales of Kirin Lemon ating profit decline of 0.9 billion yen, or 1.7%, year on year. Parkinson’s disease; and Onglyza, a treatment for type 2 diafor sale. The decline in property, plant and equipment was more than doubled from last year, providing a strong conIn October 2018, Kirin and Lion announced the decibetes. However, sales were impacted by Kyowa Medex being caused by the yen appreciation versus the same period last tribution to the overall growth in sales volume. At the same sion to seek a third-party buyer for the Lion Dairy and Drinks removed from the scope of consolidation, the April revision year, which caused the value of subsidiary assets overseas to time, sales volume stagnated for FIRE in the coffee category Business. The structurally reformed business is steadily to drug prices in Japan’s national health insurance system, decline when converted to Japanese yen. The decline in other amid an overall contraction in the canned coffee market. The becoming more profitable, and the companies rigorously the increasing presence of generics as part of government non-current asset was due to decreased market value for end result was an increase in sales volume but a deteriorated examined all strategic options for taking the operation to efforts to reduce medical costs, and competitor products. shareholdings. Other financial assets (non-current) declined composition ratio of products and containers, which led to the next stage of growth. After careful consideration, it was Overseas sales increased on steady market penetration of by 30.8 billion yen due to reduced value of equity holdings a 0.9 billion yen, or 0.3%, year-on-year decline in revenue. decided that selling the Dairy and Drinks Business was the Crysvita, a treatment for X-linked hypophosphatemia launched and the sale of strategically held shares. However, strong Management measures to cut costs, including controlling most viable course of action. In the accounting books, Lion’s in 2018, and Poteligeo, a treatment for skin T-cell lymphoma. earnings at San Miguel Brewery helped boost share of profit raw material procurement and reducing waste, as well as to Dairy and Drinks Business has not been designated as a disPharmaceuticals business revenue increased when factoring of equity-accounted investees, supporting a 29.8 billion yen lower sales costs enabled normalized operating profit to rise continued operation and is included in continuing operations. out the impact from removing Kyowa Medex from consoliincrease in investments booked under the equity method. 1.6 billion yen, or 7.5%, year on year and the normalized operdated accounts. Normalized operating profit declined 4.6 The sale of the Company’s stake in Kirin Amgen reduced ating profit ratio to expand from 7.6% a year ago to 8.2%. billion yen, or 8.4%, year on year, owing mainly to increased non-current assets held for sale by 76.3 billion yen. 69 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 70 Financial Information Management Analysis of Financial Position, Operating Results, and Cash Flows While retained earnings increased, equity decreased by • Other Overseas Integrated Beverages Business year on year to 226.7 billion yen. Proceeds included 30.6 bilcate resources to intangible value such as brands, research 28.2 billion yen from the end of the previous consolidated Segment assets amounted to 674.6 billion yen at the end of lion yen from long-term borrowings and 25.0 billion yen from and development, information and communication techfiscal year to 1,200.9 billion yen. This is primarily due to a 73.9 fiscal 2018, an increase of 272.2 billion yen from the end of the issuance of bonds. Outflow included 100.1 billion yen for nology, and human resources expected to support future billion yen decrease in reserves and an increase of treasury the previous fiscal year. The increase was mainly due to a rise payment for acquisition of treasury shares, 70.0 billion yen growth of cash flow as well as to establish and foster new stocks through a 100 billion yen of share buyback executed in other non-current assets due to intersegment loans. for payment for redemption of bonds, 55.7 billion yen for businesses bridging pharmaceuticals and food & beverages. to further increase of shareholder returns. The decline in dividends paid, and 54.9 billion yen for repayment of longThe Company will take a disciplined approach to investment reserves was due to a foreign exchange gain (loss) associ• Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Business term borrowings. to maintain and improve the capital efficiency of the Kirin ated with overseas operators due to reduced income owing Segment assets amounted to 706.3 billion yen at the end of We ultimately met all of the quantitative targets in the Group while controlling capital costs. to a stronger yen versus the Australian dollar and Myanmar fiscal 2018, a decrease of 28.2 billion yen from the end of 2016 MTBP and, through extensive restructuring, vastly Kirin Holdings considers it a management priority kyat along with reduced income arising from a net change the previous fiscal year. The decrease was mainly due to a improved the cash-generating abilities of existing busito appropriately distribute profits to shareholders. The in equity instruments measured at fair value through other decline in non-current assets held for sale associated with nesses such that we were able to provide greater shareholder Company raised the consolidated target payout ratio in the comprehensive income. Kyowa Hakko Kirin divesting of a portion of its shareholdings returns and pay down more interest-bearing debt than was 2019 MTBP and plans to continue providing dividends based Liabilities decreased 66.7 billion yen from the end of the in Kyowa Medex. initially targeted in the plan. The gross debt-to-equity ratio on a consolidated dividend payout ratio on normalized EPS previous consolidated fiscal year to 1,102.7 billion yen mainly was 0.45x at the end of 2018, as we were able to bring it to of 40% or higher. While comprehensively taking into account due to debt repayment. Non-current liabilities decreased 43.7 3. Cash Flow an optimal level while preserving our financial flexibility and factors including optimum capital structure, market condibillion yen to 512.8 billion yen. In March 2018, the Company (1) Cash flow and liquidity status soundness. tions and reserve funds after investments, Kirin Holdings paid down roughly 70 billion yen in bonds coming due. In The balance of cash and cash equivalents (hereinafter “net In fiscal 2019, we are seeking to generate 190 billion yen will also flexibly consider share buybacks as a way to provide November 2018, the Company paid down other long-term cash”) at the end of the current consolidated fiscal year was in cash flows from operating activities and plan to earmark additional shareholder returns when the Company receives borrowings and also issued 25.0 billion yen in straight bonds 173.1 billion yen, an increase of 11.1 billion yen from the end 120 billion yen of cash from investing activities for capital an inflow of additional funds, such as from gains on the sale with a redemption date in December 2023. In current liabilof the previous consolidated fiscal year. Consolidated cash investment. In line with our financial strategy, the first priority of assets. ities, accrued corporate income taxes increased by 7.5 bilflows were as follows. for the use of the free cash flow generated during the year When management deems it necessary to raise funds, lion yen while bonds and long-term borrowings redeemable Cash flows from operating activities will be to invest in growth for the alcoholic and non-alcoholic the Company’s primary financing source is loans. Funds are within one year declined by 26.8 billion yen as the Company Net cash provided by operating activities decreased 23.7 bilbeverage business and other existing core businesses. We will procured to ensure the Company is prepared for sudden fluccontinued to pay off and pay down liabilities. Total current lion yen year on year to 198.1 billion yen. Profit before tax also use funds to establish and foster new businesses bridgtuations in the economic environment, and in such a manner liabilities decreased 23.0 billion yen to 589.9 billion yen. increased 13.1 billion yen. Corporate tax payments declined ing the pharmaceuticals and food & beverages businesses as to maintain the resiliency of the Company’s high credit ratAs a result of the above, the ratio of consolidated profit 21.2 billion yen, primarily due to the 5% tax rate on the 19.8 while also flexibly allocating funds for additional shareholder ing to financial conditions. The Board of Directors examines attributable to owners of the Company was 39.8% and the billion yen in gain on the sale of shares of Kirin Amgen, which returns. Regarding shareholder return, in fiscal 2019, we and verifies all fund procurement proposals that would affect gross debt-to-equity ratio was 0.45. is booked as dividends for tax accounting purposes. However, raised our benchmark for the consolidated dividend payout the controlling stake in the Company or cause significant the decline in interest payments due to the reduction of corratio of normalized EPS from 30% or higher to 40% or higher. stock dilution. Proposals are scrutinized in terms of the tar(2) Financial status of each reportable segment porate bonds and borrowings led to a 21.5 billion yen increase We intend to provide shareholder returns valued at approxigets in the long-term management vision “Kirin Group Vision • Japan Integrated Beverages Business in outflow of working capital. mately 60 billion yen in fiscal 2019. While building profit and 2027” and the 2019 MTBP plans and with full consideration Segment assets amounted to 819.1 billion yen at the end Cash flows from investing activities enhancing our ability to generate cash flow, we will maintain of the impact on stakeholders. The Board of Directors has the of fiscal 2018, an increase of 23.5 billion yen from the end Net cash provided by investing activities decreased 15.8 bila sensible capital structure that is well-balanced with capital responsibility to provide full accountability for its decisions. of the previous fiscal year. The increase was mainly due to lion yen year on year to 47.4 billion yen. Outflow for acquisicosts and financing. Through the above initiatives, the Company seeks to systems investment to install enterprise resource planning tion of property, plant and equipment and intangible value achieve the 2019 MTBP to raise ROIC to 10% or higher and (ERP) beginning in 2017 to support future business growth. decreased 0.9 billion yen to 87.9 billion yen. Inflows included (2) Basic capital policy CAGR in normalized EPS of 5% or higher. 85.1 billion yen from the sale of equity-accounted investBased on the fiscal policy set forth in the Kirin Group 2019• Oceania Integrated Beverages Business ments (shares of Kirin Amgen), 30.4 billion yen from the sale 2021 Medium-Term Business Plan (2019 MTBP), Kirin Segment assets amounted to 489.6 billion yen at the end of of strategic holdings and other investments, 18.7 billion yen Holdings will allocate resources to its businesses and distribfiscal 2018, a decrease of 30.8 billion yen from the end of the from the sale of property, plant and equipment and intanute profits to its shareholders as set out below. previous fiscal year. The decrease was mainly due to declines gible value; and 9.1 billion yen from the sale of shares of a Resource allocation to businesses will prioritize investing in property, plant and equipment and goodwill due to the subsidiary (Kyowa Medex) as the Company continued its plan to improve asset efficiency and to improve the attractiveness strong yen rate versus the Australian dollar used in the conto divest non-core assets. of our plants as well as investing in equipment and business version of Lion Pty Limited assets. Cash flows from financing activities to fortify and grow existing businesses. Net cash used in financing activities increased 44.5 billion yen Kirin Holdings will also steadily and consistently allo71 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 72 Investor Information/Company Information Information related to total shareholder return Third-Party Evaluations 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year-end stock price (Yen) 1,513 1,497 1,647.5 1,901.5 2,840.5 2,298.5 The Kirin Group provides full transparency in its information disclosure to investors and all stakeholders. The extensive data Dividends per share (Yen) 36 38 38 39 46 51 we provide through the integrated Kirin CSV Report (published as the Kirin Report prior to this year), Environmental Report, Cumulative dividend income per share (from ﬁscal 2013, Yen) 74 112 151 197 248 and on the corporate website has made it possible for third-party evaluations of our environmental performance and inclusion Amount of increase in stock price per share (from ﬁscal 2013, Yen) -16 134.5 388.5 1,327.5 785.5 in global indices. Total shareholder return per share* Absolute amount (Yen) 58 246.5 539.5 1,524.5 1,033.5 Rate (%) 3.8 16.3 35.7 100.8 68.3 * Total shareholder return per share is calculated at ﬁscal year-ends, starting in ﬁscal 2014 as if the investment was made at the closing stock price at the end of ﬁscal 2013. Stock price and trading volume (Yen) Stock price (left) Nikkei 225 stock average (right) (Yen) 3,300 33,000 FTSE4Good Index FTSE Blossom Japan Index MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) 3,000 30,000 2,700 27,000 2,400 24,000 2,100 21,000 1,800 18,000 1,500 15,000 1,200 12,000 CDP Water A List CDP Supplier Engagement Leader Health Management Exellence 2019 900 9,000 (White 500) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Million shares) Trading volume 150 120 90 60 30 0 Diversity Management Selection 100 Nadeshiko Brand 2019 30% Club 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Company overview Trade name Kirin Holdings Company, Limited Stock listings Tokyo, Nagoya, Fukuoka, Sapporo Date of incorporation February 23, 1907 Note: On July 1, 2007, accompanying the shift to a pure holding Transfer agent company structure, Kirin Holdings Company, Limited changed its name from Kirin Brewery Company, Limited Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation, Corporate Agency Division, Head oﬃce NAKANO CENTRAL PARK SOUTH, 10-2, 1-1, Nikko-cho, Fuchu-Shi, Tokyo 183-0044, Japan work with Pride, Gold Certiﬁcation Nakano 4-chome, Nakano-ku, Tokyo Tel: +81-3-5391-1900 (business days from 9:00 to 17:00) 164-0001, Japan Depositary Paid-in capital ¥102,045,793,357 J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A. WE B Please refer to our website for an explanation of each indicator. P.O. Box 64504 https://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/esg_gri/ Number of employees 30,464 St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 (consolidated) * Number of Kirin Holdings employees on a consolidated basis, as of December 31, 2018 Call toll-free from within the U.S.: +1-800-990-1135 Call from outside the U.S.: +1-651-453-2128 73 K I R IN C S V R EPOR T 2 019 K IR IN C S V R E P O R T 2019 74
