2019 Annual Report Inside this report We have integrated our financial and non-financial reporting to provide information on all aspects of our performance. Strategic report 2 Corporate governance 64 Our business 2 Our commitment to corporate governance  65 What we delivered in FY19 3 Board of Directors 66 Chairman’s message 4 Executive Leadership Team 74 CEO’s message 6 Operating context 8 Directors’ report 76 Our strategy  9 Remuneration report  82 Delivering balanced and sustainable outcomes 20 Financial report  109 Financial performance 40 Financial statements 1 1 2 Group performance  41 Notes to financial statements 1 1 9 Divisional performance  48 Directors’ declaration  272 Independent auditor’s report 273 Risk management 50 Risk report  50 Other information 285 Our approach to addressing climate change 55 Shareholder information 286 Five year financial summary 292 Profit reconciliation 295 Environmental, customer, social and governance metrics 297 Glossary of terms 307 Contact information 319 Commonwealth Bank of Australia ACN 123 123 124 We aim to bring together the best service and leading technology to deliver the best outcomes for our customers. Hi Steven Log off Smart Access Available funds $3,240 . 00 Balance: $3,240.00 Home screen settings Transfers Pay someone BPAY Accounts Cards Products & offers 1 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Our business Our business Our purpose Our strengths1 Our purpose is to improve the financial wellbeing Market leadership of our customers and communities. • Main financial institution for 1 in 3 Australians •  Leading market share in home lending, household Our values deposits and credit cards • Leading payments provider with largest merchant base We are guided by our values: Customer reach • We do what is right • We are accountable •  17.4 million customers, including the highest share of • We are dedicated to service youth and new migrant segments • We pursue excellence •  Largest branch network in Australia and Australia-based call centres • We get things done •  7.0 million active digital customers, #1 for online and mobile banking (Canstar) Our strategy Talent Our strategy is to become a simpler, better bank that •  48,238 employees delivers balanced and sustainable outcomes for our •  Gender diverse leadership – 50% of Board Directors customers, community, our people and shareholders. are female Our execution priorities are: •  Workforce is more culturally diverse than the Australian population • Simplify our business • Lead in retail and commercial banking Innovation • Best in digital • Real-time core banking platform • #1 mobile banking app in Australia (Forrester) Our business areas • Leading data and analytics capabilities • Retail Banking Services Financial strength • Business and Private Banking •  830,000+ shareholders • Institutional Banking and Markets •  Deposit funding 69% • Wealth Management •  Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.7% (APRA), • ASB New Zealand 16.2% (International) • International Financial Services Sustainability Our brands •  Committed to sustainable and responsible business practices Our brands include some of the best known names •  Report in line with the recommendations of the in financial services in Australia and New Zealand. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures •  Listed on DJSI Asia Pacific 1 For source information see the Glossary on page 309. The financials are presented on a continuing operations basis except statutory profit, dividend per share and the Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio which include discontinued operations. Discontinued operations are outlined on page 45. 2 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 What we delivered in FY19 Stakeholder outcomes $92bn of new lending for $36bn of new lending for Australian home buyers Australian businesses1 Customers 1.2m $275m Better outcomes new personal transaction changes to fees and charges accounts opened for customers benefiting customers For more information, see pages 22-25 427,500+ students provided with 236 CommBank Foundation financial education (Start Smart) community grants Community Trusted $5.1bn low carbon 18,000+ employee pro bono and and reputable financing volunteering hours For more information, see pages 26-29 $5.9bn paid to our people in salaries 39.1% women in and superannuation leadership roles Our people Energised, 25.2hrs average hours of training 73.9% of our people accountable per employee working flexibly For more information, see pages 30-33 $7.6bn returned to shareholders $3,702 dividend amount received by as dividends average retail shareholder Shareholders Long-term 12.5% 21% sustainable return on equity total shareholder return returns (cash basis) (1 year) For more information, see pages 34-35 3 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Chairman’s message Chairman’s message removing and reducing fees, and by introducing smart alerts to help customers avoid fees. We have elevated our approach to how we listen and respond to customers, and have developed a more robust complaints handling process. These functions now report directly to the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, David Cohen. A large team is also working on remediation and we have expensed approximately $1 billion this year to cover refunds, interest and program costs – due primarily to issues in our financial advice businesses – to ensure that customers are appropriately and efficiently remediated. Leadership There has been significant renewal of the Executive Leadership Team (ELT), following Matt Comyn’s appointment as CEO in April last year. Matt has subsequently made seven new appointments to his leadership team, through both internal and external recruitment processes. The new team has Dear Shareholder Recently, on 2 August, we completed significant experience in financial services, the sale of our global asset management risk management and technology. Together, It has been a very important year for they are now leading the necessary cultural business, Colonial First State Global the Bank, in terms of progressing our change and making progress on becoming Asset Management, for $4.2 billion. strategy to be a simpler, better bank, a simpler, better bank. and addressing key governance, We have also announced the exit of our accountability, risk and remediation aligned financial advice businesses, Culture, accountability and remuneration issues. namely the sale of Count Financial, the To achieve lasting cultural change we have cessation of CFP-Pathways and the All the while, the business has been clarified what we expect of our people assisted closure of Financial Wisdom. focused on maintaining operational through our updated purpose and values, and capital performance in a more We remain committed to the orderly exit and a new Code of Conduct. The Code links challenging economic environment. of our remaining wealth management and our purpose and values with the guiding mortgage broking businesses, comprising principle our people must apply – the Strategy: becoming a simpler, better Colonial First State, Aussie Home Loans ‘Should We?’ test – to ensure they make bank and our stake in Mortgage Choice. the right decisions and do the right thing Becoming a simpler bank Delivering better customer outcomes by our customers and the community. This year, substantial progress has been Another critical area of focus this year The Bank’s remuneration framework made to simplify the Bank. Our focus has has been delivering better outcomes has also further evolved to support been on remediation in, and rationalisation for our customers. cultural change and reinforce greater of, our Wealth Management division. accountability. Changes have been made We have been making changes to our to better align the Bank’s remuneration In July 2018, we sold our New Zealand policies, products and processes to ensure framework with prudent risk management. life insurance business, Sovereign, for that we deliver better customer outcomes. For senior leaders, including the CEO and $1.3 billion, and we are making progress This includes our commitment to improve Group Executives, a significant proportion on the divestment of our Australian life the financial wellbeing of our customers by of their performance is now also tied to insurance business, CommInsure Life. the successful delivery of our Remedial 4 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Action Plan (RAP) which responds to Australian Prudential Regulation Business performance and dividends the recommendations of the Australian Authority (APRA) Notwithstanding the actions taken on Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) In April 2018, we committed to implement remediation this year, the business Inquiry into CBA. The RAP milestones all 35 recommendations contained in has continued to perform well, despite include the necessary changes to policies, APRA’s Prudential Inquiry Final Report and economic headwinds and uncertainties. processes and systems that underpin entered into an Enforceable Undertaking Through capital discipline and prudent the Bank’s culture. Importantly, we have (EU) with APRA. An independent reviewer, balance sheet management we have continued to strengthen the Board’s Promontory Australasia (Sydney) Pty Ltd, also maintained our funding, liquidity oversight and challenge of remuneration provides an assessment of our progress and capital strengths. across the Group. to APRA on a quarterly basis. Their latest This has enabled the Board to determine a The Board has also determined report states that we are on track to deliver final dividend of $2.31 per share, taking the appropriate remuneration consequences on our RAP. The full report is available at: full year dividend to $4.31 per share fully to reflect risk, customer and reputational commbank.com.au/apra. franked, flat on last year. matters. This year, of the 15 Executives Financial Services Royal Commission eligible for short-term variable Board renewal In February of this year, the Final Report of remuneration, 14 received in-year the Royal Commission into Misconduct in Board renewal has continued and reductions to their remuneration in relation the Banking, Superannuation and Financial in January, we welcomed Professor to risk matters. This is in addition to the Services Industry (Financial Services Genevieve Bell and Paul O’Malley to reduction in remuneration outcomes for Royal Commission) was delivered. We are the Board. Directors, Executives, senior leaders and committed to working with government employees of more than $100 million Genevieve’s experience as a global and our regulators to implement the across the 2017 and 2018 financial years. technology executive and her recommendations of the Final Report. understanding of technology and culture Of the 76 recommendations in the Final Strengthening governance of in business and society, brings a unique Report, we are currently taking action on non-financial risk and strategic perspective to the Board. 23. We are participating in consultation In the 2019 financial year we have built processes and preparing to implement Paul, with his extensive operational, on the previous two years of work in an additional 27. For the remaining 26, the accounting and business experience, strengthening governance practices at action is with government or regulators or including as a CEO and CFO in industries the Bank, to ensure we meet the high the Bank does not operate in that business. undergoing change, adds significant standards expected of us. value to Board discussions. Australian Securities and Investments The focus this year has been on the Commission (ASIC) On 31 December, Sir David Higgins will governance of non-financial risk, including retire from the Board and we thank In April 2018, Commonwealth Financial operational risk and compliance. We David for more than five years of service, Planning (CFPL) entered into an EU with have increased Board visibility of noncommitment and contribution. ASIC that required it to attest that it had financial risk and improved Board identified and remediated customers who oversight, processes and coordination. Building trust had not received an annual review, and that This work has been further guided by This year, your Board and management its ongoing service systems, processes the recommendations of last year’s team have made significant progress and controls were reasonably adequate. APRA Inquiry. against key governance, accountability, In June 2019, ASIC confirmed that CFPL The CEO has also established a Nonhad complied with the EU, save for some risk and strategic priorities. Financial Risk Committee (NFRC) at refunds to be made by 30 September. Building trust however, takes time. Executive level, with reporting through We are committed to taking a long-term to the Board Risk Committee, to improve Sustainable business practice view, and to making decisions and acting the identification, prioritisation and To embed our commitment to operating in the best interests of all stakeholders. management of non-financial risks. sustainably and responsibly into our The NFRC also focuses on risks such We believe this will deliver consistently business, we have integrated our better outcomes for our customers, as climate change and cyber risk that environmental and social commitments can ultimately have financial impacts. people, communities, regulators and into a new Group Environmental and shareholders, and result in long-term Social Policy. This policy includes our and sustainable performance. Regulatory and compliance progress commitment to supporting the responsible Australian Transaction Reports global transition to net zero emissions Thank you for your support. and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC) – including by reducing our exposures We have continued to invest heavily in our to thermal coal mining and coal fired financial crimes capabilities and continue power generation, with a view to exiting to work constructively with AUSTRAC. the sectors by 2030, subject to Australia having a secure energy platform. It also Catherine Livingstone AO includes our human rights and biodiversity Chairman commitments, as well as our approach to lending to customers in the agriculture, fisheries, forestry and defence sectors. The policy is outlined at: commbank.com.au/policies. 5 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information CEO’s message CEO’s message Progress on becoming a better bank We are focused on becoming a better bank for our customers. To demonstrate our commitment, each week since February we’ve announced at least one customer or community benefit. Initiatives under our ‘Better for you’ campaign have included: removing a number of banking fees for our business customers; providing smart alerts and notifications to help customers avoid fees and better manage their finances; as well as introducing measures to support farmers and regional communities. This year we have also made deliberate decisions to stop selling some products and services and have changed how and what we charge for others, to ensure that we are delivering better outcomes and value for our customers. While this has impacted revenue, the decisions saved our customers $275 million in fees and charges this year, and provide a more sustainable and competitive base for our business going forward. The actions we’re taking to respond to the Dear Shareholder These businesses deliver approximately recommendations of the APRA Prudential 95% of the Bank’s profit and are where our Inquiry and the Financial Services Royal For more than a century, the Bank Commission, and to implement the new has changed with the times to fulfil strengths lie. Banking Code of Practice, are also critical to our purpose – improving the financial Reducing the complexity of our business restoring trust in the Bank and the broader wellbeing of our customers and and our processes is helping to improve financial services industry, and will result in communities. Our purpose goes back customer and risk outcomes. It also better customer and community outcomes. to the Bank’s earliest days when it was makes it easier for our people to serve created to be a bank for all Australians, our customers. While becoming a better bank will require to help people and businesses prosper consistent effort over time, we were Another benefit of simplification is that heartened to see that more Australians and the economy flourish. it allows us to reduce costs. We are than ever now call the Commonwealth Over the past year, we have been taking committed to lowering our cost base to Bank their main financial institution action to deliver a simpler, better bank to create the capacity to invest in market(35.6% in June 2019, compared with ensure that we uphold the Bank’s legacy leading technology and service, in order 34.4% in June 2018). Our consumer and and achieve our purpose. to deliver the best offering for our business Net Promoter Scores have also customers and performance for the Bank. improved slightly but are still negative, so we The benefits of becoming a This will help us meet the challenges of continue to work hard to identify and fix the simpler bank increased competition. While this year’s causes of customer dissatisfaction. Becoming a simpler bank – by costs have been significantly higher due reducing our portfolio of businesses to remediation and risk and compliance and simplifying the way we operate expenses, we are seeing the early benefits – is allowing us to focus on our core of business simplification. banking businesses. 6 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Delivering for our customers through and men experiencing domestic and family service and technology violence, and financial abuse; and are now Key metrics in 2019 1 partnering with community organisations By combining the best service and technology we can deliver exceptional to help those affected achieve long-term banking experiences for our customers, financial independence. Statutory NPAT $8,571m and better operational performance for Our new green mortgage initiative which the Bank. rewards the adoption of solar energy We are committed to providing exceptional and energy saving measures is a further service across all the channels that our example of how we are helping to customers use to do their banking, including achieve broader community objectives Cash NPAT – in this case, more affordable and $8,492m maintaining the largest branch network in Australia and our Australia-based sustainable energy. call centres. Maintaining financial performance A key pillar of our strategy, and of our Our financial results this year reflect the customer offering, is being the best in digital. Cost-to-income ratio actions we’ve been taking to build a 46.2% Our mobile banking app was recently rated simpler, better bank – including the costs #1 in Australia for the third year in a row by of simplifying our business, remediating Forrester, and we have been rated the best customers to fix past issues, and investing online bank for 10 years in a row by Canstar. in better customer and risk outcomes. This is not what we use to benchmark Return on equity our performance though, because our Importantly, our results also show the 12.5% cash basis 7 million active digital customers – including continued strength and momentum in our 5.6 million CommBank app customers – business. Despite the challenges of lower now compare their banking experience to credit growth and low interest rates, we the best digital experience they have with were able to deliver above system growth any service provider. in home lending and strong transaction CET1 capital ratio (APRA) account growth. 10.7% We believe that personalisation is key to success in digital banking, so we’ve been The strength of our balance sheet building our data and analytics capabilities – across funding, liquidity and capital and the platforms and channels that metrics – was another positive feature enable us to deliver more personalised this financial year. With our Common Dividend per share experiences. This includes our nowEquity Tier 1 capital ratio at 10.7% we are $4.31 fully franked customisable CommBank app, and the above APRA’s ‘unquestionably strong’ Customer Engagement Engine which uses benchmark of 10.5%. artificial intelligence to analyse data and Together, this operational and capital serve customers with the information and performance has delivered dividends for services that are most relevant to them. shareholders. Our simplification-related Total shareholder return 21% 1 year We plan to invest over $5 billion over the divestments will further strengthen our next five years with much of that going capital position and support long-term into technology to keep improving our sustainable returns for shareholders. systems and services, and to maintain our leadership position. Looking ahead Net Promoter Score 37.2 Mobile App Delivering for our community We are making progress on our strategy to be simpler and better, and are very clear Improving the financial wellbeing of the on what we need to do to deliver continued 30.9 Internet banking community is also at the heart of our performance in the current economic, purpose. We have been a long-standing regulatory and competitive environment. advocate of financial education through school banking and our Start Smart financial The enduring strength of the Bank’s literacy program which trains hundreds of franchise, the commitment of the leadership thousands of students each year. team, and the continued dedication of our people to our purpose and to our We are also taking steps to be there customers, give me great confidence for customers and members of the that we can deliver a bank of which you, community who are vulnerable. Our as our owners, can be proud. Customer Advocate team, in partnership with community and academic experts, Yours sincerely has developed the ‘Safe and Savvy’ guide to help older people avoid abuse, scams 1 Statutory net profit after tax (NPAT), and fraud. Over the past five years we’ve CET1 and dividend per share include also been providing assistance to women Matt Comyn discontinued operations. Chief Executive Officer 7 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Operating context Operating context We are responding to changes in our operating environment. Trend Our response Macroeconomic environment  We have the backing of a strong balance sheet that is managed prudently and  In Australia, credit growth has slowed and conservatively to provide resilience and to support customers in times of economic interest rates are at historic lows, however uncertainty. We also undertake regular stress tests to understand how our business the economy remains resilient. Globally, performs and what actions to take in a variety of scenarios. trade uncertainty persists.  We are simplifying the Bank to focus on our key sources of competitive advantage including our customer relationships, distribution strengths and technology leadership.  See the Strategic report and Financial performance sections for details. Decline in trust and reputation   We are focused on demonstrating, through actions not words, that we are trustworthy There has been a loss of confidence and trust by being capable and reliable, doing the right thing and improving stakeholder in institutions and large businesses in general. outcomes. In particular, Australian financial institutions have   Trust and reputation is a focus of our strategy and a performance measure in Group experienced a decline in trust and reputation. Executive long-term variable remuneration.  See the Delivering balanced and sustainable outcomes section for details. Regulation driving change   By simplifying our portfolio we are reducing the scope and complexity of our business. The industry is undergoing a period of We are also strengthening our risk management and compliance capabilities, including heightened regulatory change, with a focus through our APRA Remedial Action Plan. on non-financial risk, including conduct and   We are engaging with regulators proactively and in an open and transparent way. culture.  Refer to the Risk management section for more information. Increased competition   We are investing in customer-focused innovation that brings together technology and Existing and new competitors are using service to exceed customer expectations. To remain ‘best in digital’ we are leveraging emerging technologies and will leverage our unrivalled digital and data assets to deliver personalised and value-add services. data – through Open Banking and   By simplifying our business we are also creating the capacity to invest for the future. Comprehensive Credit Reporting – to meet evolving customer preferences.  For more information, see the Strategic report section. Importance of cybersecurity   We continue to invest in cybersecurity and data management, and view these and data protection capabilities as a strategic differentiator. Cybersecurity and data privacy are increasingly   We collaborate with a range of government, community and industry bodies to strengthen important due to the digitisation of information, system-level resilience and to reduce the impact of fraud and scams on the community. processes and transactions, and the increasing sophistication of cyber threats.  See the Strategic report section for more information. Workforce requirements are   We are focused on re-skilling and supporting our people to be ready for the future of work. changing   To retain and attract top talent we are continuing to invest in our value proposition as Automation and digitisation are changing the an employer. We offer flexible work arrangements, competitive benefits, and foster capabilities and skillsets required. Competition a diverse and inclusive workforce. for specialised talent is increasing. For  more information, see the Delivering balanced and sustainable outcomes section. Climate action is growing in   We are undertaking detailed analysis to understand the risks and opportunities of importance climate change, implementing strategic responses, and building internal and customer Climate change presents both risks and capabilities to support the economy’s transition to net zero emissions by 2050. opportunities for our customers and our   We are committed to reducing our exposure to thermal coal mining and coal fired business, and is of concern to many in power generation and to sourcing 100% of our electricity consumption from the community. renewable sources.  See the Our approach to addressing climate change section for more information. 8 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Our strategy Become a simpler, better bank for our customers To deliver balanced and sustainable outcomes Execution priorities Simplify our business Customers Lead in retail and commercial banking Better outcomes Best in digital Our people Shareholders Energised, Long-term accountable sustainable Supported by stronger capabilities returns Operational risk Data and analytics and compliance Community Trusted and reputable Cost reduction Innovation Our purpose Our strategy When the Commonwealth Bank of Our strategy is to become a simpler, better bank that delivers balanced and Australia was established in 1911, it was sustainable outcomes for our customers, community, our people and shareholders. to be a bank for all Australians and all We are becoming a simpler bank by focusing on our core banking businesses and businesses, a bank that would help the simplifying our organisation to reduce costs and create the capacity to invest, while also economy flourish and people prosper. reducing risk and making it easier for our customers and our people to get things done. It was to be a bank of which the nation could be proud. Becoming a better bank is about being more capable and reliable, acting transparently and doing the right thing, and consistently delivering better outcomes for our stakeholders. This has always been our purpose: to improve the financial wellbeing of We have set three execution priorities: simplify our business; lead in retail and commercial our customers and communities. Our banking; and best in digital. We believe these priorities best leverage our competitive purpose provides clear direction to advantages and position the Bank for success. our people and guides our strategy. To deliver on our strategy we are investing in four critical capabilities: operational risk and compliance; cost reduction; data and analytics; and innovation. These capabilities Our values address our operating context and best support performance into the future. Most importantly, the goal of our strategy is to deliver balanced and sustainable outcomes Our values state what we stand for, for our stakeholders. It means that we are taking a balanced and long-term approach in all and set expectations for our actions our decision making. and behaviours:  We do what is right  We are accountable  We are dedicated to service  We pursue excellence  We get things done 9 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Execution priorities Simplify our business We are becoming a simpler, more focused bank, fully aligned to meeting the needs of customers in our core markets. A simpler portfolio of businesses Simplifying our portfolio of businesses We are progressing the announced Following the completion of the sale of removes complexity and reduces our divestments of our other life insurance Count Financial to CountPlus we intend, cost base. businesses – CommInsure Life in Australia subject to market conditions, to sell our and our interests in BoCommLife in China stake in CountPlus. In the 2019 financial year, we completed and PT Commonwealth Life in Indonesia. the sales of Sovereign, our life insurance We remain committed to the orderly exit business in New Zealand, and of We have also announced the exit of our of Colonial First State, Aussie Home Loans TymeDigital in South Africa. On 2 August aligned financial advice businesses, and our stake in Mortgage Choice. 2019, we completed the sale of Colonial including the sale of Count Financial, The end result will be a more focused First State Global Asset Management. the cessation of CFP-Pathways and the portfolio that delivers better customer, assisted closure of Financial Wisdom. risk, cost, return and capital outcomes. 10 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 A simpler way of doing business Portfolio simplification We are simplifying our policies, Reducing risk Completed processes and products to make it As we simplify our portfolio and product Sovereign easier for customers to bank with us suite and eliminate process variation, we and for our people to get things done. reduce the spectrum and variety of risks TymeDigital we need to manage. Colonial First State Making it easier for customers By simplifying and modernising our Global Asset Management We are listening to our customers and technology we reduce the risk of cyber acting on their feedback to deliver simpler, attack and data loss. It also makes our better banking. This includes simplifying systems more resilient and addresses our product offering to make it easier for system risk. Announced customers to choose the product that best suits their needs. For example, we have Simplification of our operating model also BoCommLife improves our ability to quickly identify simplified our home loan product range CommInsure Life from 10 products to five core products. and respond to risks and opportunities as they emerge. PT Commonwealth Life We are also responding to customers who Count Financial want to do more of their banking digitally. Creating capacity to invest Customers can now manage home loan CFP-Pathways repayments and provide instructions for By reducing complexity and cost we maturing term deposits directly in the create the capacity to invest in better Financial Wisdom CommBank app. Through the app we also risk and compliance capabilities and in prompt customers to verify their address better technology and digital experiences before their cards expire and we let them for customers. Under strategic review know when their new cards are on the way. We are making new investments that will help strengthen our position in our core General Insurance Making it easier for our people banking businesses including home buying, Vietnam International Bank We are making it easier for our people business banking and payments. We plan to serve customers. We are redesigning to invest more than $5 billion over the next processes to remove duplication and are five years, with much of that to maintain our automating manual work. For example, leadership in technology. we have automated part of the new lending process for commercial loans so Intention to exit that our people can focus on spending Colonial First State time with customers and on understanding their businesses. Aussie Home Loans We are also simplifying our technology Mortgage Choice by moving to a more modular and cloudCountPlus based architecture which will enable us to increase the pace of innovation.  For more information, see page 260. Simpler, faster loans with BizExpressTM Business opportunities can arise unexpectedly and we understand that our customers want to act quickly when they do. That’s why we’ve re-engineered our loan approval process. Eligible existing customers can now get same day lending decisions for unsecured loans up to $250,000 and secured loans up to $1 million. Over the next 12 months, we plan to progressively increase the secured lending limit, expand the product set and offer BizExpressTM to new customers. By leveraging our leading data assets and automation capabilities to make better, faster credit decisions, the new loan approval process also reduces risk and costs for the Bank. 11 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Execution priorities Lead in retail and commercial banking We will continue to invest in our market-leading retail bank and strengthen our commercial banking business. Our commitment is to provide the best service across all channels Physical network Digital channels Personal service 1,172 #1 online bank 2,300+ branches (Group total) 10 years running business bankers and specialists 1,014 in Australia (Canstar) (Business and Private Banking) 3,963 #1 mobile bank 2,000 ATMs – the largest 4 years running Australia-based network in Australia (Canstar) call centre staff 12 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 CBA and the World Bank issue the world’s first blockchain bond As part of our leading Innovation Lab and Markets collaboration, we have partnered with the World Bank to create, allocate, transfer and manage a bond, called ‘bondi-i’ via distributed ledger. Recently, we achieved another world first by launching secondary trading of bond-i on blockchain. Retail Banking Business and Institutional Banking Services Private Banking and Markets Our retail customers have diverse We are focused on helping businesses We are building better banking needs and choose to do their banking grow and prosper. partnerships with governments, across multiple channels. We support our customers to start, run institutions and communities to help We know that our customers value and grow their businesses by providing the Australian economy flourish. being able to walk into a local branch for market-leading solutions and services. To help our clients navigate the face-to-face service, especially when Our strengths include transaction banking increasingly complex business making large deposits and when buying which leverages our real-time banking environment, we have structured our a home. That’s why we are committed capabilities, and our leading payments teams around industry themes and to keeping the largest branch network in solutions for merchants. We continue to product expertise. By re-orientating our Australia and why we have invested in our tailor our solutions to meet our customers’ business model around the key trends proprietary home buying experience. ASB, needs across their industries and at impacting Australia and the global our New Zealand bank, has also invested different stages of their business lifecycle. economy, our people are better able in its home lending service and has been We are committed to providing simpler to help clients realise new opportunities awarded 2019 Bank of the Year – Home and more convenient banking for our for their businesses. Loans by Canstar. customers through digital innovation. We are also evolving our products Our customers tell us they like talking We have introduced a new online and services to help clients meet with call centre staff who understand customer on-boarding tool for our their broader objectives. Recently we their needs and can quickly answer their business customers, and we now offer provided a sustainability-linked loan to queries. For that reason, we are committed same day decisions for simple business Queensland Airports Limited (QAL) that to maintaining our call centres in Australia lending through BizExpressTM. We have supports their goal of reducing carbon and to keeping wait times short. made Apple Pay and Alipay available emissions. QAL will receive a lower to make payments easier and more interest rate on the loan if it meets its They also say they love the convenience convenient. Business customers can also carbon reduction targets. The financing of banking digitally, which is why we enable smart alerts for their business is the first in Australia to be directly continue to innovate and invest in our transaction accounts. linked to a reduction in a borrower’s market-leading online (NetBank) and mobile (CommBank) banking channels. Our business customers tell us they value carbon emissions. receiving financial insights and expertise We are also bringing together clients and Importantly, we know that our customers to help them run their businesses. To better partners to explore new opportunities want their banking to be seamless. support our customers, we have hired and to achieve positive community That’s why our technology systems are more business bankers and will continue to outcomes. Our recent collaboration with customer-centred rather than productinvest in our distribution network to provide the NSW Government, Cubic Transport centred, and why we have invested in customers with access to our bankers in Systems and MasterCard has meant that our Customer Engagement Engine which branch, over the phone and digitally. commuters on rail, light rail or Sydney gathers the interactions each customer has with us across all channels. This ferries can now pay using a credit or helps us better understand and serve debit card instead of using New South our customers’ needs and improve their Wales’ dedicated travel smart card, Opal. financial wellbeing. Introducing simpler health payments and claiming We have partnered with Australian medical technology provider Whitecoat, to develop CommBank Health Claim – an integrated payments and claiming solution, currently in pilot on our Albert EFTPOS terminal. Through CommBank Health Claim, healthcare providers will have the ability to engage directly with patients. Patients can use the companion app, MyWhitecoat, to search for providers, request bookings and instantly approve payments and private health insurance claims. 13 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Execution priorities Best in digital We aim to provide the best digital banking experiences globally by making banking simple, smart and secure. Ceba Hi Amy, I’m Ceba the CommBank Assistant I’m a bot. Ask me a question, I’m here to help you. If you need human help I’ll point you in the right direction. Ask a question We have built our market leading digital assets over more than two decades 1997 2005 2009 2013 NetBank CommSee Core banking CommBank app Full  functionality 24 hour online Proprietary   customer  Real-time  banking and settlement   #1 mobile bank four years in banking service relationship system a row since 2016 (Canstar) Standardisation  and system simplification  #1 online bank 10 years in a row  Provides  a single view Greater  reliability   Currently #1 mobile banking since 2010 (Canstar) of customers across app in Australia (Forrester) all channels  Enables  real-time digital functionality 14 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Simple Smart Secure Making banking simple Our customers want banking to be simple, Focus on the customer Ceba – your virtual helper and compare their digital banking to the We recently relaunched the CommBank Ceba, our virtual banking assistant, can best digital experiences they have with app to make it more intuitive and useranswer a wide range of day-to-day other product and service providers. We friendly. Customers can now customise banking questions and uses artificial are evolving our offering to meet and beat their home screen and select the features intelligence to help customers complete customers’ expectations by providing easyand notifications they use and value the 380 banking tasks. Where human help is to-use functionality that integrates service most. For example, this could include needed, Ceba can connect customers to and technology to deliver convenient and month-to-month spending comparisons speak with the right person over the phone value-add digital banking services. and reminders about upcoming credit or via live webchat. card payments. More digital ways to pay Active digital customers Seamless service This year we added more payment 7.0 million Our customers can access mobile and functionality to existing features like PayID online banking 24/7, but we’re also working and Tap and Pay for Android. In response to to make sure that our digital banking customer demand, we now provide Apple connects seamlessly to other services. Pay for retail and business customers. More than 2 . 1 million of our cards have Logons per day Through improved functionality in the been added to mobile wallets. 7.4 million CommBank app menu, customers can now connect directly with the best We were the first major bank to accept equipped member of staff to meet their Alipay for in-store payments on our Albert needs. This allows calls to be fast tracked terminal, enabling merchants to connect and answered more quickly. with over 1.3 million Australian Alipay Mobile banking app in Australia customers. Appointments to see a home loan specialist (Forrester) can now be made online, allowing our #1 customers to choose when and where to Simplifying and digitising banking tasks meet with our home lenders. We are increasingly digitising banking Bankwest has also launched a new in-app tasks to deliver faster and more convenient messaging service allowing customers to processes. Personal loan applications can continue a conversation across multiple now be submitted digitally using a smart devices. If an issue hasn’t been immediately phone camera to upload the relevant resolved, the customer can later resume documents. We are also focused on the discussion with another member of streamlining our application processes staff who will have the full chat history. so that they are as efficient as possible. Through our new digital on-boarding capabilities business customers can securely complete the necessary know your customer (KYC) forms online, for both their business and related parties. 2014 2018 2019 Customer Engagement Engine Ceba Relaunched CommBank app Over   200 machine built adaptive models AI-powered   chatbot to assist Personalised   look and feel with 380 banking tasks   Learns from over 600 million customer interactions  Customisable   home screen and notifications Innovation   award winner   In FY19, delivered 3.6 billion personalised messages in (Gartner) digital and served 3.5 million customers with Financial Wellbeing Next Best Conversations 15 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Execution priorities Best in digital (continued) Simple Smart Secure Making banking smart We have made substantial long-term Personalised digital experiences Better money management investments in our technology platforms, We believe that personalisation is the We have rolled out a range of smart digital assets and channels to provide future of digital banking. With the relaunch financial tools and alerts through the customers with a smart digital banking of the CommBank app, we will deliver CommBank app to empower our experience. a personalised banking app to 5.6 million customers to make sound financial mobile banking customers. We are also decisions. To help customers stay in Providing real-time functionality delivering personalised banking services control of their finances, Cash Flow View Our core banking system provides thanks to the Customer Engagement provides a financial picture of earnings real-time functionality and supports Engine. In the last 12 months, it has and spending, including month-to-month instant transactions and features in the delivered 60 million real-time and relevant trends. The recently launched Goal CommBank app and on NetBank. As a notifications to customers to help them Tracker allows customers to plan, track result, customers can place locks, blocks better manage their finances. This includes and visualise their financial goals in the and limits on their accounts and cards over 20 million smart alerts which have CommBank app, encouraging them with instant effect; and can obtain cash helped customers avoid unnecessary fees to save regularly and maximise their on demand from an ATM using their by alerting them to overdrawn accounts savings potential. mobile phone and the Cardless Cash and missed credit card payments. feature in the CommBank app. Connecting customers with unclaimed Bankwest customers are able to use benefits a digital version of their new debit or Using our data analytics capabilities we credit card which is generated within are also able to alert our customers to the Bankwest app, prior to the arrival unclaimed benefits and rebates. We have Monthly cash flow of their physical card in the post. developed Benefits finder to connect customers with over 250 entitlements and $2,000 Data-driven insights rebatesHioffered Alex by government agencies or third Log parties. off For example, using We have invested in our Customer -$1,300 payments data we were able to identify Engagement Engine to drive personalised customers in New South Wales who $700 and relevant banking services for our Credit card X1234 is had paid Compulsory Third Party Green customers. The engine gathers data overdue Slip insurance and alerted them to their from more than 600 million customer Pay now to avoice a $20 late fee potential eligibility for a refund. Through Mar Apr May Jun interactions across all channels, including Benefits finder, we’re aiming to connect digital, branch and call centres. It analyses our customers Diamond Awards with $150 million of benefits Income $2,000 over 150 billion data points in real time Available annually. and applies continuous machine learning $3,240.00 to better understand the needs of each Spending -$1,300 customer. Using these insights, it delivers Balance: $3,240.00 prompts to our frontline staff to ensure Savings $700 that each interaction with our customers is meaningful and relevant to their unique Transfers Pay someone BPAY circumstances. Accounts Cards Products & others 16 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Simple Smart Secure Making banking more secure We are the main financial institution for one Keeping customers’ data safe 100% online security guarantee in three Australians and see almost 40% of Our priority is to keep our customers’ In the event that our customers do payment transactions in Australia. We accounts, data and privacy secure. Our experience a monetary loss due to fraud, therefore play a crucial role in safeguarding systems monitor customer accounts 24/7 we offer a 100% security guarantee for customer data and protecting Australians and advanced analytics help identify and unauthorised transactions. This guarantee from scams and fraud. detect abnormal transactions or spending is available to both personal and business patterns that could indicate unauthorised customers who have protected their transactions. We also use biometrics devices, PINs and passwords and have Reported losses to Australians such as Touch ID and Face ID to prevent immediately notified us of the loss, theft from scams in 20181 unauthorised access to customer or misuse of their password and of any $489 million accounts and information. suspicious activity on their account. Strengthening fraud detection Educating the community For customers who have chosen to We are also working to ensure our Reported losses to Australian share their location when logged into the customers and communities know about businesses from email compromise CommBank app, we have enhanced fraud the risks of online fraud and scams and scams in 20181 detection through real-time tracking that what can be done to avoid harm. This year $60 million helps us identify any suspicious activity. we have rolled out a nationwide program Customers have full control over the level of initiatives – including e-learning modules of online security provided and can opt in for businesses and in-branch seminars – or out of this feature. to educate and inform customers about staying safe online. 24/7 fraud monitoring To protect customers’ accounts, our fraud detection specialists work around the clock to identify and prevent suspicious transactions. Our 24/7 Digital Fraud Detection team watch for red flags raised by our monitoring system. Transactions can be flagged due to a number of fraud indicators, for example, that a payment is completed using an international IP address. A specialist fraud analyst then reviews the customer’s account to identify any inconsistencies – such as locations of other recent credit card spend, and travel notes listed on the customer’s profile. When the transaction is deemed suspicious, the analyst contacts the customer and can take action to prevent or recall fraudulent payments. 1 Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (May 2019) Targeting scams: report of the ACCC on scam activity 2018. Available at accc.gov.au/publications (Accessed: 24 July 2019). 17 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Capabilities Supported by stronger capabilities To support the implementation of our strategy we are investing in four critical capabilities: operational risk and compliance, cost reduction, data and analytics, and innovation. Operational risk and compliance Data and analytics To keep pace with greater business and Our early investments in analytics, regulatory demands, and to fix the root combined with our scale and unique data causes of past issues, we are investing assets, position us well at a time when in our operational risk and compliance these capabilities are essential to delivering capabilities. market-leading banking services. We are using our strengths in these areas to This year, almost two thirds of the Bank’s power innovation, provide personalised investment spend was dedicated to risk customer experiences, drive productivity and compliance enhancements – nearly and enhance our risk controls. $900 million. When Open Banking and Comprehensive Substantial programs of work are currently Credit Reporting are fully implemented, underway in the areas of financial crime there will be increased financial data compliance, data privacy, cyber security sharing opportunities between financial and supplier management. services companies, with customer We are also progressing our Group-wide consent. We have met the implementation Better Risk Outcomes Program (BROP). milestones for both to date, and are Helping customers make A centralised BROP team, reporting preparing to use these opportunities data-driven decisions directly to the CEO, is overseeing the to provide new experiences for our implementation of our APRA Remedial customers in the future. We are also very Harris Farm Markets aims to Action Plan (RAP). The RAP outlines focused on ensuring data security and reconnect Australians with the joy of 156 milestones which respond to all privacy for our customers. food by bringing the best produce to 35 recommendations of last year’s customers every day. Since opening To allow our business customers to in 1971, Harris Farm has grown its APRA Prudential Inquiry into CBA. harness the Bank’s data and analytics footprint to 26 stores across Sydney Under the RAP significant work is being capabilities, we developed the Daily IQ and regional New South Wales. undertaken throughout the Bank to insights tool. Available through online strengthen governance, culture and banking, Daily IQ helps our business Opening a new store is a big accountability; and to improve the customers, big and small, optimise their investment decision that needs identification, oversight and management cash flow and compare their performance to be based on solid information. of non-financial risk. against others in their industry. By Harris Farm management used our leveraging our payments data, Daily IQ Daily IQ tool to help them identify An independent reviewer, Promontory can also help our customers grow their the best location for their new store. Australasia (Sydney) Pty Ltd, provides businesses by providing information They looked at where existing an assessment of our progress to APRA on their customer base and spending loyal customers lived, and potential on a quarterly basis. Promontory’s most patterns in a particular area. Recently, catchment areas for new customers. recent report notes that we are on track to deliver against our RAP. we added the Local Economic Impact Once the new store was opened, tool to Daily IQ so that businesses can Harris Farm used Daily IQ to track the The ultimate goal of this work and the risk learn about the economic performance impact on its existing stores and to and compliance improvements underway of a particular area and understand the monitor overall store performance. is to improve customer and risk outcomes impact of local events like festivals on at the Bank. consumer spending.  See the Risk report on page 50 for more details. 18 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 DBM Winner Australian of 2018 Innovation Gartner Eye Financial Awards – Most on Innovation Innovative We are investing to stay at the leading edge This year, more than 23,700 of our people award1 Major Bank 2 of innovation, so that we can continue to visited the platform. Of the 11,928 ideas offer compelling customer experiences and submitted, 14.5% have been prioritised and meet increasing competitive and regulatory successfully implemented across the Bank. demands. This involves innovating in both customer facing applications and back office operations. We are also investing CommSec Pocket – a new way to invest in technology to keep our systems safe, sound and secure, and to add real value Investing in shares for the first time can be and deliver better outcomes for customers. complex, confusing and have high costs of We also promote innovation focused entry. We created CommSec Pocket – a simple collaboration with our clients through our investment app aimed at helping our customers Innovation Labs. This year, we partnered enter the share market. with the CSIRO’s Data61 to develop a CommSec Pocket allows investing with as world-leading ‘Making Money Smart’ app little as $50, with very low brokerage fees using blockchain technology. The use from $2 per trade. The app is an educational case was a trial for the National Disability first-step experience to share investing, offering Insurance Scheme (NDIS). The aim is to bite-sized, relevant insights to investors. provide NDIS participants with ‘smart The app also simplifies investment decisionmoney’ that knows what it can be spent making by providing seven different investment on, who it can be spent by and when it themes to choose from. Investors can diversify can be spent. their portfolio across: Australian Top 200, To promote an entrepreneurial, continuous Global 100, Emerging Markets, Tech Savvy, improvement mindset within the Bank, Eco Friendly, Health Wise and Australian we have created an open innovation Dividends. Each theme is simply explained and platform called “Unleashing Innovation”. represented by an Exchange Traded Fund. Employees are encouraged to raise ideas focused on improving products, processes, systems and services. Cost reduction To become a better bank, we need to This means prioritising some activities, and For example, we have improved prebecome more efficient, get smarter about stopping others. Our International Financial release system testing from 18 manual how we allocate resources and reduce Services business unit has been reducing its hours to 1 hour of automated testing. our costs. This creates the capacity to offshore footprint and changes are being This means that the CommBank app invest in our core business and to deliver made to the Institutional Bank’s activities and NetBank spend less time offline competitive customer service and strong and international presence as a result of and our people are freed up to do more risk and compliance outcomes. its recent restructure and streamlined value-adding work. operating model. The divestments we have announced will Increased automation and digitisation also remove complexity and cost, and are part of We are also optimising our domestic helps our customers. For example, we our simplification agenda. We are focused distribution. This year we closed now pre-populate customer information on ensuring that stranded head office costs 29 Bankwest branches on the East Coast for small business customers who apply are removed as part of this process. of Australia, to prioritise investment in for Asset Financing online. As customers digital and in broker and third-party move to lower cost digital distribution We are also committed to delivering a offerings to meet changing customer channels and service delivery, this simpler core business, having a lower needs. We are rationalising our points of generates cost benefits for the Bank. absolute cost base and achieving a cost-topresence generally to respond to evolving income ratio below 40%. We are reducing Another area of focus is technology customer preferences including, for costs where it makes sense and looking change and run costs which we are example, reduced demand for ATMs for opportunities to be more efficient. In the working to reduce by rationalising our and for cash transactions in branches. 2019 financial year, we achieved business technology architecture and the number simplification savings of $190 million. By digitising and automating processes we of IT systems we use, increasing cloud reduce risk and costs and make it easier for capabilities, consolidating applications As part of good business discipline, our people to get things done. and decommissioning those we no each business unit regularly reviews longer require. its structure, strategy, operating model and priorities. 1 Asia Pacific, awarded October 2018 for Ceba. 2 DBM Australian Financial Awards – presented February 2019. Award based on DBM’s Consumer Atlas data January to December 2018. 19 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Balanced outcomes Delivering Customers Better outcomes balanced and sustainable outcomes The objective of our strategy is to deliver balanced and sustainable outcomes for our customers, community, our people and shareholders. We exist to serve our customers and to improve their, and the community’s, financial wellbeing. When we deliver for our customers they choose to do more business with us. Engaged and energised employees with strong values deliver excellent customer service. OUR GOAL When we act in the best interests of our stakeholders, do business in a way that is fair and sustainable, work constructively with our regulators, and play our part in ensuring a resilient, efficient and safe #1 consumer and financial system, we earn the community’s trust. business NPS In combination these actions support long-term, sustainable returns for shareholders. 22 Focusing on Net Promoter Score 23 Serving customers’ needs 24 Improving customers’ financial wellbeing 25 Listening to our customers For  detailed information on our Environmental, customer, social and governance performance metrics, see page 297. 20 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Community Our people Shareholders Trusted and reputable Energised, accountable Long-term sustainable returns OUR GOAL OUR GOAL OUR GOAL Top Top 10% Top quartile quartile globally for our among peer employee TSR companies for engagement outperformance reputation score relative to improvement peers 26 Focusing on reputation 30 Focusing on employee 34 Focusing on total and trust engagement shareholder returns 27 Earning trust 31 Restoring pride 35 Delivering for shareholders 27 Making a positive 31 Strengthening our culture 35 Income for shareholders contribution to society and the economy 32 Building a diverse, 28 Supporting financial inclusive culture 35 Sustaining performance education 32 Promoting employee 29 Financial wellbeing wellbeing for the community 33 Skilling our workforce for the future Supported by 36 Good business practice 35 Open and transparent engagement 35 Taking a responsible approach 21 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Balanced outcomes Customers Better outcomes Focusing on Net Promoter Score (NPS) Our goal is to rank number 1 among major banks for both consumer and Mobile App NPS business NPS. OUR GOAL +37.2 NPS measures if we are meeting #1 +35 customers’ needs and expectations by asking them if they would recommend us to their friends and family. As it tracks both consumer NPS +25 our Promoters and Detractors it provides a more accurate measure of overall sentiment than customer satisfaction. +15 We have consistently ranked number #1 1 in NPS for our mobile app and overall internet banking. We are now working +5 hard to achieve improvements in our consumer and business customer scores. business NPS Jul 17 Jun 19 For NPS source information see the Glossary on page 310. CBA Peers 22 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Serving customers’ needs We serve our customers’ needs This year we have focused on listening to by providing simple, convenient our customers and putting their needs first. and affordable banking products, Under our ‘Better for you’ initiative, since and by investing in service and February we have announced, on a weekly digital innovation to deliver the basis, the actions we are taking to provide best customer experiences. the banking experiences our customers want and deserve. For retail customers, our Retail Banking Services business has introduced a New lending for Australian home buyers Better for business $92 billion new service promise: ‘Simple and easy every day, brilliant when it matters’. This To simplify and improve our business means getting the basics right every time customers’ banking experience: a customer interacts with us; and in the  we removed 10 business banking  critical moments, going above and beyond fees New lending for Australian businesses to exceed their expectations. $36 billion  we established a new team of  Our Business and Private Banking specialists to help small business business has launched the ‘Every 1 Matters’ customers in financial difficulty program to ensure the best outcome for get their businesses back on track every customer, at every touchpoint. (the team has reviewed 353 cases New personal transaction accounts ‘Better for you’ has driven a range of to date) opened for customers customer initiatives, including the launch we now provide real-time smart  1.2 million  of Apple Pay and our commitment to alerts when balances are low or maintain passbooks which are used by high, or when there is an incoming more than 400,000 loyal customers. It has payment also included business customer focused improvements. For more details see:  we launched BizExpressTM ,  commbank.com.au/betterforyou. enabling same day decisions on simple business loans. Internet banking NPS Consumer NPS Business NPS +20 0 +35 +30.9 +15 -5 +10 +25 -10 +5 0 -15 +15 -5 -20 -10 -25 -22.4 -15 -10.0 +5 -20 -30 Jul 17 Jun 19 Jul 17 Jun 19 Jul 17 Jun 19 CBA Peers CBA Peers CBA Peers 23 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Balanced outcomes Customers (continued) Improving customers’ financial wellbeing Financial wellbeing is important to Working towards better financial health We are also evolving our products and our customers and underpins the how they are sold to ensure that customers We are using this research and our Bank’s purpose. make informed choices, for example by partnership with Harvard’s Sustainability, highlighting both negative and positive In simple terms, it means staying on top of Transparency and Accountability Research features of a credit card before they every day, rainy day and one day finances. Lab (STAR Lab), to apply behavioural choose to apply. science towards finding better ways to To help customers understand their level serve our customers and to develop tools For more information on the of financial wellbeing we have partnered that improve their financial wellbeing. CBA-Melbourne Institute research with the Melbourne Institute of Applied visit commbank.com.au/fwb. Economic & Social Research. Our two-year To help our customers better manage their collaboration has culminated in a world-first finances and make more informed financial – Financial Wellbeing Scales that combine decisions, we have launched a range of how customers feel about their financial features in the CommBank app that enable Smart alerts sent to customers wellbeing with objective banking data. customers to monitor cash flows, track each week 500,000+ spending, avoid fees and set savings goals. According to the observed data, there has This year alone, we have sent over 20 million been a modest decline in financial wellbeing smart alerts and have helped customers over the past 12 months. More than one in save $275 million in fees and charges. three customers are struggling with money management and two in five are unable to Through our new tool, Benefits finder, we handle a major unexpected expense. are connecting customers with rebates and Changes to fees and charges benefits offered by government agencies or benefiting customers $275 million third parties. We aim to help our customers access $150 million entitlements annually. How the CommBank app helps customers control Every day finances their finances Manage day-to-day expenses and bills Transaction Spend tracker Cash flow view Credit card notifications reminders Receive a notification See where your Get a complete view of Be notified when when you spend or money is going by income, spending and your credit card Account details have been paid category of spend savings habits, including payment is due Transactions Goal trends over time Saving for something? Rainy day finances Let’s set a goal to help you stay on track Handle unexpected financial emergencies Overdrawn alerts High cost transaction alerts Emergency savings Receive a real-time alert Be notified of extra costs Create an emergency fund when your account involved in cash advances to prepare for unexpected becomes overdrawn, on credit cards expenses and avoid a fee if settled by midnight One day finances Set a goal Create savings goals and put money away for the future Portfolio view Goal tracker Retirement calculator See all your assets and Set and track goals to Estimate how much money liabilities in one place encourage saving you may have when you retire 24 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Listening to our customers Addressing customer complaints Advocating for customers Outcomes from the Customer Advocate Taking complaints seriously and dealing The independent Customer Advocate review process with them quickly, and in a fair and team champions fairness for customers transparent way, is critical to earning across the Bank – particularly for those our customers’ trust. who are marginalised, disadvantaged, 14 % or find the financial system difficult All staff are trained to work with customers to navigate. to resolve their complaints. The most sensitive and complex complaints are The team works to remove barriers to 51 % escalated to Group Customer Relations banking and improve products, processes, 35 % (GCR). systems and decision making. Using a data-driven approach to review customer If a complaint is not resolved within five complaints and identify poor customer business days of receipt, a full internal outcomes, the team is able to investigate dispute resolution process is applied to and fix problems before they become the matter, in accordance with ASIC’s systemic issues. Customer Advocate agreed with the guidance. Using this criteria we handled 69,503 complaints this year, an increase This extends to working with industry Bank’s decision of 12% on 2018. bodies and specialist services to make Customer Advocate agreed with the sure that new technology, products and Bank’s decision but took further action to During the Financial Services Royal services developed by the Bank consider deliver a fair and reasonable resolution Commission the Bank saw an increase in the needs of all customers, while also the number of complaints. In November Customer Advocate disagreed with the improving existing services to address 2018, the Australian Financial Complaints Bank’s decision and substituted a new accessibility issues. Authority was established further raising decision for the customer awareness of the complaints process to The team also engages more broadly customers and the avenues available to with the community to understand and them. We are responding to the increase consider community needs. As part Cases referred to the in complaint volumes by adding more of this work, the Customer Advocate Customer Advocate 1,022 resources in GCR and improving training team developed a ‘Safe & Savvy’ guide for frontline staff to help them better handle to help protect older people and their customer complaints. families from financial abuse, scams and frauds. The guide was distributed across Customers who are unhappy about the all branches in Australia and given to outcome of a complaint investigated by community organisations. The program Average days to resolve complaints CBA or Bankwest can refer it to the Bank’s 11.6 has been widely supported by aged care Customer Advocate for an independent and community sector partners. review. The Customer Advocate’s decisions are final and binding on the Bank, but not This year the team held a range of on customers who are still free to go to an community events, regional visits and external dispute resolution body. workshops focused on improving financial inclusion, and covering issues such as We are also doing more to identify and cognitive decline and improving access fix the root causes of complaints so they for customers with a disability. don’t recur. The team’s visits to regional areas Helping customers in hardship strengthen relationships between community organisations and local Bank Customers experiencing financial hardship staff, and allow the team to meet with are supported by our Financial Assistance individual customers who have longSolutions team which works with the standing concerns. These visits also help customer to assess their situation and to to increase the Bank’s awareness and offer solutions tailored to their needs. understanding of important local issues. Solutions can include a period of reduced The Customer Advocate team has payments, extension of the term of a loan translated key resources – such as or debt restructuring. the Banking in Australia Guide and the This year we helped approximately 64,000 Addressing Financial Abuse Guide customers experiencing financial hardship. – into multiple languages. It has also been helping to identify ways to improve refugees’ understanding of the Australian financial system. 25 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Balanced outcomes Community Trusted and reputable OUR GOAL Top quartile among peer companies Focusing on reputation Reputation score versus peer companies for reputation improvement and trust Our goal is to be in the top quartile among peer companies for reputation improvement. 65.7 66.2 65.1 65.0 65.2 62.8 62.5 63.2 We measure our performance using the independent RepTrak survey 62.8 60.6 60.6 conducted by Reputation Institute. 59.4 54.6 57.1 To underscore the importance of 56.0 56.3 rebuilding our reputation and trust, 53.0 executive leaders’ long-term variable remuneration is in part linked to 48.0 46.9 relative improvements in our RepTrak score (see page 95 for more details). 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CBA Average of peer companies Source: RepTrak Australia, Q2 June 2019, Reputation Institute. Peer companies is the average of 16 of the largest consumer-facing companies listed on the ASX. 26 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Community investment Earning trust This year we celebrated 20 years of $281 million supporting the Humour Foundation’s Recently, we have failed to meet Clown Doctors, with more than $5.5 million community expectations and this has donated during this time. Clown Doctors Includes cash, volunteering, damaged our reputation and undermined use humour to improve the quality of life of forgone revenue and project costs the community’s trust in us. Trust is children and their families in every major the cornerstone of our business as it children’s hospital in Australia. underpins our ability to operate and CommBank Foundation create value for our stakeholders. Investing time in the community community grants To earn trust we need to show that we Our people continue to share their time 236 are trustworthy. We know that this will and expertise with the community. In 2019, take time and will require us to consistently more than 2,100 students worked with demonstrate our actions. We are a Commonwealth Bank mentor through focused on: the Australian Business and Community Employee pro bono and  being capable and reliable  Network (ABCN). For 12 years running, CBA volunteering hours employees have supported students across doing the right thing 18,000+   Australia through programs on leadership,   improving stakeholder outcomes. career planning and entrepreneurship. ABCN research shows that 93% of students Making a positive who participate in a flagship ABCN program complete year 12, or equivalent; compared contribution to society with the national average of 74%, or 61% for disadvantaged students. Given our heritage, and the role we play in the economy and the community, we Through our pro bono services, employees must make a positive and meaningful apply the skills they use at work to help contribution to society. community organisations achieve their strategic objectives. This year our flagship partner, Jawun, reached the milestone of CommBank Foundation placing 3,000 secondees with Aboriginal The CommBank Foundation, our people’s and Torres Strait Islander organisations. charity, has been supporting the wellbeing We have been proud participants in of the Australian community for more than this program since 2011 with 138 of our 100 years. Under our current Community employees having worked with indigenous Grants program, we have made a threecommunity groups and businesses. year commitment to award more than $9 million to 236 community organisations. Little Wings for children in need Voted as the CommBank Foundation New South Wales grant recipient from 2017 to 2019, Little Wings transports sick children from rural areas to hospital for treatment. This year, our people’s generosity enabled Little Wings to purchase a brand new twin engine aircraft to ensure they can continue to fly safely across the state. In recognition of the Foundation’s support, Little Wings invited Commonwealth Bank staff to name the new plane. The name Caladrius was selected. Caladrius takes its name from a Roman mythical bird that can take away sickness and provide healing. 27 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Balanced outcomes Community (continued) Supporting financial education We believe that financial education is Start Smart ASB GetWise key to the long-term health and personal Start Smart is a free financial education ASB GetWise is New Zealand’s largest success of younger generations. program that has assisted more than youth financial education program that Building on our 85-year commitment to 3 million students in learning important teaches basic financial literacy skills, financial education, we continue to help money management skills. This year, including identifying needs and wants, young Australians learn the skills they need we had more than 427,500 primary and establishing good savings habits, and to successfully manage their finances. secondary students participate in Start learning to budget. This year, it delivered Smart classes. It is the world’s largest 3,369 workshops to 334 schools, in-school financial education program and reached more than 84,600 of its kind. registered students. Investment in education programs $13.1 million Commonwealth Bank Teaching Awards Now in their third year, the Commonwealth Bank Teaching Awards were created through a partnership between the Students provided with financial Commonwealth Bank and Australian education Schools Plus. The awards recognise educators using exceptional leadership 427,500+ skills to positively influence student outcomes in challenging and sociallydiverse communities. CBA Start Smart This year 12 recipients were awarded a 84,600+ $45,000 Teaching Fellowship to fund a strategic project in their school as well as further their own professional ASB GetWise development. CBA school banking participants 244,600+ Recognising great teachers Yasodai Selvakumaran is a Humanities Teacher who specialises in History and Society & Culture at Rooty Hill High School. Yasodai’s outstanding classroom practice and leadership, collaboration with other educators, and advocacy for the teaching profession led to a 2018 Commonwealth Bank Teaching Award. The Award has enabled Yasodai to create a project looking at how teachers can develop more innovative approaches to learning and assessment. Yasodai has also used the funds to pursue post-graduate studies in Education Research at Deakin University and to participate in the International Congress for School Effectiveness and Improvement in Stavanger, Norway, in January 2019. Yasodai was shortlisted as a Top 10 Finalist for the Global Teacher Prize 2019. 28 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Financial wellbeing for the community Our purpose includes improving the The Bank has committed $25 million to financial wellbeing of the communities we support customers impacted by domestic serve. We understand that communities violence. We have pledged a further can be impacted by events that are out $5 million to support those impacted of their control, and we try to find ways by financial abuse through domestic to help them. and family violence. In partnership with leading community organisations, we Improving financial wellbeing by are making these investments to support addressing financial abuse those affected achieve long-term financial independence. We have an important role to play for customers, employees and members of our community who are impacted by Support for drought affected domestic and family abuse. communities This year we provided tailored assistance Over three years, our Domestic and for agribusiness and commercial business Family Violence Assistance Program has customers in drought affected areas to supported more than 6,000 customers give them peace of mind, as well as the and their families experiencing domestic flexibility to make arrangements to get or family violence. The program provides their businesses back on track. vital access to trauma counselling services to anyone who calls the service, Through the collective efforts of our Helping our farmers and appropriate referral support for our people, customers and the Australian Farmers across Australia understand customers, including for help with their Red Cross we raised more than $7 million the effects of drought. financial wellbeing. to help farmers and communities in affected regions. Almost $4 million was Moree Branch Manager, Marla Through this work, and in close Hosegood, saw first-hand how raised through CANGive, the fundraising collaboration with experts in the sector, her customers were suffering and tool on the CommBank app. we’ve seen the impact on those directly wondered what more could be done. affected, and on their wider communities. We’ve also seen the harm caused by Backed by her colleagues across financial abuse, when an abuser uses New South Wales and the Australian money and assets as a means to gain Capital Territory, Marla helped raise power and control over their partner funds for the Burrumbuttock Hay or relative. Runners, a group that takes donated hay to drought affected farmers. Funds committed to domestic violence Nationally, Commonwealth Bank and financial abuse assistance branches raised more than $462,000 $30 million for the Burrumbuttock Hay Runners. Donations raised for drought affected communities $7+ million 29 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Balanced outcomes Our people Energised, accountable OUR GOAL Top 10% globally for our employee engagement score Focusing on employee engagement To deliver our strategy we must Our values state what we stand for, Employee Engagement Index score (%) have an energised and accountable and set expectations for our actions 83% team that cares deeply about our and behaviours: customers and is committed to 72% 67% 68%  We do what is right  our purpose and values.  We are accountable Our purpose of improving financial wellbeing for our customers and   We are dedicated to service communities provides clarity to our   We pursue excellence people, and helps them connect the   We get things done work they do with what we are aiming To measure how engaged our people to achieve as a bank. are, and to assess progress on embedding our strategy, purpose and CBA CBA CBA Global values, we conduct the ‘Your Voice’ Mar 2018 Oct 2018 Apr 2019 Top 10% survey twice a year. An Employee threshold Engagement Index score is calculated based on responses to questions relating to satisfaction, commitment, advocacy and pride. 30 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Number of employees Restoring pride To make tangible and lasting changes 48,238 to our culture, and to deliver a simpler, Our recent employee engagement scores better bank, we are helping our people show the impact of the public scrutiny of develop five key skills: self-reflection; the Bank and the financial services industry trust; constructive challenge; giving and over the past year. The lowest score of receiving feedback; and the ‘Should We?’ Salaries and superannuation paid 67% was recorded during the Financial test. These skills are being discussed, to our people Services Royal Commission hearings last developed and embedded through team $5.9 billion August and September. These events had workshops and ongoing check-ins a negative impact on our people, especially and reviews. on their pride in the organisation. In addition to ensuring our people There is much work ahead to restore pride understand what is expected of them, and to achieve our ambitious target of we also need to encourage and support being in the top 10% globally for employee them to speak up when they feel our engagement. The small improvement values have been compromised. of 1% in the most recent survey is at The Bank’s whistleblowing policy outlines least a step in the right direction. The the processes for investigating and strong participation rate of 88% was resolving any misconduct and related also encouraging, as was the 92% score issues that have been reported through for each of: connection to our purpose; our SpeakUP hotline or to senior leaders. holding ourselves and others to high The SpeakUP hotline allows an individual, standards; and understanding of our including a current or former employee, customers and their needs. contractor, consultant or supplier, to anonymously raise a conduct issue. Strengthening our culture The whistleblowing policy prohibits any form of retaliation or victimisation, and The Bank’s culture is set by our leadership includes protection from termination so during the year we held a series of of employment, harassment and leadership development forums designed discrimination. This year we had 311 to equip our leaders with the mindset misconduct cases recorded under the and behaviours required to lead cultural SpeakUP program, of which 30 were and behavioural change throughout the whistleblower reports. organisation. These leadership forums were also designed to support the objectives of our APRA Remedial Action Plan. Helping our people pursue their passions CBA has teamed up with Cricket Australia to make cricket more inclusive and accessible for all. In addition to our ongoing support – from grassroots to elite female cricket – our sponsorship funding extends to Indigenous and all-abilities cricket initiatives. “I was born profoundly deaf and 10 years ago I founded the deaf cricket club. We struggled for funding for years but since CommBank came on board, cricket is the first non-Paralympic sport to have its national disability teams fully funded. “We were about to compete in the 2018 Deaf T20 World Cup in India and visited a local deaf school in New Delhi. I just remember being swarmed by hundreds of kids, all trying to get photos. It was a surreal moment.” Andrew, Commonwealth Bank Group Operations Instagram page @commbank 31 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Balanced outcomes Our people (continued) Building a diverse, inclusive culture There is a strong correlation between We also believe that flexible working a diverse and inclusive workforce and practices, when used as a strategic tool to positive outcomes for our customers, improve business outcomes and employee shareholders and the community. wellbeing, can strengthen a performance culture. Through our iCANFlex program Our Global Diversity and Inclusion Strategy we provide tools that enable our people to seeks to build an inclusive culture that work in a way that makes sense for them. embraces the diversity of our people and creates a sense of connection and We know that the sharing of caring belonging. This strategy is built on the responsibilities for children promotes experiences of our people and customers. workforce participation. With this in mind It aims to build understanding and to we have been working to ensure that ensure fair and inclusive decision making. our approach to parental leave is gender inclusive, particularly to improve men’s Our employee-led networks foster access to parental leave. Across our inclusion and inform solutions for our Australia-based employees, we continued people and our customers. They include: to see more men access parental leave. WeCAN (gender equality), Advantage (lifestage and age), Yana Budjari (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and Promoting employee cultures), Unity (sexual orientation and wellbeing gender identity), Mosaic (cultural diversity), and Enable (accessibility and inclusion for people with a disability). The health, safety and wellbeing of our people is of paramount importance. Our key workforce diversity metrics are reported on pages 301 and 302. This We work to continuously improve the includes our Cultural Diversity Index, safety of the workplace, including in key which shows that overall the Bank is more areas such as customer aggression, culturally diverse than the Australian mental health and work-related driving. population (based on the Australian We also implement an employee wellbeing census). We also have a commitment to program. We maintain seven permanent Stories from our people role model reconciliation and believe our health and wellbeing hubs in our offices, Our people bring a multitude of Australian workforce should have the and have introduced two mobile hubs to backgrounds and perspectives to same proportion of Aboriginal and Torres service workplaces outside city centres. work where they share their ideas, Strait Islander peoples as the broader The hubs include new health technology talent and energy. We celebrate their community, so we have set a target to to test overall wellbeing, hearing, eye unique stories on our ‘Humans of CBA’. reach this level by 2026. health and stress. We have recorded Instagram page @commbank We continue to make progress towards 78,000 employee health interactions in achieving our women in leadership targets the last 12 months. through regular reporting of gender We provide a confidential telephonemetrics, inspecting decisions to ensure based service, called My Coach, which “W hat I’ve learned they are fair and equitable, and listening provides our people and their immediate from working at to our people’s experiences. family members with access to a We continue to be committed to gender team of professional coaches who are CommBank, is that it’s pay equity, reviewing it throughout the year trained to assist with a wide range of not about how much and as part of our annual remuneration issues including family and relationship problems, challenges at work, dealing review process. Detailed information on you know, it’s about gender pay equity is provided on page 301. with grief, managing stress and guidance how much you’re on parenting. Our online wellness portal, Thrive, also offers personalised support, willing to learn.” resources and information for physical Jeffery, Commonwealth Bank and psychological health and wellbeing, including financial wellbeing. Risk Associate CBA was a proud recipient of the ‘Best Health and Wellbeing Program’ at the 2018 Australian Human Resources Awards. 32 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Average hours of training per employee Skilling our workforce for the future 25.2 hours We support our people by helping them to build the capability and skills to do Indigenous career opportunities Our Indigenous Careers team has their jobs well, adapt to new ways of partnered with Indigenous and working, and deliver the best outcomes community organisations to deliver career % employees working flexibly for our customers. opportunities. 69 Indigenous trainees were 73.9% The Group provides an average of provided with school-based and full-time 25.2 hours of training per employee, which traineeships. 48% of the trainees secured includes mandatory learning to ensure employment with the Bank on completion risk and development opportunities are of their traineeships. managed effectively. As a 10x10 partner of the CareerTrackers % of employees taking parental leave who are men The way we work and the work we do are Indigenous Internship Program, we provide 38.3% changing rapidly. Some work will go and 25 internship opportunities each year for some will change and new skills will be Indigenous university students. Since 2015, required, so it is our responsibility to make this partnership has provided a pathway sure we support and reskill our people. for 25 graduates into our Graduate Program with a further six graduates Current initiatives and pilots include the joining us next year. Women in leadership reskilling of some of our people as cyber security analysts, which helps address Our Enterprise Services Indigenous Executive Manager 40% an industry-wide gap in cyber security. Employment Program creates alternative and above roles pathways into IT careers at CBA, and We also provide rolling rotations and 1-5 39.1% day shadowing opportunities to help our supports our goal of building Indigenous 2020 target representation in our domestic workforce. people expand their network, learn new skills and gain broader career experiences. This program was a finalist in the 2018 Australian Human Resources Institute Stan Manager and Grant Indigenous Employment Award. 45% above roles 45.0% 2020 target Closing the gap in Indigenous employment in tech When Jake was growing up on the Central Coast of New South Wales, he never expected he would end up working in the tech industry. Jake applied for various roles but did not get any feedback on his job applications. He says, “It seemed like I just wasn’t being given a chance to prove myself.” Then Jake learned about an opportunity to explore a career in tech through CBA’s Enterprise Services Indigenous Trainee Program. The 12 month program offers on-the-job training and certified skills to give trainees industry-recognised qualifications once they finish. Almost 30 trainees have passed through the training program, with many continuing their careers in areas as diverse as robotics and cyber security. Jake has recently accepted a role as an Associate Analyst at CBA and says, “If it wasn’t for this opportunity, I wouldn’t be working in this area at all. Since joining, I’ve never looked back.” 33 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Balanced outcomes Shareholders Long-term sustainable returns OUR GOAL Top quartile TSR outperformance relative to peers Focusing on total Total shareholder return Dividend per share shareholder returns Fully franked, cash basis Our aim is to deliver sector-leading 431 431 429 returns and a sustainable dividend 35% stream. 31% We achieve this by focusing on both 21% 88% 75% 80% operating performance and capital generation. 1 year 3 years 5 years 2017 2018 2019 Cash NPAT1 payout ratio Total shareholder return (TSR) combines The Bank seeks to pay cash dividends at strong both share price appreciation and and sustainable levels. This year 88% of cash net dividends paid. It shows the total profit after tax is being returned to shareholders return to shareholders over time. as dividends. 1 Cash NPAT inclusive of discontinued operations. 34 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Returned to shareholders as dividends Delivering for shareholders $7.6 billion The quality of the Bank’s franchise, including our customer, distribution and That is why our dividend policy seeks to: pay dividends at strong and sustainable technology strengths, has supported levels; target a full-year payout ratio of strong and consistent operating 70-80%; and maximise the benefits to Australian ownership of CBA performance over time. In particular, the shareholders by paying fully franked 78% strength of our performance in deposits dividends. means that we have reliable access to With Australians owning 78% of the Bank, lower cost funding. This enables us to the dividends we pay also directly support continue to support our customers in the Australian economy. different economic environments. We are also one of Australia’s largest Direct ownership by retail shareholders We also manage our balance sheet taxpayers and had a tax expense of 51% prudently to remove earnings volatility, and $3.4 billion in FY19. focus on risk-adjusted returns to efficiently allocate capital across our businesses. The combination of performance, Sustaining performance resiliency, capital discipline and credit Dividend amount received by the Our strategy to become simpler and better quality management helps us to deliver average retail shareholder helps position the Bank to continue to returns and dividends for our shareholders. $3,702 deliver strong and sustainable returns in As a result of these strengths CBA has the current economic environment of lower had sector-leading return on equity and credit growth and lower interest rates. premium valuation and trading metrics. By divesting non-core businesses we are removing complexity and costs. This Income for shareholders allows us to concentrate on our key areas and the economy of competitive advantage in retail and commercial banking, and to invest in our This year our full year dividend was market-leading digital banking offering. $4.31 per share, returning $7.6 billion Our work to deliver better risk and to shareholders. With more than 830,000 customer outcomes is focused on shareholders holding CBA shares directly, earning the trust of our customers and and with millions more invested through the community. their superannuation, we understand the Combined with our long-term balance importance to shareholders of the income sheet settings and strong capital position, they receive via their dividends. we are positioned to continue supporting customers and to performing for all stakeholders, including shareholders. Return on equity Capital Earnings per share Cash, continuing operations Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio Cash, continuing operations (APRA) 15.3% 10.7% 545.4 10.1% 10.1% 510.3 13.6% 480.8 12.5% 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Return on equity (ROE) measures the Bank’s Our Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital Earnings per share (EPS) measures the profitability. It represents the net profit ratio measures the Bank’s ability to absorb Bank’s earnings growth. It is calculated by generated as a percentage of the equity unexpected losses. It compares the Bank’s dividing net profit after tax by the number shareholders have invested. core capital with its risk weighted assets. Our of shares on issue. CET1 ratio is above APRA’s ‘unquestionably strong’ benchmark of 10.5%. 35 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Balanced outcomes Good business practice We are committed to doing business in a way that is fair, responsible and sustainable. We are guided by global The United Nations We are a signatory Our non-financial reporting frameworks and standards. Sustainable Development Goals are 17 goals that to the United Nations Global Compact which is presented in accordance with the Global Reporting provide a framework to encourages businesses Initiative Standards (Core address issues such as to adopt sustainable option) which provides poverty, hunger, inequality and socially responsible global standards for and environmental policies. We are committed sustainability reporting. degradation. We identify to implementing the Our GRI content index is and map the SDGs that UNGC’s principles covering available at: commbank. are most relevant to our human rights, labour, com.au/investors. strategy and stakeholders. the environment and anti-corruption. 36 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Open and transparent engagement We are focused on responsible, Regulators Political donations balanced and transparent policies We have adopted a more proactive Our Group Government Relations Policy and decisions. and transparent approach to engaging explicitly precludes the Bank from making Our new Code of Conduct brings together with regulators. political donations. However, we pay the policies and standards of behaviour Our new Regulatory Engagement to attend some political events aimed that help us deliver better outcomes for all Standard aims to strengthen our at the business community. To attend stakeholders. The Code guides how we relationship with regulators by outlining these events in the 2019 financial year act, solve problems and make decisions. a clear process and responsibilities for we contributed $73,000 to the Australian handling requests, managing interactions Labor Party, $75,720 to the Liberal Party of In the same way, the Australian Banking and escalating issues. Australia and $13,750 to the National Party Association Code of Banking Practice of Australia. These payments are disclosed outlines how a bank should conduct itself We also have a substantial program of in line with the requirements of Federal and in meeting the needs of customers. We change underway in response to the State governments. were active participants in developing Financial Services Royal Commission the new code which came into effect on Final Report, and as part of our APRA 1 July 2019. It brings important changes Industry associations Remedial Action Plan. The Bank has including plain English contracts, more participated in more than 60 government The Bank is a member of a number of inclusive and accessible services, and inquiries in recent years which have led industry associations and we participate improved transparency around fees. to changes in legislation, regulation and both through those associations and We engage with our stakeholders to industry practice. directly with policy makers in the understand and respond to the issues development and advocacy of public they consider material. We have continued policy positions. Industry associations to consult with our stakeholders to solicit usually represent a range of members with feedback on our approach and to ensure diverse interests, so the policy positions there are appropriate channels for issues adopted by an industry association should and opportunities to be raised, discussed not be assumed to represent the views of and incorporated into our processes. the Bank. We are a supporter of We have adopted the Listed on the Dow Jones Listed on the FTSE4Good We participate in the CDP and report in line with Equator Principles III, a set Sustainability Index (DJSI) index since 2009 for Climate Change survey, the recommendations of standards to assess, Asia-Pacific. demonstrating strong and in 2018 scored ‘B’ for of the Financial Stability mitigate, manage and ESG practices. taking co-ordinated action Board’s Task Force on monitor Environmental, on climate change. Climate-related Financial Social and Governance Disclosures (TCFD). (ESG) risks in projectThe TCFD contains related financing. Our EPIII recommendations for reporting is available at: voluntary and consistent commbank.com.au/EPIII. climate-related financial risk disclosures. See the Our approach to addressing climate change section on page 55 for more information. 37 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Balanced outcomes Good business practice (continued) Greenhouse gas emissions per FTE Taking a responsible approach (Scope 1 & 2), Australia 2.1 As a major financial institution, our influence extends beyond our direct operations to our customers and suppliers. Responsible lending Assessing potential transactions for Environmental, Social and Governance We continue to strengthen our responsible (ESG) risks is a key step in our due diligence Low carbon financing lending, investing and procurement process. All Institutional Bank loans, as well $5.1 billion practices and use our influence to improve as large loans in other business units, are environmental, social and economic evaluated through the Bank’s compulsory outcomes. ESG risk assessment process which completes an initial assessment based on This year the Bank developed a new Group country of operations and over 500 industry Environmental and Social Policy. sectors. The system relies on escalation It consolidates existing external positions and good judgement with additional due and outlines our commitments to managing diligence required for transactions with a the environmental and social impacts of our medium or high ESG risk profile. The industry business. More information on the policy is sector risk ratings that form the basis of the available at commbank.com.au/policies. ESG risk assessment process are reviewed annually. Our client relationship, risk and product team members complete refresher training on ESG risks each year. We update this training annually to capture new developments in ESG risks. Project finance loans follow the Equator Principles’ comprehensive environmental and social risk management process. Sustainable Development Goals The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted by 193 countries, including Australia and New Zealand in 2015, in support of the UN’s Sustainable Development Agenda. We have identified the SDGs that are most relevant to our business and stakeholders. Customers We show our customers that we are on their side through service excellence, supporting financial wellbeing, good customer outcomes and advocacy, and digital innovation. Community We are rebuilding trust and our reputation by engaging proactively and openly with government and regulators, investing in communities and education, and role-modelling reconciliation. Our people We motivate our people through leadership and engagement, by promoting health, wellbeing, diversity and inclusion, and by providing training and career development. Shareholders We deliver sustainable financial performance through sound conduct, culture, governance, accountability, remuneration and responsible business practices. 38 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Responsible investing Human rights and modern slavery Within our wealth management We are committed to maintaining and businesses, we continue to take into improving processes to avoid any human account ESG factors when making rights violations related to our operations, investment decisions to ensure we supply chain, and our products and deliver sustainable long-term investment services. In compliance with the United outcomes. Kingdom’s Modern Slavery Act 2015, we publicly report on our actions in our Commonwealth Private developed two modern Slavery and Human Trafficking new ESG-focused investment solutions – Statements which are available at an Ethical Model Portfolio and an Ethical commbank.com.au/policies. Australian Shares Separately Managed Account. With the passing of new modern Colonial First State (CFS) announced slavery legislation in Australia, we are Green mortgage initiative strengthening our supply chain due that it will no longer invest in companies We are launching an innovative green diligence processes and are working associated with the production of tobacco mortgage initiative that rewards CBA to better understand our impacts. and controversial weapons, and expects mortgage customers by providing to be divested from these securities by the We continue to be an active member of cashbacks to those who have certified end of 2019. the Mekong Club, a not-for-profit solar panels installed and meet the association that engages, inspires and eligibility criteria. Building on our commitment to the supports the private sector to lead the fight Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI), We are also encouraging and against slavery in Asia. As a member of CFS took part in two global collaborative supporting customers who want to the working group, we have also delivered initiatives supported by the UN. We install small scale renewables and awareness sessions on the issue of became a founding signatory to the United make their homes more energy modern slavery to our people in Sydney Nations Environment Program – Finance efficient. and Hong Kong, and have provided in-kind Initiative (UNEP FI) Tobacco Free Finance support to the association. Residential properties make up a Pledge, and were one of the first Australian substantial portion of the property signatories to an open letter calling for Responsible procurement and supplier sector and contribute to greenhouse the removal of controversial weapons gas emissions. manufacturers from global investment diversity indices. We partner with more than 5,000 suppliers As Australia’s leading mortgage to procure over $4.3 billion of products and provider, we are in a strong position services in the countries we operate in. to innovate to build awareness of Number of employees trained on Our supplier governance processes, and support the transition to a low responsible lending, investment supplier engagement, and supplier code carbon economy. and procurement in FY19 of conduct help us to minimise ESG risks 1,055 in our supply chain. In preparation for the Australian modern Our supplier diversity program continues slavery legislation, we have commenced a to grow with $6 million spent annually with program of work to embed the legislated 27 Indigenous businesses. This spend requirements into procurement policies, includes $3 million directly with suppliers Percentage of electricity sourced processes and capabilities. We have also and a further $3 million second tier spend. from renewable energy launched a pilot program with a cross65% section of 30 suppliers to survey the risk Climate change of modern slavery in our supply chain. We play an important role in supporting We are continuing our Indigenous Business Australia’s transition to a low-carbon Second Tier program, a partnership economy and are committed to reducing between the Bank and more than 25 key our environmental footprint. Our climatesuppliers that explores opportunities for related disclosures on page 55 outline Indigenous businesses across the Group’s our commitments to reduce our carbon supply chain. In addition to this program, emissions. They include continuing to key initiatives include collaborating with expand our branch solar panel network industry partners to set best practice and our participation in RE100 – whereby standards, delivering cultural capability we have undertaken to source 100% of our training for procurement managers, electricity needs from renewable energy and launching a new supplier diversity sources by 2030. website that provides direct access to the procurement team. 39 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Financial performance Group performance 41 Divisional performance 48 40 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group performance1 Group profit Group profit, also known as Net Profit after Tax (NPAT), is a key measure of our financial performance. Our profitability directly impacts our ability to pay dividends at strong and sustainable levels. NPAT represents total operating income earned less the operating expenses, loan impairment expense and tax expense incurred during the year. We report NPAT on a statutory and cash basis. The statutory NPAT complies with the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001, Australian Accounting Standards and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The cash NPAT is management’s preferred measure of the Group’s financial performance. It excludes items that tend to be non-recurring in nature and are not considered representative of the Group’s ongoing financial performance (non-cash items). We use the cash NPAT to present a clear and consistent view of our financial performance from period to period. The reconciliation between the statutory NPAT and cash NPAT is provided on page 45. Cash NPAT decreased 5% reflecting  risk and compliance program costs  a continued challenging operating of $358 million. This includes costs Cash NPAT ($m)  5% $8,492m environment, though business associated with implementing the Royal fundamentals remained strong. The Commission and APRA Prudential decrease was driven by a 2% reduction Inquiry recommendations and continued in total operating income, a 2% increase enhancement of our financial crime FY19 8,492 in operating expenses and an 11% increase compliance capabilities in loan impairment expense.  insurance recoveries of $145 million  FY18 8,915 Group profit for the year includes a number in relation to the AUSTRAC civil penalty of notable items: incurred in FY18  provisions of $918 million for remediation   the acquisition of Aussie Home Loans  Statutory NPAT ($m)  8% of historical aligned advice issues, and eChoice in the prior year resulting $8,360m wealth and banking customer refunds in the consolidation of $275 million of and associated program costs as we operating income and $269 million of continued to address the full range of operating expenses for the year. issues impacting our customers FY19 8,360 Notable items are outlined in detail on pages 42-43. FY18 9,057 Dividends Dividends are discretionary distributions of profits to shareholders. The final dividend determined was The Board’s determinations on dividends  target a full-year payout ratio of 70%  $2.31 per share, bringing the total dividend are guided by the Group’s dividend policy to 80% for the year ended 30 June 2019 to which provides that the Group will seek to:  maximise the use of its franking account  $4.31 per share, in line with the prior year  p ay cash dividends at strong and by paying fully franked dividends. full year dividend. The full year dividend sustainable levels payout ratio (cash basis) was 88%. The final dividend will be fully franked and will be paid on 26 September 2019 to Full-year dividend ($ per share) owners of ordinary shares at the close of 2.22 4.20 2.22 4.20 2.30 4.29 2.31 4.31 2.31 4.31 business on 15 August 2019 (Record Date). 2.18 4.01 Shares will be quoted ex-dividend 2.00 3.64 on 14 August 2019. 1.97 3.34 1.88 3.20 The Group continues to offer a dividend reinvestment plan (DRP) under which shareholders can reinvest all or part of any 88% 2 dividend paid on their shares in additional shares instead of receiving the dividend 73% 76% 76% 75% 75% 77% 75% 80% 2 Final in cash. No discount will be applied to shares allocated under the plan for the final Interim dividend. The deadline for notifying change to participation in the DRP is 16 August 1.32 1.37 1.64 1.83 1.98 1.98 1.99 2.00 2.00 Payout ratio (%) 2019. The DRP for the 2019 final dividend is anticipated to be satisfied in full by an FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 on-market purchase and transfer of shares. For further details on dividends, refer to Note 8.4 on page 199 in the Financial report. 1 Unless otherwise stated, all information in the Group performance section is presented on a continuing operations basis. Details of the Group’s discontinued operations are provided on page 45 and Note 11.3 on page 260 in the Financial report. 2 Payout ratios include the impact of notable items. Excluding the impact of notable items, payout ratios would be 80% in FY19 and 73% in FY18 (comparative restated). 41 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Group performance Group performance (continued) Operating income Operating income includes net interest income and non-interest income, such as, other banking income including lending fees and commissions, funds management income and insurance income. Net interest income is the key contributor to the Group’s results as lending and deposit taking are the Group’s primary business activities. Net interest margin or NIM is an important measure of our financial performance representing the return on our interest earning assets (e.g. home loans) after accounting for the costs of funding these assets (e.g. deposits). Excluding notable items, net interest income decreased 1%. The key drivers Total operating income ($m) cash basis  2% $24,407m were:  continued growth in home loans  and deposits offset by a decrease in business and corporate loans as a result FY19 24,407 of portfolio optimisation initiatives and continued focus on risk-adjusted returns FY18 24,914  customers switching from interest-only  and investor home loans to principal and interest, and owner-occupier home loans with lower interest rates FY19 FY18 % change  elevated short-term funding costs  Net interest income 18,125 18,347  1% during the period. Other banking income 4,788 4,982  4% Excluding notable items, non-interest Funds management income 1,072 1,119  4% income decreased 5%. The key drivers Insurance income 147 238  38% were: Total operating income excluding 24,132 24,686  2%  the reduction and removal of certain  notable items cash basis fees and charges and the introduction Notable items 275 228  21% of pre-emptive alerts on overdrawn Total operating income cash basis 24,407 24,914  2% accounts as we continued focusing on improving customer outcomes  lower volumes of initial financial advice  fees and removal of ongoing service fees in relation to our financial planning business from February 2019 Net interest margin (%)  5 bpts 2.10%  higher insurance claims as a result  of significant weather events during the year. FY19 2.10 Operating income for the financial year ended 30 June 2019 included $275 million FY18 2.15 of operating income (30 June 2018: $228 million) relating to the consolidation of Aussie Home Loans and eChoice. This has been included in notable items. For  further details on operating income, refer to Note 2.1 on page 130, Note 2.2 on page 132 and Note 2.3 on page 137 in the Financial report. 42 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Operating expenses Operating expenses include salaries and other benefits paid to staff, the cost of our IT systems and infrastructure, property and other costs. Managing costs with a focus on simplifying our processes and business is one of the key priorities for management. We use the ratio of operating expenses to total operating income to assess and manage the efficiency of our business. Including notable items, operating expenses increased 2% as we continued Total operating expense ($m) cash basis  2% $11,269m to remediate customers for past issues, respond to regulatory findings and enhance our financial crimes compliance capabilities. The costs associated with FY19 11,269 addressing these issues are included within the notable items discussed below. FY18 10,995 Excluding notable items, operating expenses increased 2% driven by: Staff expenses increased 3% as a result FY19 FY18 % change of wage inflation and a 1% increase in full Staff costs 5,524 5,369  3% time equivalent staff (FTE), predominately Occupancy and equipment 1,079 1,128  4% in risk and compliance. Information technology 1,904 1,766  8% Occupancy and equipment expenses Other expenses 1,362 1,379  1% decreased 4% due to lower rental and depreciation expenses as a result of Total operating expense excluding 9,869 9,642  2% branch network optimisation and lower notable items cash basis development costs for new corporate Notable items 1,400 1,353  3% offices, partly offset by annual rental Total operating expense cash basis 11,269 10,995  2% reviews. Information technology services increased 8% due to higher investment spend particularly on risk and compliance The increase in operating expenses initiatives. and the reduction in operating income Full-time equivalent staff (FTE)  1% 42,921 Other expenses decreased 1% due led to a higher operating expenses to to lower marketing costs and lower total operating income ratio of 46.2% discretionary spend. for the full year ended 30 June 2019 (30 June 2018: 44.1%). FY19 42,921 For  further details on operating expenses, refer FY18 42,462 to Note 2.4 on page 139 in the Financial report. Notable items The Group’s financial results have been impacted by a number of notable items. In order to present a transparent view of our business performance, operating expense is presented both before and after notable items, described below. Customer remediation (incl. aligned advice) Customer refunds and program costs in Notable items ($m) cash basis relation to remediation issues impacting FY19 FY18 % change customers of our wealth management Customer remediation (incl. aligned advice) 918 52 large and banking businesses. This includes Risk and compliance programs 358 247  45% provisions for historical aligned advice remediation and associated program costs. Mortgage broking consolidation 269 199  35% Insurance recoveries (145) – n/a Risk and compliance programs Prior period one-offs – 855 large Risk and compliance programs including Total notable items 1,400 1,353  3% the cost of implementing the Royal Commission and APRA Prudential Inquiry recommendations, and continued enhancement of our financial crime compliance capabilities. Insurance recoveries Prior period one-offs $145 million insurance recoveries in Regulatory costs of $155 million relating relation to the $700 million AUSTRAC to the Group,s response to the Royal Mortgage broking consolidation civil penalty incurred in the prior year. Commission, AUSTRAC proceedings, Impact of consolidating Aussie Home the APRA Prudential Inquiry and the Loans and eChoice. $700 million AUSTRAC civil penalty. 43 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Group performance Group performance (continued) Loan impairment expense, impairment provisions and credit quality Credit risk is one of the largest risks we are exposed to as a result of our lending activities. The Group sets aside impairment provisions for losses that are expected to emerge within our lending portfolio due to bad debts, when customers are unable to repay their loans. Loan impairment expense reflects changes in our estimates of impairment provisions, as well as bad debts incurred during the year net of any recoveries. We use the ratio of total provisions to gross loans and acceptances to assess how adequately we are provided for against expected credit losses. Impaired assets are loans that are not meeting their repayment obligations. They include loans in default, loans that have been restructured to non-commercial terms due to the financial difficulties of the borrower or unsecured personal loans and credit cards whose minimum repayments are 90 days past due. On 1 July 2018, we implemented a new approach to calculating impairment Loan impairment expense ($m)  11% Consumer arrears 90 days (%) $1,201m provisions as required by the new 1.56 accounting standard, AASB 9 ‘Financial 1.5 1.41 1.44 Instruments’ (AASB 9). The new approach requires us to hold additional impairment FY19 1,201 provisions to account for the potential 1.03 1.03 impact of adverse future forecast FY18 1,079 1.0 1.02 economic conditions on the credit quality of our portfolio. 0.70 0.68 Loan impairment expense increased 11% 0.60 driven by: 0.5 Jun 17 Dec 17 Jun 18 Dec 18 Jun 19  an improvement in the credit quality of  the corporate lending portfolio driven by portfolio optimisation initiatives and Personal loans Credit cards continued focus on risk-adjusted returns Home loans during the year; offset by  consumer arrears trending higher as  a result of subdued wage growth and cost of living pressures, particularly in Troublesome and   19% Total impairment provisions  32% Western Sydney and Melbourne; and impaired assets ($m) ($m) (including $7,799m $4,799m AASB 9)  an increase in troublesome and impaired  assets due to emerging weaknesses in sectors impacted by discretionary spending. There was a small number FY19 7,799 FY19 4,799 of individual corporate impairments, and impaired assets continued to be FY18 6,541 FY18 3,633 influenced by home loan customers experiencing hardship. The credit quality of the Group’s portfolio The increase in total impairment For  further details on impairment provisions remains sound. The Group continued to provisions to $4,799 million was primarily and credit quality refer to Note 3.2 on maintain a very prudent level of credit driven by the additional $1,058 million of page 153 and Note 9.2 on page 205 in provisioning with the total provisions for impairment provisions taken as the Group the Financial report. impairment losses to gross loans and implemented AASB 9. acceptances ratio increasing to 0.63% (30 June 2018: 0.49%). Tax expense Tax expense is income tax payable to tax authorities in jurisdictions where the Group operates. The effective tax rate is how much tax we pay per dollar of profit. Income tax expense for the year CBA is one of Australia’s largest tax payers. decreased 12% and the effective tax Total tax expense ($m) cash basis 12% Our Tax Transparency Code provides $3,437m rate for the year decreased from 30.5% further information on our approach to to 28.8%. This was primarily due to the tax risk management and tax information non-recurrence of the $700 million commbank.com.au/policies AUSTRAC civil penalty incurred in the FY19 3,437 prior year that was non-deductible for tax purposes. FY18 3,920 This rate is below the Australian company tax rate of 30% primarily as a result of the profits earned by the offshore banking unit and in offshore jurisdictions that have For  further details on tax expense refer to lower corporate tax rates. Note 2.5 on page 141 in the Financial report. 44 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Cash to statutory profit reconciliation The analysis below provides a reconciliation between cash and statutory basis profits on a continuing operations and on a total basis including discontinued operations. Non-cash items are treated consistently from period to period. Cash to statutory profit reconciliation ($m) Total including Continuing operations discontinuing operations FY19 FY18 FY19 FY18 Net profit after tax cash basis 8,492 8,915 8,706 9,412 (Loss)/gain on acquisition, disposal, closure (52) 44 (61) (183) and demerger of businesses Hedging and IFRS volatility (79) 101 (79) 101 Bankwest non-cash items (1) (3) (1) (3) Treasury shares valuation adjustment – – 6 2 Net profit after tax statutory basis 8,360 9,057 8,571 9,329 Non-cash items Gain/(loss) on acquisition, disposal, Hedging and IFRS volatility Bankwest non-cash items closure and demerger of businesses Hedging and IFRS volatility represents The acquisition of Bankwest resulted in Gains and losses on these transactions timing differences between fair value the recognition of assets at fair value, some are inclusive of foreign exchange impacts, movements on qualifying economic of which have been amortising over their impairments, restructuring, separation hedges and the underlying exposure. useful life. The transaction was considered and transaction costs and cover both To qualify as an economic hedge the one-off in nature. controlled businesses and associates. terms and/or risk profile must match or be substantially the same as the Treasury shares underlying exposure. For further details refer to the cash to statutory profit reconciliation on page 295 Valuation adjustments represent the and 296 in the Financial report. elimination of gains and losses on CBA shares held through funds in the Wealth Management business. Net profit from discontinued operations Discontinued operations refers to a major business or a subsidiary that the Group has sold during the financial year or plans to sell within the next 12 months. For reporting purposes, the Group’s NPAT is presented excluding discontinued operations to provide a clear view of the ongoing performance of the business. The Group also reports NPAT including discontinued operations to provide shareholders with a complete view of the Group’s performance. During the financial year 2019 the Group These businesses have been classified For further details on discontinued completed the sale of Sovereign and as discontinued operations during the operations refer to Note 11.3 on page 260 TymeDigital SA. On 2 August 2019, the financial year. in the Financial report. Group completed the sale of CFSGAM. Cash NPAT from discontinued operations The Group also previously announced the for the financial year 2019 was $214 million, sales of CommInsure Life, BoCommLife a decrease of 57% compared to the and PT Commonwealth Life. prior year. 45 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Group performance Group performance (continued) Balance sheet strength Balance sheet strength is critical to our ability to serve our customers, drive core business outcomes and deliver strong and sustainable returns for our shareholders. The Group manages the balance sheet in a sustainable and conservative manner to ensure a strong capital, funding and liquidity position. Capital The Bank is an Authorised Deposit-taking Institution (ADI) regulated by APRA. To ensure banks hold sufficient capital to protect deposit holders against unexpected losses, APRA sets minimum capital requirements for ADIs based on the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision guidelines. These requirements influence the Bank’s ability to pay dividends. The Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital  dividends paid during the period to  ratio as at 30 June 2019 was 10.7%, shareholders which have the effect of above APRA’s ‘unquestionably strong’ reducing capital, however this impact Capital ratio CET1 (APRA)  60 bpts (%) benchmark ratio of 10.5%. was partly offset via new shares 10.7% issued to satisfy the Group’s dividend CET1 increased during the year due to reinvestment plan in respect of the 2018 the following: final dividend.  the benefit of risk-adjusted profits  As at 30 June 2019 10.7 generated in the ordinary course of business (organic capital); As at 30 June 2018 10.1  the benefit from the sale of the  New Zealand life insurance operations; partly offset by Liquidity and funding Deposit funding ratio Liquidity coverage ratio Net stable funding ratio 69% 132% 112% As at 30 June 2018: 68% Average for the quarter ended As at 30 June 2018: 112% 30 June 2018: 133% The deposit funding ratio represents The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) The Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) the proportion of home loans and other represents the level of high quality liquid shows to what extent our long-term assets income-producing assets that are funded assets available to meet short term are covered by stable sources of funding. by customer deposits. Customer deposits obligations in a liquidity stress scenario. The Group’s NSFR was 112% at 30 June are considered the most stable source The Group’s average LCR for the quarter 2019, flat on the prior year, and well above of funding. ended 30 June 2019 was 132% which the regulatory minimum of 100%. The ratio The Group continued to satisfy a is well above the minimum regulatory was maintained through growth in retail significant portion of its lending from requirement of 100%. deposit volumes to support the required customer deposits, accounting for 69% funding for our long-term assets such as of total funding (up from 68% at 30 June home loans. 2018). This was due to growth in existing customers’ transaction account balances and mortgage offset accounts. 46 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Assets and liabilities Over 75% of the Group’s assets are loans to customers. The remaining assets primarily include investments, trading securities; and cash and liquid assets. 70% of the Group’s liabilities are deposits from customers. The majority of the remaining liabilities include debt issues and subordinated debt issues referred to as loan capital. All these liabilities are used to fund the Group’s assets and generate a return for the Group. Total Group assets and liabilities ($m) As at 30 June 2019 30 June 2018 % change Home loans 522,942 501,665  4% Consumer finance 21,993 23,317  6% Business and corporate loans 214,953 222,367  3% Total Group lending 759,888 747,349  2% Other assets (including held for sale) 216,614 227,816  5% Total assets 976,502 975,165 – Deposits 635,300 620,508  2% Debt issues 164,022 172,673  5% Other liabilities (including held for sale) 107,531 114,124  6% Total liabilities 906,853 907,305 – Home loans Deposits Debt funding Home loan balances increased 4% Deposits increased 2% driven by strong Debt issues decreased 5% compared driven by lending growth in the Retail transaction deposit growth. This was to the prior year. Excluding the impact of Banking Services and New Zealand partly offset by a reduction in investment foreign exchange, debt issues decreased business divisions partly offset by a deposits in Institutional Banking and 6% due to lower wholesale funding needs decrease in Business and Private Banking. Markets due to lower demand for funding. as deposit growth remained strong. Domestic home loans increased 4%, Domestic household deposits grew 4%, above banking system growth of 3%, which was below the banking system notwithstanding increased competition growth rate of 5%, reflecting increased from non-bank lenders and a challenging competition from non-major banks. The operating environment. Group continues to maintain the highest share of stable household deposits in Australia. 47 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Divisional performance Divisional performance1 Retail Banking Business and Institutional Services Private Banking Banking and Markets Retail Banking Services provides home Business and Private Banking provides Institutional Banking and Markets loan, consumer finance and retail deposit specialised banking services to services the Group’s major corporate, products and servicing to all retail bank relationship managed business and institutional and government clients using a customers. The retail banking division also agribusiness customers, private banking relationship management model based on includes the Group’s general insurance to high net worth individuals, margin industry expertise and insights. The client and mortgage broking businesses lending and trading through CommSec, offering includes debt raising, financial and in Australia and Commonwealth and retail banking products and servicing commodities price risk management and Financial Planning. to non-relationship managed small transactional banking capabilities. business customers. Change in NPAT Change in NPAT Change in NPAT RBS Cash NPAT ($m)   12% BPB Cash NPAT ($m)   7% IB&M Cash NPAT ($m)   8% $4,267m $2,658m $1,071m FY19 4,267 FY19 2,658 FY19 1,071 FY18 4,823 FY18 2,845 FY18 1,170 Contribution to Group profit2 Contribution to Group profit2 Contribution to Group profit2 50% 31% 13% Performance overview Performance overview Performance overview Retail Banking Services cash net profit Business and Private Banking cash net Institutional Banking and Markets cash after tax for the full year ended 30 June profit after tax for the full year ended net profit after tax for the full year ended 2019 was $4,267 million, a decrease of 30 June 2019 was $2,658 million, a 30 June 2019 was $1,071 million, a $556 million or 12% on the prior year. decrease of $187 million or 7% on the decrease of $99 million or 8% on the prior year. prior year. The result was driven by lower net interest margin as a result of higher The result was driven by higher operating The result was driven by lower lending short term funding costs and increased expenses due to an increase in customer volumes and fees, partly offset by competition, lower other banking income remediation costs and regulatory and improved net interest margin, lower from simplification and the removal of compliance costs. The decrease in cash operating expenses and lower loan certain customer fees and charges and net profit after tax was also driven by higher impairment expense. the introduction of pre-emptive alerts loan impairment expense, partly offset by on overdrawn customer accounts. The higher fee income and improved net interest decrease in cash net profit after tax was margin, reflecting growth in transaction also driven by higher operating expenses deposits and repricing of business lending. due to wage inflation and higher risk and compliance spend, as well as higher loan impairment expense. 1 Unless otherwise stated, all information in the Divisional performance section is presented on a continuing operations basis. Details of the Group’s discontinued operations are provided on page 45 and Note 11.3 on page 260 in the Financial report. 2 The Group’s cash NPAT includes a cash net loss after tax from the Corporate Centre on a continuing operations basis of $941 million (30 June 2018: $1,305 million which is not included in the above discussion. Corporate centre includes the results of unallocated support functions such as Treasury, Investor relations, Group strategy, Legal and Corporate affairs. 48 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Wealth New Zealand International Management Financial Services Wealth Management provides New Zealand includes banking International Financial Services superannuation, investment, retirement and funds management businesses incorporates the Indonesian retail and insurance products, and services operating in New Zealand under the and business banking operations, including financial planning. ASB brand. and associate investments in China and Vietnam. Change in NPAT Change in NPAT Change in NPAT WM Cash NPAT ($m)   37% NZ Cash NPAT (A$m)   8% IFS Cash NPAT ($m)   49% $160m $1,050m $227m FY19 160 FY19 1,050 FY19 227 FY18 255 FY18 975 FY18 152 Contribution to Group profit2 Contribution to Group profit2 Contribution to Group profit2 2% 12% 3% Performance overview Performance overview Performance overview Wealth Management cash net profit after New Zealand cash net profit after tax for International Financial Services cash net tax for the full year 30 June 2019 was the full year ended 30 June 2019 was profit after tax for the full year ended $160 million, a decrease of $95 million $1,050 million, an increase of $75 million 30 June 2019 was $227 million, an increase or 37% on the prior year. or 8% on the prior year. of $75 million or 49% on the prior year. The result was driven by higher operating The result was driven by growth in home The result was driven by lower operating expenses due to customer remediation loans and business and rural lending expenses due to lower staff costs and higher regulatory and compliance balances, and higher other banking and non-core divestments, lower loan costs. This was party offset by an increase income. This was partly offset by lower net impairment expense and growth in lending in funds management income. interest margin, higher operating expenses volumes. This was partly offset by lower driven by increased risk and compliance other banking income, reflecting lower net staff, salary increases, and higher loan profits from investments in associates. impairment expense. 49 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Risk report Risk report As Australia’s largest financial institution,  a change in the mindsets and behaviours  The framework is delivered by governance the Board and management of the of staff at all levels to earn the trust of our and reporting processes, risk policies and Bank understand that effective risk stakeholders procedures, and our risk infrastructure management is important to the (people, systems and processes).  a sustained improvement in our risk financial wellbeing of our customers management practices. The Operating context on page 8 outlines and the broader economy. the material trends in our current external To achieve these objectives we have Risk management is about understanding operating context which, together with their identified and made good progress during the uncertainties facing our organisation, associated impacts on the Group’s material the year on the following priority areas: and developing strategies to benefit risks, are receiving focus by the Executive from them, or minimise their impact and Board. on the achievement of our purpose Enhancing our risk Our current internal operating context is and strategy. With factors such as governance characterised by the significant program the advancement of new emerging of change across the Group to deliver on technologies, shifting societal Over the past year, the Board has been our strategic imperative of making the expectations, elevated regulatory setting clearer expectations of the Bank simpler and better. The Group is oversight, uncertain macroeconomic business so that it receives better quality managing this strategic program of change conditions, changing environment information on risks to enable it to act through strong governance structures and competitive landscape, banks quickly and decisively on that information. over significant transformational initiatives, are increasingly exposed to greater Management has taken steps to improve setting clear priorities for business areas and levels of uncertainty and therefore the rigour of governance over non-financial regularly monitoring the progress against require innovative and robust risk risks by establishing a Non-Financial Risk our strategy. Failure to effectively manage management practices. Committee (NFRC) which is elevating this program of change could impact The financial risks of the Group have the importance of non-financial risk and delivery of our strategy and result in traditionally been well managed. We making it a top priority for the Executive increased regulatory oversight. proactively manage the credit quality Leadership Team. Our focus on identifying of our portfolios and maintain a strong and understanding emerging risks, trends liquidity and capital position to deliver and issues across all of the Group’s strong and sustainable returns for our material risk types is also providing better shareholders. insights to inform decision making. However, in recent years a succession of conduct and compliance issues, followed by the findings of the APRA Overview of our Risk Management Framework “As Australia’s Prudential Inquiry in 2018, exposed The diagram on page 51 outlines the key largest financial a lack of maturity in the Group’s non-financial risk management components of the Risk Management institution, Framework for managing the Group’s practices. The Financial Services Royal Material Risk types; including the the Board and Commission further highlighted the impact of these weaknesses on the governance that enables Executive management of the and Board oversight of these risks. This lives of individual Australians. As a framework incorporates the requirements Bank understand result, the Board and management have committed to: of the APRA prudential standard for risk that effective risk management (CPS 220). Integral to our enhancing our governance over approach to managing risk is: management is important to the   non-financial risk and investing in   the Group Risk Appetite Statement new capabilities to strengthen our management of operational risk which articulates the type and degree financial wellbeing of risk the Board is prepared to accept and compliance and the maximum level of risk that the of our customers institution must operate within; and and the broader  he Group Strategy which articulates the t Group’s approach to the implementation economy.” of its strategic objectives. 50 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Risk Management Framework Our Risk Principles Trust and Reputation Risk Culture and Conduct Risk CBA Group Board Group Strategy Group Risk Appetite Statement Board Risk Committee Executive Executive Risk Insurance Asset and Liability Non-Financial Risk Leadership Committee subsidiary Committee Committee Team (ELT) (ERC) boards (ALCO) (NFRC) BU Leadership Business Unit (BU) Leadership BU NFRC Committees Teams Teams Strategic Credit Insurance Market Liquidity Operational Compliance Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Fines or Value destruction Losses from failure Unplanned losses Losses from Not being able Losses from sanctions from or less than planned of counterparties from events that unexpected to meet financial failure of internal non-compliance value creation to pay their debts we provide changes in market obligations as they processes, systems with laws and due to changes in to CBA insurance for rates and prices fall due or people regulations the external and internal operating environments Financial Risks Non-Financial Risks Business Risks (may include impacts across one or more financial or non-financial risk types) Customer Climate and Macroeconomic Competition Technology Regulatory Political Societal preferences environment Refer to Note 9 in the Financial report on page 201 for further detail on the current risk exposures and the approach the Group takes to the management of its material risk types. 51 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Risk report Risk report (continued) Driving risk culture change across the Group “We are investing in risk systems and The Board and the Executive Leadership Team recognise their crucial role in innovation to allow better risk identification, setting the cultural tone of the Group. This reporting and analytics capability to more includes leading a strong risk culture which the Group defines as being those beliefs, deeply understand issues and complaints.” values and practices within the organisation that determine how our people identify, measure, govern and act upon risks. A key priority of the Board and Elevating the status Strengthening our management is to ensure our risk culture is one of accountability, empowerment, of the Risk Management Conduct Risk framework constructive challenge, reflection and function within the As part of our commitment to better striving for best practice risk management. organisation customer and risk outcomes, we have This will drive decisions that are lawful, developed a Code of Conduct to ensure ethical and lead to better customer and A strong and independent Risk function is all staff have a clear understanding of what risk outcomes. We know that community a key enabler of robust business decisions. acceptable conduct means. A core principle confidence in us depends on this. In support of this, a recent change agreed contained in our new Code of Conduct Over the last year the Board and the by the Board and Executive Leadership is to ensure we do the right thing by our Executive Leadership Team have taken Team is that the Risk function will have a customers by asking ‘Should We?’ when the time to better understand the drivers shared accountability with the business making decisions. This Code has become of our risk culture and have developed a for risk decisions. In practice this is being mandatory training for all CBA staff and the methodology to formally and consistently achieved by extending Risk’s mandate ‘Should We?’ test is being embedded in assess this across the Group. This from ‘reviewing and challenging’ to key processes across the Group, such as has allowed us to identify areas of ‘approving’ that decisions made by the product development and review processes. development and establish a number business have consciously and robustly This will make conduct an essential and of priority initiatives aimed at cascading assessed the risks. This change in embedded part of the disciplined control the right tone from the top, connecting mandate strengthens the ‘voice of risk’, environment supporting our business better with our customers and reinforcing an issue that was highlighted in the APRA decisions. Other focus areas have been our purpose and values. Supporting Prudential Inquiry report, and is currently improving the way customer complaints are initiatives have also been targeted at being embedded into risk frameworks reported, identifying systemic issues and lifting leadership capability, elevating Group-wide. In addition, the following key fixing them and delivering consequences risk experience and inspiring our people initiatives are in progress to increase both to employees whose actions lead to poor around the change required. the capabilities of the Risk function and outcomes for customers. those of the business owners: We are confident that the continued Reinforcing business  Investing in risk systems and innovation  focus on these priority areas over the to allow better risk identification, ownership of risk reporting and analytics capability to next two years will result in a sustained improvement in the maturity of the Group’s outcomes more deeply understand issues and risk management practices and lead to complaints. better customer and risk outcomes. The Group believes that every employee  Implementing a number of data quality  needs to be a risk manager, and that the initiatives to improve the structure and front line business is accountable for quality of data to support reporting and understanding and managing the risks risk decision making. of their business, to ensure conscious risk versus return decisions. To support  Enhancing risk skills and capabilities to  business owners in taking greater correct areas of under-investment in the accountability for the risks that they management of non-financial risk. originate we have increased our risk  Simplifying risk policies, processes and  resourcing and capability and focused on tools and developing a common risk clarifying the differing risk accountabilities management language. of business owners and risk specialists. We are also improving the processes used to manage risk across the Group. This includes improving risk controls and building capability to analyse the root causes of issues and incidents that have a negative impact on customers. 52 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Our material risks We continuously develop and improve the Group’s Risk Management Framework to ensure that it is robust and fit-for-purpose given the nature of the Group’s business and that it supports our strategy of delivering balanced and sustainable outcomes for stakeholders. This means responding to evolving better risk management practices and the Group’s operating context, including heightened global regulatory change and additional scrutiny which are trends that are likely to continue into the foreseeable future. The key actions we are taking for each of the Group’s material risk types are described below. Note 9 in the Financial report on page 201 provides a detailed definition of each material risk type, the applicable governing policies and key management committees, and the key limits, standard and measurement approaches for each risk type. Risk type Context Key actions we are taking Strategic Risk  The external operating environment is changing We have formalised the existing strategic risk   at a rate and in ways not previously experienced practices through a Board approved strategic risk (see the Operating context on page 8). In particular, policy and associated procedures for identifying, the unprecedented changes in the competitor monitoring, managing and reporting on strategic risk. landscape, emerging technologies, societal We have developed a more structured approach   expectations and required workforce capabilities to the identification, management and oversight expose the Group to Strategic Risk. of emerging risks through the Non-Financial Risk  It is therefore increasingly important that, when Committee. developing and monitoring execution of strategic These stronger disciplines are being embedded   plans, we appropriately and consistently assess into strategic and business planning and monitoring the aggregate impacts of the changing operating processes. context across all of our material risk types. Credit Risk  M  acroeconomic uncertainty is leading to slow credit The Group regularly reviews and adjusts credit   and growth and low consumer confidence, which in turn limits and settings in response to changing economic Insurance Risk is impacting discretionary spending. These factors, conditions to ensure alignment with Group risk combined with historically low interest rates, elevates appetite. the need for robust credit policies, procedures Significant investment is underway to enhance   and tools to support credit decisions in this new the systems and data necessary for aggregation environment. of exposures and for reporting and portfolio   Economic factors impacting the housing market are management, particularly in the non-retail parts particularly important given the Group’s proportion of our business. of earnings from home lending.  e are progressively performing climate change W    A  s climate-related events, external policy decisions scenario analyses on our credit and insurance and community expectations around climate action portfolios to understand potential impacts and become heightened, the potential long-term impacts how these can be factored into business decisions. of climate change on the credit and insurance portfolios needs to be factored into current origination and portfolio management decisions.   he Group is divesting its life insurance businesses T and therefore will only retain general insurance risk into the future. Liquidity Risk   The Group has well designed and embedded The Bank performs regular stress tests and scenario   and frameworks in place to manage its liquidity and analyses covering adverse and severe operating Market Risk market risks. However, we recognise the need conditions. This allows a better understanding of for ongoing vigilance to ensure the Bank is well our liquidity and market risks to enable proactive positioned in the event of stressed liquidity or risk based decisions. market conditions. In addition, the Bank maintains a diverse yet stable     Macroeconomic uncertainties which could cause pool of potential funding sources across different volatility in global markets, are heightened by the currencies, geographies, entities and products. current environment of:  e limit the amount of short-term wholesale funding W   – global trade disputes leading to geo-political sourced from offshore and the Bank maintains instability and lower business confidence sufficient liquidity buffers and short-term funding capacity to withstand periods of disruption in – interest rates remaining at historically low levels, long-term wholesale funding markets. with further falls expected. 53 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Risk report Risk report (continued) Risk type Context Key actions we are taking Operational Risk  The 2018 APRA Prudential Inquiry exposed a  Good progress has been made on enhancing our lack of maturity in the Group’s non-financial risk risk governance, driving risk culture change across management practices. A comprehensive three-year the Group, reinforcing business ownership of risk Remedial Action Plan is in progress to strengthen the outcomes and elevating the status of the Risk Group’s operational risk framework. Management function within the organisation. This progress will continue over the next two years  Information security risks for the Group have to ensure a sustained improvement in the maturity increased in recent years due to: the evolution and of the Group’s risk management practices. development of new technologies; the Group’s increasing use of digital channels; and the increased   e continue to invest in our operational risk W sophistication and broadened activities of cyber capabilities (in particular cybersecurity, data criminals. management and supplier management) to ensure they evolve in response to the Group’s changing   The Group has a significant program of change to operating environment. We have a program in place deliver a simpler, better bank. The complexity of to identify the Group’s most critical data elements current operations creates the risk of poor or slow in order to drive appropriate quality and lineage, execution which could impact the ability to execute using our Data Management framework. our strategy effectively.  The significant program of change to deliver a simpler, better bank is being managed through strong governance and oversight over these transformational initiatives. Compliance    here is an increased risk of regulatory action T   rogress continues through the Remedial Action P (including enforcement action) or policy change Plan to strengthen the Compliance Management which may negatively impact the Group’s financial Framework, including resources and policies and position or reputation. procedures, and to ensure they are well embedded within business units.   S  ignificant regulatory reforms are under development, across a number of jurisdictions that  A Code of Conduct has been developed and is being will strengthen the industry and improve customer embedded across the Group. Conduct controls outcomes. These could impact the Group’s are also being strengthened across the business operations and financial performance. Examples to address the increased expectations. include:   e have developed a new Regulatory Engagement W – Open Banking to give consumers access to and Standard that drives engagement with regulators in control over their data an open and transparent way. – APRA and RBNZ’s proposals to revise the capital  A financial crime compliance program is improving framework for banks the quality of customer data and embedding financial crime policies and procedures into – conduct-related reforms such as product business practices. design and distribution obligations and greater prescription on responsible lending requirements – regulation arising from the Financial Services Royal Commission’s recommendations. 54 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Our approach to addressing climate change As a provider of financial We aim to disclose our progress, services – including performance and plans in line with the recommendations of the Task Force on lending, insurance and Climate-related Financial Disclosures wealth management (TCFD). – the physical and We are focusing on having the right transition impacts policies in place, undertaking detailed of climate change are analysis to better understand the risks and opportunities, developing and strategically important implementing strategic responses, building to our business. We are internal understanding and customer taking a phased approach capabilities, and contributing to economywide initiatives. to identifying and managing both the risks and the opportunities. 55 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Addressing climate change Addressing climate change (continued) Phase 1-2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Policy, due diligence, Extending scenario analysis, Embedding climate considerations governance, analysis of strategic responses, into strategy, business and risk portfolio risks and opportunities capability building management processes Pre-FY19 FY19 FY20-21 Governance  Climate Policy Position Statement1   Developed a Group Environmental   Review the Group Environmental  and Social Policy with updated and Social Policy to ensure alignment  Group Environment Policy 1 climate commitments, including: with the rapidly evolving nature of  Equator Principles III Report1 environmental and social issues  –continuing to reduce our exposures   ESG Lending Commitments1 to thermal coal mining and coal fired  Review the Group Risk Appetite power generation, with a view to Statement   Responsible Investing exiting the sectors by 2030, subject Framework 1 to Australia having a secure energy   Review of climate-related roles and platform responsibilities   The Board governs climate risks and opportunities through the – supporting the development of Risk Management Framework2 existing and emerging technologies that enable an accelerated transition to a low carbon future Strategy   Commitment to support the  Climate scenario analysis:    Climate scenario analysis: objectives of the Paris Agreement – Agribusiness lending: physical risks – Business lending: physical risks   Climate scenario analysis: for other key portfolios  Portfolio-level strategic responses  –B usiness lending: transition risks – Retail (home lending) and insurance:  Client engagement  transition risks –F irstChoice Australian Share Fund: transition risks – I nvestment portfolios: transition and physical risks –R etail (home lending) and insurance: physical risks   Further develop strategic responses   Portfolio-level strategic   Client and customer engagement responses Risk   Elevated climate as a strategic  Physical climate risk added to the    Continue to update the management risk and a long-term driver of both ESG Risk Assessment Tool process ESG Risk Assessment Tool financial and non-financial risks for business lending and build capabilities as stakeholder expectations and   Introduced an ESG Risk  Reviewed clients within carbon  global developments evolve Assessment Tool, including sensitive sectors, based on climate and energy FY18 scenario analysis, to better   Work with clients as they progress considerations, for business understand their management of their transition strategies lending climate risk   Training on ESG risks, including  Updated Energy Value Chain Analysis  climate, for business lenders   Established Energy Value Chain analysis Metrics and   Emissions reduction target  Joined the global RE100 initiative    Continue to make progress on our targets (Scope 1 and 2) and committed to sourcing 100% of RE100 commitment our electricity needs from renewable   Assessed emissions in business   Science-based emissions reduction energy by 2030 lending portfolio target (Scope 1 and 2)  Assessed emissions in business   Assess emissions in business   Low carbon project funding lending portfolio3  target of $15 billion by 2025 and retail lending and investment  Progress on low carbon project  portfolios funding target   Emissions reduction target (Scope 3)   Progress on low carbon project funding target 1 All policies are found at commbank.com.au/policies. 2 Further information on the Group’s Risk Management Framework is provided on page 201. 3 Our assessed emissions reporting is available at commbank.com.au/CRreporting. 56 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Climate governance The Board directly oversees the The Executive Leadership Team (ELT) Under our E&S Policy, business and management of the Bank’s climate-related continues to be responsible for: support units across the Group are risks, opportunities and strategies. responsible for addressing specific  directing the development and  climate-related impacts, risks and Specifically, in the 2019 financial year implementation of ESG policies, opportunities. Internal procedure the Board: including climate documents provide clear guardrails  reviewed and endorsed the Group’s   overseeing progress, performance  and guidance on issue management Environmental and Social Policy (E&S and reporting on climate and client activity. Policy), which outlines our approach to  leading external engagement and  An example of how this works in practice climate-related risks and opportunities advocacy and helping customers is our commitment to reducing our  monitored performance against our  and clients on climate-related matters. exposures to thermal coal mining and climate-related goals and targets coal fired power generation. This applies  reviewed and approved our climate to our Institutional Banking & Markets related strategy and disclosures. (IB&M) business which has accountability for adherence to, and implementation of, this part of the E&S Policy. Climate strategy To better understand potential climate change impacts, risks and opportunities for the Bank, and to build the resilience of our business and our customers, we are taking a phased approach to scenario analysis. We prioritise analysis of areas that are material to the Bank and to our customers. The results of our scenario analysis help inform our business and strategy planning. The scenario analysis we undertook in 2018 has helped inform our strategic responses as follows: Physical risk Transition risk FY18 Building insurance Home loan Business lending FirstChoice Australian focus policies portfolio portfolio Share Fund Risks Flooding, storms, extreme heat and Market, regulatory, legal, drought, bushfires, sea level rise reputation, technology Progress  We continue to focus on  We are developing a green  We have incorporated  We are investigating tools during supporting sector-wide mortgage initiative that physical climate risk into to display carbon risk FY19 initiatives that enhance rewards and encourages our ESG Risk Assessment within portfolios for use climate resilience and energy efficiency, by giving Tool and ESG risk as an asset allocation tool. reduce disaster risk, cashbacks to customers e-learning.  We are working with including through our who use solar panels and  We have made a an external specialist membership of the Climate make their homes more Change Action Committee energy efficient. commitment to reducing vendor to utilise its latest within the Insurance our exposure to thermal climate scenario model  We are building our coal mining and coal and receive reporting on Council of Australia. capabilities to develop fired power generation, climate-related risks within and implement business with a view to exiting the our portfolios. solutions that protect sectors by 2030, subject to customers and the Bank Australia having a secure from climate risk. energy platform.  We are conducting deeper analysis on our lending to carbon sensitive sectors to understand how clients manage their carbon risk. 57 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Addressing climate change Addressing climate change (continued) FY19 climate scenario analysis – risks and opportunities in Australian agriculture This year we conducted scenario analysis What we did on the physical risks of climate change We undertook a forward-looking on our agribusiness lending portfolio. assessment of climate-related This reflects the important role Australia’s factors that could impact the grains3, farmers play in the nation’s economy and livestock4 and dairy5 sectors which for our business, and the sensitivity of the represent approximately 65% of our sector to changes in climate. Australian agribusiness portfolio across Farming under challenging climate Commonwealth Bank and Bankwest. conditions is not new to Australian farmers. We worked with climate consultancy Climate change however has the potential Energetics to simulate agricultural to increase the frequency of acute climate productivity against a range of potential events such as floods and droughts, and to climate conditions up to 2060, using alter longer-term climate conditions which models derived from peer reviewed can impact farm productivity. scientific literature and industry research. As a major lender to Australia’s farmers2 Impacts were assessed on both a ‘do we have undertaken detailed scenario nothing’ and ‘adapt’ basis to understand analysis to understand how climate the extent to which the impacts of climate change affects agriculture through acute change could be mitigated. The analysis and chronic shifts in temperature, humidity also incorporated economical viability, Wealth management focus and rainfall. Our analysis enables us to recognising that adaptation requires both on climate understand the risks, identify ways to investment and a willingness to change We continue to build capabilities support our customers into the future, established practice. across our wealth management and contribute to building resilience in the sector. A detailed outline of the methodology is businesses to manage climate and provided on page 60. It remains important broader ESG risks on our customers’ to note that scenario analysis considers behalf, and to offer new investment the outcomes of a range of possible future solutions: pathways, based on assumptions, and is  Colonial First State (CFS)  not a forecast or prediction. Investments measures and reports carbon emissions intensity (see page 61 for details).  CommSec Pocket now enables  investment in ETHI, an Exchange Traded Fund that invests in 100 large global stocks that are climate change leaders.  Colonial First State Global Asset  Management and Commonwealth Bank Group Super both report their climate governance, strategy, risk management and metrics in line with the TCFD1. 1 Available at cfsgam.com.au and oursuperfund.com.au/annual-reports. 2 We conducted our analysis on the most recent client insights available. Group agriculture exposure was $22.4 billion at 31 December 2018 of which $11.2 billion was loans to Australian farmers. 3 Grains include cereals (e.g. wheat and sorghum), oilseeds (e.g. canola) and pulses (e.g. lupins and chickpeas). 4 Livestock includes beef cattle and sheep for wool and lamb. 5 Dairy includes dairy cattle only. 58 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 What we found Grains Livestock Dairy Current grain growing regions face the risk Livestock regions face significant farmer Dairy regions also face the risk of farmer of potential farmer profitability declines by profitability declines by 2060, with falls of profitability declines by 2060, with falls in 2060, due to falls in productivity in many up to 40% due to a deterioration in pasture most regions of up to 40% from baseline areas of up to 50% below the 2018 baseline growth and quality (Figure 03). However, levels (Figure 05). A key risk for declining levels, primarily due to changes in predicted adaptive measures can significantly dairy profitability is the incidence of rainfall (Figure 01). Adaptive measures can improve livestock production, with most consecutive days of significant heat stress, preserve current productivity levels in most regions able to convert an absolute measured using the Temperature Humidity regions, and even improve profitability up decline in profitability to an improvement Index (THI). After five such days in a row to 65% above the baseline in some regions above the baseline by 2060. There is a dairy cows can stop lactating, ceasing (Figure 02). However, the trend of declining cost to these adaptive measures, which production. rainfall could result in some regions may outweigh the benefits for some becoming significantly less viable for crop Adaptive measures can significantly regions (Figure 04). production in the long term. improve the situation for dairy production, Potential adaptive measures include with most regions projected to at least Adaptive measures including breeding for breeding for increased tolerance to maintain baseline levels of profitability. As improved tolerance to drought and heat could heat and humidity, improving pasture Figure 06 shows, in some regions a farmer improve crop yields by up to 20% by 2060 quality in harsher conditions and cooling profitability decline could be converted for certain crops. Genetic modification can livestock by providing shade and water to an improvement of up to 40% above markedly increase crops’ climate resilience, sprays. Developments in monitoring and the baseline. with the potential to improve the yield of some management technology can maximise crops by up to 40% over the next 40 years. Breeding in Bos indicus genetics could resource efficiency. An example is However, the use of genetically modified increase tolerance to heat and humidity rotational grazing using virtual fencing organisms (GMOs) is a controversial solution but may also lower milk yield, so uptake technology. This maintains soil and pasture and is currently banned in parts of Australia. of this measure is likely to be delayed. quality by reducing overgrazing. Genetic Improved monitoring technology has the Further developments in crop monitoring modification of pasture species has most and management technology to maximise potential to maximise output, by optimising potential in the south where pastures are water efficiency and optimise activities are supplemental feed and the cooling of cows typically not native. expected to boost productivity. Farmers can using shade and water sprays. Genetic also shift the sowing window to optimise the modification of pasture or supplemental growing season, and there is potential for feed species can also potentially further improvements. increase yield. Climate simulation: impact on farm profitability by 2060 Grains Livestock Dairy Worst case without adaptation Worst case without adaptation Worst case without adaptation Figure 01 Figure 03 Figure 05 Worst case with adaptation (ex GMOs) Worst case with adaptation (ex GMOs) Worst case with adaptation (ex GMOs) Figure 02 Figure 04 Figure 06 % change in farm profitability -50% +110% 59 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Addressing climate change Addressing climate change (continued) How we are responding to the buffers present in their current and supporting our customers operating in We have estimated the impacts of the future interest coverage ratios. With the those areas of Australia that, according above potential changes on the credit right adaptive measures, and the right to our modelling, will be significantly quality of our portfolio. We found that while timing of their uptake, these impacts can impacted by climate change. We are also many customers are likely to be impacted be successfully mitigated by adaptation engaging and upskilling our agribusiness by potential productivity falls due to climate improving yields for farmers. teams through training, policies and change, in aggregate the impacts are not toolkits, so that they are able to incorporate As a Group, we are using the findings significant for our portfolio. Through our considerations of climate resilience and of our analysis to inform the future credit assessment, we have observed that adaptation into conversations with our management of our agriculture portfolio, our farmers are largely able to manage farming customers. including building better tools to manage climate events within their financials, due and monitor our risks. We will focus on Methodology for agriculture  airy: a statistical relationship between D not yet implemented but well researched. portfolio physical risk scenario productivity and seasonal rainfall, Additionally, an allowance was included analysis temperature and the Temperaturefor future technology not yet developed, Humidity Index modelled at three sites by projected to be available from around 2035. Climate change scenarios Dairy Australia was applied to the other Adaptation uptake curves were developed Climate change impacts to each agriculture five dairy regions. for each representative commodity type sector were assessed in response to based on the selected measures, their multiple emissions pathways, climate Climate variables expected crop yield improvements, and scenarios and adaptation responses to The climate variables are: costs to implement and uptake rates. capture a wide range of potential impacts.  seasonal rainfall and temperature Credit risk The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) low (Representative  d aily average temperature and humidity. Using the profitability and productivity Concentration Pathway 4.5) and high Additional climate variables and related impacts, we were able to estimate how (RCP 8.5) global emissions pathways were environmental stressors are known to climate change could effect the credit considered as well as two climate models affect production but were assessed risk metrics of our existing agribusiness to provide a range of potential outcomes. more broadly due to data and evidence customers. Using a driver based approach Outcomes were then considered with limitations. These parameters include fire, and our existing credit risk models we and without the uptake of cost-effective cyclones, sea level rise, pests and diseases. were able to assess the impact on the adaptive measures. Altogether, 12 scenarios As a result, our modelling of physical climate portfolio’s probability of default. A number were considered, book-ended by a best risk may understate the potential impact of of simplifying assumptions were made for case (low emissions pathway, climate climate change. example, land values and commodity prices model showing least change, full adaptation were held constant. As a consequence, the uptake, inclusive of GMO developments) Outputs actual impacts may be greater or less than and worst case (high emissions pathway, those calculated. climate model showing most change and Bounds were placed on the results of the no adaptation uptake). statistical models to ensure that outputs Data sources were plausible. Results were filtered, using Australian Bureau of Agricultural Farm location information was obtained Impact models from the Australian Bureau of Statistics and Resource Economics and Sciences Climate impact models were sourced for (ABARES) land use data, to remove unused (ABS) Agricultural Census 2015-16. Other grains, dairy cattle and livestock based on land such as deserts and waterways. geographical information was obtained a survey of Australian literature. The impact The effects of climate change were from the ABS, ABARES and other Australian models are: expressed as percentage changes in Government agencies. Climate impact  rains: a statistical relationship between G productivity from a 2018 adjusted baseline models were drawn from research by productivity, seasonal rainfall and to ensure relevance to the current day. CSIRO, ABARES and Dairy Australia. seasonal temperature was applied to Commodity prices were assumed to historical and future climate data on a remain steady. In adaptation scenarios Limitations and uncertainties five kilometre grid. the change in profitability is the change This analysis is based on best available in output post adaptation less the cost of information. However, it is unable to  L ivestock: a statistical relationship adaptive measures. overcome some important limitations and between productivity, seasonal rainfall uncertainties. For example, climate change and seasonal temperature was applied Adaptation simulations currently have minimal ability to to historical and future climate data on a Potential adaptive measures were model extreme weather events. Similarly, five kilometre grid. researched for each agricultural sector. agricultural impact models need to be These include measures already taken further developed to test the bounds at up by some farmers but with potential for which statistical relationships change. increased uptake, as well as measures 60 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Climate risk management Climate-related, and wider environmental risk, is an important element of strategic risk which we identify, assess and manage via our risk management framework and ESG business practices. Policy and processes Climate in our ESG risk Carbon emissions of equity Our approach to climate risk management assessment process investments in FirstChoice investment options cascades down from our Group level The Bank is a major provider of business policies via the frameworks for each loans. A key step in our credit risk due In line with our commitment to reduce our material risk type, which are documented diligence for business lending is the own emissions we measure the climate in the Group’s Risk Management assessment of potential transactions for – related risks of our investments. For Framework (see page 201). ESG risks, including climate risk, through our equity investments in the MySuper our ESG Risk Assessment Tool. products1, from June 2016, we see a The requirements of these policies and continued downward trend in carbon frameworks are translated into sector/ All Institutional Bank loans and large emissions per $100,000 invested. portfolio controls and specific transaction loans in other business units are subject and client level processes that support to a compulsory ESG risk assessment. In the largest cohort of our FirstChoice appropriate consideration of ESG risks This must take place before a loan can Employer Super offer, (FirstChoice in business decisions. be priced. The process includes an initial Employer 1970-74), emissions have gone ESG risk assessment based on country from 32.2 tCO2-e at 30 June 2018 to In particular, climate change is included 30.6 tCO2-e at 30 June 20192. This is as an area of special focus in our Group of operations and more than 500 industry sectors. The overall ESG risk levels are equivalent to a reduction from 6.8 cars Environmental and Social Policy, which driven daily for a year to 6.5 cars3. is underpinned by comprehensive aligned with the Equator Principles’ risk procedure documents that govern and categories A, B and C. Additional ESG due For our multi manager equity portfolios, guide implementation across the Group. diligence is required for transactions which our FirstChoice Australian Share emissions have medium or high ESG risks identified in stood at 18.9 tCO2-e per $100,000 Climate risk has the potential to create the initial assessment. invested and FirstChoice Global Share was both financial and non-financial impacts a lower 14.2 tCO2-e (4 cars compared to for the Group, as its physical and transition Along with climate and energy as focus areas, we now include physical climate risk 3 cars) at 30 June 2019. impacts have the potential to affect our customers’ ability to service and in our ESG risk assessment process. This Another measure of carbon is carbon repay their loans, as well as the value means loans are reviewed to understand intensity. This measures carbon emissions of collateral the Bank holds to secure how clients are managing their carbon normalised by sales revenue to allow loans. These impacts include long-term impacts and climate resilience. for comparison between companies of changes in climatic conditions, extreme There is compulsory training on ESG different sizes. From June 2018 to June 2019 weather events, and the action taken Fundamentals and the ESG Risk the carbon intensity of First Choice Employer by government, regulators or society Assessment Tool for all our Institutional 1970-74 has changed from 360.4 tCO2-e/$ more generally to transition to a low Banking and Business Banking client revenue to 325.7 tCO2-e/$ revenue. carbon economy. For more please refer facing roles, plus the credit risk teams. At June 2018, FirstChoice Australian Share to Climate-related risk in Note 9.2 of the had a carbon intensity of 326.5 tCO2-e/$ Financial report on page 206. Assessing the emissions revenue compared to 230.4 tCO2-e/$ in our investments and revenue at June 2019. FirstChoice Global business lending Share also reduced its carbon intensity, To understand the concentration of our from 209.0 tCO2-e/$ revenue in June 2018 carbon-related exposures we measure the to 148.4 tCO2-e/$ revenue in June 2019. carbon intensity of equity investments, our exposure to companies in the energy value chain, and the overall emissions we finance through our business lending portfolio. 1 On 16 March 2019 we updated the Commonwealth Essential Super age based investment option, known as the ‘Lifestage option’, to be more tailored to the member’s age. This means the asset allocation is in line with that of the Lifestage option in FirstChoice Employer Super. Both MySuper products will therefore have the same emissions per $100,000 going forward and will not be reported separately. 2 The equivalent number of cars data is sourced from the United States Environmental Protection Agency Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. 3 Carbon emissions data is provided and calculated by MSCI Inc. MSCI collects reported Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from each company. Only 60% of companies in the global equities universe report their greenhouse gas emissions, so MSCI estimates the remaining 40%. 61 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Addressing climate change Addressing climate change (continued) Energy value chain For increased transparency, we have disclosed our exposure to thermal and metallurgical coal mining separately and we have detailed our exposure to thermal and metallurgical coal within diversified miners. As part of our review of the diversified miners, we have classified exposures to coal subsidiaries of diversified miners to thermal and metallurgical coal directly. Our exposure to metallurgical coal mining is $7 million and our exposure to diversified miners allocated to metallurgical coal mining is $82 million (not included below). Exposures as at 30 June 20191 Natural resources Infrastructure Electricity generation Network and retailers Oil Oil distribution and refining $2.3bn $0.8bn (-18%) (-17%) Renewables $3.6bn (-2%) Gas LNG terminals Gas Electricity and gas $1.2bn $2.8bn $0.8bn transmission, (-29%) (-14%) (+24%) distribution and retailing $5.0bn Thermal coal Coal terminals Coal (-18%) $0.37bn $0.9bn $0.005bn (-29%) (-9%) (-97%) Thermal coal within diversified miners2 $0.21bn (-25%) Uranium Nuclear $0.0bn $0.0bn Key: (+%) (-%) Change since FY18 1 All figures are Total Committed Exposures (TCE) as at 30 June 2019. Figures represented have been specifically derived based on material client exposures. Not included are ‘Other energy-related’ exposures ($0.8 billion) which comprise smaller loans and exposure to energy trading entities. 2 Thermal coal exposure within each diversified miner is calculated as the Group’s exposure to the miner, excluding exposure to coal subsidiaries, multiplied by the percentage EBITDA contribution of thermal coal in its latest annual financial statements. Exposure to coal subsidiaries of diversified miners are allocated to thermal coal. 62 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Assessed emissions in our business lending portfolio As a major provider of lending services, we The emissions intensity of our overall The Electricity, Gas and Water Supply play a crucial role in supporting economic business lending portfolio has continued sectors show a general downward trend. and social development. We also recognise to trend downwards, and has decreased The discontinuation of a number of high the role we play in addressing the challenge in FY18 by 7.4% to 0.26 kgCO2-e/$ of emissions intensive exposures contributed of climate change and in supporting the expenditure. Most sectors have shown a to this result in FY18. Our exposure to transition to a low carbon economy. As a decrease in emissions intensity in FY18. renewables increased 33% to $3.7 billion result, we continue to assess the emissions in FY18. A portion of the exposure included The Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing sectors arising from our business lending across projects under construction which are represent the most emissions intensive Commonwealth Bank, ASB and Bankwest. typically initially more emissions intensive part of our business lending portfolio. 2.0 than operational renewable electricity assets. CBA Group business lending % of emissions by sector Emissions1.5intensity of expenditure (kgCO2-e/$): key sectors 2.0 7% F  Y18 3% F Y17 6% 1.0 F Y16 7% 1.5 F  Y15 39% FY14 9% 7% 3% 6% 1.0 0.5 13% 7% 17% 39% 9% 0.5 13% 17% 0.0 A  griculture, forestry Mining and fishing Property and business 0.0 Electricity, gas services Agriculture, Electricity, Transport Mining Manufacturing Construction Property and and water supply Construction forestry and gas and water and business Transport and storage Other fishing supply storage services Manufacturing The full assessed emissions analysis including the detailed methodology is available at commbank.com.au/CRreporting Climate metrics and targets We report regularly on key metrics to measure our progress and to provide transparency to our stakeholders. During the year we signed up, as the first Australian corporate, to RE100. This commits us to source 100% of our electricity consumption from renewable sources by 2030. As a first step in that process, as of June 2019 we are sourcing 65% of our national needs from the Sapphire Wind Farm in New South Wales. The table below shows the latest progress against our climate-related targets. Metric Target FY19 progress Low carbon target $15 billion by 2025 $5.1 billion committed exposure as at 30 June 20192 Sourcing renewable energy 100% by 2030 65% for our power needs Emissions per FTE (Australia) 2.0 tCO2-e by 2020 2.1 tCO2-e Solar panels on branches1 1,250 kW by 2020 1,105 kW Assessed emissions in our An average emissions intensity decrease of our 0.26 kgCO2-e/$ of expenditure business lending portfolio business lending portfolio consistent with our (2018 financial year) commitment to a net zero emissions economy by 2050 For a full set of our Environmental, customer, social and governance metrics (including PwC’s external assurance statement) see page 297. 1 A real time portal which displays data on how our network of solar equipped branches is performing can be accessed at cbasolarpower.com.au. 2 Reported exposure in the FY18 Annual Report (page 57) was $7.3 billion. A review found this was overstated and the correct FY18 figure for low carbon project funding was $4.6 billion. 63 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report results management governance report report information Corporate governance Our commitment to corporate governance  65 Corporate Governance Framework  65 Board of Directors 66 Board renewal and composition 68 Stakeholder engagement  70 Board Committees – Areas of focus 71 Assessing Board effectiveness 72 Governance in practice 72 Executive Leadership Team 74 64 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Our commitment to corporate governance During the year, the Board continued The Board has set clearer expectations Its role is to assist and advise the Bank’s to strengthen corporate governance at of management, and has increased its Managing Director and Chief Executive the Bank to support better stakeholder oversight and scrutiny of the risks facing Officer (CEO) on the governance and outcomes. the Bank. effective management of the Group’s non-financial risks. This includes The Board has been focused on The Board continues to review and operational, compliance (including implementing the recommendations of further enhance the Bank’s Corporate conduct), financial crime and cyber risks, last year’s Australian Prudential Regulation Governance Framework and supporting in accordance with the Group’s Risk Authority (APRA) Prudential Inquiry Report documents in light of new laws, evolving Appetite Statement and Group Risk into CBA (Inquiry Report), and are on track stakeholder expectations and the dynamic Management Approach as approved to deliver against the milestones detailed operating environment. by the Board. in our Remedial Action Plan. The Executive Leadership Team The Board is accountable for implementing established a Non-Financial Risk recommendations 1 to 5 of the Inquiry Committee in June 2018. Report relating to Board governance (see page 73 for more details). Corporate Governance Framework The diagram below shows the Bank’s In addition to matters required by law The CEO, in turn, may delegate some of current Corporate Governance Framework, to be approved by the Board, the Board these powers to Group Executives and including its Board Committees. has reserved certain powers for itself as other officers. Despite any delegations described in the Board Charter and the by the CEO, the CEO is accountable to The Board is responsible for setting the Board’s Reserved Powers and Standing the Board for the exercise of the delegated strategic objectives and risk appetite Delegations document. powers and management’s performance. for the Bank, and for leading the culture, values and behaviours of our people. The Board delegates certain powers to its Board Committees. At its discretion, The Bank’s Corporate Governance The Board appoints the Bank’s CEO. It also the Board may form other committees Statement describes the key elements oversees the management, performance to undertake specific duties. of our Corporate Governance Framework and governance frameworks of the Bank. and the actions taken during the financial The Board confers on the CEO the powers year to enhance it. It can be viewed at of the Board exercisable in management commbank.com.au/corporategovernance. of the business of the Bank. Corporate Governance Framework Stakeholders Board Independent Non-Executive Directors and CEO Remuneration Audit Committee Nominations Committee Risk Committee Committee1 Delegation Accountability Independent Strategy assurance and CEO Executive Purpose, and risk advice Leadership Team values and management  i nternal audit Non-Financial Risk culture  external audit Committee  other  ad-hoc Executive independent Leadership Team assurance and advice Company Secretary Our people Policies, systems and processes 1 Committee name changed to People & Remuneration Committee effective 1 July 2019. 65 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report results management governance report report information Board of Directors Board of Directors Left to right: Shirish Apte, Anne Templeman-Jones, Wendy Stops, Sir David Higgins, Matt Comyn (CEO), Paul O’Malley, Catherine Livingstone AO (Chairman), Professor Genevieve Bell, Robert Whitfield, Mary Padbury. Catherine Livingstone AO Matt Comyn Shirish Apte Chairman Managing Director and Chief Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Catherine has been a Non-Executive Director Officer Shirish has been a Non-Executive Director since March 2016 and was appointed Matt was appointed Managing Director and since June 2014. He has more than 32 years’ Chairman on 1 January 2017. She is a former Chief Executive Officer on 9 April 2018. He financial services experience having held Chairman of Telstra Corporation Ltd and of the has 20 years’ experience across business, various senior roles with Citi, including CSIRO, and was Managing Director and Chief institutional and retail banking and in wealth Co-Chairman of Citi Asia Pacific Banking, Executive Officer of Cochlear Ltd. She has management. He joined the Bank in 1999 and Chief Executive Officer of Citi Asia Pacific, served on the boards of Macquarie Group Ltd, has held a number of senior leadership roles. Co-Chief Executive Officer of Europe, Middle Goodman Fielder Ltd and Rural Press Ltd. She Between 2006 and 2010, Matt was Managing East and Africa, and Country Manager and is a former President of the Business Council Director of CommSec. In 2010, he left the Bank Deputy President of Citi Handlowy, where he of Australia and the Australian Museum. In for a short time to become Chief Executive is now a member of the Supervisory Board. 2008, Catherine was awarded Officer of the Officer of Morgan Stanley’s wealth business Shirish is a former Director of Crompton Order of Australia. in Australia. Matt returned to the Bank to lead Greaves Ltd. Nominations Committee (Chairman), local business banking and in 2012 he was Risk Committee (Chairman) and Risk Committee, Audit Committee and appointed Group Executive, Retail Banking Audit Committee. People & Remuneration Committee. Services. IHH Healthcare Bhd (including two of WorleyParsons Limited, University of U NICEF Australia, Australian Bankers its subsidiaries), Fullerton India Credit Technology Sydney (Chancellor), The Association and Financial Markets Company Limited, AIG Asia Pacific Pte Australian Ballet and CSIRO Australia Foundation for Children. Ltd, Clifford Capital Pte Ltd, Pierfront Telescope National Facility Steering BAv, MCom, EMBA, GMP. Capital Mezzanine Fund Pte Ltd Committee. (Chairman), Citi Handlowy (Supervisory Board), Accion International, Virtusa BA Hons (Accounting), FCA, PED, Corporation (Advisor), Acibadem Hospital FTSE, FAICD, FAA. Group (Turkey) and Fortis Healthcare. CA, BCom, MBA. Andrew Mohl retired 7 November 2018. Key: Committees Other Directorships and interests Qualifications Brian Long retired 31 December 2018. 66 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Professor Genevieve Bell Paul is a former Director of the Worldsteel Anne Templeman-Jones Independent Non-Executive Director Association, Chair of its Nominating Independent Non-Executive Director Committee and Trustee of the Melbourne Genevieve became a Non-Executive Director Cricket Ground Trust. Anne has been a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2019. Genevieve is a cultural since March 2018. She is an experienced anthropologist, technologist and futurist. People & Remuneration Committee1 listed company Non-Executive Director, Genevieve is a Distinguished Professor at and Nominations Committee. currently serving on the boards of GUD the College of Engineering and Computer Australian Catholic Redress Limited Holdings Ltd, The Citadel Group Ltd and Science at the Australian National University (Chairman). WorleyParsons Ltd. She is the former (ANU) and is the inaugural Florence Violet Chairman of the Commonwealth Bank’s McKenzie Chair at the University. Genevieve BCom, M. App Finance, ACA. financial advice companies and is a former is a Senior Fellow of Intel Corporation and director of Cuscal Ltd, HT&E Limited, Pioneer is the Vice President of Intel’s Product Mary Padbury Credit Ltd, TAL Superannuation Fund, and Assurance and Security Group. HBF’s private health and general insurance Independent Non-Executive Director companies. Anne had a 30-year executive Nil. Mary has been a Non-Executive Director career developing deep operational risk, Florence Violet McKenzie (Chairman), since June 2016. She is a pre-eminent governance and strategy experience. Early Autonomy, Agency & Assurance intellectual property lawyer with over in her career she held audit and accounting Innovation Institute (3A), National 35 years’ experience. Mary retired as Partner roles with Price Waterhouse working Science and Technology Council of Ashurst at the end of April 2018 and from in Australia and overseas. She gained (Member) and Editorial Board of the the role of Vice Chairman of Ashurst at the experience in corporate banking with Bank Australian Army Journal (Member). end of 2017. She was Chairman of Ashurst of Singapore and then Westpac Banking PhD, MA, MPhil, BA. Australia for eight years prior to the firm’s full Corporation, and in private banking with merger with Ashurst LLP in 2013. Mary spent Australia and New Zealand Banking Group a number of years in the UK with boutique firm Ltd. Anne returned to Westpac in 2007 and Sir David Higgins Bristows, and as resident partner of Ashurst went on to hold various senior management Independent Non-Executive Director Australia. She has undertaken intellectual positions in private banking, risk and strategy property work for Australian and multinational until 2013. She has served as a Chair or Sir David has been a Non-Executive Director corporations in a range of technology areas member of audit, risk and remuneration since September 2014. He is Chairman of and has extensive international, legal and committees on current and past boards. Gatwick Airport Ltd, which operates Gatwick governance experience. Airport in the UK. Sir David is a senior adviser Audit Committee (Chairman) and to Global Infrastructure Partners in the US People & Remuneration Committee Risk Committee. and to Lone Star Funds. He is the former and Nominations Committee. GUD Holdings Ltd, The Citadel Group Chairman of High Speed Two (HS2) Ltd. Trans-Tasman IP Attorneys Board Ltd, WorleyParsons Ltd, Cyber Security Previously he was Chief Executive Officer (Chairman), The Macfarlane Burnet Research Centre Ltd (Director) and of Network Rail Infrastructure Ltd, Chief Institute for Medical Research and Cyber Security Research Committee Executive Officer of the Olympic Delivery Public Health Ltd (Chairman), Clinical (Member). Authority for the London 2012 Olympic Genomics Technologies Holdings Games, Chief Executive Officer of English BCom, EMBA, MRM, CA, FAICD. Limited (Director), Chief Executive Partnerships and Managing Director and Women (Member) and Victorian Legal Chief Executive Officer of Lend Lease. Admissions Committee (Member). Robert Whitfield People & Remuneration Committee BA LLB (Hons), GAICD. Independent Non-Executive Director (Chairman) and Risk Committee. Rob has been a Non-Executive Director Gatwick Airport Ltd (Chairman), United since September 2017. He has significant Wendy Stops Utilities Group PLC (Board Member), banking and finance and senior management United Utilities Water Ltd (Board Independent Non-Executive Director experience in the private and public sectors. Member) and Senior Advisor of Marshall Wendy has been a Non-Executive Director He is a Director of NSW Treasury Corporation Industries and BAI Communications. since March 2015. She was Senior Managing and was previously its Chairman. He is a BE (Civil), Diploma (Securities Institute Director, Technology – Asia Pacific for former Secretary of NSW Treasury and of Australia). Accenture Ltd from 2012 until June 2014. NSW Industrial Relations. Prior to NSW Her career at Accenture spanned some Treasury, Rob had a 30-year career with 32 years in which she held various senior Westpac Banking Corporation and held Paul O’Malley positions, including Global Managing Director, various senior management positions there, Independent Non-Executive Director Technology Quality & Risk Management, including Chief Executive Officer of the Global Managing Director, Outsourcing Institutional Bank, Chief Risk Officer, Group Paul became a Non-Executive Director on Quality & Risk Management and Director of Treasurer and Chairman of the Asia Advisory 1 January 2019. Paul was Managing Director Operations, Asia Pacific. She also served on Board. At Westpac, Rob developed a deep and Chief Executive Officer of BlueScope Accenture’s Global Leadership Council from knowledge of equity and capital markets and Steel Limited from 2007 to 2017, after joining 2008 until her retirement. was instrumental in developing Westpac’s the company as Chief Financial Officer risk management function and strategies. 18 months prior. He was formerly the Chief Audit Committee and People & Rob is a former Deputy Chair of the Australian Executive Officer of TXU Energy, a subsidiary Remuneration Committee. Financial Markets Association. of TXU Corp based in Dallas, Texas, and has Altium Ltd, Coles Group, Fitted For Work held other senior financial management roles Risk Committee and Nominations Ltd, University of Melbourne (Council within TXU. Paul had previously worked in Committee. Member), Chief Executive Women investment banking and consulting. (Member), Australian Institute of Company NSW Treasury Corporation. Directors Technology Governance & BCom, Grad Dip Banking, Grad Dip Fin, Innovation Panel and Chairman of the AMP, SF Fin, FAICD. Melbourne Business School’s Centre for Business Analytics Advisory Board. BAppSc (Information Technology), GAICD. 1 Paul O’Malley will become chair of the People & Remuneration Committee effective 1 January 2020. 67 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report results management governance report report information Board renewal and composition Board renewal and composition The Board adopted a target of 40% female Board members by the end Andrew Mohl retired at the conclusion As a result of this year’s review, ‘Enhanced of 2020. The Board first met this of the 2018 Annual General Meeting, and customer outcomes’ was added to the target in 2017 and now exceeds it. Brian Long retired on 31 December 2018. Matrix. This competency is considered In anticipation of Brian Long’s retirement, important for Directors to oversee the Anne Templeman-Jones was appointed Bank’s efforts to improve the experience Female Directors Chairman of the Audit Committee and and outcomes of our customers through: a member of the Risk Committee on 50% 40%  increasing the voice of the customer in  1 October 2018. Board deliberations Professor Genevieve Bell and Paul O’Malley  ensuring regular reporting of customer as at 30 June 2019 2020 target were both appointed Non-Executive complaints, insights and management’s Directors on 1 January 2019. Genevieve’s actions in response knowledge and understanding of technology in society and business has  overseeing CBA conduct risk in relation brought a unique and valuable perspective to customer outcomes to the Board. Paul’s broad operational  ensuring speed of customer remediation and finance experience, as well as his where failures have occurred. experience in business leadership, has brought a strategic perspective This year, each Director completed 2020 target a questionnaire rating their skills, to the Board. expertise and experience from 0 to 3 for Paul O’Malley was appointed a member each competency (0 = no experience, Tenure as at 30 June 2019 of the Remuneration Committee and the 1 = awareness, 2 = practised/direct 0-1 Nominations Committee effective 1 June experience and 3 = high competency, 2019. Paul will commence as Chairman knowledge and experience). The selfof the renamed People & Remuneration assessment ratings were subsequently YEARS Committee from 1 January 2020 calibrated with these results reviewed by 2 Directors following Sir David Higgins’ retirement the Nominations Committee and approved on 31 December 2019. by the Board. 1-3 The Board uses a Skills Matrix (Matrix) which Individual matrices have also been sets out the desired skills and experience developed for the Audit Committee, YEARS important for the effectiveness of the Board. Remuneration Committee and Risk 3 Directors It is reviewed annually to ensure it reflects Committee. the appropriate mix of skills, expertise and experience required to address existing and The Board considers that all of its 3-6 emerging business and governance issues, Non-Executive Directors, including the and to enable Directors to effectively review Chairman, were independent during the the performance of management. year and continue to be independent. YEARS 5 Directors 68 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Board skills matrix Practised skill/direct experience (number of Directors) High competency, knowledge and experience (number of Directors) Enhanced customer outcomes Demonstrated ability to understand the needs of customers and 10 enhance their experience and outcomes Financial acumen Proficiency in financial accounting and reporting, capital management 2 6 and/or actuarial experience Financial services experience 2 4 Experience in banking, as relevant to CBA, and financial regulation Global perspective Having a global perspective through exposure or responsibility 3 7 for international operations Leadership 3 6 Held CEO or similar position in an organisation of significant size Legal acumen 6 1 Proven ability and understanding in the application of legal principles Listed company experience Experience as a non-executive director of at least two other listed entities 2 4 (Australia or overseas) Risk management Proven ability in identifying, assessing and managing macro, strategic, 4 6 operational and financial risks Stakeholder engagement Demonstrated ability to build and maintain key relationships with industry, 5 5 government or regulators Strategy Demonstrated experience in developing, implementing and delivering 2 6 strategic business objectives Technology 3 4 Experience in technology strategies and innovation 69 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report results management governance report report information Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder In addition, the Bank regularly convenes engagement external advisory forums to discuss specific matters – these include the CEO Advisory Panel, the Customer Advocate Shareholders The Bank is committed to providing better outcomes for customers, Community Council and the Indigenous Advisory Council. We aim to provide our shareholders earning the trust of the communities with timely information relevant to their we serve, ensuring our people are Through the CommBank Foundation investment. There are multiple avenues energised and accountable, and we offer our people the opportunity to for shareholders to access information delivering sustainable, long-term participate in one of Australia’s largest and provide feedback. Detailed company returns for our shareholders. workplace giving programs. During information can be found on our Investor the 2019 financial year, the CommBank Centre at commbank.com.au/investors. Foundation provided over $3.7 million to eligible community organisations, and We communicate regularly with Key stakeholders raised over $2 million for cancer research. shareholders through the Group’s Annual Report, full-year and half-year financial results announcements, quarterly trading updates and ASX announcements. Our Customers shareholders also receive an update from Our people the Chairman and CEO with their interim dividend statements. We regularly engage with our customers through customer feedback, surveys and We engage with our people formally, twice All material information is released to workshops, customer representative a year, through an engagement survey, the ASX in compliance with the Bank’s bodies, complaint channels and external Your Voice. The survey informs the Board continuous disclosure obligations under dispute resolution bodies. about how engaged our people are with the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) and our purpose, our values and the team they the ASX Listing Rules. Our Continuous Our Customer Advocate function Disclosure Policy was reviewed and are working with. We also seek feedback strengthens accountability for fair updated in March 2019 and is available at on diversity and inclusion. The responses customer outcomes and offers a more commbank.com.au/corporategovernance. provide the Board and Executive customer-oriented approach. The function Leadership Team with key opportunities We recognise the importance of helps improve our products, processes, for improvement for matters that affect shareholder participation at our Annual systems and decision making in order our people. General Meeting (AGM) and shareholders to deliver better and consistently fair customer outcomes. We use a range of digital and social are encouraged to attend and participate. platforms to communicate with our people. The Bank’s AGM is held in different During the year we established ‘AskMe’, locations to facilitate shareholder an online platform designed to capture attendance. Our AGM is webcast live to allow shareholders who are unable to Community our people’s feedback about new ideas or initiatives that could help us become attend in person, to view the AGM online. a simpler, better bank. We encourage shareholders to submit their questions ahead of the AGM, as they We engage with members of the We encourage our people to report any provide useful insights into shareholder community and community organisations misconduct issues and provide them concerns, enabling the Bank to provide through a variety of channels. For example, the ability to do so through our SpeakUP relevant feedback on consistent themes we participate in community events hotline. The Group Whistleblowing Policy raised. and forums, are members of industry outlines the processes for investigating associations, and meet with Nonand resolving any misconduct issues that Our Investor Relations team is responsible Government Organisations. The insights have been reported. for communication and engagement with we gain in the process of our engagement investors and provides the Board with help us continuously improve our regular updates on Investor Relations products and services in light of evolving matters. The Chairman, CEO, CFO and community expectations. Group Executives meet with domestic and offshore institutional investors throughout the year. 70 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Board Committees – Areas of focus Nominations Committee Chairman’s message The Nominations Committee is responsible for Board and Board Committee composition, succession planning, Director induction and appointment, election and re-election of Non-Executive Directors. During the year, the Nominations Committee focused on the membership and skills mix of the Board and Board Committees, and the Governance Framework covering key operating subsidiaries. Catherine Livingstone AO Nominations Committee Chairman Audit Committee Chairman’s message The Audit Committee is responsible for external reporting of financial information for the Group, the internal control framework and environment, the internal auditor and internal audit function and external auditors, and the Group’s Risk Management Framework in conjunction with the Risk Committee. During the year, the Audit Committee focused on the implementation of IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’, and improvements to the issues identification and management process and the Group Audit and Assurance end to end process. Anne Templeman-Jones Audit Committee Chairman Risk Committee Chairman’s message The Risk Committee is responsible for the Group’s Risk Management Framework, Risk Culture and the Risk Management Function. During the year the Risk Committee focused on non-financial risks areas of cybersecurity, financial crimes compliance, suppliers and data management, ensuring a more efficient flow of non-financial risk information. Shirish Apte Risk Committee Chairman People & Remuneration Committee Chairman’s message The Remuneration Committee is responsible for remuneration strategy and policy, remuneration arrangements and outcomes, and the performance management framework. During the year it also focused on more formal processes for ensuring that risk-related behaviours and outcomes are reflected in variable remuneration outcomes together with the Group’s implementation of the recommendations of the Sedgwick Report on Payments in Retail Banking. Sir David Higgins People & Remuneration Committee Chairman 71 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report results management governance report report information Governance in practice Assessing Board effectiveness Governance in practice The Board recognises the importance The internal evaluation process was Group policy framework of continuously monitoring and expanded this year, to include a series of Policies play a key role in guiding decision improving its performance and the questions designed to assess whether making and conduct across the Group. performance of its Committees. the Board: To ensure that our policies are fit for Performance evaluations are externally  continues to have heightened visibility purpose, we have enhanced the Group’s facilitated every three years, or as of conduct, culture and reputation policy framework and embarked on a otherwise determined by the Board. In the within the Bank comprehensive review of policies and intervening years, an internal evaluation is supporting procedures.  has promoted a clear tone from conducted. The next external evaluation the top in both clear and consistent Enhancements to the policy framework is scheduled for 2020. messaging and actions have:  has an effective working relationship  streamlined and standardised policy Evaluation cycle with, and engages in regular governance and management across constructive discussions with the Group management  clarified roles, responsibilities and  effectively inducts, and provides accountabilities sufficient professional development Year 1  introduced a systematic approach for Externally opportunities to Directors to ensure determining whether policies should be facilitated it has the rights balance of skills and developed, consolidated or revoked. expertise The comprehensive policy review currently  is receiving adequate reporting for underway is streamlining our policies and effective decision making procedures and ensuring that they: Year 3 Year 2  demonstrates rigour and urgency in Internal Internal respect of key issues and closure of  are clear, consistent and easy to review review understand control weaknesses. (we are here) Feedback was also sought from the  articulate minimum standards for compliance and operational risk Executive Leadership Team. management The Chairman held individual meetings  promote cultural change with each Director to discuss their evaluation responses, as well as their  support our purpose of improving the individual performance throughout the financial wellbeing of our customers 2019 evaluation of the year. The Chairman was assessed by a and communities. Board’s performance Non-Executive Director. The outcomes of the internal performance evaluation The Board has been evaluating its were provided to the Board in June and performance throughout the year having the findings discussed in August. regard to the focus areas identified as a result of the 2018 performance evaluation, The evaluation concluded that the the implementation of the Banking Executive performance of the Board and its Board Accountability Regime and the governance Committees was effective for the year recommendations in the Inquiry Report. under review. The Board commenced an internal The Board agreed to the following four evaluation in May to formally assess its areas of focus for the 2020 financial year: performance, and the performance of  t he working relationship between the each Board Committee. The process was Board and management led by the Chairman of the Board with the  culture including customer outcomes, support of the Group Company Secretary. conduct, compliance and reputation  longer-term strategy including the impact of emerging technology and innovation  enhanced Board reporting and processes. 72 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 APRA Prudential Inquiry Report: Board governance recommendations The Bank has developed a Remedial Action Plan to address the recommendations #2 Board better practice #4 Audit Committee outlined in the Inquiry Report. Target state: Target state: Recommendations 1-5 relate specifically to Board governance. The Board continues The Board, and its Audit and Risk Owners of material issues are to make progress from designing to held accountable for the resolution Committees, are operating at a level implementing actions to address each and effective closure of issues within recommendation. To provide clarity on consistent with global better practice. their remit. objectives, the Board has developed target states.  A review of risk management processes and practices of the Board, Risk  The Bank has reviewed and updated The Board’s external performance its end to end internal audit practices Committee and Audit Committee was evaluation, scheduled for 2020, is expected with a specific focus on assisting the conducted. The findings of the review to include an independent assessment Audit Committee to drive greater were tabled and discussed by the Board. of the progress towards these target accountability for resolution of state objectives.  The Board Corporate Governance issues, including the way in which the Guidelines were amended to include remediation of issues associated with #1 Board visibility periodic reviews of the processes red rated audit reports and associated and practices of the Board and Board issues are monitored and reported. Committees to consider if they are appropriately aligned with global better Target state:  he Board continues to have a T practice for risk management. #5 Board reporting positive influence on the behaviours within the Group, and is engaged and #3 Board coordination Target state: visible with senior management. The Board is able to understand, Target state: examine and identify the issues  The CEO and the Group Company There will be clear accountabilities arising across the categories of Secretary report key matters arising between Board Committees, timely non-financial risk, including new from Board and Board Committee and emerging risks. The Board will and effective information flows meetings to the Executive Leadership receive granular information with Team (ELT). This includes sharing between the Board Committees and oversight and resolution of respect to the Bank’s position against feedback from the meeting review its risk appetite in order to drive process to ensure alignment on actions relevant issues. discussion and actions to manage and agenda items for the next meeting. In June 2018, the Board reviewed non-financial risk.  The annual Board evaluation process  includes engagement with the ELT and approved appropriate referral of matters between its Board Committees.  Non-financial risk reporting, and the on Board and Board Committee Concurrent meetings of the Board process in which it is escalated to the performance. The evaluation focuses Committees are held periodically Board, Risk or other Committee, has on whether the Board continues to have to consider material financial and been enhanced. Regular reporting heightened visibility and promotes a non-financial risks relevant to executive is received by the Board on key clear tone at the top. performance and remuneration, and areas of focus discussed at the ELT share information about key matters Non-Financial Risk Committee. where appropriate. 73 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report results management governance report report information Executive Leadership Team Executive Leadership Team Left to right: Adam Bennett, Pascal Boillat, Sian Lewis, Nigel Williams, David Cohen, Angus Sullivan, Matt Comyn (CEO), Andrew Hinchliff, Vittoria Shortt, Alan Docherty, Anna Lenahan. Adam Bennett Pascal Boillat David Cohen Group Executive, Business and Private Group Executive, Enterprise Services and Deputy Chief Executive Officer Banking Chief Information Officer David was appointed Deputy Chief Adam was appointed Group Executive, Pascal joined the Bank as Group Executive Officer in November 2018. In Business and Private Banking (B&PB) in Executive, Enterprise Services and Chief this role he is responsible for the Group’s January 2015. He has responsibility for Information Officer, in October 2018. He has Customer and Community Advocacy Business Banking, Private Banking and responsibility for information technology, team, as well as the Group’s Mergers and CommSec. He joined the Bank in 2004 cyber security, technology infrastructure Acquisitions team and the International and was the Chief Information Officer for and digital delivery across the Group. He Financial Services business. David also Retail and Business Banking. He joined the also leads operations and procurement. oversees Colonial First State, and until B&PB Leadership Team in 2009, serving its sale is complete, CommInsure Life. Pascal’s priorities focus on strengthening as Executive General Manager of Local On 1 July 2019, he assumed interim the safe, sound and secure provision of Business Banking from 2012 to 2014. responsibility for Group General Counsel. technology and operations services; agility David joined Commonwealth Bank in 2008 Adam’s key priorities include: strengthening to enable the delivery of new products and has held a number of roles including the customer proposition across everyday and services for customers at pace; Group General Counsel, Group Executive banking, merchants and payments, and improving performance to ensure Group Corporate Affairs and Chief and commercial lending; improving the Enterprise Services produces the right Risk Officer. end-to-end customer experience through outcomes for the Bank. investment in digital, analytics, and frontline In addition to his business responsibilities, Previously, Pascal held a number of bankers; and enhancing risk management. David’s key priority is supporting the senior executive roles at Deutsche Bank, Chief Executive Officer on Group-wide Previously, Adam was Principal at strategic Fannie Mae, Citibank and Credit Suisse. initiatives to build a simpler and better consulting practice A.T. Kearney, working He has more than 30 years’ international bank for the future, with a focus on building across industries in Australia, New Zealand, experience in the financial services sector. and enhancing the Bank’s engagement Asia and Europe. He also worked as a with government, regulators, industry consultant at Ernst & Young. and community groups, and chairing the Bank’s Royal Commission Implementation Taskforce. Previously, David was General Counsel of AMP and a partner with Allens Arthur Robinson for 12 years. 74 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Alan Docherty Anna’s priorities have been to ensure Angus Sullivan Group Executive, Financial Services the effective and efficient resolution of Group Executive, Retail Banking Services and Chief Financial Officer the Group’s legal matters; support the effectiveness of the Board; provide timely, Angus was appointed Group Executive, Alan was appointed Group Executive, meaningful information on the Group’s Retail Banking Services, in July 2018 after Financial Services and Chief Financial activities to our stakeholders; and meet acting in the role from April 2018. He is Officer in October 2018 after acting in the the Group’s commitment to invest in responsible for Retail Banking Services, role from May 2018. He has responsibility the community. which serves over 10 million customers, for the Group’s finance function. Alan joined and Bankwest. Angus joined the Bank the Bank in 2003 and has held a variety of Prior to joining the Bank, Anna was the in 2012 as Executive General Manager, senior finance leadership positions, before Chief Risk and Legal Officer at Suncorp Group Strategy. In 2013, he moved to serving as Chief Financial Officer of the Group. Previously she was a Corporate Retail Banking Services where he held a Institutional Banking and Markets division. Partner at Allens Arthur Robinson and a number of senior positions across products, crown prosecutor with the Department payments and the retail branch network. Alan’s priorities are to ensure that the finance of Public Prosecutions in Perth. function supports the execution of the Angus’ priorities are to deliver exceptional Bank’s purpose and strategy through a long Anna retired on 30 June 2019. customer service and outcomes, with term focus on fostering a highly engaged leading technology and innovation in and talented team who: build trust with all Sian Lewis products and services. He is also committed stakeholders and help them make informed to continuing the Retail Bank’s legacy of decisions; ensure the Bank remains resilient Group Executive, Human Resources supporting Australian communities. through prudent management of our Sian was appointed Group Executive, Previously, Angus was a Partner at McKinsey key financial risks; and deliver strong and Human Resources (HR) in August 2018. & Co. in New York, specialising in retail and sustainable capital generation for the benefit Sian joined the Bank in 2014 as General commercial banking, wealth management, of our shareholders. Manager, Distribution Transformation and payments and general insurance. Alan’s career began in the UK, working in more recently led 2,500 people across the PwC’s Financial Services practice before retail bank’s customer contact centres. joining Arthur Andersen in Australia. Alan Nigel Williams Sian’s priorities are to help the Bank is a Member of the Institute of Chartered maintain an energised and accountable Group Chief Risk Officer Accountants of Scotland. workforce that is committed to delivering Nigel joined the Bank as Group Chief the Bank’s purpose; integrate the Bank’s Risk Officer in November 2018. He values to guide the right actions and is responsible for the effective risk Andrew Hinchliff behaviours; strengthen and support a management of all risk types across the Group Executive, Institutional Banking diverse and inclusive workforce; promote Group – including credit risk, operational and Markets employee wellbeing; skill the Bank’s risk, compliance, liquidity, financial crime Andrew was appointed Group Executive, workforce for the future; and simplify compliance and insurance. Institutional Banking and Markets (IB&M) in HR processes for our people. Nigel is focused on achieving better August 2018. He has responsibility for serving Previously, Sian spent nine years at customer and risk outcomes by driving the financial needs of large institutions and Westpac, working across retail and more conscious risk/return decisions and governments across Australia and New business banking and two years working better compliance across the Group. Zealand, and in select international markets. with the Australian banking regulator, Andrew joined the Bank in 2015 as Executive APRA. Originally from the UK, Sian spent Nigel was the Chief Risk Officer at Australia General Manager, Global Markets. 10 years in senior HR consulting roles at and New Zealand Banking Group and Atos Consulting and KPMG as change previously Managing Director for ANZ’s Andrew is focused on IB&M being the and program management director. Institutional Bank in Australia. Nigel has bank of choice for Australian corporations 35 years of banking experience across and governments, as well as corporations Australia, New Zealand and abroad. looking to do business in Australia. Andrew Vittoria Shortt is committed to ensuring IB&M brings a new perspective to its clients and utilises Chief Executive and Managing Director, its global network to help its clients build ASB George Confos ceased as Acting Group a better Australia. Vittoria was appointed Chief Executive Executive, Institutional Banking and Markets and Managing Director of ASB in February on 31 July 2018. Andrew’s career in institutional banking and markets spans more than 15 years, having 2018. She has responsibility for leading the Melanie Laing ceased as Group Executive, held a variety of leadership positions with Group’s New Zealand subsidiary. Vittoria Human Resources and retired on 31 July 2018. Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse First joined Commonwealth Bank in 2002 and Paul Newham ceased as Acting Group Boston across Fixed Income, Currencies, has held a number of leadership roles Executive, Enterprise Services and Chief Commodities Sales and Trading teams. across the retail banking businesses of Information Officer on 30 September 2018. Commonwealth Bank and Bankwest, Michael Venter Chief Operating Officer Wealth including as Group Executive, Marketing Management, ceased as Key Management Anna Lenahan and Strategy. Personnel on 2 December 2018. Group General Counsel and Group Vittoria’s priorities are to provide leading Coenraad (Coen) Jonker ceased as Group Executive, Group Corporate Affairs customer experiences that deliver Executive, International Financial Services Anna joined the Bank as Group General good customer outcomes; harness new on 31 December 2018. Counsel and Group Executive, Group technology to provide innovative solutions; Priscilla Sims Brown assumed the role of Group Corporate Affairs in November 2016. She and support community programs that Executive, Marketing and Corporate Affairs on advised the CEO and the Board on legal have a significant positive impact. 1 August 2019. matters and was also responsible for Vittoria’s career began in New Zealand, delivering an integrated and consistent working in Corporate Finance and Mergers approach to the Group’s external and Acquisitions with Deloitte and Carter and internal affairs, communications, Holt Harvey. sustainability and corporate governance. 75 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Directors’ report Directors’ report 77 Remuneration report  82 76 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Directors’ report We operate in Australia, New Zealand, On 31 October 2018, the Group announced The Directors of the Commonwealth Bank of United Kingdom, the United States, China, the sale of Colonial First State Global Asset Australia present their report, together with Japan, Europe, Singapore, Hong Kong Management (CFSGAM) to Mitsubishi UFJ the Financial report of the Commonwealth and Indonesia. Trust and Banking Corporation (MUTB). Bank of Australia (the Bank) and of the The sale completed on 2 August 2019. On 21 September 2017, the Group entered Group, being the Bank and its controlled into an agreement to sell 100% of its On 1 November 2018, the Group completed entities, for the year ending 30 June 2019. life insurance businesses in Australia the sale of Commonwealth Bank of (CommInsure Life) and New Zealand South Africa (Holding Company) Limited Principal activities (Sovereign) to AIA Group Limited (AIA). (TymeDigital SA) to the minority shareholder, We are one of Australia’s leading providers The sale of Sovereign completed on 2 July African Rainbow Capital (ARC). of financial services. We serve the needs 2018. The sale of CommInsure Life remains On 14 March 2019, the Group announced of more than 17.4 million customers with a subject to completion of the transfer of the suspension of its preparation for the focus on retail and commercial banking. Group’s stake in BoCommLife Insurance demerger of its remaining wealth Our products and services are provided Company Limited (BoCommLife) out management and mortgage broking through the following divisions: of CommInsure Life and its associated businesses in order to focus on the Chinese regulatory approvals.  Retail Banking Services provides implementation of the Royal Commission home loans, consumer finance and The Group and AIA remain fully committed recommendations, refunding customers other banking products and services to completing the CommInsure Life and remediating past issues. to personal and business customers. transaction. The Group and AIA are also well On 13 June 2019, the Group announced Customers are supported through a progressed in exploring an alternative path to the sale of its 100% interest in Count network of branches, ATMs, Australiacomplete the CommInsure Life transaction Financial Limited (Count Financial) to based customer call centres, online prior to the transfer of the Group’s stake CountPlus Limited (CountPlus). Completion services and apps, as well as mobile in BoCommLife. The alternative path is is expected to occur in October 2019. banking specialists and support teams. expected to be subject only to Australian regulatory approvals and would result in CommInsure Life, Sovereign, BoCommLife, Retail Banking Services includes overall financial outcomes for the Group CFSGAM, PTCL and TymeDigital SA have Bankwest, the Group’s general that are not expected to be materially been classified as discontinued operations insurance business in Australia (which different to those previously announced. in the Group’s financial statements for the is under strategic review), the Group's The Group expects to be able to provide year ended 30 June 2019. The assets and mortgage broking operations and further details of this alternative path by the liabilities of Count Financial are classified Commonwealth Financial Planning. end of the first quarter of the financial year as held for sale as at 30 June 2019.  Business and Private Banking serves 2020, if the sale of BoCommLife has not the banking needs of business, substantially progressed in that timeframe. Operating and financial review corporate and agribusiness customers across the full range of financial services On 23 May 2018, the Group announced Financial performance summary solutions as well as providing banking the sale of its 37.5% equity interest The Group’s statutory net profit after and advisory services for high net in BoCommLife to Mitsui Sumitomo tax including discontinued operations worth individuals. Business and Private Insurance Co. Ltd (MSI). The sale of for the year ended 30 June 2019 Banking also provides margin lending BoCommLife is subject to Chinese decreased 8% on the prior year to and online equities trading through our regulatory approvals and is the final $8,571 million. Statutory net profit after CommSec business. condition precedent for the sale of tax from continuing operations for the CommInsure Life. The sale of BoCommLife Institutional Banking and Markets serves year ended 30 June 2019 decreased 8%  is expected to be completed in the second the commercial and wholesale banking on the prior year to $8,360 million. The half of the calendar year 2019. needs of large corporate, institutional result reflected a continued challenging and government clients across a full On 25 June 2018, the Group announced its operating environment, though business range of financial services solutions intention to demerge its wealth management fundamentals remained strong. including access to debt capital markets, and mortgage broking businesses, and Total operating income decreased by transactional banking, working capital undertake a strategic review of its general 3% primarily driven by a 1% decrease in and risk management capabilities. insurance business, including a potential sale. net interest income, with average interest  ASB New Zealand includes banking On 23 October 2018, the Group earning assets increasing 1% on the prior and funds management businesses announced the sale of its 80% interest year due to continued growth in home operating in New Zealand. in its Indonesian life insurance business, loans. Net interest margin on a continuing PT Commonwealth Life, to FWD operations basis decreased 5 basis points  Wealth Management provides Group (FWD). As part of the sale, CBA’s largely driven by customer switching, superannuation, investment, retirement Indonesian banking subsidiary, PT competition, and elevated short term and insurance products and services Bank Commonwealth (PTBC), will enter wholesale funding costs. including financial planning. into a 15 year life insurance distribution  International Financial Services includes partnership with FWD. The sale is subject the Indonesian retail and business to regulatory approvals in Indonesia and is banking operations and associate now expected to complete in the second investments in China and Vietnam. half of calendar year 2019. 77 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Dividends Other banking income decreased by Tax expense decreased by 14% during In addition, commentary on the Group’s 8% primarily due to lower credit card the period primarily due to lower net profit ongoing litigations, investigations and income, lower transaction fees due to before tax and the non-recurrence of reviews for full year ended 30 June 2019 the simplification of fee waivers and lower the $700 million AUSTRAC civil penalty is included in Note 7.1 of the Financial report overdrawn account fees following the incurred in the prior year that was on pages 185 – 190. introduction of pre-emptive customer non-deductible for tax purposes. alerts. Insurance income decreased Outlook Further information and analysis of the 38% driven by weather events, primarily We expect our operating context to remain financial performance including a review the New South Wales (NSW) hail storm, challenging as we adapt to heightened of operations for the financial year is set Queensland floods and other weather regulatory change, increasing competition, out in the Financial performance section events in NSW, Victoria and Queensland. evolving customer preferences, and the on pages 40 – 49. Funds management income decreased need to invest in risk and compliance and 5% due to lower volume of initial advice in technology and innovation. Material risks fees and the cessation of ongoing service fees partly offset by growth in Funds The Group recognises that risk is inherent The Bank is however well positioned to Under Administration and higher Assets in business and that effective risk navigate this changing landscape with the Under Management. management is a key component of sound backing of a resilient balance sheet, strong corporate governance and is essential in customer base and leading distribution Operating expenses increased 3%, as a delivering our business objectives. and digital assets. We are focused on result of higher risk and compliance FTE, continuing to serve our customers’ needs wage inflation, an increase in technology The Group seeks to adopt a comprehensive and are making the necessary changes to infrastructure costs and an increase in approach to risk management through become a simpler, better bank. risk and compliance investment spend, its Risk Management Framework. This partly offset by decreased occupancy framework covers the Group’s systems, More information on our business and equipment costs as a result of branch policies, processes and people who strategies and prospects for future network optimisation and the closure of monitor, mitigate and report risk. financial years including our material offshore offices. risks and how we are managing them The Group’s material risk types and its can be found in the Strategic report on Loan impairment expense increased approach to managing them are described pages 2 – 39, the Operating context on by 11%, driven by higher individual in Our material risks on pages 53 – 54 page 8 and the Risk management section provisions due to a small number of and in Note 9 of the Financial report on on pages 50 – 63. large single name exposures in the pages 201 – 231. A description of the business portfolio and higher collective material trends in our current external provisions reflecting higher arrears in the operating context, and the way that the risk consumer finance portfolio and softening framework is being developed to support economic conditions. better customer and risk outcomes, is provided in the Operating context on page 8 and in the Risk management section on pages 50 – 63. Dividends The Directors have determined a fully franked (at 30%) final dividend of 231 cents per share amounting to $4,089 million. The dividend will be payable on 26 September 2019 to shareholders on the register at 5.00pm AEST on 15 August 2019. Dividends paid in the year ended 30 June 2019 were as follows: Fully Franked Total Dividend Total Dividend Dividend Date Paid Dividend Per Share ($ million) Comprises ($ million) Final Dividend for the year ended 28 Sep 2018 231 cents $4,065 Cash: $3,316 30 June 2018 DRP: $749 Interim Dividend for year ended 28 Mar 2019 200 cents $3,540 Cash: $2,948 30 June 2019 DRP: $592 78 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Events subsequent to balance The Directors are not aware of any other We are not subject to any other significant sheet date matter or circumstance that has occurred environment reporting regulations under since the end of the financial year that has the law of the Commonwealth or of a State The Dividend Reinvestment Plan for significantly affected or may significantly or Territory of Australia. Our environmental the final dividend for the year ended affect the operations of the Group, the result policies are updated to manage risks 30 June 2019 will be satisfied in full by of those operations or the state of affairs of appropriately. an on-market purchase and transfer of the Group in subsequent financial years. shares of approximately $683 million. For more information on the Group's For further information on subsequent voluntary environmental reporting, see The sale of CFSGAM completed on events refer to Note 12.7 in the Financial the Our approach to addressing climate 2 August 2019, resulting in final sale report on page 271. change section on pages 55 – 63 and our proceeds of $4.2 billion and a total post tax environmental metrics on pages 297 – 302. gain of $1.5 billion (inclusive of separation costs and subject to final tax calculations Change in state of affairs and completion adjustments). We continue to make progress against Directors The Group has decided to cease providing each of the key strategic priorities in The names of the Directors holding office licensee services through Financial pursuit of our purpose to improve the at any time during, or since the end of, the Wisdom and will proceed with an assisted financial wellbeing of our customers and financial year are: closure. The Group has also decided to communities. Further to the changes in   atherine Livingstone AO C allow Commonwealth Financial Planning principal activities referred to above there have been no significant changes in the   att Comyn M Limited-Pathways (CFP-Pathways) advisers to transition to self-licensing state of affairs during the financial year.  Shirish Apte arrangements or move to another licensee.  Professor Genevieve Bell (appointed 1 January 2019) The Group has committed an investment Environmental reporting  Sir David Higgins of US$100 million into Klarna Holding AB We are subject to the Federal (Klarna), as part of their US$460 million  Paul O’Malley (appointed 1 January 2019) Government’s National Greenhouse capital raise. The Group will become  Mary Padbury and Energy Reporting (NGER) scheme. Klarna’s exclusive partner in Australia and The scheme makes it mandatory for  Wendy Stops New Zealand and intends to further invest controlling corporations to report annually  Anne Templeman-Jones at the parent and local level to support on greenhouse gas emissions, energy  Robert Whitfield this partnership. production and energy consumption,  Andrew Mohl (retired 7 November 2018) if they exceed certain threshold levels.  Brian Long (retired 31 December 2018) The Group has a long history of voluntary Details of current Directors, their experience, environmental reporting including to qualifications and any special responsibilities, the CDP (the former Carbon Disclosure including Committee memberships, are set Project). As a result, the Group is well out on pages 66 and 67. placed to meet the NGER requirements. Other directorships These Directors held the following directorships in other Australian listed companies in the three years prior to the end of the 2019 financial year: Director Company Appointment Date Retirement date (if applicable) Catherine Livingstone AO WorleyParsons Limited 01/07/2007 Wendy Stops Coles Group Limited 19/11/2018 Altium Limited 01/02/2018 Paul O’Malley Bluescope Steel Limited 06/08/2007 31/12/2017 Anne Templeman-Jones G.U.D Holdings Limited 01/08/2015 The Citadel Group Limited 08/09/2017 WorleyParsons Limited 01/11/2017 Pioneer Credit Limited 23/09/2014 07/11/2016 HT&E Limited 04/06/2013 14/05/2018 Brian Long Brambles Limited 01/07/2014 OneMarket Limited 07/06/2018 Ten Network Holdings Pty Limited1 01/07/2010 25/07/2016 1 Formerly Ten Network Holdings Limited, converted to a proprietary limited company on 10 January 2018. 79 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Directors’ meetings Directors’ meetings The number of Board and Board Committee meetings held during the financial year that each Director was eligible to attend, and the number of meetings attended by each Director, were: Board Committees1 Scheduled Unscheduled Risk2 Audit2 Remuneration2,8 Nominations2 Meetings Meetings Held3 Attended Held3 Attended Held3 Attended Held3 Attended Held3 Attended Held3 Attended Director Catherine Livingstone AO 10 10 1 1 10 10 11 11 12 12 11 11 Matt Comyn 10 10 1 1 – – – – – – – – Shirish Apte 10 10 1 1 10 10 11 11 – – – – Professor Genevieve Bell4 5 5 – – – – – – – – – – Sir David Higgins 10 10 1 1 10 10 – – 12 12 – – Brian Long5 5 4 1 1 4 3 5 4 – – 5 4 Andrew Mohl6 4 4 1 1 3 3 – – 5 5 – – Paul O’Malley7 5 5 – – – – – – 2 2 2 2 Mary Padbury 10 10 1 1 – – – – 12 12 11 11 Wendy Stops 10 10 1 1 – – 11 11 12 12 – – Anne Templeman-Jones 10 10 1 1 9 9 11 11 – – – – Robert Whitfield 10 10 1 1 10 10 – – – – 11 11 1 The Board also establishes ad hoc Committees for special purpose business from time to time to support the Board in carrying out its responsibilities. 2 Two concurrent meetings of the Risk, Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees have been counted as additional meetings of each committee. 3 The number of scheduled and unscheduled meetings held during the time the Director was a member of the Board or of the relevant committee. 4 Professor Genevieve Bell was appointed a member of the Board effective 1 January 2019. 5 Brian Long retired from the Audit Committee, Risk Committee, Nominations Committee and the Board effective 31 December 2018. 6 Andrew Mohl retired from the Risk Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Board effective 7 November 2018. 7 Paul O’Malley was appointed a member of the Board effective 1 January 2019 and the Remuneration and Nominations Committees effective 1 June 2019. 8 Committee name changed to People & Remuneration Committee effective 1 July 2019. Directors’ shareholdings, share rights and options Particulars of shares and share rights held by Directors including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), in the Bank or in a related body corporate are set out in the Remuneration Report that forms part of this report. No options have been granted to the Directors, including the CEO, during the period. No rights or options have been granted to the Directors since the end of the financial year. Options and share rights outstanding There are no options over Bank shares on issue as at the date of this report. As at the date of this report there are 1,377,132 share rights outstanding in relation to Bank ordinary shares and no employee options. 80 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Directors’ and officers’ indemnity In the case of a partly-owned subsidiary The Group manages its business and insurance of the Bank, where a Director, company performance using a “cash basis” profit secretary or a senior manager of that measure. The key items that are excluded Constitution entity is a nominee of an entity which is not from statutory profit for this purpose The Directors, as named on page 79 of a related body corporate of the Bank, the are non-recurring or not considered this report, and the Company Secretaries Indemnity Deed Poll will not apply to that representative of the Group’s ongoing of the Bank, referred to below, are person unless the Bank’s CEO has certified financial performance. Profit on an indemnified under the Constitution of the that the indemnity will apply to that person. “underlying” basis is used primarily in Commonwealth Bank of Australia (the the wealth management businesses. Constitution), as are all senior managers Insurance It provides a profit measure that excludes of the Bank. returns and revaluations on shareholder The Bank has, during the financial year, The indemnity extends to such other paid an insurance premium in respect capital invested in the wealth management officers, employees, former officers or of a Directors’ and Officers’ liability and businesses and changes in economic former employees of the Bank, or of its company reimbursement insurance policy assumptions impacting the insurance related bodies corporate, as the Directors for the benefit of the Bank and persons businesses and investment profits on the in each case determine (each, including defined in the insurance policy who include annuity portfolio for a measure of core the Directors and Company Secretaries, Directors, Company Secretaries, Officers operating performance. is defined as an ‘Officer’ for the purpose and certain employees of the Bank and of this section). related bodies corporate. The insurance Company secretaries The Officers are indemnified on a full is appropriate pursuant to section 199B of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). In Details of the Bank’s Company indemnity basis and to the full extent Secretaries, including their experience permitted by law against all losses, accordance with commercial practice, the insurance policy prohibits disclosure of the and qualifications, follow. liabilities, costs, charges and expenses incurred by the Officer as an Officer of terms of the policy, including the nature of Kara Nicholls was appointed Group the Bank or a related body corporate. the liability insured against and the amount Company Secretary of the Bank on of the premium. 8 January 2019. Kara has extensive listed Deeds of indemnity company expertise with over 20 years’ of global equity markets, commercial and Deeds of Indemnity, which include Proceedings on behalf of the corporate governance experience. She indemnification in substantially the same Bank was previously Company Secretary of terms to that provided in the Constitution, No application has been made under Caltex Australia Limited and prior to that have been executed by the Bank in favour section 237 of the Corporations Act 2001 was Company Secretary of Woolworths of each Director of the Bank. in respect of the Bank, and there are no Limited, Arrium Limited and Global Head An Indemnity Deed Poll, which includes proceedings that a person has brought or of Company Secretariat for Macquarie indemnification in substantially the same intervened in on behalf of the Bank under Capital Funds. Prior to those roles Kara terms to that provided in the Constitution, that section. spent almost six years at the ASX. Kara has been executed by the Bank in favour is the Chair of Gidget Foundation Australia. of each: She is a Fellow of the Governance Institute Rounding and presentation of Australia (GIA), and a member of the  company secretary and senior manager of amounts of the Bank Australia Institute of Company Directors Unless otherwise indicated, the Bank and the GIA Legislative Review Committee.  Director, secretary or senior manager has rounded off amounts in this Directors’ of a related body corporate of the Bank FGIA, MAICD, B.Bus, MLS, JP. report and the accompanying financial  person who, at the prior formal request statements to the nearest million dollars Kristy Huxtable was appointed Company of the Bank or a related body corporate, in accordance with ASIC Corporations Secretary of the Bank on 20 March acts as Director, secretary or senior Instrument 2016/191. 2019. Kristy brings extensive corporate manager of a body corporate which is governance and secretariat experience The financial information included in this in financial services, having previously not a related body corporate of the Bank Annual Report has been prepared and worked with Suncorp, ING, MLC, KeyInvest (in which case the indemnity operates presented in accordance with Australian and the ASX. Kristy is a Fellow of the GIA, only in excess of protection provided by Accounting Standards, unless otherwise and a Member of the Australian Institute of that body corporate) indicated. This ensures compliance Company Directors and the GIA Legislative  person who, at the request of a related with International Financial Reporting Review Committee. body corporate of the Bank, acts as a Standards. member of the compliance committee FGIA, MAICD, MBA, Grad.Dip.Corp. of a registered scheme for which the Gov, Grad.Dip.HR. related body corporate of the Bank is the responsible entity. Key: Qualifications 81 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Remuneration report Remuneration report Risk and Remuneration Consequences  Fully implemented the recommendations The Board recognises the important role of the Sedgwick Retail Banking that remuneration can play in effectively Remuneration Review within CBA managing risk, including emphasising to drive a focus on better customer positive risk culture and supporting outcomes across customer-facing the Group’s approach to consequence employees and their leaders. Financial management. The Board reinforces measures now represent a maximum accountability for poor customer and of 30% of balanced scorecards. Variable risk outcomes through remuneration remuneration is capped at 40% of base consequences. remuneration, with the exception of select home lending specialists. During the 2019 financial year, we introduced material enhancements to  Introduced a new STVR approach for increase the rigour and challenge in the CBA, incorporating a formal assessment Group’s approach to risk and remuneration, of financial and non-financial risk including improved information to support measures for pool funding to reinforce collective accountability. Message from the the Board’s determination of remuneration consequences in relation to risk and Adopted clear criteria to assess Remuneration  reputational matters. Consequences the overall effectiveness of our Committee Chairman applied to both current and former remuneration policy and practices, with Executives during the 2019 financial reviews conducted every two years. Dear Shareholder year were:  Implemented the Banking Executive Our strategy is to become a simpler,  Of the 15 Executives eligible for an STVR Accountability Regime’s (BEAR) better bank to fulfil our purpose of award, 14 received in-year reductions in remuneration requirements in full. improving the financial wellbeing of our relation to risk and reputational matters, customers and the community. We are including the CEO. Renewal of Executive Team well on our way, but there is more to do. Our remuneration policy, frameworks  The Board exercised discretion to During the 2019 financial year we and governance have and will continue forfeit all unvested deferred awards welcomed seven new appointments, to evolve, building on the transformation for a former Group Executive, having bringing a strong mix of local and global commenced in 2017. regard to the performance outcomes of experience across banking, risk, digital their business unit that have resulted in transformation, and leadership of cultural The 2019 financial year has been significant adverse financial, customer, change. challenging for the Bank. The Royal and reputational impacts. Commission highlighted a number of risk Securing the best executive talent and and reputational issues, and the Group’s capability is critical to the execution of the Strengthening our Remuneration performance overall was significantly Group’s strategy. The Board determined Approach that in order to secure the best talent it impacted by in-year provisions to In the 2019 financial year we: was necessary and appropriate to provide address customer remediation issues. Remuneration outcomes for the Chief  Increased the weighting of non-financial competitive remuneration packages, Executive Officer (CEO) and Group measures in the CEO and Group based on a careful assessment of local Executives directly reflect this context, Executive performance scorecards, and global competitor practices. with Short-Term Variable Remuneration to provide a more balanced focus (STVR) outcomes below target and on customer, people, strategic and variability reduced as a result of not shareholder outcomes. As required by achieving shareholder and customer the Enforceable Undertaking agreed advocacy results. with Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA), scorecards also included a significant weighting for the delivery of the Remedial Action Plan (RAP). 82 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Priorities for the 2020 Financial Year I will be retiring from the Board at the I invite you to review the full remuneration We will monitor and adjust our end of the year. It has been a privilege to report. remuneration policy and frameworks for serve as Chairman of the Remuneration all employees so they continue to meet Committee during a time of considerable both the spirit and the requirements of challenge for the Bank. I am pleased that revised regulatory standards, and reflect the Committee, with the full support of the evolving community expectations. We will Board, has made significant progress in continue on our path of reinforcing better addressing the challenges faced. risk and customer outcomes through While I am retiring, we recognise that Sir David Higgins remuneration that appropriately balances there is still much to do. In that regard, Remuneration Committee Chairman financial and non-financial performance I am pleased to hand over to Paul O’Malley, measures, enables risk and consequence who will be commencing as Chairman of management frameworks, and provides the People & Remuneration Committee greater transparency to support cultural from 1 January 2020. change. Further, the introduction of Thank you for your continued interest, regular policy effectiveness reviews will support and feedback as we continue strengthen Board oversight and help to to build a simpler, better bank. inform our future remuneration approach. Remuneration at a glance CEO remuneration Group Executives and CEO ASB % of maximum STVR For the 2019 financial year, the CEO: For the 2019 financial year: 2019 2018  Did not receive an increase to Fixed  There were no FR increases for Group financial financial Remuneration (FR). Executives who did not change roles. year year  Received an STVR outcome of 68%  David Cohen did not receive a FR CEO 45% 0% of target value and 45% of maximum increase upon appointment to the value. This outcome of less than half Deputy CEO role. Group 31% – 52% 0% – 38% of the maximum opportunity reflects Executives  FR for the newly appointed Group (range) assessed performance and an Executives and the CEO ASB (Pascal overall reduction applied to the STVR Boillat, Alan Docherty, Andrew Hinchliff, CEO ASB 52% N/A outcome as a consequence of his risk Sian Lewis, Angus Sullivan, Vittoria assessment being Partially Met. Shortt and Nigel Williams) are shown   eceived partial vesting of the 2016 R on page 86. Read more on page 93 financial year Long-Term Variable  Overall there was reduced opportunity LTVR outcomes Remuneration (LTVR) award, which for variability in Group Executive STVR reached the end of its four-year The 2016 financial year LTVR award outcomes, with zero outcomes where performance period on 30 June 2019. reached the end of its four-year financial/shareholder and customer The award vested at 24.31% overall, as performance period on 30 June 2019, with advocacy measures did not meet a result of 0% vesting against the relative 24.31% of the award vesting as a result of threshold levels. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) measure performance against the LTVR measures. and 98.5% vesting against relative  The average STVR outcome for Group Read more on page 96 customer satisfaction measures. Executives and the CEO ASB (as a % of maximum) was 44%.  Received total remuneration of $3.4m for his first full year in the role.  Had a maximum variable remuneration opportunity weighted at 55% for financial measures and 45% for non-financial measures. 83 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Remuneration report Risk and remuneration consequences The 2018 APRA Prudential Inquiry Report highlighted shortcomings in the way CBA applied remuneration consequences when risk expectations were not fully met, both individually and collectively. The Board has been working with management to improve procedures to identify employees who have not fully met the Board’s expectations of risk behaviours and outcomes, and those employees who exceptionally manage risk. Over 300 employees were recognised for the way they have positively influenced the risk culture of CBA. The Code of Conduct is the framework that applies to the management of employee conduct. In the 2019 financial year, there were 1,869 instances of unacceptable conduct, including 18 senior leaders (General Managers and Executive General Managers), with 187 resulting in termination. As a result of the improvements made to risk assessment processes to support the annual performance reviews for the 2018 financial year, 2,462 employees participating in the STVR plan were identified as not having fully met risk expectations and accountabilities (compared to 1,316 in the prior year). This included 73 senior leaders. Broadly, STVR outcomes were reduced by a minimum of 10%, ranging to 100%, with 2,331 employees assessed as only partially meeting risk expectations and 131 employees rated as failing to meet risk standards. Malus adjustments to deferred variable remuneration were also applied. This is in addition to the remuneration consequences previously applied to reflect individual and/or collective accountability for the findings of the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report. The total remuneration consequences applied across CBA for the 2017 and 2018 financial years exceeded $100 million. Key features of CBA’s performance and remuneration framework are detailed below, including the enhancements made in the 2019 financial year. ASB is also reviewing its remuneration framework, in light of New Zealand regulatory expectations. Element Details Risk culture Improvements made in the 2019 financial year included:  L aunching the new Code of Conduct in September 2018 that specifies the Board’s expectations for how our people act, solve problems and make decisions. Compliance with the Code is now a part of the values and risk assessment for all employees.  Introducing a new “Exceptionally Managed” category to the risk assessment rating scale. This provides balance to the risk assessment so that it is not only punitive, but also promotes and recognises exceptional risk behaviours and outcomes, and supports positive cultural change.  U pdating our values expectations and values assessment process which ensures that STVR outcomes are based on both what was achieved (key performance indicators) and how it was achieved (values and risk assessment). Alignment of  Risk scorecards provided the Board with robust and timely information to determine if an appropriate remuneration consequence should be applied to Group Executive remuneration outcomes for risk and reputation matters. Risk with prudent scorecards are independently reviewed and challenged by the Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO). The Group CRO’s risk-taking risk scorecard is independently reviewed and challenged by the Risk Committee Chair.  Risk scorecards were extended to General Managers and now apply to all senior leaders of the organisation from the 2019 financial year.  A new Bank-wide approach to funding of the STVR pool was introduced, incorporating an assessment of financial and non-financial risks in addition to risk-adjusted financial measures (this ensures that all relevant risks are considered in determining the available STVR pool, as well as reinforcing collective accountability).  To support the role’s independence, the remuneration mix and weightings of performance measures in the balanced scorecard for the Group CRO were revised and differ from the other Group Executives, with any linkages to Group financial outcomes removed. Risk   xecutive risk assessments were discussed at the concurrent meetings of the Remuneration, Risk, Audit and E assessment Nominations Committees as part of the interim and annual performance assessment processes for Executives process (excluding the CEO ASB).  In the 2019 financial year, the Bank sought to improve the rigour and governance of the risk assessment process. Enhancements included Board approval of: – Risk scorecard guidance and processes that included the following elements: compliance with audit review timeframes, the new Code of Conduct, the BEAR accountabilities and assessment of Financial Crime Compliance behaviours. – Enhanced guidance to all employees on how to assess risk behaviours and outcomes (including for Exceptionally Managed outcomes) and the remuneration consequences of not fully meeting risk expectations. – Transparent communication to all employees of both good and poor risk assessments for the 2018 financial year and subsequent remuneration outcomes. – Formal guidance on the application of malus to deferred variable remuneration as a result of a material risk or misconduct matters. Malus/   alus is the ability to reduce (including to zero) and withhold variable remuneration awards that have been awarded, M Clawback but not vested. CBA has had the ability to apply malus adjustments to unvested deferred variable remuneration outcomes since 2013. In the 2019 financial year, formal guidance on the application of malus was introduced.  The Board exercised discretion to forfeit all unvested deferred awards for a former Group Executive, having regard to the performance outcomes of their business unit that have resulted in significant adverse financial, customer, and reputational impacts.  Clawback will be explored as part of the CEO and Group Executive remuneration strategy and framework review during the 2020 financial year. 84 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Appointment arrangements of externally hired Group Executives The Board recognises that it is vital to secure the best executive talent, including in the areas of risk, digital, cyber security and audit. In the 2019 financial year, Pascal Boillat, Group Executive, Enterprise Services and Chief Information Officer, and Nigel Williams, Group CRO, were appointed to the Executive Team. These roles are critical to delivering the Group’s strategy of becoming a simpler, better bank, and both Group Executives are highly experienced in their relevant fields, and bring global perspectives to the Group. Pascal leads the technology and operations division of the Group, and is responsible for information technology, cyber security, technology infrastructure and digital delivery for all divisions across CBA. Pascal brings significant experience from working with large global organisations, having previously been the Chief Information Officer for Deutsche Bank. Nigel brings extensive banking experience, both local and global, including his previous role as CRO of ANZ Banking Group Limited. As Group CRO, Nigel’s role is crucial to developing and embedding risk frameworks and re-building trust with relevant regulatory authorities. To secure these Group Executives, the Board determined that it was necessary and appropriate to provide:  Competitive remuneration packages, with consideration of internal peers and external market comparators.   Awards to compensate for unvested awards granted by their former employers and forfeited upon termination of their previous  employment. The quantum and vesting schedule of these were determined based on: – Forfeited unvested award value, with specific consideration given to any performance conditions. A discount was applied considering the vesting likelihood of any performance-based awards where applicable; and – Vesting schedule broadly aligning to the forfeited awards’ schedule.  Relocation benefits to support their relocations to Sydney. Further detail is provided on pages 97 and 98.  The table below outlines the awards offered: Executive Grant date Grant details Vesting schedule Vesting conditions Pascal Boillat 1 October 2018 82,660 deferred shares Vesting in six tranches Subject to: (indicative value of $5.86m). between April 2019 and March 2023.   ontinued employment; C Eligible for dividends paid on deferred shares during   oard risk and reputation B review; and the vesting period.  Malus provisions. Nigel Williams 5 November 2018 43,112 deferred shares Vesting in four tranches (indicative value of $2.95m). between January 2019 and November 2021. Eligible for dividends paid on deferred shares during the vesting period. Exit arrangements The table below outlines the exit arrangements for Group Executives during the 2019 financial year. Further detail is provided on pages 97 and 98: Executives Exit arrangements Coen Jonker   ayment in lieu of balance of notice period. P (ceased on 31 Dec 18)   rovision of benefits required by law, mobility and repatriation benefits on ceasing employment and P severance pay for past services in accordance with his employment agreement (six months FR).  Eligible for pro-rated 2019 financial year STVR award1. Not eligible for 2019 financial year LTVR award. Unvested deferred STVR and LTVR awards remain on-foot2. Melanie Laing   ayment in lieu of balance of notice period. P (ceased on 31 Jul 18)   rovision of benefits required by law, additional long service leave accrued based on past service and P agreed legal costs (capped) related to termination.  Not eligible for 2019 financial year STVR or LTVR award. Unvested LTVR awards remain on-foot2. Anna Lenahan   rovision of benefits required by law. P (ceased on 30 Jun 19)   ligible for 2019 financial year STVR1. Unvested deferred STVR and LTVR (including 2019 financial year E LTVR awarded in November 2018) remain on-foot2. 1 In line with the BEAR, for any payment determined and paid in ordinary course (subject to performance and Board risk and reputation review), 60% of any award will be paid in cash and remaining 40% deferred as cash vesting four years after the decision is made to make the relevant grant. 2 No accelerated or automatic vesting upon ceasing employment. The on-foot awards will have performance measured in the ordinary course at the end of the performance period related to each award. Final outcomes will be subject to performance, and Board risk and reputation review. 85 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Remuneration report Remuneration received by current Executives during the 2019 financial year The remuneration outcomes table below provides a summary of the remuneration that was received by current Executives in their Key Management Personnel (KMP) roles during the 2019 financial year. We believe that presenting this information provides shareholders with greater clarity and transparency of Executive remuneration. This table differs from the statutory remuneration table on page 97, which presents remuneration in accordance with accounting standards (i.e. on an accruals basis). Remuneration received by current Executives during the financial year ended 30 June 2019: Cash a) FR: Base remuneration plus superannuation (for Vittoria Shortt, contributions are made in line with the KiwiSaver employer contribution payments requirements) paid for the period as KMP. For Alan Docherty, this includes the cash allowance paid to him during his acting period. b) Cash STVR: 50% (60% for the CEO ASB) of the 2019 financial year STVR (relates to performance during the 12 months to 30 June 2019). Vesting d) Deferred equity awards: The value of all equity awards (STVR, LTVR or sign-on awards) that vested during their period as KMP plus of prior any dividends accrued during the deferral period. The value shown is the face value (i.e. based on the volume-weighted average year awards closing price (VWACP) of the Group’s ordinary shares over the five trading days preceding the vesting date). Awards f) Previous years’ awards forfeited or lapsed: The value of all unvested deferred equity awards that were forfeited or lapsed forfeited during the 2019 financial year as the performance, risk and reputation or service conditions were not met. or lapsed All remuneration presented in this report is in Australian Dollars. Previous years’ Total cash Deferred equity Total remuneration awards forfeited FR Cash STVR payments awards1 received or lapsed a b c=a+b d e=c+d f CEO Matt Comyn 30 Jun 19 2,200,000 747,450 2,947,450 464,108 3,411,558 (1,270,151) 30 Jun 18 1,315,949 – 1,315,949 1,529,923 2,845,872 (653,185) Current Executives Adam Bennett 30 Jun 19 1,049,580 244,684 1,294,264 372,984 1,667,248 (562,884) 30 Jun 18 1,049,580 225,988 1,275,568 280,480 1,556,048 – Pascal Boillat2 30 Jun 19 (effective 1 Oct 18) 1,121,918 353,825 1,475,743 1,052,765 2,528,508 – David Cohen3 30 Jun 19 1,200,000 348,218 1,548,218 405,514 1,953,732 (1,109,864) 30 Jun 18 1,200,000 261,300 1,461,300 1,377,033 2,838,333 (587,842) Alan Docherty4 30 Jun 19 945,277 291,296 1,236,573 233,096 1,469,669 – 30 Jun 18 (effective 14 May 18) 98,630 51,966 150,596 – 150,596 (41,820) Andrew Hinchliff5 30 Jun 19 (effective 1 Aug 18) 915,068 302,888 1,217,956 378,283 1,596,239 – Anna Lenahan 30 Jun 19 865,000 332,809 1,197,809 719,170 1,916,979 – 30 Jun 18 865,000 249,120 1,114,120 260,418 1,374,538 – Sian Lewis6 30 Jun 19 (effective 1 Aug 18) 754,932 260,829 1,015,761 223,942 1,239,703 – Vittoria Shortt7 30 Jun 19 (effective 1 Jul 18) 965,550 940,777 1,906,327 309,688 2,216,015 (345,461) Angus Sullivan8 30 Jun 19 1,050,000 374,500 1,424,500 409,280 1,833,780 – 30 Jun 18 (effective 9 Apr 18) 114,909 78,641 193,550 – 193,550 (67,857) Nigel Williams9 30 Jun 19 (effective 5 Nov 18) 945,479 276,819 1,222,298 1,294,553 2,516,851 – 1 Deferred equity awards: This reflects the portions of the 2015 financial year LTVR award (performance period ended 30 June 2018), and the 2015, 2016 and 2017 financial year deferred STVR awarded under Executive General Manager arrangements that vested in 2019 financial year. For Pascal Boillat, Anna Lenahan and Nigel Williams, this reflects the portion of their sign-on awards that vested in the 2019 financial year. 2 Pascal Boillat was appointed as KMP effective 1 October 2018, therefore no prior year comparison is shown. 3 David Cohen was appointed as Deputy CEO effective 5 November 2018. 2019 financial year remuneration reflects his time in both the Group CRO role (1 July 2018 to 4 November 2018) and Deputy CEO role (5 November 2018 to 30 June 2019). Prior year comparison reflects remuneration for his prior role as Group CRO. 4 Alan Docherty was appointed as Group Executive, Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer effective 15 October 2018. 2019 financial year remuneration reflects his time in both the Acting Group Executive, Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer role (1 July 2018 to 14 October 2018) and Group Executive, Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer role (15 October 2018 to 30 June 2019). Prior year comparison reflects remuneration for his prior part year KMP role, Acting Group Executive, Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer. 5 Andrew Hinchliff was appointed as KMP effective 1 August 2018, therefore no prior year comparison is shown. 6 Sian Lewis was appointed as KMP effective 1 August 2018, therefore no prior year comparison is shown. 7 Vittoria Shortt was determined as KMP in the CEO ASB role effective 1 July 2018. No prior year comparison is shown as she ceased as KMP in her previous role of Group Executive, Marketing and Strategy on 2 February 2018. In addition to the $28,123 KiwiSaver that forms part of Vittoria Shortt's FR, an additional payment of $28,223 is payable on her cash STVR component. 8 Angus Sullivan was appointed as Group Executive, Retail Banking Services effective 1 July 2018. Prior year comparison reflects remuneration for his prior part year KMP role, Acting Group Executive, Retail Banking Services (from 9 April 2018 to 30 June 2018). 9 Nigel Williams was appointed as KMP effective 5 November 2018, therefore no prior year comparison is shown. 86 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Definitions This remuneration report details the performance and remuneration of KMP for the 2019 financial year. KMP is defined as persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of an entity, directly or indirectly, including any Director (whether executive or otherwise) of that entity. The Board has determined that the CEO ASB role should be considered a KMP role from 1 July 2018, given ASB’s key part in delivering the Group’s strategy and important contribution to the Group more broadly. The following terms are used throughout this report to describe different groups of KMP. Term Meaning Executives Collective term referring to the individuals in the following executive groups: CEO, Group Executives, CEO ASB and Other Executives CEO Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Group Executives All permanent Executives, excluding the CEO, CEO ASB and Other Executives (as defined below) CEO ASB Chief Executive Officer of ASB Bank Ltd Other Executives Includes Michael Venter (Chief Operating Officer Wealth Management) and all Acting Group Executives Excludes the CEO, Group Executives and CEO ASB Non-Executive Directors KMP who are not Executives 1. Key Management Personnel The table below outlines the Group’s KMP in the financial year ended 30 June 2019. Name Position Term as KMP Chairman Catherine Livingstone AO Chairman Full year Current Non-Executive Directors Shirish Apte Director Full year Genevieve Bell Director (from 1 January 2019) Part year David Higgins Director Full year Paul O’Malley Director (from 1 January 2019) Part year Mary Padbury Director Full year Wendy Stops Director Full year Anne Templeman-Jones Director Full year Robert Whitfield Director Full year Former Non-Executive Directors Brian Long Director (ceased as KMP on 31 December 2018) Part year Andrew Mohl Director (ceased as KMP on 7 November 2018) Part year Managing Director and CEO Matt Comyn Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Full year Current Executives Adam Bennett Group Executive, Business and Private Banking Full year Pascal Boillat Group Executive, Enterprise Services and Chief Information Officer (from 1 October 2018) Part year David Cohen1 Deputy Chief Executive Officer (from 5 November 2018) Full year Alan Docherty2 Group Executive, Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer (from 15 October 2018) Full year Andrew Hinchliff Group Executive, Institutional Banking and Markets (from 1 August 2018) Part year Anna Lenahan3 Group General Counsel and Group Executive, Group Corporate Affairs Full year Sian Lewis Group Executive, Human Resources (from 1 August 2018) Part year Vittoria Shortt4 Chief Executive Officer, ASB Full year Angus Sullivan Group Executive, Retail Banking Services Full year Nigel Williams Group Chief Risk Officer (from 5 November 2018) Part year Former Executives George Confos Acting Group Executive, Institutional Banking and Markets (ceased as KMP on 31 July 2018) Part year Coen Jonker Group Executive, International Financial Services (ceased as KMP on 31 December 2018) Part year Melanie Laing Group Executive, Human Resources (ceased as KMP on 31 July 2018) Part year Paul Newham Acting Group Executive, Enterprise Services and Chief Information Officer (ceased as Part year KMP on 30 September 2018) Michael Venter Chief Operating Officer Wealth Management (ceased as KMP on 2 December 2018) Part year 1 David Cohen was the Group CRO from 1 July 2018 to 4 November 2018 and the Deputy CEO from 5 November 2018 to 30 June 2019. 2 Alan Docherty was acting in the Group Executive, Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer role from 1 July 2018 to 14 October 2018. 3 Anna Lenahan retired from the Group on 30 June 2019. 4 The CEO ASB role has been determined to be KMP as of 1 July 2018. 87 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Remuneration report 2. Executive remuneration framework CEO and Group Executives The below diagram illustrates the remuneration framework that applied to the CEO and BEAR Our remuneration Group Executives during the 2019 financial year. The Remuneration Committee undertook framework, including a comprehensive review of the CEO and Group Executive remuneration framework during variable remuneration the 2019 financial year and determined to not make any material changes to the existing deferral for all Executives framework effective for the 2020 financial year. meets the BEAR requirements. A further review of the CEO and Group Executive remuneration framework will be undertaken during the 2020 financial year incorporating new guidance set by our regulators. The review aims to ensure that our remuneration framework continues to support our remuneration principles outlined below. OUR REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES Aligned with Market competitive Reward Recognise the role Simple and Reflect the Group’s shareholder value to attract and retain sustainable of non-financial transparent strategy and values creation high-calibre talent outperformance drivers in longerand discourage term value creation poor performance OUR REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK AND OUTCOMES REFLECT OUR VALUES We do what is right We are accountable We are dedicated We pursue excellence We get things done to service FR STVR (at risk) LTVR (at risk) Rationale Provides market Rewards annual performance, providing Focuses efforts on achieving longer-term superior competitive remuneration specific focus on strategic priorities. performance for key stakeholder groups – customers, to attract and retain the community, our people and shareholders. The values and risk and reputation high quality talent whilst outcome modifiers reward for the way the Rewards participants for the creation of sustainable reflecting role size and Group achieves performance outcomes. long-term shareholder value and driving positive accountabilities. culture and engagement across the Group, and re-building trust with our customers and the community. Structure Base remuneration and 50% 25% 25% Rights to shares with no dividend equivalent superannuation. paid as deferred into deferred into payments, vesting subject to performance over cash equity for equity for a four-year period. one year two years Approach  Reviewed annually  Quantum:  Quantum: Maximum face value allocation of against peer group – Target opportunity of 100% of FR 180% of FR (150% for Group CRO), vesting is remuneration (75% of FR for Group CRO). subject to performance measures and Board disclosures. risk and reputation review. – Maximum opportunity of 150% of  Primary peer group is FR (112.5% of FR for Group CRO).  Performance measures: the other three major – Relative TSR (75%); trust and reputation (12.5%); Australian banks.  Performance measures: Financial and employee engagement (12.5%). (30%; 10% for Group CRO) and non-financial measures (70%; 90% for – A positive TSR gateway applies to the trust Group CRO), being customer, people and reputation and employee engagement and strategic measures, including measures. delivery of the RAP. – Relative TSR is measured against a peer  Modifiers: Performance outcomes group made up of the 20 largest companies subject to Board assessment on the ASX by market capitalisation, excluding of demonstration of values, risk resources companies, and CBA. and reputation. All variable remuneration is subject to Board risk and reputation review and malus consideration. Mandatory shareholding requirement: Group Executives must accumulate CBA shares equal to 200% of FR (300% of FR for the CEO) over a five-year period from the date of their appointment to the respective roles. More detail on Executive shareholding is provided in on page 90. 88 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 CEO and Group Executive target remuneration mix The following diagrams illustrate the target remuneration mix for the CEO and Group Executives. For the CEO and Group Executives (excluding the Group CRO), approximately three-quarters of target remuneration is variable and at risk. The Group CRO’s remuneration mix has a greater emphasis on FR than variable remuneration compared to other Group Executives to support the role’s independence from the Group’s business activities. CEO and Group Executive target remuneration mix Group CRO target remuneration mix (excluding Group CRO) 26% 13% 13% 48% 31% 11.5% 11.5% 46% Variable remuneration (74%) Variable remuneration (69%) FR Cash STVR Deferred equity STVR Maximum face value LTVR CEO ASB As required by New Zealand legislation, the CEO ASB is employed by ASB. The Appointments and Remuneration Committee (ARC) of the ASB Board advises and makes recommendations to the ASB Board regarding the CEO ASB’s performance and remuneration arrangements, including structure, targets and outcomes. For the 2019 financial year the following arrangements apply to the CEO ASB:  Total remuneration consists of FR (includes base remuneration and KiwiSaver) and STVR (not eligible for LTVR). KiwiSaver is payable on all STVR cash components. Total remuneration is intended to be market competitive when compared against New Zealand major banking peers.  STVR scorecard performance measures broadly align with Group Executives and are determined by the ASB Board at the beginning of the financial year. At year end, the ASB Board determine a performance rating (Needs Improvement; Inconsistent Performance; Valued Contribution; Higher Impact or Exceptional Achievement) based on quantitative and qualitative inputs. A values and behaviours assessment, and risk assessment (based on an Executive Risk Scorecard) are modifiers used to determine outcomes, consistent with the process for Group Executives.  The process for determining the CEO ASB’s STVR outcome differs from Group Executives and is specific to the ASB business. ASB operates its own discretionary annual variable remuneration plan. Outcomes under that discretionary plan are determined using a combination of company and individual performance outcomes as illustrated below: CEO ASB STVR STVR pool/ASB Individual performance Distribution factor2 reference value performance multiplier1 multiplier 75% at threshold x 125% at target x 100% at target x 120% of base salary 85% – 100% 150% at maximum 180% at maximum Based on NPAT and PACC 1 The ASB ARC has the discretion to adjust pool funding outcomes based on non-financial factors (including customer and risk) together with peer relative financial performance. 2 The ‘distribution factor’ applied depends on individual performance outcomes across all ASB employees who participate in the STVR plan, to ensure payments can be funded within the available pool. From 1 July 2019, the ASB Board has determined that the CEO ASB’s remuneration structure will more closely align to the Group Executives, including the incorporation of an LTVR component and reduction in STVR opportunity. For the 2020 financial year the following arrangements apply to the CEO ASB:  No change to FR which will continue to be comprised of base remuneration and KiwiSaver on base remuneration. STVR of 100% of FR at target and 150% at maximum. KiwiSaver is payable on all cash components of STVR. STVR is based on ASB performance measures. 50% of any STVR will be deferred in restricted shares and vest equally over two years, and 50% payable in cash. LTVR of 180% of fixed remuneration. LTVR will be based 50% on Group relative TSR, 25% relative ASB trust and reputation and 25% absolute employee engagement. The CEO ASB is subject to the Group’s mandatory shareholding requirement, whereby CBA shares equal to 200% of FR must be accumulated over a five year period from 1 July 2018. Other Executives While acting in Group Executive roles during the 2019 financial year, George Confos (1 July 2018 to 31 July 2018), Alan Docherty (1 July 2018 to 14 October 2018) and Paul Newham (1 July 2018 to 30 September 2018) each received a cash allowance to recognise the additional accountability and responsibilities of their respective roles. This cash allowance ceased at the conclusion of their acting role appointments. The STVR for Other Executives is calculated as a percentage of base remuneration (before superannuation). Two-thirds of their STVR is paid in cash and the remaining one-third is deferred into equity that vests in three equal tranches over three years. For the period they were Accountable Persons, deferred remuneration requirements under the BEAR were met. 60% paid in cash and 40% deferred into equity for four years (unless the de minimis threshold of $50,000 applies). Other Executives did not participate in the LTVR plan during the 2019 financial year. 89 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Remuneration report 3. CEO, Group Executives and CEO ASB mandatory shareholding requirement The following table presents the position of the CEO, Group Executives and CEO ASB against the mandatory shareholding requirement as at 30 June 2019: Current shareholding Shareholding requirement Position against Executive (% of FR)1 (% of FR) requirement and deadline Matt Comyn 183% 300% Below – 9 Apr 2023 Adam Bennett 190% 200% Below – 12 Jan 2020 Pascal Boillat 329% 200% Meets David Cohen 359% 200% Meets Alan Docherty 72% 200% Below – 15 Oct 2023 Andrew Hinchliff 114% 200% Below – 1 Aug 2023 Anna Lenahan 185% 200% Below – 28 Nov 2021 Sian Lewis 70% 200% Below – 1 Aug 2023 Vittoria Shortt 113% 200% Below – 1 Jul 2023 Angus Sullivan 105% 200% Below – 1 Jul 2023 Nigel Williams 217% 200% Meets 1 Represents percentage of full-year contractual FR (based on CBA closing share price on 30 June 2018 of $72.87). Shareholdings include fully paid ordinary CBA shares and unvested equity awards with service based hurdles held by the Executive and/or certain related parties. 4. Performance and remuneration outcomes Remuneration varies with short and long-term performance outcomes Group financial performance The graph and table below shows the link between CEO and Group Executive remuneration outcomes and the Group’s financial performance over the past five financial years (including the 2019 financial year). STVR scorecard measure LTVR relative TSR measure Group Cash NPAT Group PACC Share price as at Dividends per share TSR: 4-year period ($M)1 ($M)2 30 Jun ($)3 ($) to 30 Jun (%) 9,445 9,881 9,412 6,525 110.43 9,127 8,706 6,187 5,783 85.13 82.81 82.78 4.20 4.20 4.29 4.31 4.31 74.37 72.87 4,333 74.74 50.75 20.51 11.39 n/a 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 1 Group Cash NPAT includes discontinued operations. 2 Due to methodology changes, comparatives for Group Profit after Capital Charge (PACC) have only been provided for the 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 financial years. 3 CBA opening share price on 1 July 2014 was $80.65. Remuneration outcomes 30 Jun 15 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 STVR outcome (average % of maximum) 78% 75% 0%1 19% 2 44% LTVR vesting outcome (% of maximum) 86% 20% 67% 24% 24% 1 The STVR outcomes for the CEO and Group Executives were adjusted downwards to zero, reflecting collective accountability for the overall reputation of the Group and risk and reputation matters. 2 As a consequence of the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report, the Board applied a negative adjustment of 20% to the 2018 financial year performance scorecard outcomes for each current Group Executive and assessed individual risk outcomes as Partially Met to reflect collective accountability for the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report findings. Further negative risk adjustments to STVR outcomes were also made to reflect individual accountability relating to the individual for other risk and reputation matters separate from the APRA Prudential Inquiry Report findings. 90 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Short term variable remuneration 2019 financial year STVR award – key features The table below outlines key features of the 2019 financial year STVR award for the Executives. Refer to page 103 for treatment of STVR on cessation of employment. Features Approach Purpose Reward annual performance, with balanced focus on customer, people, strategic and shareholder outcomes, incorporating both risk and reputation and values assessments. Recognises both the “how” and the “what” of performance. Participants All Executives Opportunity Executives Target STVR Maximum STVR CEO and Group Executives (excluding Group CRO) 100% of FR 150% of FR Group CRO 75% of FR 112.5% of FR CEO ASB 150% of base remuneration 1 324% of base remuneration Other Executives 2 n/a 130% – 170% of base remuneration 1 Assumes ASB STVR pool is at target. 2 Where STVR maximum % is specified. CEO and Individual STVR outcomes are determined on the basis of Group (or ASB for the CEO ASB) performance and individual Executive performance through a balanced scorecard. The performance measures chosen support the delivery of the Group’s strategy performance and reflect a mix of financial and non-financial outcomes to provide a balanced assessment of performance. measures and Weighting of the financial/shareholder measure was reduced for the CEO and Group Executives to 30% to support a more weightings balanced performance focus. Scorecard weightings cover financial/shareholder and non-financial measures linked to Group and business unit targets, and vary by role. Financial/ Non-Financial Role1 Shareholder (split between customer, people and strategy) CEO and Group Executives (excluding Group CRO) 30% 70% Group CRO 10% 90% (40% is weighted towards delivering future fit risk management) CEO ASB 40% 60% 1 For the Other Executives, weightings vary by individual with consideration to their business unit and/or support function priorities. Modifier(s) Once the balanced scorecard has been assessed and performance outcomes have been determined, that outcome is subject to the following modifiers:   alues: the Board1 has the discretion to adjust Executive STVR outcomes upwards or downwards including to zero where appropriate. V   isk and reputation: the Board1 has the discretion to adjust Executive STVR outcomes downwards including to zero where R appropriate. 1 ‘Board’ is to be read as ASB Board in respect of discretion for the CEO ASB’s STVR outcomes. Calculation STVR awards for the CEO and Executives1 (excluding the CEO ASB) are calculated as follows: of awards Opportunity Unadjusted outcome Modifiers Adjusted outcome Target → Values Performance Value of adjusted FR $ x STVR x scorecard result %2 = STVR award $ opportunity %1 → Risk and reputation 1 Maximum STVR opportunity for Other Executives (where there is a specified maximum %). 2 The Board retains discretion to adjust scorecard outcomes. Deferral  CEO and Group Executives1: 50% of the STVR award is deferred and delivered in deferred shares that vest in equal tranches over one and two years.   EO ASB: 40% of the STVR award is deferred and delivered in deferred shares that vest after four years. C   ther Executives: One-third of the STVR award is deferred and delivered in deferred shares that vest in equal tranches over O one, two and three years1. All deferred STVR awards are subject to applicable Board (or ASB Board for CEO ASB) risk and reputation review prior to vesting. Please see page 103 for an overview of the treatment of deferred STVR awards on termination. 1 For the period they were Accountable Persons, deferred remuneration requirements under the BEAR were met for former Executives. 91 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Remuneration report STVR performance outcomes in the financial year ended 30 June 2019 – CEO The Board’s assessment of the CEO’s performance in the 2019 financial year is outlined below. Key:  = Actual result Threshold 50% – Board assesses CEO has met the threshold level of performance. Target 100% – Board assesses CEO has met the expected performance level in all aspects. Above expectations 150% – Board assesses CEO has substantially exceeded the expected performance level. Above % of STVR % of STVR Threshold Target Expectations target maximum (100% (150% Measure Weighting % 50% 100% 150% of FR) of FR) Commentary Performance scorecard Financial/Shareholder Group cash Below   threshold in Group cash NPAT (including discontinued operations) 15% 0% 0% NPAT (Target:$10,134m, Actual: $8,706m). Group underlying Below   threshold in Group underlying PACC (Target: $6,348m, 15% 0% 0% PACC Actual: $4,333m). Customer NPS outcomes for consumer  Consumer and Business NPS results were below target (Consumer  and business 5% 0% 0% Target +2, Actual -10, Business Target -15, Actual -22.4). customers (six-month rolling)  Personal leadership and focus on complaints management across the  Complaints Group. 5% 5% 3% remediation  Strong progress on open aged complaints and external dispute  resolution complaints. People  Strong personal leadership and visibility in the organisation has contributed  to restoring employee confidence and greater risk awareness. Group people  Employee engagement levels stabilised in April 2019 survey in a  measure results challenging environment, and strong increase in employee connection (culture, talent, 10% 13% 8% with the Group’s purpose was evidenced. diversity, safety  E xecutive Team refresh, including key talent in senior leader population  and wellbeing) (particularly Risk, Digital, and Information Security roles).  Zero non-conformance recorded in 2019 external Health and Safety self  insurance audit. Strategy  Developed and implemented Better Risk Outcomes Program (BROP)  Progress on to address APRA Prudential Inquiry Report recommendations and and quality of deliver on the RAP. 30% 30% 20% implementation  Independent reviewer, Promontory, assessed the RAP delivery  of the APRA RAP “on track”, with strong leadership support. As at 30 June 2019, 48% of milestones have been delivered in line with the schedule.  Focused organic capital generation through performance and capital  discipline.  Sale of Colonial First State Global Asset Management to MUFG Bank Ltd  delivering significant value to the Group. Progress on the delivery of  Better for You initiatives improved CBA brand sentiment.  Group Strategic  Continued execution on complex divestment of Wealth business,  Priorities 20% 28% 19% including Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited. (including  New Group Regulatory Engagement Standard embedded, requiring  shared priority more open and transparent approach to engaging with regulators. dashboard)  Group-wide Simplification Program established to drive cost reduction and create capacity to invest in our core.  Industry-leading digital customer experience and security, with banking  app rated best in the Australia and third best globally. Overall STVR CEO outcome 76% 50% STVR modifiers  Extensive and positive engagement across a range of stakeholders No (political, regulatory, customer and investor). Values Exceptionally Demonstrated adjustment  Led the establishment and embedding of new Purpose, Values,  Code of Conduct and ‘Should We’.  Reputational impacts arising from Royal Commission.  Substantial improvement in identification, management and governance -10% Risk and reputation Partially Met of non-financial risk. reduction  Strong progress on risk culture maturity, including through launch of Better Bank Leadership Program, however remains an ongoing focus. Overall adjusted STVR CEO outcome 68% 45% 92 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 STVR performance outcomes in the financial year ended 30 June 2019 – Executives The following table provides the 2019 financial year STVR outcomes for Executives for the period they were KMP. The minimum potential outcome is zero. STVR actual STVR STVR actual actual as a as a % of % of STVR STVR target Total Cash Deferred STVR target maximum $ $ $ $ % % CEO Matt Comyn 2,200,000 1,494,900 747,450 747,450 68% 45% Current Executives Adam Bennett 1,049,580 489,368 244,684 244,684 47% 31% Pascal Boillat 1 1,121,918 707,650 353,825 353,825 63% 42% David Cohen 2 1,200,000 696,436 348,218 348,218 58% 39% Alan Docherty3 908,527 582,592 291,296 291,296 64% 46% Andrew Hinchliff1 915,068 605,776 302,888 302,888 66% 44% Anna Lenahan 865,000 554,681 332,809 221,872 64% 43% Sian Lewis 1 754,932 521,658 260,829 260,829 69% 46% Vittoria Shortt4 1,406,141 1,567,962 940,777 627,185 112% 52% Angus Sullivan 1,050,000 749,000 374,500 374,500 71% 48% Nigel Williams 1 709,110 553,638 276,819 276,819 78% 52% Former Executives George Confos5,6 n/a 70,951 47,301 23,650 n/a n/a Coen Jonker6 462,861 299,008 179,405 119,603 65% 43% Paul Newham5,6 245,753 188,002 112,801 75,201 n/a 77% Michael Venter 5,6 456,221 222,636 133,582 89,054 n/a 49% 1 Newly appointed Executives’ STVR awards reflects their time in the role. Pascal Boillat (1 October 2018 to 30 June 2019), Andrew Hinchliff (1 August 2018 to 30 June 2019), Sian Lewis (1 August 2018 to 30 June 2019) and Nigel Williams (5 November 2018 to 30 June 2019). 2 David Cohen was appointed to the Deputy CEO role effective 5 November 2018. His STVR target reflects his time in both the Group CRO role (1 July 2018 to 4 November 2018) and Deputy CEO role (5 November 2018 to 30 June 2019). 3 Alan Docherty was acting in the Group Executive, Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer role before being appointed to the role permanently effective 15 October 2018. The values in the table above reflects his time in both acting (1 July 2018 to 14 October 2018) and permanent (15 October 2018 to 30 June 2019) appointments. Note, while acting in the role, Alan’s STVR maximum was 130% of base remuneration. 4 As detailed on page 89, for the 2019 financial year Vittoria Shortt only participated in the STVR plan and was not eligible for LTVR. STVR target represents the reference value of 120% of base salary multiplied by ASB STVR pool multiplier at target (125%). From 1 July 2019, the CEO ASB’s remuneration structure will more closely align to the Group Executives (including incorporation of a LTVR and reduction in STVR opportunity). 5 Other Executives’ STVR target shown above reflects their STVR maximum (excluding George Confos). Paul Newham’s and Michael Venter’s STVR maximum is 170% of base remuneration. George Confos’ arrangement does not specify an STVR target and/or maximum. 6 Former Executives’ remuneration reflects their time in the KMP role. George Confos (1 July 2018 to 31 July 2018), Coen Jonker (1 July 2018 to 31 December 2018), Paul Newham (1 July 2018 to 30 September 2018) and Michael Venter (1 July 2018 to 2 December 2018). 93 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Remuneration report Long term variable remuneration 2019 financial year LTVR award – key features The table below outlines key features of the 2019 financial year LTVR for the CEO and Group Executives. Refer to page 103 for treatment of LTVR on cessation of employment. Features Approach Purpose To align participants with achievement of superior performance for key stakeholder groups – being customers, the community, our people and shareholders. The LTVR aims to support creation of sustainable long-term shareholder value, drive positive culture and engagement in the Group, and re-build trust with our customers and the community. Participants CEO and Group Executives. Opportunity The maximum face value of LTVR that can be granted for the CEO and Group Executives, excluding the Group CRO, is 180% of FR. The maximum face value of LTVR that can be granted for the Group CRO is 150% of FR. The minimum potential outcome value is zero. Performance period Four years from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2022. Instrument Rights – each right entitles the participant to receive one CBA share, subject to meeting performance measures. Allocation approach Maximum face value allocation approach. The number of rights granted are calculated as follows for the CEO and Group Executives: Share price FR (at time of grant) x 180%1 ÷ (no discount applied) = Number of rights $ $ Share price: The share price used was the Volume Weighted Average Price of CBA’s ordinary shares over the five trading days up to 1 July 2018. 1 150% for the Group CRO Dividend payments No dividends or dividend equivalent payments are provided on rights. Board discretion The total LTVR award is subject to Board risk and reputation review prior to vesting, and can be reduced to zero. The Board has discretion to determine that some or all of the award will lapse in certain circumstances (malus), including where, in the opinion of the Board:  the vesting of rights is not justified or supportable, having regard to the participant’s performance and/or conduct, the performance of the business unit or function (as relevant having regard to the participant’s accountability or role), or the overall Group performance  t he vesting of rights will impact on the financial soundness of the Group or a member of the Group   significant unexpected or unintended consequence or outcome has occurred, including where original expected a performance outcomes have not been realised. Performance measures Approach 75% TSR (relative) Peer group  TSR measures a company’s share price  The peer group is made up of the 20 largest companies on the ASX by market capitalisation movement, dividends paid and any return at the beginning of the performance period, excluding resources companies, and CBA1. on capital over a specific period.  This cross-industry peer group has been chosen as it represents the typical portfolio  Relative TSR compares the ranking of CBA of companies in which CBA’s shareholders invest, and so provides valid benchmarks TSR over the performance period with the for measuring against the CBA’s TSR. TSR of other companies in a peer group. Vesting framework Reason for selection: Provides a direct link between Executive reward and shareholder Peer group ranking Vesting % returns, for alignment with our shareholders. At the 75th percentile or higher 100% Between the median and 75th percentile Pro-rata vesting from 50% to 100% At the median 50% Below the median 0% Calculation of results Each company in the peer group will be given a percentile ranking based on the growth in its TSR over the four-year performance period. TSR outcomes are calculated by an independent provider, Orient Capital. 94 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Performance measures Approach 12.5% Trust and reputation (relative) Peer group  Measured against the independent  The peer group of the 16 largest consumer-facing companies listed on the ASX by market RepTrak® pulse score survey conducted capitalisation at the beginning of the performance period, excluding resource companies, by the Reputation Institute, which uses a companies that are not familiar to the general public, companies that do not operate set of four equally weighted questions to nationally, and CBA2. test the trust, respect and admiration a respondent has for a particular company.  This cross-industry peer group has been chosen to ensure that the CBA focuses on delivering trust and reputation outcomes that are among the best in class for all Our score over the performance period is compared with the performance over the customer-focused industries, not just financial services. same period of a peer group. Vesting framework  The RepTrak® pulse score survey is conducted quarterly. Peer group ranking Vesting % Reason for selection: The Board At the 75th percentile or higher 100% recognises the critical importance for the Group and the industry of rebuilding and Between the median and 75th percentile Pro-rata vesting from 50% to 100% improving the trust of customers and the broader community. This is a key factor in At the median 50% enhancing long-term financial performance and value to shareholders. Below the median 0% Subject to positive TSR gateway Calculation of results The opening pulse score for each company will be based on the average of the March, June and September 2018 surveys, while the closing pulse score will be based on the November 2021, March and June 2022 surveys. Each company in the peer group will be given a percentile ranking based on the change in its pulse score over the four-year performance period. 12.5% Employee engagement (absolute) Target setting  Employees of CBA are invited to The target and stretch levels of performance have been set by the Board having regard for participate in an externally conducted the IBM Kenexa gap closure method and global benchmark scores provided by IBM Kenexa, online survey. and CBA’s EEI baseline relevant to the award. Executives will only be rewarded for achieving improvements in employee engagement.  The Employee Engagement Index (EEI) is calculated using particular questions from Vesting framework the survey.  EEI is based on the proportion of EEI score Vesting % employees responding that they “strongly agree” or “agree” with the four questions 80% or higher 100% relating to satisfaction, commitment, advocacy and pride (each of which is Between 75% and 80% Pro-rata vesting from 50% to 100% equally weighted). 75% 50% Reason for selection: The Board Below 75% 0% considers that an engaged workforce results in greater productivity and a better customer experience, and that builds Calculation of results overall value for the Group. It is important The surveys will be conducted by an independent provider who will facilitate and collate the the Group’s employees are its advocates, EEI results. The change in the EEI scores between the March 2018 EEI score of 72% and the committed to our purpose, values March 2022 score will be used to determine the level of vesting. and strategy. 1 The peer group at the beginning of the performance period for the TSR performance hurdle comprised: AGL Limited, Amcor Limited, Aristocrat Leisure Limited, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Limited, Brambles Limited, Cimic Group Limited, CSL Limited, Goodman Group, Insurance Australia Group Limited, Macquarie Group Limited, National Australia Bank Limited, ResMed Inc, Scentre Group, Suncorp Group Limited, Sydney Airport, Telstra A positive TSR Corporation Limited, Transurban Group, Wesfarmers Limited, Westpac Banking Corporation and Woolworths Limited. gateway is applied to the The reserve bench comprised QBE Insurance Group Limited, Treasury Wine Estates Limited, ASX Limited, REA non-financial performance Group Ltd and APA Group. A reserve bench company will be substituted (in order of market capitalisation as at the measures (trust and beginning of the performance period) into the peer group when a peer group company ceases to be listed on the reputation, employee ASX as a result of an acquisition, merger or other relevant corporate action or delisting. engagement), such that no 2 The peer group at the beginning of the performance period for the trust and reputation performance hurdle vesting on these measures occurs unless the comprised: AGL Limited, AMP Limited, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Limited, Crown Resorts Limited, change in shareholder Insurance Australia Group Limited, Lendlease Group Limited, Macquarie Group Limited, National Australia Bank value is positive. Limited, Qantas Limited, QBE Insurance Group Limited, Stockland Corporation Limited, Suncorp Group Limited, Telstra Corporation Limited, Wesfarmers Limited, Westpac Banking Corporation and Woolworths Limited. The reserve bench comprised Medibank Private Limited, Coca-Cola Amatil Limited, Flight Centre Travel Group Limited and Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited. A reserve bench company will be substituted (in order of market capitalisation as at the beginning of the performance period) into the peer group when a peer group company ceases to be listed on the ASX as a result of an acquisition, merger or other relevant corporate action or delisting. 95 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Remuneration report LTVR performance outcomes for the financial year ended 30 June 2019 The 2016 financial year LTVR award reached the end of its four-year performance period on 30 June 2019 and vested at 24.31%, with 75.69% of the LTVR award lapsing. Percentage Performance measure of award Performance outcome Vesting outcome Relative TSR 75.32% 35th percentile ranking relative to TSR peer group 0% Relative customer 24.68% Average result by business over performance period: 98.50% satisfaction1  r etail main financial institution (MFI) customer satisfaction = 1.02   ealth management customer satisfaction = 1.17 w  business MFI customer satisfaction = 1.00 Total weighted average ranking = 1.03 1 Vesting outcome for relative customer satisfaction is calculated based on the weighted average ranking across the three independent surveys (weighted by the business area’s contribution to NPAT at the beginning of the performance period). Relative customer satisfaction vests at 50% if the weighted average ranking is 2nd and 100% if the weighted average ranking is 1st, with straight line vesting in between. 5. Remuneration governance The Remuneration Committee is the governing body for developing, monitoring and assessing remuneration strategy, policies and practices across CBA on behalf of the Board. The Remuneration Committee met formally 10 times during the 2019 financial year. As part of the performance and risk review, to support the determination of remuneration outcomes for the CEO and Executives (excluding the CEO ASB), the Remuneration Committee met with the Risk and Audit Committees in February 2019 and June 2019. These meetings provided an opportunity for the Committees to review and discuss relevant risk and audit matters, including appropriate variable remuneration consequences for the matters raised, and provide direct input into the determination of variable remuneration outcomes and any in-year or malus adjustments for the CEO and Executives (excluding CEO ASB) in the 2019 financial year. Information provided to the Board Committees to support their determinations included risk scorecards, details of material risk and reputation matters, including outcomes of internal audit reviews conducted during the year and consideration of on the quality of financial results. The following diagram illustrates CBA’s remuneration governance framework. CBA Board The Board reviews, challenges, applies judgement and, as appropriate, approves the Remuneration Committee’s recommendations. It approves the remuneration of the CEO and Executives (excluding the CEO ASB) and of Non-Executive Directors and the policies and processes governing both. Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Assists the Board in the Members (as at 30 June 2019) Assesses and advises the governance of the Group’s David Higgins (Chairman) Remuneration Committee, risks. Catherine Livingstone AO of any matter relevant to Paul O’Malley financial outcomes that Advises the Remuneration Mary Padbury warrants consideration Committee of material Wendy Stops when it considers variable risk and reputation remuneration award matters which may impact Role outcomes for Executives. remuneration outcomes. Reviews, challenges, applies judgment and, as appropriate, endorses the recommendations made by management and submits for Board approval. Independent Remuneration Risk and Remuneration Consultant Review Committee It oversees the Group’s remuneration framework and During the 2019 financial (RRRC) assists the Board to ensure the Group’s remuneration year, the Remuneration Management committee strategy and structure are appropriate. Committee engaged that advises the Group Charter external advisors to provide CRO on accountability information to assist in making for material risk and The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee remuneration decisions. reputation matters which are outlined in its Charter and reviewed annually: may impact remuneration It did not seek or receive https://www.commbank.com.au/content/dam/ any remuneration outcomes. commbank-assets/about-us/docs/peoplerecommendations in the remuneration-committee-charter.pdf 2019 financial year. Concurrent Remuneration, Risk, Audit and Nominations Committee meetings The Committees meet when appropriate to consider relevant risk and audit matters in the determination of Executive remuneration outcomes 96 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 6. Executive statutory remuneration disclosures Executive statutory remuneration The following statutory table details the statutory accounting expense of all remuneration-related items for the Group’s Executives. This includes remuneration costs in relation to both the 2018 and 2019 financial years. The tables are different from the remuneration outcomes table on page 86, which shows the remuneration received in the 2019 financial year rather than the accrual accounting amounts determined in accordance with the Australian Accounting Standards. The tables have been developed and audited against the relevant Australian Accounting Standards. Refer to the footnotes below each table for more detail on each remuneration component. FR1 Other short-term benefits Long-term benefits Share-based payments Cash Deferred Deferred LTVR Base SuperanNonSTVR LongSTVR equity equity Termination Total statutory remuneration2 nuation monetary3 (at risk)4 Other5 term6 (at risk)7 (at risk)8 (at risk)9 benefits remuneration10 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ CEO Matt Comyn 30 Jun 19 2,179,469 20,531 16,928 747,450 91,672 98,034 – – 1,204,552 – 4,358,636 30 Jun 18 1,292,075 23,874 15,726 – 266,686 198,599 – – 1,162,327 – 2,959,287 Current Executives Adam Bennett 30 Jun 19 1,024,580 25,000 16,928 244,684 7,644 34,629 – 141,240 1,018,078 – 2,512,783 30 Jun 18 1,024,580 25,000 16,911 225,988 5,293 58,981 – 51,962 974,726 – 2,383,441 Pascal Boillat 30 Jun 19 1,106,561 15,356 11,583 353,825 322,213 6,612 – 2,357,718 183,916 – 4,357,784 David Cohen 30 Jun 19 1,177,914 22,086 16,928 348,218 26,087 38,147 – 163,350 1,133,049 – 2,925,779 30 Jun 18 1,175,000 25,000 16,911 261,300 (40,808) 56,646 – – 1,150,959 – 2,645,008 Alan Docherty 30 Jun 19 924,746 20,531 16,928 291,296 11,393 237,972 – 167,426 125,676 – 1,795,968 30 Jun 18 95,994 2,637 2,270 51,966 6,791 4,018 – 23,222 – – 186,898 Andrew Hinchliff11 30 Jun 19 896,281 18,788 15,520 302,888 84,714 33,247 – 331,132 122,606 – 1,805,176 Anna Lenahan12 30 Jun 19 844,469 20,531 16,928 332,809 12,743 (10,285) 221,872 357,116 1,846,755 – 3,642,938 30 Jun 18 844,951 20,049 16,911 249,120 49,351 6,993 – 533,239 440,478 – 2,161,092 Sian Lewis11 30 Jun 19 736,144 18,788 15,520 260,829 14,566 35,812 – 151,824 101,156 – 1,334,639 Vittoria Shortt11,13 30 Jun 19 937,427 56,346 9,926 940,777 24,021 28,732 – 310,192 529 – 2,307,950 30 Jun 18 497,554 14,863 9,913 97,424 (37,597) (120,140) 97,424 33,852 2,113,398 2,706,691 Angus Sullivan 30 Jun 19 1,029,469 20,531 15,379 374,500 47,688 97,018 – 183,493 128,740 – 1,896,818 30 Jun 18 109,224 5,685 3,586 78,641 8,480 2,168 – 61,180 – – 268,964 Nigel Williams 30 Jun 19 932,092 13,388 11,162 276,819 178,338 5,604 – 2,117,055 148,148 – 3,682,606 Former Executives George Confos11 30 Jun 19 67,606 2,123 1,407 47,301 6,505 1,588 – 24,668 – – 151,198 30 Jun 18 133,031 4,178 2,858 103,417 7,779 2,401 – 64,612 – – 318,276 Coen Jonker11,12,13 30 Jun 19 461,243 1,618 – 179,405 149,469 – 119,603 330,150 464,383 807,820 2,513,691 30 Jun 18 845,827 2,967 – 203,710 461,814 231,089 – 189,362 95,845 – 2,030,614 Melanie Laing11,12 30 Jun 19 71,079 2,123 – – 7,036 (88,069) – – 1,325,679 487,149 1,804,997 30 Jun 18 836,900 25,000 16,911 – 54,274 14,817 – – 938,990 – 1,886,892 Paul Newham11 30 Jun 19 207,945 6,301 3,796 112,801 12,205 582 – 61,850 – – 405,480 30 Jun 18 137,877 4,178 2,612 92,879 3,033 1,516 – 50,603 – – 292,698 Michael Venter11 30 Jun 19 268,365 10,616 6,396 133,582 22,121 3,336 – 111,426 – – 555,842 30 Jun 18 313,381 12,397 6,510 271,702 73,009 (9,953) – 179,691 – – 846,737 97 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Remuneration report 1 FR comprises base remuneration and superannuation (post-employment benefit). Superannuation contributions for Vittoria Shortt are made in line with the KiwiSaver employer contribution requirements (this includes the additional payment of $28,223 payable on her cash STVR component). Superannuation contributions for Coen Jonker were made in line with Hong Kong Mandatory Provident Fund regulations. 2 Total cost of salary including cash salary, short-term compensated absences and any salary sacrificed benefits. 3 Cost of car parking (including associated fringe benefits tax). 4 For the CEO and Group Executives, 50% of the 2019 financial year STVR for performance during the 12 months to 30 June 2019 (payable in September 2019). For the Other Executives, two-thirds of the 2019 financial year STVR for performance during the 12 months to 30 June 2019 (payable in September 2019). For the CEO ASB, 60% of the 2019 financial year STVR for performance during the 12 months to 30 June 2019 (payable in August 2019). KiwiSaver is payable on cash STVR. 5 Includes company-funded benefits (including associated fringe benefits tax where applicable) and the net change in accrued annual leave. For Adam Bennett, this includes an adjustment to 2018 financial year accrued annual leave. For Coen Jonker this includes costs in relation to his Hong Kong assignment. For Pascal Boillat and Nigel Williams this includes costs in relation to relocation to Sydney. For Pascal Boillat, this also includes costs in relation to a housing allowance. 6 Long service entitlements accrued during the year as well as the impact of changes to long service leave valuation assumptions, which are determined in line with Australian Accounting Standards. 7 The deferred portion of the 2019 financial year STVR outcome for Anna Lenahan and Coen Jonker is deferred into cash over a two year period. The deferred portion of the 2018 financial year STVR outcome for Vittoria Shortt was also deferred into cash over a two year period. 8 2019 financial year expense for deferred STVR awarded under Group Executive and Executive General Manager arrangements, as well as sign-on and retention awards received as deferred rights and/or shares. These equity awards are subject to forfeiture if the Executive is dismissed or ceases to be employed by the Group as a result of resignation prior to the vesting date. Deferred 2019 financial year STVR will be expensed over the vesting period commencing 1 July 2019. 9 2019 financial year expense for the 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 financial year LTVR awards. 10 The percentage of 2019 financial year remuneration related to performance was: Matt Comyn 45%, Adam Bennett 56%, Pascal Boillat 12%, David Cohen 56%, Alan Docherty 33%, Andrew Hinchliff 42%, Anna Lenahan 66%, Sian Lewis 38%, Vittoria Shortt 54%, Angus Sullivan 36%, Nigel Williams 12%, George Confos 48%, Coen Jonker 44%, Melanie Laing 73%, Paul Newham 43% and Michael Venter 44%. 11 Remuneration reflects the individual’s time in their respective KMP role(s). For Vittoria Shortt, prior year comparison reflects her previous role of Group Executive, Marketing and Strategy (for which she ceased as KMP on 2 February 2018). 12 The LTVR rights value for Anna Lenahan, Coen Jonker and Melanie Laing reflects the disclosable accruals for all previously granted LTVR awards that remain unvested following cessation of employment up to the end of each performance period. This means that up to three years of each unvested LTVR award expense has been brought forward and disclosed in total for the 2019 financial year, including those amounts which would otherwise have been included in future year disclosures and that may not vest. These LTVR awards remain on foot and will only vest subject to the achievement of the pre-determined performance conditions and Board risk and reputation review. 13 For Vittoria Shortt and Coen Jonker, remuneration was paid in New Zealand and Hong Kong dollars respectively and was impacted by movements in exchange rates. Fair value assumptions for awards granted in the 2019 financial year In the 2019 financial year a face value allocation approach was used to determine the number of rights granted under the LTVR (refer to page 99). The table below is provided in accordance with statutory requirements. The fair value has been calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation method using the assumptions below. The exercise price is nil across all LTVR awards. The fair value of rights under the trust and reputation and employee engagement performance measures is higher than for the relative TSR performance measure. This is expected because the likelihood of achieving a positive TSR over the performance period (i.e. the gate opener that applies to the trust and reputation and employee engagement tranches) is greater than the likelihood of achieving a relative TSR ranking higher than the median across the peer group. Performance Expected Expected Risk free Dividend Fair value period end/final life volatility rate yield Equity plan Performance measure Grant date $ vesting date (years) % % % Relative TSR 12 Nov 18 33.57 30 Jun 22 3.63 15 2.29 5.83 Trust and reputation 12 Nov 18 49.87 30 Jun 22 3.63 15 2.29 5.83 FY19 LTVR rights (positive TSR gateway) Employee engagement 12 Nov 18 49.87 30 Jun 22 3.63 15 2.29 5.83 (positive TSR gateway) FY18 STVR Deferral1 Service 1 Sep 18 72.00 1 Sep 21 n/a n/a n/a n/a Sign-on Award – Service 1 Oct 18 70.87 1 Mar 23 n/a n/a n/a n/a Pascal Boillat Sign-on Award – Service 5 Nov 18 68.52 22 Nov 21 n/a n/a n/a n/a Nigel Williams 1 For the Group Executive 2018 financial year STVR deferral, final vesting date will occur on 1 September 2020. For the Executive General Manager 2018 financial year STVR deferral, final vesting will occur on 1 September 2021. 98 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Equity awards received as remuneration The table below details the value and number of all equity awards that were granted, vested, forfeited or lapsed to Executives during their time in a KMP role in 2019 financial year. It also shows the number of previous years’ awards that vested during the 2019 financial year – some of which relate to past non-KMP roles. Granted during Awards vested during Forfeited or lapsed during 2019 financial year2 2019 financial year3 2019 financial year4 Class1 Units $ Units $ Units $ CEO Matt Comyn LTVR reward rights 54,364 2,046,516 5,394 464,108 17,251 1,270,151 Current Executives Adam Bennett LTVR reward rights 25,936 976,361 2,390 205,639 7,645 562,884 Deferred STVR shares 3,139 226,008 – – – – Deferred STVR rights – – 2,056 167,345 – – Pascal Boillat LTVR reward rights 37,066 1,395,341 – – – – Sign-on equity 82,660 5,858,114 14,879 1,052,765 – – David Cohen LTVR reward rights 29,652 1,116,233 4,713 405,514 15,074 1,109,864 Deferred STVR shares 3,630 261,360 – – – – Alan Docherty LTVR reward rights 25,329 953,506 – – – – Deferred STVR shares 2,745 197,640 – – – – Deferred STVR rights – – 2,950 233,096 – – Andrew Hinchliff LTVR reward rights 24,709 930,150 – – – – Deferred STVR shares 6,019 433,368 – – – – Deferred STVR rights – – 4,831 378,283 – – Anna Lenahan LTVR reward rights 21,373 804,566 – – – – Deferred STVR shares 3,460 249,120 – – – – Sign-on equity – – 9,234 719,170 – – Sian Lewis LTVR reward rights 20,386 767,423 – – – – Deferred STVR shares 2,500 180,000 – – – – Deferred STVR rights – – 2,848 223,942 – – Vittoria Shortt5 LTVR reward rights – – 1,468 126,309 4,692 345,461 Deferred STVR rights 7,064 508,608 2,253 183,379 – – Angus Sullivan LTVR reward rights 25,946 976,729 – – – – Deferred STVR shares 2,402 172,944 – – – – Deferred STVR rights – – 5,153 409,280 – – Nigel Williams LTVR reward rights 29,858 1,123,996 – – – – Sign-on equity 43,112 2,954,034 18,538 1,294,553 – – Former Executives George Confos Deferred STVR shares 4,298 309,456 – – – – Deferred STVR rights – – 7,786 619,619 – – Coen Jonker Deferred STVR shares 2,960 213,120 – – – – Deferred STVR rights – – 1,599 124,749 – – Melanie Laing LTVR reward rights – – 4,425 380,734 14,153 1,042,053 Paul Newham Deferred STVR shares 3,860 277,920 – – – – Deferred STVR rights – – 6,158 490,144 – – Michael Venter Deferred STVR shares 3,805 273,960 – – – – Deferred STVR rights – – 6,262 524,970 – – 99 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Remuneration report 1 Deferred STVR shares/rights represent STVR previously awarded under the Group Executive or Executive General Manager arrangements. Sign-on equity was awarded in the 2019 financial year in the form of deferred shares for Pascal Boillat and Nigel Williams, and deferred rights from prior years for Anna Lenahan. 2 Represents the maximum number of equity awards that may vest to each Executive in respect of their time as KMP. The values represent the fair value at grant date. The minimum potential outcome for the equity awards is zero. 3 Awards that vested include the 2015 financial year LTVR award (granted 18 September 2014, except for Adam Bennett the grant date was 12 February 2015 and for Vittoria Shortt the grant date was 7 May 2015), deferred STVR awards (vested in full) (tranches granted 1 September 2015, 1 September 2016 and 1 September 2017) and sign-on shares/rights (granted 28 November 2016, 1 October 2018 and 5 November 2018) that vested during time in KMP role. The value of the awards vested is calculated using VWACP for the five days preceding the vesting date, and includes the value of dividends accrued over the vesting period. 4 This includes the portion of the 2015 financial year LTVR award (76.18%) that did not meet the performance hurdle and lapsed. The value of the lapsed award is calculated using the VWACP for the five days preceding the lapse date. 5 Vittoria Shortt’s LTVR awards are in relation to her Group Executive role prior to her becoming the CEO ASB. Overview of unvested equity awards Performance period/ vesting schedule Equity plan Grant date Start date End date Performance measures/vesting conditions FY17 LTVR 22 Feb 17 1 Jul 16 30 Jun 20 Each award is split and tested:  75% TSR ranking relative to peer group   5% customer satisfaction average ranking relative 2 to peer group. Subject to Board risk and reputation review and malus provisions. FY18 LTVR 17 Nov 17 1 Jul 17 30 Jun 21 Each award is split and tested: FY19 LTVR 12 Nov 18 1 Jul 18 30 Jun 22  75% TSR ranking relative to peer group  1 2.5% trust and reputation (relative to peer group) and 12.5% employee engagement (both measures are subject to a positive TSR gateway). Subject to Board risk and reputation review and malus provisions. FY18 STVR 1 Sep 18 1 Jul 17 30 Jun 18 Vesting to occur after 1 and 2 years, subject to:  Continued employment;  Board risk and reputation review; and  Malus provisions. FY16 Executive 1 Sep 16 1 Jul 15 30 Jun 16 Vesting to occur after 1, 2 and 3 years, subject to: General Manager STVR  Continued employment; FY17 Executive 1 Sep 17 1 Jul 16 30 Jun 17  Board risk and reputation review; and General Manager STVR  Malus provisions. FY18 Executive 1 Sep 18 1 Jul 17 30 Jun 18 General Manager STVR Pascal Boillat 1 Oct 18 1 Apr 19 1 Mar 23 No performance measures. Subject to: sign-on equity  Continued employment; Nigel Williams 5 Nov 18 1 Jan 19 22 Nov 21  Board risk and reputation review; and sign-on equity  Malus provisions. 100 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Shares and other securities held by Executives Details of the shareholdings and other securities held by Executives (or close family members or entities controlled, jointly controlled, or significantly influenced by them, or any entity over which any of the aforementioned hold significant voting power) are set out below relating to time in KMP role. Awards Acquired/ vested during Balance granted as the 2019 Net change Balance Class1 1 Jul 18 remuneration financial year2 other3 30 Jun 19 CEO Matt Comyn Ordinary 50,003 – 5,394 – 55,397 LTVR reward rights 89,229 54,364 (5,394) (17,251) 120,948 Current Executives – – Adam Bennett Ordinary 19,825 – 4,446 – 24,271 LTVR reward rights 73,763 25,936 (2,390) (7,645) 89,664 Deferred STVR shares – 3,139 – – 3,139 Deferred STVR rights 2,056 – (2,056) – – Pascal Boillat Ordinary n/a – 14,879 (14,879) – LTVR reward rights n/a 37,066 – – 37,066 Sign-on equity n/a 82,660 (14,879) – 67,781 David Cohen Ordinary 56,944 – 4,713 (5,776) 55,881 LTVR reward rights 89,349 29,652 (4,713) (15,074) 99,214 Deferred STVR shares – 3,630 – – 3,630 Alan Docherty Ordinary 2,192 – 2,950 – 5,142 LTVR reward rights – 25,329 – – 25,329 Deferred STVR shares – 2,745 – – 2,745 Deferred STVR rights 5,209 – (2,950) – 2,259 Andrew Hinchliff Ordinary n/a – 4,831 – 4,831 LTVR reward rights n/a 24,709 – – 24,709 Deferred STVR shares n/a 6,019 – – 6,019 Deferred STVR rights n/a – (4,831) 9,638 4,807 Anna Lenahan Ordinary 13,852 – 9,234 (4,617) 18,469 LTVR reward rights 36,911 21,373 – – 58,284 Deferred STVR shares – 3,460 – – 3,460 Sign-on equity 9,234 – (9,234) – – PERLS 2,000 – – (2,000) – Sian Lewis Ordinary n/a – 2,848 88 2,936 LTVR reward rights n/a 20,386 – – 20,386 Deferred STVR shares n/a 2,500 – – 2,500 Deferred STVR rights n/a – (2,848) 5,382 2,534 Vittoria Shortt4 Ordinary 11,384 – 3,642 – 15,026 LTVR reward rights 60,173 – (1,468) (4,692) 54,013 Deferred STVR rights 2,253 7,064 (2,253) – 7,064 101 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Remuneration report Awards Acquired/ vested during Balance granted as the 2019 Net change Balance Class1 1 Jul 18 remuneration financial year2 other3 30 Jun 19 Angus Sullivan Ordinary 4,316 – 5,153 – 9,469 LTVR reward rights – 25,946 – – 25,946 Deferred STVR shares – 2,402 – – 2,402 Deferred STVR rights 8,419 – (5,153) – 3,266 Nigel Williams Ordinary n/a – 18,538 – 18,538 LTVR reward rights n/a 29,858 – – 29,858 Sign-on equity n/a 43,112 (18,538) – 24,574 Former Executives George Confos Ordinary 1,685 – 7,786 (8,636) n/a Deferred STVR shares – 4,298 – – n/a Deferred STVR rights 12,332 – (7,786) – n/a PERLS 330 – – 200 n/a Coen Jonker LTVR reward rights 18,658 – – – n/a Deferred STVR shares – 2,960 – – n/a Deferred STVR rights 4,164 – (1,599) – n/a Melanie Laing Ordinary 63,490 – 4,425 (4,425) n/a LTVR reward rights 72,238 – (4,425) (14,153) n/a Paul Newham Ordinary 4,932 – 6,158 – n/a Deferred STVR shares – 3,860 – – n/a Deferred STVR rights 9,729 – (6,158) – n/a Michael Venter Ordinary – – 1,270 (1,270) n/a Deferred STVR shares – 3,805 – – n/a Deferred STVR rights 10,191 – (6,262) – n/a 1 Ordinary shares include all CBA shares held by the Executive’s related parties. LTVR reward rights are subject to performance hurdles. Deferred rights/shares represent the deferred STVR awarded under Group Executive and Executive General Manager arrangements, sign-on and retention awards. Both LTVR rights and deferred rights/shares are unvested as at 30 June 2019. The maximum potential outcome for LTVR rights and deferred rights/shares is subject to CBA share price at time of vesting. 2 LTVR rights and deferred rights/shares become ordinary shares or cash equivalent upon vesting. 3 Net change other incorporates changes resulting from purchases, sales, forfeitures during the year and shares or rights held by an Executive prior to their appointment as KMP. 4 Vittoria Shortt’s LTVR awards are in relation to her Group Executive role prior to her becoming the CEO ASB. 102 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Executive employment arrangements The table below provides the employment arrangements for current Executives. Contract term CEO Group Executives CEO ASB Other Executives Contract type1 Permanent Permanent Permanent Permanent Notice period 12 months 6 months 6 months 3 months Severance n/a n/a 2 12 months 2 3 months3 Treatment of STVR  Unless otherwise determined by the Board (or ASB Board in respect of the CEO ASB), Executives who resign  on termination or are dismissed are not eligible to receive an STVR award and will forfeit any unvested deferred STVR awards.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board, where an Executive’s exit is related to any other reason (e.g., retrenchment,  retirement or death), the Executive may be eligible for an STVR award with regard to actual performance against performance measures (as determined by the Board in the ordinary course following the end of the performance period).  Unless otherwise determined by the Board, where an Executive’s exit is related to any other reason (e.g., retrenchment, retirement or death) unvested deferred STVR awards will remain on foot subject to the original terms and conditions and will vest in the ordinary course, as though the Executive had not ceased employment. Treatment of LTVR In general, unless otherwise determined by the Board: on termination  Executives who resign or are dismissed before the end of the performance period will forfeit all unvested LTVR awards; and  Where an Executive’s exit is related to any other reason (e.g., retrenchment, retirement or death), any unvested LTVR awards continue on-foot with performance measured at the end of the performance period related to each award. The CEO ASB and Other Executives are not eligible for LTVR. 1 Permanent contracts continue until notice is given by either party. 2 Contractual severance pay is no longer offered in Group Executive employment arrangements. Group Executives remain entitled to statutory redundancy pay if retrenched. For Group Executives on grandfathered arrangements, they are eligible for severance payments of six months’ base remuneration if their employment is terminated by the Group, other than for misconduct or unsatisfactory performance. For the CEO ASB, contractual severance allows for minimum 12 months’ base salary (inclusive of notice) or a maximum of 64 weeks in accordance with ASB Policy. 3 Contractual severance pay applies where employment is terminated due to redundancy. 7. Non-Executive Director arrangements Non-Executive Director fees Non-Executive Directors receive fees to recognise their contribution to the work of the Board and the associated Committees on which they serve. Non-Executive Directors do not receive any performance-related remuneration. The total amount of Non-Executive Directors fees is capped at a maximum fee pool that is approved by shareholders. The current fee pool is $4.75 million, which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 17 November 2015. The following table outlines the Non-Executive Directors fees for the Board and the Committees as at 30 June 2019. Fees are inclusive of base fees and statutory superannuation. The Chairman does not receive separate Committee fees. Chairman Member Board/Committee $ $ Board 870,000 242,000 Audit Committee 65,000 32,500 Risk Committee 65,000 32,500 Remuneration Committee 60,000 30,000 Nominations Committee 11,600 11,600 Due Diligence Committee1 4,0002 Nil 1 The Due Diligence Committee did not meet during the 2019 financial year. 2 Represents fees for each full day meeting. Mandatory shareholding requirement Non-Executive Directors are required to hold 5,000 or more CBA shares. For those Non-Executive Directors who have holdings below this threshold, 20% of their after-tax base fees are used to purchase CBA shares under the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Plan (NEDSP) until a holding of 5,000 shares is reached. These shares are subject to a 10-year trading restriction (the shares will be released earlier if the Non-Executive Director leaves the Board). The Non-Executive Directors’ mandatory shareholding requirement was reviewed during the 2019 financial year. From 1 July 2019, Non-Executive Directors are required to hold CBA shares equivalent to 100% base fees for Non-Executive Directors and 100% of Chairman fees for the Chairman. This is to be accumulated over five years. Progress against the new requirement will be disclosed from the 2020 financial year. 103 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Remuneration report Non-Executive Director statutory remuneration The statutory table below details individual statutory remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors for both the 2019 and 2018 financial years. Post-employment Share-based Short-term benefits benefits payments Non-Executive Directors’ Share Total statutory Cash1 Superannuation2 Plan3 remuneration $ $ $ $ Chairman Catherine Livingstone AO4,5 30 Jun 19 864,013 20,531 884,544 30 Jun 18 749,201 20,049 769,250 Current Non-Executive Directors Shirish Apte4,6 30 Jun 19 349,010 20,531 369,541 30 Jun 18 353,970 15,037 369,007 Genevieve Bell 7 30 Jun 19 95,031 9,905 14,320 119,256 David Higgins 4 30 Jun 19 313,052 20,531 333,584 30 Jun 18 246,570 20,049 266,619 Paul O’Malley 7 30 Jun 19 112,266 10,099 122,365 Mary Padbury 4,8 30 Jun 19 236,674 20,531 25,618 282,823 30 Jun 18 225,584 20,049 30,657 276,290 Wendy Stops 4 30 Jun 19 287,028 20,531 307,559 30 Jun 18 225,434 19,554 244,988 Anne Templeman-Jones8,9 30 Jun 19 271,568 20,531 30,136 322,235 30 Jun 18 66,165 6,516 9,045 81,726 Robert Whitfield8,9 30 Jun 19 231,314 20,531 33,471 285,316 30 Jun 18 184,703 16,567 26,945 228,215 Former Non-Executive Directors Brian Long4,10 30 Jun 19 161,242 10,266 171,508 30 Jun 18 259,777 20,049 279,826 Andrew Mohl4,10 30 Jun 19 103,109 8,173 111,282 30 Jun 18 223,073 19,650 242,723 1 Cash includes Board and Committee fees received as cash, as well as the provision of additional benefits (including associated fringe benefits tax). 2 Superannuation contributions are capped at the superannuation maximum contributions base as prescribed under the Superannuation Guarantee legislation. 3 The values shown in the tables represent the post-tax portion of fees received as shares under the NEDSP. 4 Base and committee fees for the 2018 financial year were reduced by an amount equivalent to 20% of individual 2017 financial year fees, reflecting collective accountability for the trust and reputational issues that promoted the need for the APRA Prudential Inquiry. 5 For Catherine Livingstone, 2018 financial year cash fees have been adjusted to reflect the provision of car parking benefits (including associated fringe benefits tax). 6 For Shirish Apte, 2018 financial year cash fees have been adjusted to reflect payments in relation to fringe benefits tax on additional benefits. 7 Genevieve Bell and Paul O’Malley were appointed as Non-Executive Directors effective 1 January 2019 and their remuneration reflects time in the role. 8 For Mary Padbury, Anne Templeman-Jones and Robert Whitfield the proportion between cash fees and NEDSP shares has been adjusted for the 2018 financial year. 9 Anne Templeman-Jones was appointed as a Non-Executive Director effective 5 March 2018 and Robert Whitfield was appointed as a Non-Executive Director effective 4 September 2017. Their 2018 financial year remuneration reflects time in the role. 10 B rian Long and Andrew Mohl retired from their Non-Executive Director roles effective 31 December 2018 and 7 November 2018 respectively and their remuneration reflects time in the role. 104 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Shares and other securities held by Non-Executive Directors All shares were acquired by Non-Executive Directors on normal terms and conditions or through the NEDSP. Other securities acquired by Non-Executive Directors were on normal terms and conditions. Balance Net change Balance Class 1 Jul 18 Acquired1 other2 30 Jun 19 Chairman Catherine Livingstone AO Ordinary 5,337 2,000 – 7,337 Current Non-Executive Directors Shirish Apte Ordinary 7,500 – – 7,500 Genevieve Bell Ordinary n/a 141 – 141 PERLS4 n/a – – 1,020 David Higgins Ordinary 10,878 – – 10,878 PERLS 4 150 – – 150 Paul O’Malley Ordinary n/a 5,330 – 5,330 Mary Padbury Ordinary 834 445 – 1,279 PERLS 4 1,600 – – 1,600 Wendy Stops Ordinary 16,000 – – 16,000 Anne Templeman-Jones Ordinary 358 680 – 1,038 Robert Whitfield Ordinary 309 549 – 858 Former Non-Executive Directors Brian Long3 Ordinary 14,956 – – n/a PERLS 4 6,850 – – n/a Andrew Mohl3 Ordinary 82,234 – – n/a 1 Incorporates shares and other securities acquired during the year. In the 2019 financial year, under the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Plan, Genevieve Bell received 141 shares, Mary Padbury received 376 shares, Anne Templeman-Jones received 427 shares and Robert Whitfield received 480 shares. 2 Net change other incorporates changes resulting from sales of securities. 3 Brian Long and Andrew Mohl retired from the Group effective 31 December 2018 and 7 November 2018 respectively and their shareholding balance as at 30 June 2019 is not included. 4 Includes cumulative holdings of PERLS securities issued by the Group. 105 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Remuneration report 8. Loans and other transactions Loans to KMP All loans to KMP (including close family members or entities controlled, jointly controlled, or significantly influenced by them, or any entity over which any of those family members or entities held significant voting power) have been made in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other employees including the term of the loan, security required and the interest rate (which may be fixed or variable). No loans were written down during the period. Total loans to KMP 30 Jun 19 $ Opening Balance 17,681,018 Closing Balance1 12,376,700 Interest Charged 480,435 1 The aggregate loan amount at the end of the reporting period includes loans issued to 12 KMP. Loans to KMP exceeding $100,000 in aggregate during the 2019 financial year Balance Interest Interest not Balance Highest balance 1 Jul 18 charged charged Write-off 30 Jun 19 in period1 $ $ $ $ $ $ Adam Bennett 18,464 3,540 – – 1,011,887 1,038,577 David Cohen 451,334 12,909 – – 43,481 490,188 Alan Docherty 1,580,187 57,044 – – 1,447,903 1,587,312 Andrew Hinchliff n/a 1,699 – – 44,368 121,287 Sian Lewis n/a 29,733 – – 775,808 836,187 Paul Newham 4,008,128 70,311 – – n/a 4,176,522 Vittoria Shortt 4,736,951 15,476 – – 3,327,450 5,889,636 Angus Sullivan 5,639,759 239,781 – – 5,652,632 5,866,364 Michael Venter 1,185,195 41,333 – – n/a 1,206,891 Total 17,620,018 471,826 – – 12,303,529 21,212,964 1 Represents the sum of highest balances outstanding at any point during the 2019 financial year for each individual loan held by the KMP. Other transactions of KMP Financial instrument transactions Financial instrument transactions (other than loans and shares disclosed within this report) of KMP, their close family members and entities controlled or significantly influenced by them, occur in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other employees. All such financial instrument transactions that have occurred between entities within the Group and KMP, their close family members and entities controlled or significantly influenced by them, were in the nature of normal personal banking and deposit transactions. Transactions other than financial instrument transactions All other transactions with KMP, their close family members, related entities and other related parties are conducted in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other employees and customers. These transactions principally involve the provision of financial and investment services by entities not controlled by the Group. 106 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Non-Audit Services Amounts paid or payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) for audit and non-audit services provided during the year, as set out in Note 12.4 to the Financial report are as follows: 2019 $’000 Taxation services 1,395 Other services 7,915 Total non-audit services 1 9,310 Total audit and audit related services 34,698 1 An additional amount of $2,975,730 was paid to PwC for non-audit services provided to entities not consolidated into the Financial Statements. Auditor’s Independence Declaration We have obtained an independence declaration from our external auditor as presented on page 108. Auditor Independence The Group has an External Auditor Services Policy to assist in ensuring the independence of the Group’s external auditor. The Audit Committee has considered the provision, during the year, of non-audit services by PwC and has concluded that the provision of those services did not compromise the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). The Audit Committee recommended that it was satisfied that the provision of the non-audit services by PwC during the year was compatible with the general standard of independence imposed by the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). The Directors are satisfied that the provision of the non-audit services during the year did not compromise the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). The reasons for this are as follows:  The operation of the External Auditor Services Policy during the year to restrict the nature of non-audit services engagements, to prohibit certain services and to require Audit Committee pre-approval for all such engagements; and  The relative quantum of fees paid for non-audit services compared to the quantum for audit and audit related services. The above Directors' statements are in accordance with the recommendation received from the Audit Committee. Incorporation of Additional Material This Report incorporates the Strategic report (pages 2 – 39) including the Chairman's and CEO's messages, Financial performance (pages 40 – 49), Risk management (pages 50 – 63), Corporate governance (pages 64 – 75), Shareholder information (pages 286 – 291) and the Environmental, customer, social and governance metrics (pages 297 – 306) sections of this Annual Report. Catherine Livingstone AO Chairman 7 August 2019 Matt Comyn Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 7 August 2019 107 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Auditor’ Independence Declaration Auditor’s Independence Declaration As lead auditor for the audit of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia for the year ended 30 June 2019, I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, there have been: (a) no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and (b) no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit. This declaration is in respect of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia and the entities it controlled during the period. Matthew Lunn Sydney Partner 7 August 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo, GPO BOX 2650, SYDNEY NSW 2001//www.pwcactuarial.com T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. 108 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Financial report 109 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Contents Contents Income statements 112 Statements of comprehensive income 113 Balance sheets 114 Statements of changes in equity 115 Statements of cash fows 117 Notes to the fnancial statements 119 1. Overview 119 1.1 General information, basis of accounting, changes in accounting policies 119 2. Our performance 130 2.1 Net interest income 130 2.2 Average balances and related interest 132 2.3 Other operating income 137 2.4 Operating expenses 139 2.5 Income tax expense 141 2.6 Earnings per share 144 2.7 Financial reporting by segments 145 3. Our lending activities 149 3.1 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 149 3.2 Provisions for impairment 153 4. Our deposits and funding activities 160 4.1 Deposits and other public borrowings 160 4.2 Liabilities at fair value through income statement 161 4.3 Debt issues 162 4.4 Securitisation, covered bonds and transferred assets 164 5. Our investing, trading and other banking activities 166 5.1 Cash and liquid assets 166 5.2 Assets at fair value through income statement 167 5.3 Derivative fnancial instruments and hedge accounting 168 5.4 Investment securities 179 6. Other assets 181 6.1 Intangible assets 181 6.2 Other assets 184 7. Other liabilities 185 7.1 Other provisions 185 7.2 Bills payable and other liabilities 190 110 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 8. Our capital, equity and reserves 191 8.1 Capital adequacy 191 8.2 Loan capital 192 8.3 Shareholders’ equity 194 8.4 Dividends 199 9. Risk management 201 9.1 Risk management framework 202 9.2 Credit risk 205 9.3 Market risk 226 9.4 Liquidity and funding risk 228 9.5 Disclosures about fair values 232 9.6 Collateral arrangements 241 9.7 Offsetting fnancial assets and fnancial liabilities 242 10. Employee benefts 246 10.1 Share-based payments 246 10.2 Retirement beneft obligations 248 10.3 Key management personnel 251 11. Group structure 253 11.1 Investments in subsidiaries and other entities 253 11.2 Related party disclosures 259 11.3 Discontinued operations 260 12. Other 264 12.1 Contingent liabilities, contingent assets and commitments arising from the banking business 264 12.2 Lease commitments 265 12.3 Notes to the statements of cash fows 266 12.4 Remuneration of auditors 267 12.5 Future accounting developments 268 12.6 Accounting policies applicable for comparative periods 269 12.7 Subsequent events 271 Directors’ declaration 272 Independent auditor’s report 273 Other information 285 111 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Income statements For the year ended 30 June 2019 Group (1) (2) (3) Bank (2) (3) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Note $M $M $M $M $M Interest income: Effective interest income 2.1 34,089 33,643 32,705 32,960 32,531 Other 2.1 499 501 490 499 465 Interest expense 2.1 (16,468) (15,802) (15,649) (17,405) (16,585) Net interest income 18,120 18,342 17,546 16,054 16,411 Other banking income 2.3 4,994 5,423 5,721 6,044 7,365 Net banking operating income 23,114 23,765 23,267 22,098 23,776 Net funds management operating income 2.3 1,073 1,124 1,038 Net insurance operating income 2.3 150 241 178 Total net operating income before impairment and 24,337 25,130 24,483 22,098 23,776 operating expenses Loan impairment expense 3.2 (1,201) (1,079) (1,095) (1,058) (963) Operating expenses 2.4 (11,373) (11,029) (10,133) (10,633) (10,703) Net profit before income tax 11,763 13,022 13,255 10,407 12,110 Income tax expense 2.5 (3,391) (3,952) (3,784) (2,624) (3,235) Net profit after income tax from continuing operations 8,372 9,070 9,471 7,783 8,875 Non-controlling interests in net profit after income tax from (12) (13) (13) continuing operations Net profit attributable to equity holders of the Bank 8,360 9,057 9,458 7,783 8,875 from continuing operations Net profit after tax from discontinued operations 218 278 481 Non-controlling interests in net profit after income tax from (7) (6) (11) discontinued operations Net profit attributable to equity holders of the Bank 8,571 9,329 9,928 7,783 8,875 The above Income Statements should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Earnings per share for profit attributable to equity holders of the Bank during the year: Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Cents per share (1) Earnings per share from continuing operations: Basic 473. 7 518. 8 549. 9 Diluted 457. 5 503. 2 532. 9 Earnings per share: Basic 485. 6 534. 3 577. 3 Diluted 468. 6 517. 7 558. 8 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. For details on the Group’s discontinued operations refer to Note 11.3. (2) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (3) Current year amounts reflect the adoption of AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ and AASB 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ on 1 July 2018. As permitted by AASB 9 and AASB 15 comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 refer to Note 1.1. 112 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 For the year ended 30 June 2019 Group (1) (2) Bank (2) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M $M Net profit after income tax for the period from continuing operations 8,372 9,070 9,471 7,783 8,875 Other comprehensive income/(expense): Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit/(loss): Foreign currency translation reserve net of tax 457 (12) (256) 214 53 Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedging instruments net of tax 947 (53) (577) 1,003 4 Gains/(losses) on debt investment securities at fair value through other 103 (5) comprehensive income net of tax Losses on available-for-sale investments net of tax (68) (52) (34) Total of items that may be reclassified 1,507 (133) (885) 1,212 23 Items that will not be reclassified to profit/(loss): Actuarial (losses)/gains from defined benefit superannuation plans net of (49) 161 175 (50) 159 tax Losses on liabilities at fair value due to changes in own credit risk net of tax (2) (3) (2) Losses on equity investment securities at fair value through other (6) (1) comprehensive income net of tax Revaluation of properties net of tax 34 31 23 33 29 Total of items that will not be reclassified (21) 190 195 (18) 186 Other comprehensive income/(expense) net of income tax from 1,486 57 (690) 1,194 209 continuing operations Total comprehensive income for the period from continuing 9,858 9,127 8,781 8,977 9,084 operations Net profit after income tax for the period from discontinued operations 218 278 481 Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the period from discontinued 14 (6) (29) operations net of income tax (3) Total comprehensive income for the period 10,090 9,399 9,233 8,977 9,084 Total comprehensive income for the period is attributable to: Equity holders of the Bank 10,071 9,380 9,209 8,977 9,084 Non-controlling interests 19 19 24 Total comprehensive income net of tax 10,090 9,399 9,233 8,977 9,084 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. For details on the Group’s discontinued operations refer to Note 11.3. (2) Current year amounts reflect the adoption of AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ and AASB 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ on 1 July 2018. As permitted by AASB 9 and AASB 15 comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 refer to Note 1.1. (3) Includes $7 million gain on foreign currency translation net of tax (30 June 2018: $3 million gain; 30 June 2017: $29 million loss) and $7 million gain on revaluation of debt investment securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income net of tax. The year ended 30 June 2018 includes $9 million loss on revaluation of available-for-sale investments net of tax. The above Statements of Comprehensive Income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Note Cents per share Dividends per share attributable to shareholders of the Bank: Ordinary shares 8.4 431 431 429 113 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Balance sheets As at 30 June 2019 Group (1) (2) (3) Bank (1) (3) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Assets Note $M $M $M $M Cash and liquid assets 5.1 29,387 36,417 26,912 33,581 Receivables due from other financial institutions 8,093 9,222 7,334 8,376 Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 5.2 32,506 32,254 32,476 29,993 Insurance 5.2 372 Other 5.2 1,171 258 652 Derivative assets 5.3 25,215 32,133 24,311 30,885 Investment securities: At amortised cost 5.4 7,355 7,349 At fair value through other comprehensive income 5.4 78,912 73,212 Available-for-sale investments 5.4 82,240 77,731 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 3.1 755,141 743,365 660,476 656,650 Bank acceptances of customers 32 379 32 379 Shares in and loans to controlled entities 11.2 120,193 118,252 Property, plant and equipment 2,383 2,576 1,389 1,460 Investments in associates and joint ventures 11.1 3,001 2,842 1,017 1,118 Intangible assets 6.1 7,965 9,090 4,317 4,466 Deferred tax assets 2.5 1,675 1,439 1,570 1,430 Other assets 6.2 7,115 6,924 5,910 6,212 Assets held for sale 11.3 16,551 15,654 1 19 Total assets 976,502 975,165 967,151 970,552 Liabilities Deposits and other public borrowings 4.1 636,040 622,234 573,851 566,200 Payables due to other financial institutions 23,370 20,899 22,618 20,014 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 4.2 8,520 10,247 7,961 9,106 Derivative liabilities 5.3 22,777 28,472 26,654 30,871 Bank acceptances 32 379 32 379 Due to controlled entities 105,774 105,327 Current tax liabilities 326 952 129 796 Other provisions 7.1 2,751 1,860 2,337 1,561 Insurance policy liabilities 451 Debt issues 4.3 163,990 172,294 131,062 139,984 Bills payable and other liabilities 7.2 10,285 11,625 9,040 10,145 Liabilities held for sale 11.3 15,796 14,900 883,887 884,313 879,458 884,383 Loan capital 8.2 22,966 22,992 22,569 22,249 Total liabilities 906,853 907,305 902,027 906,632 Net assets 69,649 67,860 65,124 63,920 Shareholders' Equity Ordinary share capital 8.3 38,020 37,270 38,212 37,533 Reserves 8.3 3,092 1,676 3,813 2,568 Retained profits 8.3 28,482 28,360 23,099 23,819 Shareholders' Equity attributable to equity holders of the Bank 69,594 67,306 65,124 63,920 Non-controlling interests 11.1 55 554 Total Shareholders' Equity 69,649 67,860 65,124 63,920 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (2) Current year balances have been impacted by the announced sale of CFSGAM, PT Commonwealth Life, Count Financial and completed sales of Sovereign and TymeDigital SA. For details on the Group’s discontinued operations, refer to Note 11.3. (3) Current year balances reflect the adoption of AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ and AASB 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ on 1 July 2018. As permitted by AASB 9 and AASB 15 comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 refer to Note 1.1. The above Balance Sheets should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 114 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 For the year ended 30 June 2019 Group Ordinary NonTotal share Retained controlling Shareholders' capital Reserves profits Total interests Equity $M $M $M $M $M $M As at 30 June 2017 34,971 1,869 26,274 63,114 546 63,660 Net profit after income tax from continuing operations (1) 9,057 9,057 13 9,070 Net profit after income tax from discontinued operations (1) 272 272 6 278 Net other comprehensive income from continuing operations (1) (102) 159 57 57 Net other comprehensive income from discontinued operations (1) (6) (6) (6) Total comprehensive income for the period (108) 9,488 9,380 19 9,399 Transactions with Equity holders in their capacity as Equity holders: (2) Dividends paid on ordinary shares (7,484) (7,484) (7,484) Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue 2,105 2,105 2,105 costs) Issue of shares (net of issue costs) 164 164 164 Share-based payments (19) (19) (19) Purchase of treasury shares (95) (95) (95) Sale and vesting of treasury shares 125 125 125 Other changes (66) 82 16 (11) 5 As at 30 June 2018 37,270 1,676 28,360 67,306 554 67,860 Change on adoption of new accounting (955) (955) (955) standards (3) Restated opening balance 37,270 1,676 27,405 66,351 554 66,905 Net profit after income tax from continuing 8,360 8,360 12 8,372 operations Net profit after income tax from discontinued 211 211 7 218 operations Net other comprehensive income from 1,535 (49) 1,486 1,486 continuing operations Net other comprehensive income from 14 14 14 discontinued operations Total comprehensive income for the period 1,549 8,522 10,071 19 10,090 Transactions with Equity holders in their capacity as Equity holders: (2) Dividends paid on ordinary shares (7,606) (7,606) (7,606) Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue 748 748 748 costs) Issue of shares (net of issue costs) Share-based payments 16 16 16 Purchase of treasury shares (93) (93) (93) Sale and vesting of treasury shares 95 95 95 Other changes (149) 161 12 (518) (506) As at 30 June 2019 38,020 3,092 28,482 69,594 55 69,649 (1) Information has been restated to reflect reclassification of CFSGAM and PT Commonwealth Life as discontinued operations during the current year. (2) Current year and prior year include discontinued operations. (3) The Group adopted AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ and AASB 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ on 1 July 2018. The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities impacted by the adoption were adjusted through opening retained profits and reserves on 1 July 2018 as if the Group has always applied the new requirements. As permitted by AASB 9 and AASB 15, comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15, refer to Note 1.1. The above Statements of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 115 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Statements of changes in equity For the year ended 30 June 2019 Bank Ordinary Total share Retained Shareholders' capital Reserves profits Equity $M $M $M $M As at 30 June 2017 35,262 2,556 22,256 60,074 Net profit after income tax from continuing operations 8,875 8,875 Net other comprehensive income from continuing operations 52 157 209 Total comprehensive income for the period 52 9,032 9,084 Transactions with Equity holders in their capacity as Equity holders: Dividends paid on ordinary shares (7,484) (7,484) Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue costs) 2,107 2,107 Issue of shares (net of issue costs) 164 164 Share-based payments (25) (25) Other changes (15) 15 As at 30 June 2018 37,533 2,568 23,819 63,920 Change on adoption of new accounting standards (1) (868) (868) Restated opening balance 37,533 2,568 22,951 63,052 Net profit after income tax from continuing operations 7,783 7,783 Net other comprehensive income from continuing operations 1,244 (50) 1,194 Total comprehensive income for the period 1,244 7,733 8,977 Transactions with Equity holders in their capacity as Equity holders: Dividends paid on ordinary shares (7,606) (7,606) Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue costs) 748 748 Issue of shares (net of issue costs) Share-based payments 22 22 Purchase of treasury shares (69) (69) Other changes (21) 21 As at 30 June 2019 38,212 3,813 23,099 65,124 (1) The Bank adopted AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ and AASB 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ on 1 July 2018. The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities impacted by the adoption were adjusted through opening retained profits and reserves on 1 July 2018 as if the Bank has always applied the new requirements. As permitted by AASB 9 and AASB 15, comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 refer to Note 1.1. The above Statements of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 116 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 For the year ended 30 June 2019 Group (1) (2) Bank (1) (2) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Note $M $M $M $M $M Cash flows from operating activities Interest received 34,757 35,801 33,536 32,366 34,679 Interest paid (15,695) (15,356) (15,006) (16,743) (16,100) Other operating income received 5,808 6,181 5,556 3,971 4,217 Expenses paid (10,784) (10,340) (9,763) (9,693) (8,739) Income taxes paid (4,878) (4,791) (3,976) (4,453) (3,892) Net inflows from assets at fair value through Income Statement 2,482 5,270 4,220 6,915 7,185 (excluding life insurance) Net inflows/(outflows) from liabilities at fair value through Income Statement: Insurance: Investment income 340 225 186 Premiums received (3) 2,414 3,241 3,366 (3) Policy payments and commission expense (3,061) (3,453) (3,854) Other liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 126 (208) 156 (410) 12 Cash flows from operating activities before changes in 11,509 16,570 14,421 11,953 17,362 operating assets and liabilities Changes in operating assets and liabilities arising from cash flow movements Movement in investment securities: Purchases (41,925) (39,020) Proceeds 43,239 39,556 Movement in available-for-sale investments: Purchases (51,783) (54,608) (50,501) Proceeds 52,832 49,392 51,673 Net increase in loans, bills discounted and other receivables (9,465) (16,105) (38,744) (4,585) (10,420) Net decrease in receivables due from other financial institutions 1,345 884 1,100 1,210 583 and regulatory authorities Net decrease/(increase) in securities purchased under 930 9,258 (13,993) 933 9,723 agreements to resell Insurance business: Purchase of insurance assets at fair value through Income (1,383) (1,594) (1,789) Statement Proceeds from sale/maturity of insurance assets at fair value 2,512 2,671 3,152 through Income Statement Net decrease/(increase) in other assets 525 (11) (174) 524 (35) Net increase/(decrease) in deposits and other public borrowings 4,891 (876) 39,821 1,949 (4,984) Net increase/(decrease) in payables due to other financial 2,154 (8,279) 666 2,319 (8,451) institutions Net increase/(decrease) in securities sold under agreements to 4,402 (1,574) (853) 4,408 (1,695) repurchase Net (decrease)/increase in other liabilities (648) (884) 802 (137) (1,664) Changes in operating assets and liabilities arising from 6,577 (15,461) (15,228) 7,157 (15,771) cash flow movements Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities 12.3 (a) 18,086 1,109 (807) 19,110 1,591 (1) It should be noted that the Group does not use these accounting Statements of Cash Flows in the internal management of its liquidity positions. (2) Includes discontinued operations. For the cash flows from discontinued operations refer to Note 11.3. (3) Represents gross premiums and policy payments before splitting between policyholders and shareholders. 117 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Statements of cash flows For the year ended 30 June 2019 Group (1) (2) Bank (1) (2) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Note $M $M $M $M $M Cash flows from investing activities Cash inflows/(outflows) from acquisitions 26 (31) Net proceeds from disposal of entities and businesses (net 1,259 1 of cash disposals) Dividends received 141 68 94 1,473 2,085 (3) Net amounts received from controlled entities (1,906) (2,993) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 151 155 381 89 42 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (326) (477) (602) (271) (321) Net cash flows from sales/(acquisitions) of associates/joint 72 (271) (25) 29 ventures Net purchase of intangible assets (314) (503) (495) (597) (405) Net cash (used in)/provided by investing activities 983 (1,002) (677) (1,183) (1,592) Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid (excluding Dividend Reinvestment Plan) (6,853) (5,366) (6,084) (6,853) (5,364) Redemption of other equity instruments (net of costs) (505) Proceeds from issuance of debt securities 56,448 68,273 94,560 46,685 57,708 Redemption of issued debt securities (73,747) (67,809) (81,758) (63,343) (56,692) Purchase of treasury shares (93) (95) (92) (69) Sale of treasury shares 22 55 34 Issue of loan capital 1,579 4,445 3,757 1,571 4,436 Redemption of loan capital (2,637) (464) (2,263) (467) Proceeds from issuance of shares (net of issue costs) (6) Other 47 27 61 (70) 36 Net cash (used in)/provided by financing activities (25,739) (934) 10,472 (24,342) (343) Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (6,670) (827) 8,988 (6,415) (344) Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 675 715 (318) 598 746 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 23,005 23,117 14,447 21,351 20,949 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 12.3 (b) 17,010 23,005 23,117 15,534 21,351 (1) It should be noted that the Group does not use these accounting Statements of Cash Flows in the internal management of its liquidity positions. (2) Includes discontinued operations. For the cash flows from discontinued operations refer to Note 11.3. (3) Amounts received from and paid to controlled entities are presented in line with how they are managed and settled. The above Statements of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 118 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 General information The Financial Report of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia (the On 31 October 2018, the Group announced the sale of Colonial First Bank) and the Bank and its subsidiaries (the Group) for the year State Global Asset Management (CFSGAM) to Mitsubishi UFJ Trust ended 30 June 2019, was approved and authorised for issue by the and Banking Corporation (MUTB). The sale completed on Board of Directors on 7 August 2019. The Directors have the power 2 August 2019. to amend and reissue the Financial Statements. On 1 November 2018, the Group completed the sale of The Bank is a for-profit entity incorporated and domiciled in Commonwealth Bank of South Africa (Holding Company) Limited Australia. It is a company limited by shares that are publicly traded (TymeDigital SA) to the minority shareholder, African Rainbow on the Australian Securities Exchange. The registered office is Capital (ARC). Ground Floor, Tower 1, 201 Sussex Street, Sydney, NSW 2000, On 13 June 2019, the Group announced the sale of its 100% interest Australia. in Count Financial Limited (Count Financial) to CountPlus Limited The Financial Report includes the consolidated and standalone (CountPlus). Completion is expected to occur in October 2019. financial statements of the Group and the Bank, respectively. Notes CommInsure Life, Sovereign, BoCommLife, CFSGAM, PTCL and accompanying the Financial Statements and the Independent TymeDigital SA have been classified as discontinued operations in Auditor’s Report form part of the Financial Report. the Group’s financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019. On 21 September 2017, the Group entered into an agreement to sell The assets and liabilities of Count Financial are classified as held 100% of its life insurance businesses in Australia (CommInsure Life) for sale as at 30 June 2019. and New Zealand (Sovereign) to AIA Group Limited (AIA). The sale There have been no other significant changes in the nature of the of Sovereign completed on 2 July 2018. The sale of CommInsure principal activities of the Group during the year. Life remains subject to completion of the transfer of the Group’s stake in BoCommLife Insurance Company Limited (BoCommLife) Basis of accounting out of CommInsure Life and its associated Chinese regulatory approvals. The Financial Report:  is a general purpose financial report; The Group and AIA remain fully committed to completing the  has been prepared in accordance with the Australian CommInsure Life transaction. The Group and AIA are also well Accounting interpretations adopted by the Australian progressed in exploring an alternative path to complete the Accounting Standards Board (AASB) and International Financial CommInsure Life transaction prior to the transfer of the Group’s Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the International stake in BoCommLife. The alternative path is expected to be subject only to Australian regulatory approvals. The Group expects to be Accounting Standards Board; able to provide further details of this alternative path by the end of  has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the the first quarter of the financial year 2020, if the sale of BoCommLife Corporations Act 2001 (Cth); has not substantially progressed in that timeframe.  is presented in Australian dollars, which is the Bank’s functional and presentation currency, with all values rounded to the On 23 May 2018, the Group announced the sale of its 37.5% equity nearest million dollars ($M) in accordance with interest in BoCommLife to Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co. Ltd (MSI). The sale of BoCommLife is subject to Chinese regulatory approvals ASIC Corporations Instrument 2016/191 unless otherwise and is the final condition precedent for the sale of CommInsure Life. indicated; The sale of BoCommLife is expected to be completed in the second  includes foreign currency transactions that are translated into half of the calendar year 2019. the functional currency, using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of each transaction; On 25 June 2018, the Group announced its intention to demerge its  has been prepared on a going concern basis using a historical wealth management and mortgage broking businesses, and undertake a strategic review of its general insurance business, cost basis, except for certain assets and liabilities (including including a potential sale. On 14 March 2019, the Group announced derivative instruments) measured at fair value; suspension of its preparation for the demerger in order to focus on  presents assets and liabilities on the face of the Balance Sheets the implementation of Royal Commission recommendations, in decreasing order of liquidity; refunding customers and remediating past issues.  where required, presents restated comparative information for consistency with the current year’s presentation in the Financial On 23 October 2018, the Group announced the sale of its 80% interest in its Indonesian life insurance business, PT Report; Commonwealth Life (PTCL), to FWD Group (FWD). As part of  contains accounting policies that have been consistently applied the sale, CBA’s Indonesian banking subsidiary, PT Bank to all periods presented, unless otherwise stated. Commonwealth (PTBC), will enter into a 15 year life insurance distribution partnership with FWD. The sale is subject to regulatory approvals in Indonesia and is now expected to complete in the second half of calendar year 2019. 119 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Change in comparatives impact on the Group’s impairment provisioning methodology. A description of the key components of the Group’s AASB 9 Discontinued operations impairment methodology is provided below. The financial results of businesses reclassified as discontinued operations are excluded from the results of the continuing Expected credit loss (ECL) model operations and are presented as a single line item ‘Net profit/(loss) The ECL model applies to all financial assets measured at amortised after tax from discontinued operations’ in the Income Statement, and cost, debt securities measured at fair value through other ‘Other comprehensive income/(expense) from discontinued comprehensive income, lease receivables, loan commitments and operations’ in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. financial guarantee contracts not measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). The model uses a three-stage approach to The Income Statements and Statements of Comprehensive Income recognition of expected credit losses. Financial assets migrate for comparative periods are also restated. Assets and liabilities of through these stages based on changes in credit risk since discontinued operations subject to disposal have been presented on origination: the Balance Sheet separately as assets and liabilities held for sale. The Balance Sheet is not restated when a business is reclassified  Stage 1 – 12 months ECL – Performing loans as a discontinued operation. On origination, financial assets recognise an impairment Re-segmentation provision equivalent to 12 months ECL. 12 months ECL is the credit losses expected to arise from defaults occurring over the In line with the Group’s commitment to becoming a simpler, better next 12 months. bank, a number of changes to the Group’s operating model have been made during the year:  Stage 2 – Lifetime ECL – Performing loans that have experienced a significant increase in credit risk (SICR)  The General Insurance business has been placed under Financial assets that have experienced a SICR since origination strategic review and moved to be part of Retail Banking are transferred to Stage 2 and recognise an impairment Services, while the review is underway; provision equivalent to lifetime ECL. Lifetime ECL is the credit  The Small Business banking segment has been transferred out losses expected to arise from defaults occurring over the of Retail Banking Services to Business and Private Banking in remaining life of financial assets. If credit quality improves in a order to consolidate the Group’s business banking operations; subsequent period such that the increase in credit risk since and origination is no longer considered significant the exposure is  Bankwest and Commonwealth Financial Planning have been reclassified to Stage 1 and the impairment provision reverts to consolidated into Retail Banking Services, aligning all retail 12 months ECL. businesses within one division.  Stage 3 – Lifetime ECL – Non-performing Loans The comparative information has been restated. Financial assets in default recognise a provision equivalent to lifetime ECL. This includes assets that are considered credit Change in accounting policies impaired as well as assets that are considered to be in default but are not credit impaired. AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ Credit losses for financial assets in Stage 1 and Stage 2 are The Group adopted AASB 9 Classification and Measurement, and assessed for impairment collectively, whilst those in Stage 3 are Impairment requirements and amendments in AASB 2017-6 related subjected to either collective or individual assessment of expected to prepayment features on 1 July 2018. The Group has elected an credit losses. accounting policy choice in AASB 9 to retain AASB 139 hedge accounting requirements. The Group can commence applying Interest revenue is recognised on gross carrying amounts for AASB 9 hedging at the beginning of any future reporting period. financial assets in Stage 1 and Stage 2, and gross carrying value net of impairment provisions for financial assets in Stage 3. AASB 9 Classification and Measurement and Impairment requirements have been applied on a retrospective basis. The Significant increase in credit risk (SICR) Group has adjusted the carrying amounts of financial instruments SICR is assessed by comparing the risk of default occurring over the impacted by the adoption of AASB 9 through opening retained expected life of the financial asset at reporting date to the profits and reserves on 1 July 2018 as if it has always applied the corresponding risk of default at origination. The Group considers all new requirements. As permitted by AASB 9, the Group has not available qualitative and quantitative information that is relevant to restated the comparative period financial statements. assessing SICR. The key changes to the Group’s accounting policies and resultant For non-retail portfolios, such as the corporate risk rated portfolio impacts from the adoption of AASB 9 are described below. and the asset finance portfolio, the risk of default is defined using Impairment the existing Risk Rated Probability of Default (PD) Masterscale. The PD Masterscale is used in internal credit risk management and AASB 9 introduced an expected credit loss (ECL) impairment model includes 23 risk grades that are assigned at a customer level using which differs significantly from the incurred loss approach under rating tools reflecting customer specific financial and non-financial AASB 139. The ECL model is forward looking and does not require information and management’s experienced credit judgement. evidence of an actual loss event for impairment provisions to be Internal credit risk ratings are updated regularly on the basis of the recognised. most recent financial and non-financial information. The implementation of AASB 9 required management to make a number of judgements and assumptions and has had a significant 120 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 The Group uses the following AASB 9 collective provisioning AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (continued) models in calculating ECL: Significant increase in credit risk (SICR) (continued)  Retail lending: Personal Loans model, Credit Cards model, The Group has developed a Retail Masterscale for use in the ECL Home Loans model, Retail SME model; measurement on personal loans, credit cards, home loans and  Non-retail lending: Corporate Risk rated model, Asset SME retail portfolios. The Retail Masterscale has 15 risk grades Finance model. that are assigned to retail accounts based on their credit quality scores determined through a credit quality scorecard. Risk grades For each significant portfolio ECL is calculated as a product of the for retail exposures are updated monthly as credit quality following credit risk factors at a facility level: scorecards are recalculated based on new behavioural  Probability of default (PD): The likelihood that a debtor will be information. unable to pay its obligations in full without having to take For significant portfolios, the primary indicator of SICR is a actions such as realising on security or that the debtor will significant deterioration in an exposure’s internal credit rating become 90 days overdue on obligation or contractual grade between origination and reporting date. Application of the commitment; primary SICR indicator uses a sliding threshold such that an  Exposure at default (EAD): Expected balance sheet exposure exposure with a higher credit quality at origination would need to at default. The Group generally calculates EAD as the higher experience a more significant downgrade compared to a lower of the drawn balance and total credit limit, except for the credit credit quality exposure before SICR is triggered. The level of downgrade required to trigger SICR for each origination grade cards portfolio, for which EAD calculation also takes into have been defined for each significant portfolio. account the probability of unused limits being drawn down; and The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the  Loss given default (LGD): The amount that is not expected to impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risks at an be recovered following default. industry, geographic location or a particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal Secured retail exposures with expected loss in excess of $20,000 credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for and defaulted non-retail exposures that are not well secured are approximately 65% of Stage 2 exposures for the Group and the assessed for impairment through an Individually Assessed Bank as at 30 June 2019. Provisions (IAP) process. Impairment provisions on these exposures are calculated directly as the difference between the The Group also uses secondary SICR indicators as backstops in defaulted asset’s carrying value and the present value of expected combination with the primary SICR indicator, including: future cash flows including cash flows from realisation of  Arrears status; collateral, where applicable.  A retail exposure entering a financial hardship status; and Forward-looking information  A non-retail exposure’s referral to Group Credit Structuring. Credit risk factors of PD and LGD used in ECL calculation are For a number of small portfolios, which are not considered point-in-time estimates based on current conditions and adjusted significant individually or in combination, the Group applies to include the impact of multiple probability-weighted future simplified provisioning approaches that differ from the description forecast economic scenarios. above. 30 days past due is used as a primary indicator of SICR Forward looking PD and LGD factors are modelled for each on exposures in these portfolios. significant portfolio based on macro-economic factors that are Definition of default, credit impaired assets and write-offs most closely correlated with credit losses in the relevant portfolios. Each of the four scenarios (refer below) includes a forecast of The definition of default used in measuring ECL is aligned to the relevant macro-economic variables which differ by portfolio: definition used for internal credit risk management purposes across all portfolios. This definition is also in line with the  Retail portfolios: Cash rate, unemployment rate, GDP per regulatory definition of default. Default occurs when there are capita and House price index. indicators that a debtor is unlikely to meet contractual credit  Non-retail lending: Unemployment rate, business investment obligations to the Group in full, or the exposure is 90 days past index, ASX 200 and the AUD/USD exchange rate. due. New Zealand equivalents of a subset of the above macroFacilities are classified as credit impaired where there is doubt as economic variables are used for retail credit exposures originated to whether the full amounts due, including interest and other in New Zealand. payments, will be received in a timely manner. Loans are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. The Group uses the following four alternative macro-economic scenarios to reflect an unbiased probability-weighted range of ECL measurement possible future outcomes in estimating ECL: ECL is a probability weighted expected credit loss estimated by evaluating a range of possible outcomes and taking into account  Central scenario: This scenario considers the Group’s base the time value of money, past events, current conditions and case assumptions used in business planning and forecasting. forecasts of future economic conditions. This scenario considers continued growth in GDP per capita, investment, the share market and the labour market supported by exchange rates and interest rate reductions over the short term. House prices see further modest declines from currently observed levels; 121 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (continued) credit losses to the contractual notice period. For such products, ECL is measured over the behavioural life. Forward-looking information (continued) Incorporation of experienced credit judgement  Upside and Downside scenarios: These scenarios are set relative to the Central scenario and based on macroManagement exercises credit judgement in assessing if an exposure has experienced SICR and in determining the amount economic conditions which would lead to the lowest/highest of impairment provisions at each reporting date. Where impairment losses expected over an approximate 10 year applicable, model adjustments are made to incorporate economic cycle. Under the Upside scenario the economy reasonable and supportable information about known or expected strengthens from current state where several metrics, risks that have not been considered in the modelling process. This including house prices, return to above average growth and includes but is not limited to information about emerging risks at the central bank increases interest rates in the next year. The an industry, geographical location or a particular portfolio segment Downside scenario represents a deterioration from current level. state where the economy observes moderate declines across Governance most metrics, including further house prices declines, as well as additional decreases in official interest rates; and The Group’s Loan Loss Provisioning Committee (LLPC) is  Severe Downside scenario: This scenario has been included responsible for approving forecast economic scenarios and their associated weights. In addition, LLPC is responsible for approving to account for a potentially severe impact of less likely, all model adjustments including those required to account for extremely adverse macro-economic conditions which would situations where all relevant information has not been considered lead to the highest impairment losses expected over a longer in the modelling process. The Group’s provisions for impairment, horizon such as a 30 year economic cycle. Under this loan impairment expense and any areas of judgement are scenario the economy sees a significant deterioration from reported to the Group’s Board Audit Committee. current state. The scenario contemplates a breakdown in Classification and measurement typical economic relationships reflected by significant declines in GDP per capita, investment, house prices and the Under AASB 9, the classification and subsequent measurement share market as well as increases in unemployment, interest of financial assets depends on: rates and exchange rates.  the business model within which the financial assets are Weights are assigned to each scenario based on management’s managed; and best estimate of the proportion of potential future loss events that  the contractual cash flow characteristics of the asset, that is, each scenario represents. The same economic scenarios and whether the cash flows represent ‘solely payments of principal probability weights apply across all portfolios. The Group’s and interest’ (SPPI). assessment of SICR also incorporates the impact of multiple probability-weighted future forecast economic scenarios on Business model assessment exposures’ internal risk grades using the same four forecast The business model reflects how the Group manages financial macro-economic scenarios as described above. assets in order to generate returns. This is assessed at the level which best reflects the manner in which risk and returns are In estimating impairment provisions on individually significant managed, and information is provided to management. The defaulted exposures, the Group generally applies conservative assumptions in estimating recovery cash flows. Incorporating factors considered in determining the business model include: multiple forecast economic scenarios in estimates is not expected  how the financial assets’ performance is evaluated and to significantly effect the level of impairment provisions on these reported to management; credit exposures.  how the risks within the portfolio are assessed and managed; Lifetime of an exposure and For exposures in Stage 2 and Stage 3 impairment provisions are  the frequency, volume, timing for past sales, sales determined as a lifetime expected loss. The Group uses a range expectations in future periods, and the reasons for such sales. of approaches to estimate expected lives of financial instruments Assessment of whether contractual cash flows meet the subject to ECL requirements: SPPI test  Non-revolving products in corporate portfolios: Expected life In making the assessment of whether the contractual cash flows is determined as a maximum contractual period over which have SPPI characteristics, the Group considers whether the cash the Group is exposed to credit risk; flows represent solely the payment of principal and interest.  Non-revolving retail products: For fixed term products such as Principal is the fair value of the financial asset on initial personal loans and home loans, expected life is determined recognition. Interest typically comprises compensation for the time using behavioural term analysis and does not exceed the value of money, credit risk and other basic lending costs, such as maximum contractual period; and liquidity risk and administrative costs. Where the contractual terms include exposure to risk or volatility that is inconsistent with a basic  Revolving products in corporate and retail portfolios: For lending arrangement, the cash flows would not be considered to revolving products that include both a loan and an undrawn be SPPI and the assets would be measured at fair value through commitment, such as credit cards and corporate lines of profit or loss. credit, the Group’s contractual ability to cancel the undrawn limits and demand repayments does not limit the exposure to 122 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (continued) Assessment of whether contractual cash flows meet the Refer to Note 12.6 for the accounting policies that applied to SPPI test (continued) financial instruments for comparative periods. In making the assessment, the Group considers contingent events AASB 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ that would change the amount and timing of cash flows, prepayment and extension terms, leverage features, terms that On 1 July 2018, the Group adopted AASB 15 ‘Revenue from limit the Group’s claim to cash flows from specified assets Contracts with Customers’, replacing the previous standard, (e.g. non-recourse asset arrangements), and features that modify AASB 118 ‘Revenue’. Under AASB 118, revenue was recognised consideration of the time value of money. when risks and rewards transferred from the seller to the buyer. AASB 15 has introduced a single, principle-based fiveThe Group is required to differentiate between financial asset debt step recognition and measurement model for revenue recognition. instruments and financial asset equity instruments. The five steps are: Financial assets – debt instruments 1. Identify the contract with a customer; There are three classification models for financial asset debt 2. Identify the separate performance obligations; instruments under AASB 9: 3. Determine the transaction price; 4. Allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation  Amortised cost – Financial assets are classified within this identified in Step 2; and measurement category if they are held within a portfolio 5. Recognise revenue when a performance obligation is whose primary objective is the collection of contractual cash satisfied. flows, where the contractual cash flows on the instrument are SPPI, and that are not designated at fair value through profit Where there is variable consideration in calculating a transaction or loss. price, revenue will only be recognised if it is highly probable that  Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) – a significant revenue reversal will not subsequently occur. AASB 15 applies to contracts with customers except for revenue This classification applies to financial assets which meet the arising from items such as financial instruments, insurance SPPI test, and are held within a portfolio whose objectives contracts and leases. include both the collection of contractual cash flows and the selling of financial assets. These financial assets are The Group has used the modified retrospective approach in subsequently measured at fair value with movements in the adopting AASB 15 which recognises the cumulative effect of initial fair value recognised in other comprehensive income, with the application through opening retained earnings as at 1 July 2018. The Group has not restated the comparative period financial exception of interest income, ECL and foreign exchange gains statements. The modified retrospective approach applied to and losses that are recognised within profit or loss. When the contracts not completed at 30 June 2018. financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is The significant changes to the Group as a result of adopting reclassified to the income statement. AASB 15 are:  Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) – Financial assets  Trail commissions: Certain trail commission income and that do not meet the criteria for classification as amortised expenses that were previously recognised over time by the cost or FVOCI are measured at FVTPL. The Group may also Group, are recognised at the start of a contract when the irrevocably designate financial assets that would otherwise performance obligation has been met. This has resulted in meet the requirements to be measured at amortised cost or the Group recognising the net present value of expected at FVOCI, as at FVTPL, if doing so would eliminate or future trail commission income and expenses. For investment significantly reduce an accounting mismatch that would referral services, the Group is unable to forecast the trail otherwise arise. commission revenue in line with the highly probable test in Financial assets – equity instruments AASB 15. Therefore trail commission revenue and expenses on investment referral balances are recognised when AASB 9 requires equity instruments to be measured at FVTPL but permits non-traded equity investments to be designated at FVOCI received or paid; and on an instrument by instrument basis. Gains or losses are not  Upfront fees: Certain fees in relation to lending, lease and reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss on guarantees arrangements are no longer recognised upfront disposal of the investment. However, the gains or losses may be but when the performance obligation to the customer is reclassified within equity. These instruments are not subject to delivered, which is generally over the life of these contractual impairment assessment. arrangements. Where the performance obligation is the Financial liabilities Group providing a loan, lease arrangement or guarantee over a contractual period, these fees previously recognised upfront The Group adopted the AASB 9 requirement to recognise are amortised over the expected life of the contracts. This has changes in the fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair also resulted in a reclassification of the fees from other value through the Income Statement that are attributable to changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income on 1 banking income to interest income. January 2014. There were no other changes to the classification Refer to Note 12.6 for the accounting policies that applied to and measurement of financial liabilities as a result of adoption of revenue recognition for comparative periods. AASB 9. 123 5 ing on adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15. The adjustments have been recognised against the Group’s and the Bank’s opening retained profits Group AASB 9 AASB 9 Classification and Measurement AASB 15 Revenue Impairment High Quality Loans with NZD NZD Non-Traded Liquid Assets Embedded Certificates Trail Upfront Liquid Assets Equities 30 Jun 18 (HQLAs) Features of Deposit Commission Fees 1 Jul 18 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M 32,884 (2,148) 235 65 31,036 32,133 (56) 32,077 82,240 (78,145) (3,797) (298) 7,121 7,121 71,020 5,945 63 77,028 743,365 (10) (968) (151) 742,236 9,090 (72) 9,018 1,439 1 299 64 72 1,875 6,924 (10) 351 (8) 7,257 67,090 67,090 975,165 (3) (1) (679) 343 (87) 974,738 622,234 1,141 623,375 10,247 (1,141) 9,106 28,472 (1) 28,471 2 102 (3) 101 1,860 87 1,947 11,625 223 118 11,966 232,867 232,867 907,305 (1) 89 325 115 907,833 37,270 37,270 1,676 (3) 3 1,676 28,360 (771) 18 (202) 27,405 554 554 67,860 (3) (768) 18 (202) 66,905 5 (continued) Bank AASB 9 AASB 9 Classification and Measurement AASB 15 Revenue Impairment High Quality Liquid Non-Traded Loans with Assets Trail Upfront Equities Embedded Features Jun 18 (HQLAs) Commission Fees 1 Jul 18 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M 29,993 65 30,058 30,885 (56) 30,829 77,731 (77,686) (45) 7,121 7,121 70,561 45 70,606 56,650 (10) (895) (134) 655,611 18,252 (23) 118,229 1,430 1 279 74 1,784 6,212 (7) 91 6,296 49,399 49,399 70,552 (3) (1) (646) 91 (60) 969,933 30,871 (1) 30,870 05,327 16 105,343 27 27 1,561 84 1,645 10,145 124 10,269 58,728 758,728 06,632 (1) 84 27 140 906,882 37,533 37,533 2,568 (3) 2 2,567 23,819 (732) 64 (200) 22,951 63,920 (3) (730) 64 (200) 63,051 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Adoption of AASB 9 classification and measurement reclassified to Investment securities at FVOCI under AASB 9. The reclassifications did not have a material impact on retained profits High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA): under AASB 139, or reserves. $78,145 million of the Group’s HQLA were included in Availablefor-Sale investments (Bank: $77,686 million). $7,121 million of the Loans with embedded derivatives: the Group and the Bank Group’s HQLA (Bank: $7,121 million) previously included in issued loans with embedded derivative features. Under AASB Available-for-Sale assets were held within the business model 139, the embedded derivatives were bifurcated and accounted for held to collect and have been reclassified to Investment securities as standalone derivatives at FVTPL; the host loan contracts were at amortised cost under AASB 9. These financial assets have measured at amortised cost and included in Loans, bills been restated to amortised cost and $4 million of unrealised gains discounted and other receivables on the Balance sheet. The (before tax) previously recognised by the Group (Bank: $4 million contractual cash flows on these instruments are not solely unrealised gain) in the Available-for-Sale revaluation reserve payments of principal and interest and they have been reclassified have been reversed against the carrying value of the assets on to Assets at FVTPL together with the related embedded derivative 1 July 2018. This also led to a reversal of the deferred tax features. The reclassification did not have an impact on retained previously recognised in relation to unrealised gains on these profits. securities through reserves. The Group’s deferred tax asset has NZD Certificate of Deposits (CD): Under AASB 9, $1,141 million increased by $1 million (Bank: $1 million increase) and the of the Group’s NZD CDs have been reclassified from liabilities at reserves have decreased by $3 million (Bank: $3 million FVTPL to liabilities at amortised cost, as the CDs are not held for decrease). trading. The reclassification did not have a material impact on $71,020 million of the Group’s HQLA (Bank: $70,561 million) retained profits or reserves. previously included in Available-for-Sale assets were held within As at 30 June 2019, the Group did not hold any of NZD CDs the business model held to collect and sell and have been reclassified from liabilities at FVTPL to liabilities at amortised cost reclassified to Investment securities at FVOCI under AASB 9. The on adoption of AASB 9. The average interest rate on these reclassification did not have an impact on retained profits or instruments on 1 July 2018 was 2.0% and the interest expense reserves. recognised for the year ended 30 June 2019 was $3 million. The fair value of HQLA reclassified from Available-for-Sale Investments to Investment Securities at amortised cost on Adoption of AASB 9 Impairment adoption of AASB 9 and held as at 30 June 2019 was The adoption of AASB 9 impairment requirements resulted in a $5,316 million. The fair value loss that would have been $1,058 million increase in the Group’s collective provisions recognised on these securities in Other comprehensive Income (Bank: $1,004 million increase). This includes $968 million for as at 30 June 2019 was $9 million. loans, bills discounted and other receivables, $87 million for offNZD liquid assets: under AASB 139, $3,797 million of the balance sheet instruments (recognised in other provisions), $3 million for investment securities at FVOCI (recognised in Group’s NZD liquid assets were included in Available-for-Sale reserves) (Bank: $895 million for loans, bills discounted and other investments with the remaining $2,148 million measured at FVTPL. These financial assets were held within the business receivables, $23 million for loans to controlled entities, $84 million for off-balance sheet instruments and $2 million for investment model held to collect and sell and have been reclassified to securities at FVOCI). In addition, the Group recognised a Investment securities at FVOCI under AASB 9. The reclassification did not have a material impact on retained profits $10 million provision in relation to non-lending assets that are not in scope of AASB 9 collective provisioning models or reserves. (Bank: $7 million). The transition resulted in a $299 million As at 30 June 2019, the Group did not hold any of the NZD liquid increase in the Group’s deferred tax assets (Bank: $279 million assets reclassified from Assets at FVTPL to Investment securities increase), a $2 million increase in deferred tax liabilities (Bank: nil) at FVOCI on adoption of AASB 9. The average interest rate on and a corresponding $771 million decrease in retained profits these instruments on 1 July 2018 was 1.91% and the interest (Bank: $732 million decrease) as at 1 July 2018. income recognised for the year ended 30 June 2019 was The increase in impairment provisions was mostly driven by the $7 million. AASB 9 requirement to hold provisions equivalent to lifetime Non-traded equity instruments: the Group had $298 million of expected losses for all loans that have experienced a significant non-traded equity instruments included in Available-for-sale increase in credit risk since origination and the impact of forward investment under AASB 139 (Bank: $45 million). One of the looking factors on expected credit losses estimates. Group’s equity securities of $235 million was reclassified to Assets at FVTPL under AASB 9. The Group’s remaining $63 million (Bank: $45 million) of equity securities have been 126 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Adoption of AASB 9 Impairment (continued) The following tables provide a reconciliation between provisions for impairment under AASB 139 as at 30 June 2018 and provisions for impairment determined in accordance with AASB 9 on 1 July 2018 for the Group and the Bank: Group Previous Provision for RemeasureImpairment measurement impairment ment provision under category under under AASB AASB 9 Financial assets under AASB 9 AASB 139 139 Investment securities: At amortised cost Available-for-sale (1) At fair value through other comprehensive income Available-for-sale 3 3 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables (2) Amortised cost 3,605 968 4,573 Financial guarantees and other off-balance sheet items 28 87 115 Total 3,633 1,058 4,691 (1) Impairment losses in relation to Investment securities at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and are not included in total impairment provisions. (2) Under AASB 9, Loans, bills discounted and other receivables are measured at amortised cost. Bank Previous Provision for RemeasureImpairment measurement impairment ment provision under category under under AASB AASB 9 Financial assets under AASB 9 AASB 139 139 Investment securities: At amortised cost Available-for-sale (1) At fair value through other comprehensive income Available-for-sale 2 2 (2) Loans, bills discounted and other receivables Amortised cost 3,261 895 4,156 (2) Loans to controlled entities Amortised cost 23 23 Financial guarantees and other off-balance sheet items 28 84 112 Total 3,289 1,004 4,293 (1) Impairment losses in relation to Investment securities at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and are not included in total impairment provisions. (2) Under AASB 9, Loans, bills discounted and other receivables, and Loans to controlled entities are measured at amortised cost. 127 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Adoption of AASB 9 Impairment (continued) The table below presents the Group’s total impairment provisions on lending assets by ECL stage as at 1 July 2018. Group 1 Jul 18 Impairment provisions, $M Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 12 months ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL Collectively Collectively Collectively Individually Portfolio (1) assessed assessed assessed assessed Total Retail Secured lending 206 410 113 253 982 Unsecured lending 525 847 233 3 1,608 Total retail 731 1,257 346 256 2,590 Non-retail Corporate and business lending, bank and 145 1,268 74 614 2,101 sovereign entities (2) Total 876 2,525 420 870 4,691 (1) Exposures subject to impairment provisions include drawn balances, undrawn credit commitments, financial guarantees and debt securities classified at fair value through OCI. (2) Stage 1 provision includes $3 million ECL in relation to investment securities at fair value through OCI. The table below presents the Bank’s total impairment provisions on lending assets (excluding loans to controlled entities) by ECL stage as at 1 July 2018. Bank 1 Jul 18 Impairment provisions, $M Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 12 months ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL Collectively Collectively Collectively Individually Portfolio (1) (2) assessed assessed assessed assessed Total Retail Secured lending 174 372 105 236 887 Unsecured lending 482 818 219 3 1,522 Total retail 656 1,190 324 239 2,409 Non-retail Corporate and business lending, bank and 129 1,123 69 540 1,861 sovereign entities (3) Total 785 2,313 393 779 4,270 (1) Exposures subject to impairment provisions include drawn balances, undrawn credit commitments, financial guarantees and debt securities classified at fair value through OCI. (2) Impairment provisions exclude $23 million recognised in relation to the Bank’s loans to controlled entities. (3) Stage 1 provision includes $2 million ECL in relation to investment securities at fair value through OCI. 128 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Adoption of AASB 15 Upfront fees: Upfront fees in relation to lending and guarantee Trail Commission: The Group’s Other assets and Bills payable arrangements are no longer recognised upfront. Instead, income and other liabilities have increased by $351 million and is recognised over the life of the contractual arrangements. $223 million, respectively, to reflect the recognition of trail Establishment fees on financing facilities are deferred on the commission receivable and payable across various arrangements Group’s and the Bank’s Balance Sheets in Loans, bills discounted across the Group (Bank: $91 million increase in Other Assets). and other receivables, and amortised to interest income over the This reflects the upfront recognition of certain future trail expected life of the loan in accordance with AASB 9. From 1 July commission income and expenses when a performance 2018, this has also resulted in a reclassification of income from obligation has been met, such as when a new customer is other banking income to interest income. In addition, other annual introduced into a product. This change also led to a $72 million fees are deferred on the Balance Sheet in Bills payable and other decrease in the Group’s goodwill on the acquisition of Aussie liabilities when received and recognised in other banking income Home Loans, a $64 million and $102 million increase in deferred on a straight-line basis throughout the year. The impact for the tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, respectively Group as at 1 July 2018 includes a reduction in Loans, bills (Bank: $27 million increase in deferred tax liability). The impact of discounted and other receivables of $151 million this change on the Group’s retained profits as at 1 July 2018 was (Bank: $134 million reduction), a reduction in Other assets of $8 an increase of $18 million (Bank: an increase of $64 million). million (Bank: $ nil), and an increase in Bills payable and other liabilities of $118 million (Bank: $124 million increase). It has also led to a $16 million increase in the Bank’s balances Due to controlled entities. The deferral of upfront fees from existing customer contracts resulted in a one-off increase in the Group’s deferred tax assets of $72 million (Bank: $74 million) and a decrease in deferred tax liabilities of $3 million (Bank: $ nil). The impact of this change on the Group’s retained profits as at 1 July 2018 was a reduction of $202 million (Bank: $200 million). 129 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements The Group earns its returns from providing a broad range of banking and wealth management products and services to retail and wholesale customers in Australia, New Zealand and other jurisdictions. Lending and deposit taking are the Group’s primary business activities with net interest income being the main contributor to the Group’s results. Net interest income is derived from the difference between interest earned on lending and investment assets and interest incurred on customer deposits and wholesale debt raised to fund these assets. The Group further generates income from lending fees and commissions, general insurance products and trading activities. It also incurs costs associated with running the business such as staff, occupancy and technology related expenses. The Performance section provides details of the main contributors to the Group’s returns and analysis of its financial performance by business segments and geographical regions. Group (1) (2) (3) Bank (2) (3) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M $M Interest Income Effective interest income: Loans and bills discounted 31,449 31,315 30,628 27,744 27,861 Other financial institutions 181 140 149 171 121 Cash and liquid assets 572 459 321 528 427 Investment securities: At amortised cost 199 199 At fair value through Other Comprehensive Income 1,688 1,559 Available-for-sale investments 1,729 1,607 1,639 Controlled entities 2,759 2,483 Total effective interest income 34,089 33,643 32,705 32,960 32,531 Other: Assets at fair value through Income Statement 499 501 490 499 465 Total interest income 34,588 34,144 33,195 33,459 32,996 Interest Expense Deposits 9,948 9,843 10,409 8,394 8,380 Other financial institutions 464 418 300 435 379 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 172 167 102 162 142 Debt issues 4,563 4,169 4,159 3,625 3,286 Loan capital 951 836 679 917 801 Bank levy 370 369 370 369 Controlled entities 3,502 3,228 Total interest expense 16,468 15,802 15,649 17,405 16,585 Net interest income 18,120 18,342 17,546 16,054 16,411 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. (2) Information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (3) Current year amounts reflect the adoption of AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ and AASB 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ on 1 July 2018. As permitted by AASB 9 and AASB 15 comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 refer to Note 1.1. 130 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Interest income and interest expense on financial assets and liabilities are measured using the effective interest rate method. The effective interest rate method calculates the amortised cost of a financial instrument, such as a loan, deposit or issued debt instrument, and allocates the interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the financial instrument. Interest income is recognised on gross carrying amounts for financial assets in Stage 1 and Stage 2, and gross carrying amounts net of impairment provisions for financial assets in Stage 3. Fees, transaction costs and issue costs integral to the financial assets and liabilities are capitalised and included in the interest recognised over the expected life of the instrument. This includes fees for providing a loan or a lease arrangement. Interest income on finance leases is recognised progressively over the life of the lease, consistent with the outstanding investment and unearned income balance. Interest expense also includes payments made under a liquidity facility arrangement with the Reserve Bank of Australia, the Major Bank Levy (Bank Levy) expense and other financing charges. 131 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements The following tables have been produced using statutory Balance Sheet and Income Statement categories. The tables list the major categories of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities of the Group together with the respective interest earned or paid and the average interest rate (mostly daily averages). Where assets or liabilities are hedged, the amounts are shown net of the hedge, but individual items not separately hedged may be affected by movements in exchange rates. The overseas component comprises overseas branches of the Bank and overseas domiciled controlled entities. Non-accrual loans are included in interest earning assets under Loans, bills discounted and other receivables. The official cash rate in both Australia and New Zealand (which is reflected in overseas) decreased 25 basis points in financial year 2019 (2018: no changes, 2017: 25 basis points decrease for Australia, and 50 basis points decrease for New Zealand). Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Average Average Average Average Average Average Interest earning Balance Interest Rate Balance Interest Rate Balance Interest Rate assets (1) (2) $M $M % $M $M % $M $M % Cash and liquid assets Australia 18,415 367 2. 0 19,087 313 1. 6 17,734 274 1. 5 Overseas 20,238 205 1. 0 18,898 146 0. 8 19,626 47 0. 2 Receivables due from other financial institutions Australia 2,095 52 2. 5 2,290 50 2. 2 2,266 17 0. 8 Overseas 5,799 129 2. 2 5,997 90 1. 5 8,850 132 1. 5 Assets at fair value through Income Statement (excluding life insurance) Australia 24,651 488 2. 0 20,761 444 2. 1 21,731 422 1. 9 Overseas 822 11 1. 3 4,070 57 1. 4 3,895 68 1. 7 Investment Securities: At amortised cost Australia 6,887 199 2. 9 Overseas 5 0. 6 At fair value through OCI Australia 57,088 1,329 2. 3 Overseas 18,640 359 1. 9 Available-for-sale investments Australia 66,241 1,479 2. 2 66,615 1,458 2. 2 Overseas 17,011 250 1. 5 13,870 149 1. 1 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables (3) Australia (4) 603,394 26,524 4. 4 597,343 26,711 4. 5 581,093 26,160 4. 5 Overseas 106,140 4,925 4. 6 102,566 4,604 4. 5 99,061 4,468 4. 5 Total interest earning assets 864,174 34,588 4. 0 854,264 34,144 4. 0 834,741 33,195 4. 0 and interest income (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. (2) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (3) Loans, bills discounted and other receivables include bank acceptances. (4) Net of average mortgage offset balances that are included in Non-interest earning assets. Gross Australian loan balance is $648,569 million (2018: $638,167 million, 2017: $616,418 million). 132 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Average Average Average Balance Balance Balance Non-interest earning assets $M $M $M (1) Assets at fair value through Income Statement Insurance Australia 12,105 Overseas 377 2,477 Property, plant and equipment Australia (2) 2,208 2,344 3,743 Overseas 244 252 289 Other assets Australia (2) (3) 86,413 95,521 108,931 Overseas 10,175 11,924 13,774 Provisions for impairment Australia (4,026) (3,203) (3,303) Overseas (599) (466) (424) Total non-interest earning assets 94,415 106,749 137,592 Assets held for sale Australia 15,128 13,046 Overseas 1,829 2,228 Total assets 975,546 976,287 972,333 Percentage of total assets applicable to overseas operations (%) 16. 7 16. 7 16. 6 (1) As at 30 June 2019, Insurance assets of CommInsure Life and PT Commonwealth Life are presented as assets held for sale. As at 30 June 2018, Insurance assets of CommInsure Life and Sovereign are presented as assets held for sale. (2) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (3) Includes average mortgage offset balances. 133 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Average Average Average Average Average Average Interest bearing Balance Interest Rate Balance Interest Rate Balance Interest Rate liabilities (1) (2) $M $M % $M $M % $M $M % Time deposits Australia (3) 203,750 5,164 2. 5 203,694 5,038 2. 5 207,501 5,535 2. 7 Overseas 53,836 1,746 3. 2 51,291 1,532 3. 0 48,461 1,357 2. 8 Savings deposits Australia (3) 144,686 1,588 1. 1 146,346 1,812 1. 2 147,705 2,059 1. 4 Overseas 14,335 167 1. 2 14,414 205 1. 4 16,136 313 1. 9 Other demand deposits Australia 114,193 1,151 1. 0 112,195 1,120 1. 0 103,193 987 1. 0 Overseas 8,765 132 1. 5 8,136 136 1. 7 8,154 158 1. 9 Payables due to other financial institutions Australia 8,852 221 2. 5 10,292 196 1. 9 11,098 158 1. 4 Overseas 12,709 243 1. 9 16,648 222 1. 3 19,235 142 0. 7 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement Australia 9,372 162 1. 7 7,557 141 1. 9 7,049 63 0. 9 Overseas 1,054 10 0. 9 1,332 26 2. 0 1,467 39 2. 7 (4) Debt issues Australia 140,447 3,846 2. 7 138,666 3,463 2. 5 136,614 3,323 2. 4 Overseas 26,676 717 2. 7 28,450 706 2. 5 32,307 836 2. 6 Loan capital Australia 15,655 668 4. 3 13,788 556 4. 0 11,239 447 4. 0 Overseas 6,785 283 4. 2 6,774 280 4. 1 5,453 232 4. 3 Bank levy Australia 370 369 Overseas Total interest bearing liabilities 761,115 16,468 2. 2 759,583 15,802 2. 1 755,612 15,649 2. 1 and interest expense (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. (2) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (3) Net of average mortgage offset balances that are included in Non-interest bearing liabilities. (4) Debt issues include bank acceptances. 134 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Average Average Average Balance Balance Balance Non-interest bearing liabilities $M $M $M Deposits not bearing interest Australia (1) 91,316 83,949 72,303 Overseas 4,897 4,193 3,671 Insurance policy liabilities Australia 11,190 Overseas 466 1,368 Other liabilities Australia 25,532 37,250 53,418 Overseas 9,430 10,255 12,796 Total non-interest bearing liabilities 131,175 136,113 154,746 Liabilities held for sale Australia 13,855 13,413 Overseas 1,025 1,308 Total liabilities 907,170 910,417 910,358 Shareholders' Equity 68,376 65,870 61,975 Total liabilities and Shareholders' Equity 975,546 976,287 972,333 Total liabilities applicable to overseas operations (%) 15. 4 15. 7 16. 4 (1) Includes average mortgage offset balance. 135 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Changes in Net Interest Income: Volume and Rate Analysis The following tables show the movement in interest income and expense due to changes in volume and interest rates. Volume variances reflect the change in interest from the prior year due to movement in the average balance. Rate variances reflect the change in interest from the prior year due to changes in interest rates. Volume and rate variance for total interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities have been calculated separately (rather than being the sum of the individual categories). June 2019 vs June 2018 June 2018 vs June 2017 Changes in net interest income: Volume Rate Total Volume Rate Total Volume and rate analysis (1) (2) $M $M $M $M $M $M Interest Earning Assets Cash and liquid assets Australia (13) 67 54 22 17 39 Overseas 14 45 59 (6) 105 99 Receivables due from other financial institutions Australia (5) 7 2 1 32 33 Overseas (4) 43 39 (43) 1 (42) Assets at fair value through Income Statement (excluding life insurance) Australia 77 (33) 44 (21) 43 22 Overseas (43) (3) (46) 2 (13) (11) Investment Securities: (3) Australia (54) 103 49 (8) 29 21 Overseas 31 78 109 46 55 101 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables Australia 266 (453) (187) 727 (176) 551 Overseas 166 155 321 157 (21) 136 Changes in interest income 397 47 444 780 169 949 Interest Bearing Liabilities and Loan Capital Time deposits Australia 1 125 126 (94) (403) (497) Overseas 83 131 214 85 90 175 Savings deposits Australia (18) (206) (224) (17) (230) (247) Overseas (1) (37) (38) (24) (84) (108) Other demand deposits Australia 20 11 31 90 43 133 Overseas 9 (13) (4) (22) (22) Payables due to other financial institutions Australia (36) 61 25 (15) 53 38 Overseas (75) 96 21 (34) 114 80 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement Australia 31 (10) 21 9 69 78 Overseas (3) (13) (16) (3) (10) (13) Debt issues Australia 49 334 383 51 89 140 Overseas (48) 59 11 (96) (34) (130) Loan capital Australia 80 32 112 103 6 109 Overseas 3 3 55 (7) 48 Bank levy Australia 1 1 369 369 Overseas Changes in interest expense 33 633 666 83 70 153 Changes in net interest income 208 (430) (222) 419 377 796 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. (2) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (3) Investment securities at FVOCI and investment securities at amortised cost have been compared to available-for-sale assets in the prior period. 136 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group (1) (2) Bank (2) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M $M Other Banking Income Lending fees 992 1,109 1,078 926 1,032 Commissions 2,673 2,712 2,601 2,277 2,363 Trading income 974 1,025 1,149 874 916 (3) Net gain/(loss) on non-trading financial instruments (113) 58 433 (205) 71 Net gain/(loss) on sale of property, plant and equipment (9) (17) 6 (11) (17) Net gain from hedging ineffectiveness 13 12 62 16 Dividends Controlled entities 1,229 2,029 Dividends Other 5 10 10 122 56 Share of profit from associates and joint ventures net of 296 317 270 27 (7) impairment Other (4) 163 197 112 789 922 (5) Total other banking income 4,994 5,423 5,721 6,044 7,365 Net Funds Management Operating Income Funds management income 1,233 1,259 1,200 Claims, policyholder liability and commission expense (160) (135) (162) Net funds management operating income 1,073 1,124 1,038 Net Insurance Operating Income Premiums from insurance contracts 682 687 643 Investment revenue 5 4 4 Claims, policyholder liability and commission expense (537) (450) (469) from insurance contracts Net insurance operating income 150 241 178 Total other operating income 6,217 6,788 6,937 6,044 7,365 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. (2) Current year amounts reflect the adoption of AASB 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ on 1 July 2018. As permitted by AASB 15 comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 15 refer to Note 1.1. (3) Inclusive of non-trading derivatives that are held for risk management purposes. (4) Includes depreciation of $72 million in relation to assets held for lease by the Group (30 June 2018: $74 million, 30 June 2017: $88 million). Includes depreciation of $8 million in relation to assets held for lease by the Bank (30 June 2018: $9 million). (5) The year ended 30 June 2019 includes $280 million income from the consolidation of AHL Holdings Pty Ltd (trading as Aussie Home Loans) and eChoice (30 June 2018: $233 million). Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M $M Net hedging ineffectiveness comprises: Gain/(loss) on fair value hedges: Hedging instruments 567 (757) 841 (614) (759) Hedged items (558) 765 (799) 624 763 Cash flow and net investment hedge ineffectiveness 4 4 20 6 (4) Net hedging ineffectiveness 13 12 62 16 137 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Lending fees and commission income include:  Facility fees earned for managing and administering credit and other facilities for customers. These fees are generally charged to the customer on a monthly or annual basis and are recognised as revenue over the service period. Annual fees are deferred on Balance Sheet in Bills payable and other liabilities and recognised on a straight line basis over the year. Transaction based fees are charged and recognised at the time of the transaction.  Commitment fees and upfront fees in relation to lending, lease and guarantee arrangements are deferred and recognised over the life of the contractual arrangements. Commitment fees to originate a loan that is unlikely to be drawn down are charged upfront to the customer and are recognised when the commitment is issued.  Establishment fees on financing facilities are deferred and amortised to interest income over the expected life of the loan and are not recognised in Other banking income.  Fee income earned for providing advisory or arrangement services, placement and underwriting services. These fees are recognised and charged when the related service is completed which is typically at the time of the transaction.  Trail commissions are recognised at the start of a contract when the performance obligation has been met, typically when a customer is introduced to a new product. The Group recognises the net present value of expected future trail commission income. For investment referral services, the Group is unable to forecast the trail commission revenue in line with the highly probable test in AASB 15. Therefore, trail commission revenue on investment referral balances are recognised when received or paid. Trading income represents both realised and unrealised gains and losses from changes in the fair value of trading assets, liabilities and derivatives, which are recognised in the period in which they arise. Net gain/(loss) on non-trading financial instruments includes realised gains and losses from non-trading financial assets and liabilities (i.e. investment securities in the year ended 30 June 2019; available-for-sale securities in the years ended 30 June 2018 and 2017), as well as realised and unrealised gains and losses on non-trading derivatives that are held for risk management purposes. Net gain/(loss) on the disposal of property, plant and equipment is the difference between proceeds received and its carrying value. Net hedging ineffectiveness is measured on fair value, cash flow and net investment hedges. Dividends received on non-trading equity investments are recognised on the ex-dividend date or when the right to receive payment is established. Funds management operating income includes fees earned where the Group acts as the Responsible Entity, Trustee or Manager for a number of wholesale, superannuation, and investment funds or trusts. Fund management services are a single performance obligation and fees are recognised over the service period. Management fees are calculated and deducted from the funds on a monthly basis. Performance fees are deemed to be a variable component of the fund management service and only recognised when it is highly probable that a significant reversal of the fees will not occur. General insurance premiums received and receivable are recognised as revenue when they are earned, based on actuarial assessment of the likely pattern in which risk will emerge. The portion not yet earned based on the pattern assessment is recognised as an unearned premium liability. Claims are recognised as an expense when the liability is established. The Group equity accounts for its share of the profits or losses of associate or joint venture investments, net of impairment recognised. Dividends received are recognised as a reduction of the investment carrying amount. Other income includes rental income on operating leases which are recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term. This is offset by depreciation and impairment expense on the associated operating lease assets held by the Group. Other income also includes the impact of foreign currency revaluations for foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities. These assets and liabilities are retranslated at the spot rate at balance date. Exchange differences arising upon settling or translating monetary items at different rates to those at which they were initially recognised or previously reported, are recognised in the Income Statement. Critical accounting judgements and estimates The amount of trail commission revenue is dependent on assumptions about the behavioural life of the underlying transaction generating the commission. Trail commission income is only recognised to the extent it is highly probable it will not reverse in future periods. 138 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group (1) (2) Bank (2) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M $M Staff Expenses Salaries and related on-costs 5,418 4,963 4,885 4,998 4,587 Share-based compensation 99 69 106 115 91 Superannuation 398 407 468 388 400 Total staff expenses 5,915 5,439 5,459 5,501 5,078 Occupancy and Equipment Expenses Operating lease rentals 654 665 635 580 591 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 270 271 260 247 245 Other occupancy expenses 174 198 177 164 185 Total occupancy and equipment expenses 1,098 1,134 1,072 991 1,021 Information Technology Services Application maintenance and development 721 553 431 734 588 Data processing 183 200 200 179 198 Desktop 142 153 183 129 140 Communications 217 179 179 205 155 (3) Amortisation of software assets 598 563 903 563 517 Software write-offs 13 71 6 13 71 IT equipment depreciation 93 80 60 79 67 Total information technology services 1,967 1,799 1,962 1,902 1,736 Other Expenses Postage and stationery 159 177 183 151 163 Transaction processing and market data 156 138 143 131 120 Fees and commissions: Professional fees 490 671 379 470 651 Other 239 133 73 65 5 Advertising, marketing and loyalty 453 496 462 362 400 Amortisation of intangible assets (excluding software and merger 11 13 11 related amortisation) (4) Non-lending losses 656 838 122 617 829 Impairment on investments in subsidiaries 231 Other 125 157 263 148 242 Total other expenses 2,289 2,623 1,636 1,944 2,641 Operating expenses before restructuring, separation and 11,269 10,995 10,129 10,338 10,476 transaction costs (5) Restructuring, separation and transaction costs 104 34 4 295 227 (6) (7) Total operating expenses 11,373 11,029 10,133 10,633 10,703 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. (2) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (3) The year ended 30 June 2019 includes $161 million of amortisation of prepaid software licences (30 June 2018: $136 million; 30 June 2017: $141 million). The year ended 30 June 2017 includes a $393 million one-off expense for acceleration of amortisation on certain software assets. (4) The year ended 30 June 2019 includes $145 million professional indemnity insurance recovery in relation to the AUSTRAC civil penalty. The year ended 30 June 2018 includes $700 million AUSTRAC civil penalty. (5) The year ended 30 June 2019 includes $102 million of separation and transaction costs (30 June 2018: $30 million) and $2 million of merger related amortisation (30 June 2018: $4 million; 30 June 2017: $4 million). (6) The year ended 30 June 2019 includes $269 million of expenses due to the consolidation of AHL Holdings Pty Ltd (trading as Aussie Home Loans) and eChoice mortgage broking operations (30 June 2018: $199 million). (7) The year ended 30 June 2019 includes a $534 million provision for historical Aligned Advice remediation issues and associated program costs, and $384 million of Wealth and Banking customer refunds and associated program costs. 139 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Salaries and related on-costs include annual leave, long service leave, employee incentives and relevant taxes. Staff expenses are recognised over the period the employee renders the service. Long service leave is discounted to present value using assumptions relating to staff departures, leave utilisation and future salary. Share-based compensation includes both payments which may be cash or equity settled. Cash settled share-based remuneration is recognised as a liability and re-measured to fair value until settled. The changes in fair value are recognised as staff expenses. Equity settled remuneration is fair valued at the grant date and amortised to staff expenses over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in the employee compensation reserve. Superannuation expense includes expenses relating to defined contribution and defined benefit superannuation plans. Defined contribution expense is recognised in the period the service is provided, whilst the defined benefit expense, which measures current and past service costs is determined by an actuarial calculation. Occupancy and equipment expenses include depreciation which is calculated using the straight line method over the asset’s estimated useful life and operating lease rentals which are recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term. IT services expenses are recognised as incurred unless they qualify for capitalisation as computer software due to the expenditure generating probable future economic benefits. If capitalised, the computer software is subsequently amortised over its estimated useful life. The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date useful lives and residual values and whether there is any objective evidence of impairment. If an asset’s carrying value is greater than its recoverable amount, the carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount. Other expenses are recognised as the relevant service is rendered. Operating expenses related to provisions are recognised for present obligations arising from past events where a payment to settle the obligation is probable and can be reliably estimated. Critical accounting judgements and estimates Actuarial valuations of the Group’s defined benefit superannuation plans’ obligations are dependent on a series of assumptions set out in Note 10.2 including inflation rates, discount rates and salary growth rates. Changes in these assumptions impact the fair value of the plans’ obligations, assets, superannuation expense and actuarial gains and losses recognised in Other Comprehensive Income. 140 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 The income tax expense for the year is determined from the profit before income tax as follows: Group (1) Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M $M Profit before income tax 11,763 13,022 13,255 10,407 12,110 Prima facie income tax at 30% 3,529 3,907 3,977 3,122 3,633 Effect of amounts which are non-deductible/(assessable) in calculating taxable income: Taxation offsets and other dividend adjustments (7) (11) (365) (612) Tax losses not previously brought to account (56) Offshore tax rate differential (40) (36) (46) (8) (9) Offshore banking unit (32) (39) (42) (32) (38) Effect of changes in tax rates 1 15 3 1 15 Income tax (over)/under provided in previous years (101) (70) (70) (105) (69) (2) Non-deductible expense provision 210 210 Other 34 (28) 29 11 105 Total income tax expense 3,391 3,952 3,784 2,624 3,235 Effective tax rate (%) 28. 8 30. 3 28. 5 25. 2 26. 7 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. (2) Relates to the AUSTRAC civil penalty, which is non-deductible for tax purposes. Group (1) Bank Income tax expense attributable to profit from 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 ordinary activities $M $M $M $M $M Australia Current tax expense 3,238 3,916 3,687 2,755 3,312 Deferred tax benefit (380) (416) (292) (256) (157) Total Australia 2,858 3,500 3,395 2,499 3,155 Overseas Current tax expense 452 937 359 87 77 Deferred tax expense/(benefit) 81 (485) 30 38 3 Total Overseas 533 452 389 125 80 Income Tax Expense attributable to profit from 3,391 3,952 3,784 2,624 3,235 ordinary activities (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. 141 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M $M Deferred tax asset balances comprise temporary differences attributable to: Amounts recognised in the Income Statement and opening retained profits: (1) Provision for employee benefits 425 452 493 398 391 Provisions for impairment on loans, bills discounted and 1,345 991 1,032 1,230 913 other receivables Other provisions not tax deductible until expense incurred 497 221 201 331 154 Defined benefit superannuation plan 357 339 320 357 339 Unearned income 250 267 228 250 267 Other 312 296 225 308 273 Total amount recognised in the Income Statement and 3,186 2,566 2,499 2,874 2,337 opening retained profits (1) Amounts recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income: Cash flow hedge reserve 142 114 123 19 11 Other reserves 41 22 12 46 28 Total amount recognised directly in Other 183 136 135 65 39 Comprehensive Income Total deferred tax assets (before set off) 3,369 2,702 2,634 2,939 2,376 Set off to tax (1,694) (1,263) (1,728) (1,369) (946) Net deferred tax assets 1,675 1,439 906 1,570 1,430 Deferred tax liability balances comprise temporary differences attributable to: Amounts recognised in the Income Statement and opening retained profits: (1) Lease financing 162 200 235 91 100 Intangible assets 56 56 64 56 56 Financial instruments 3 30 179 13 10 Insurance 485 Investments in associates 148 131 122 Other 118 83 246 38 39 Total amount recognised in the Income Statement and 487 500 1,331 198 205 opening retained profits (1) Amounts recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income: Revaluation of properties 82 81 76 84 80 Foreign currency translation reserve 36 18 8 Cash flow hedge reserve 481 48 70 479 45 Defined benefit superannuation plan 487 498 445 487 498 Investment securities revaluation reserve 121 121 Available-for-sale investments reserve 118 130 118 Total amount recognised directly in Other 1,207 763 729 1,171 741 Comprehensive Income Total deferred tax liabilities (before set off) 1,694 1,263 2,060 1,369 946 Set off to tax (1,694) (1,263) (1,728) (1,369) (946) Net deferred tax liabilities 332 (1) The adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 on 1 July 2018 resulted in an increase in the Group’s deferred tax asset of $435 million (Bank: $353 million) and an increase in the Group’s deferred tax liability of $101 million (Bank: $27 million) recognised through opening retained profits. As permitted by AASB 9 and AASB 15, comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15, refer to Note 1.1. 142 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items because it is not considered probable that future taxable profit will be available against which they can be realised: Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Deferred tax assets not taken to account $M $M $M $M $M Tax losses and other temporary differences on revenue account that: Expire under current legislation 52 Do not expire under current legislation 47 29 Total 47 81 Tax Consolidation The Bank has recognised a tax consolidation contribution to the wholly-owned tax consolidated entity of $98 million (2018: $98 million). The amount receivable by the Bank under the tax funding agreement was $320 million as at 30 June 2019 (2018: $283 million receivable). This balance is included in ‘Other assets’ in the Bank’s separate Balance Sheet. Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the Balance Sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax is calculated using the Balance Sheet method where temporary differences are identified by comparing the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes to their tax bases. The amount of deferred tax recognised is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities (i.e. through use or through sale), using tax rates which are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. A deferred tax asset is only recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available for it to be used against. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where they relate to income tax levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities within the same taxable group. The Bank and its wholly owned Australian Subsidiaries elected to be treated as a single entity “the tax consolidated group” under the tax consolidation regime from 1 July 2002. The members of the tax consolidated group have entered into tax funding and tax sharing agreements, which set out the funding obligations and members. Any current tax liabilities / assets and deferred tax assets from unused tax losses from subsidiaries in the tax consolidated group are recognised by the Bank legal entity and funded in line with the tax funding arrangement. The measurement and disclosure of deferred tax assets and liabilities have been performed on a modified stand-alone basis under UIG 1052 ‘Tax Consolidation Accounting’. Critical accounting judgements and estimates Provisions for taxation require significant judgement with respect to outcomes that are uncertain. For such uncertainties, the Group has estimated the tax provisions based on the expected outcomes. 143 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Group (3) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Earnings per ordinary share (1) Cents per Share (2) Earnings per share from continuing operations: Basic 473. 7 518. 8 549. 9 Diluted 457. 5 503. 2 532. 9 Earnings per share: Basic 485. 6 534. 3 577. 3 Diluted 468. 6 517. 7 558. 8 (1) EPS calculations are based on actual amounts prior to rounding to the nearest million. (2) The information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. (3) The difference between earnings per share from continuing operations and earnings per share represents earnings per share from discontinued operations. Group Reconciliation of earnings from continuing operations used in calculation of 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 earnings per share (1) $M $M $M Profit after income tax from continuing operations 8,372 9,070 9,471 Less: Other equity instrument dividends Less: Non-controlling interests (12) (13) (13) Continuing operations earnings used in calculation of basic earnings per share 8,360 9,057 9,458 Add: Profit impact of assumed conversions of loan capital 323 267 218 Continuing operations earnings used in calculation of fully diluted earnings per share 8,683 9,324 9,676 Reconciliation of earnings used in calculation of earnings per share Continuing operations earnings used in calculation of basic earnings per share 8,360 9,057 9,458 Discontinued operations earnings used in calculation of basic earnings per share 211 272 470 Earnings used in calculation of basic earnings per share 8,571 9,329 9,928 Add: Profit impact of assumed conversions of loan capital 323 267 218 Earnings used in calculation of fully diluted earnings per share 8,894 9,596 10,146 (1) Comparative information has been restated to reflect the impact of discontinued operations. Number of Shares 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings 1,765 1,746 1,720 per share Effect of dilutive securities executive share plans and convertible loan capital 132 106 96 instruments Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of fully diluted earnings 1,897 1,852 1,816 per share Basic earnings per share (EPS) amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Bank by the weighted average number of ordinary shares on issue during the year, adjusted for any bonus element included in ordinary shares issued and excluding treasury shares held. Diluted EPS is basic EPS adjusted for the impact of all securities on issue that can convert to CBA ordinary shares and would dilute basic EPS on conversion. It is calculated by dividing net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Bank (after adding back interest on the convertible redeemable loan capital instruments) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued during the year (as calculated under basic earnings per share adjusted for the effects of dilutive convertible non-cumulative redeemable loan capital instruments and shares issuable under executive share plans). 144 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 The principal activities of the Group are carried out in the business (iii) Institutional Banking and Markets segments below. These segments are based on the distribution channels through which the customer relationship is being Institutional Banking and Markets services the Group’s major managed. corporate, institutional and government clients using a relationship management model based on industry expertise and During the year, the Group announced the sale of its global asset insights. The client offering includes debt raising, financial and management business, CFSGAM, and Indonesian life insurance commodities price risk management and transactional banking operation, PTCL. The Group’s business segment performance capabilities. Institutional Banking and Markets has international has been updated and presented on a continuing operations basis operations in London, New York, Japan, Singapore, Malta, Hong to exclude these businesses, which are disclosed as discontinued Kong, New Zealand, Beijing and Shanghai. operations. (iv) Wealth Management During the year, the Group also made a number of structural changes to its operating segments. This includes merging Wealth Management includes Platform Administration and Bankwest with Retail Banking Services, transferring Financial Advice. CFSGAM (including operations in Asia and Commonwealth Financial Planning and General Insurance Europe) and CommInsure Life have been presented as businesses from Wealth Management to Retail Banking Services discontinued operations. and migrating Small Business banking customers from Retail Banking Services to Business and Private Banking. In addition, (v) New Zealand refinements have been made to the allocation of support units and New Zealand includes Banking and Funds Management other costs. These changes have not impacted the Group’s net businesses operating in New Zealand (excluding Institutional profit, but have resulted in changes to the presentation of the Banking and Markets). The sale of New Zealand life insurance Income Statement and the Balance Sheet of the affected business, Sovereign, was completed on 2 July 2018. segments. (vi) IFS and Corporate Centre The primary sources of revenue are interest and fee income (Retail Banking Services, Business and Private Banking, The following parts of the business are included in IFS and Institutional Banking and Markets, New Zealand and International Corporate Centre: Financial Services (IFS)) and insurance premium and funds  International Financial Services includes the Indonesian retail management income (Wealth Management, New Zealand and and business banking operations, and associate investments IFS). in China and Vietnam. It does not include the Business and Revenues and expenses occurring between segments are Private Banking, Institutional Banking and Markets and subject to transfer pricing arrangements. All intra-group CFSGAM businesses in Asia; transactions are eliminated on consolidation.  Indonesian life insurance operation, PTCL, has been Business segments are managed on the basis of net profit after presented as a discontinued operation; income tax (“cash basis”). Management uses “cash basis” to  The sale of TymeDigital SA was completed on assess performance and it provides the basis for the 1 November 2018. It has been presented as a discontinued determination of the Bank’s dividends. The “cash basis” presents operation. the Group’s underlying operating results, excluding a number of  Corporate Centre includes the results of unallocated Group items that introduce volatility and/or one-off distortions of the support functions such as Investor Relations, Group Strategy, Group’s current period performance. These items, such as Secretariat and Treasury; and hedging and IFRS volatility, are calculated consistently year on  Group wide elimination entries arising on consolidation, year and do not discriminate between positive and negative centrally raised provisions and other unallocated revenue and adjustments. expenses. (i) Retail Banking Services Retail Banking Services provides home loan, consumer finance and retail deposit products and servicing to all Retail Banking Services’ customers. Retail Banking Services also includes the Group’s General Insurance business in Australia, which is under strategic review and Commonwealth Financial Planning. (ii) Business and Private Banking Business and Private Banking provides specialised banking services to relationship managed business and agribusiness customers, private banking to high net worth individuals, margin lending and trading through CommSec, and retail banking products and servicing to non-relationship managed small business customers. 145 30 Jun 19 Retail Business Institutional IFS and Banking and Private Banking and Wealth New Corporate Services Banking Markets Management Zealand Centre Total $M $M $M $M $M $M $M 9,342 5,123 1,371 1,896 388 18,120 1,383 781 181 301 27 2,673 197 391 344 60 992 158 278 548 81 338 1,403 1,738 1,450 1,073 442 365 5,068 11,080 6,573 2,444 2,338 753 23,188 96 862 130 (16) 1,072 149 (2) 147 11,325 6,573 2,444 862 2,468 735 24,407 15 17 (28) 4 d operating expenses 11,340 6,573 2,444 879 2,468 707 24,411 (4,533) (2,409) (1,043) (645) (912) (1,727) (11,269) (693) (362) (17) (102) (27) (1,201) 6,114 3,802 1,384 234 1,454 (1,047) 11,941 (1,847) (1,144) (313) (74) (404) 345 (3,437) (12) (12) cash basis 4,267 2,658 1,071 160 1,050 (714) 8,492 253 (39) 214 4,267 2,658 1,071 413 1,050 (753) 8,706 of transaction costs 13 (240) 179 (13) (61) (48) (31) (79) (1) 6 5 4,266 2,658 1,084 179 1,181 (797) 8,571 (201) (162) (38) (20) (80) (473) (974) 412,608 174,852 148,197 21,093 94,320 125,432 976,502 273,603 140,541 150,209 25,297 88,466 228,737 906,853 unrealised losses relating to hedging and IFRS volatility, $82 million transaction and separation costs associated with the disposal of CommInsure Life, $71 million transaction and 4 million separation costs for NewCo, $33 million impairment loss and transaction costs associated with the disposal of Count, $22 million loss including transaction and separation offset by a $135 million gain net of transaction and separation costs associated with the disposal of Sovereign and $66 million net gain on acquisition and disposals of other ms and a $6 million gain due to treasury shares valuation adjustment. 30 Jun 18 (1) Retail Business Institutional IFS and Banking and Private Banking and Wealth New Corporate Services Banking Markets Management Zealand Centre Total $M $M $M $M $M $M $M 9,645 5,115 1,434 1,760 388 18,342 1,393 820 201 285 12 2,711 268 355 434 55 (3) 1,109 166 250 602 75 302 1,395 1,827 1,425 1,237 415 311 5,215 11,472 6,540 2,671 2,175 699 23,557 169 841 112 (3) 1,119 242 (4) 238 11,883 6,540 2,671 841 2,287 692 24,914 8 10 (10) 8 and operating expenses 11,891 6,540 2,671 851 2,287 682 24,922 (4,349) (2,230) (1,067) (490) (860) (1,999) (10,995) (652) (247) (80) (74) (26) (1,079) 6,890 4,063 1,524 361 1,353 (1,343) 12,848 (2,067) (1,218) (354) (106) (378) 203 (3,920) (13) (13) cash basis 4,823 2,845 1,170 255 975 (1,153) 8,915 452 96 (51) 497 4,823 2,845 1,170 707 1,071 (1,204) 9,412 net of transaction costs 58 (139) (18) (84) (183) 87 14 101 (3) 2 (1) 4,878 2,845 1,170 570 1,140 (1,274) 9,329 (169) (165) (45) (18) (77) (457) (931) 397,986 174,635 162,125 19,459 90,022 130,938 975,165 268,400 136,603 153,644 24,455 82,976 241,227 907,305 to presentation in the current year and to reflect a number of structural changes to operating segments. s. 1 million unrealised gains relating to hedging and IFRS volatility, $118 million transaction and separation costs associated with the disposal of CommInsure Life, $91 million A as discontinued operation, $21 million demerger costs for NewCo, $18 million transaction and separation costs associated with the disposal of Sovereign, partly offset by $58 million net gain on acquisition and disposals of other businesses; and $3 million expense of Bankwest non-cash items and a $2 million gain due to treasury shares valuation Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Group (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Financial performance and position $M % $M % $M % Income Australia 20,994 86. 3 21,837 86. 9 21,321 87. 1 New Zealand 2,444 10. 0 2,297 9. 1 2,231 9. 1 (2) Other locations 899 3. 7 996 4. 0 931 3. 8 Total Income 24,337 100. 0 25,130 100. 0 24,483 100. 0 Non-Current Assets Australia 12,453 93. 2 13,473 93. 3 15,301 91. 8 New Zealand 635 4. 8 581 4. 0 1,045 6. 2 (2) Other locations 261 2. 0 387 2. 7 329 2. 0 (3) Total non-current assets 13,349 100. 0 14,441 100. 0 16,675 100. 0 (1) Information has been restated and presented on a continuing operations basis. For details on the Group’s discontinued operations refer to Note 11.3. (2) Other locations include: United Kingdom, United States, Japan, Singapore, Malta, Hong Kong, Indonesia, China and Vietnam. Comparative periods also includes South Africa. (3) Non-current assets include Property, plant and equipment, Investments in associates and joint ventures, and Intangibles. The geographical segment represents the location in which the transaction was recognised. Operating segments are reported based on the Group’s organisational and management structures. Senior management review the Group’s internal reporting based around these segments, in order to assess performance and allocate resources. All transactions between segments are conducted on an arm’s length basis, with inter-segment revenue and costs being eliminated in “Other”. 148 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Lending is the Group’s primary business activity, generating most of its net interest income and lending fees. The Group satisfies customers’ needs for borrowed funds by providing a broad range of lending products in Australia, New Zealand and other jurisdictions. As a result of its lending activities the Group assumes credit risk arising from the potential that borrowers will fail to meet their obligations in accordance with agreed lending terms. This section provides details of the Group’s lending portfolio by type of product and geographical regions, analysis of the credit quality of the Group’s lending portfolio and the related impairment provisions. Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Note $M $M $M $M Australia Overdrafts 26,297 25,217 26,297 25,217 (1) (2) Home loans 467,361 451,367 459,690 444,186 Credit card outstandings 11,271 11,877 11,271 11,877 Lease financing 4,410 4,318 3,532 3,268 (3) Bills discounted 1,955 4,280 1,955 4,280 Term loans and other lending 141,695 147,028 141,679 147,009 Total Australia 652,989 644,087 644,424 635,837 Overseas Overdrafts 1,842 1,657 306 281 (1) Home loans 55,581 50,298 341 397 Credit card outstandings 1,069 993 Lease financing 8 25 1 4 Term loans and other lending 49,492 50,969 20,662 24,348 Total overseas 107,992 103,942 21,310 25,030 Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 760,981 748,029 665,734 660,867 Less (4) Provisions for Loan Impairment: 3.2 Collective provision (3,820) (2,735) (3,455) (2,482) Individually assessed provisions (895) (870) (801) (779) Unearned income: Term loans (739) (692) (730) (692) Lease financing (386) (367) (272) (264) (5,840) (4,664) (5,258) (4,217) Net loans, bills discounted and other receivables 755,141 743,365 660,476 656,650 (1) Home loans balance includes residential mortgages that have been assigned to securitisation vehicles and covered bond trusts. Further detail on these residential mortgages is disclosed in Note 4.4. (2) These balances are presented gross of mortgage offset balances as required under accounting standards. (3) On adoption of AASB 9 on 1 July 2018, bills discounted were reclassified from the trading category under AASB 139 to the amortised cost category under AASB 9 as the bills no longer meet the definition of a trading asset and they are held under the business model to collect. The reclassification did not have an impact on the Group’s retained profits. As permitted by AASB 9, comparative information has not been restated. (4) The adoption of AASB 9 impairment requirements on 1 July 2018 resulted in $968 million increase in the Group’s collective provisions on loans, bills discounted and other receivables (Bank: $895 million) and $87 million increase in collective provisions for off-balance sheet instruments (Bank: $84 million). As permitted by AASB 9, comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 refer to Note 1.1. 149 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Based on behavioural terms and current market conditions, the amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date are $185,208 million (2018: $175,826 million) for the Group, and $167,316 million (2018: $159,688 million) for the Bank. Finance lease receivables The Group and the Bank provide finance leases to a broad range of clients to support financing needs in acquiring transportation assets such as trains, aircraft, ships and major production and manufacturing equipment. Finance lease receivables are included within Loans, bills discounted and other receivables to customers. Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Gross Present Value Gross Present Value Investment in of Minimum Investment in of Minimum Finance Lease Unearned Lease Payment Finance Lease Unearned Lease Payment Receivable Income Receivable Receivable Income Receivable $M $M $M $M $M $M Not later than one year 1,586 (167) 1,419 1,706 (162) 1,544 One year to five years 2,656 (207) 2,449 2,455 (190) 2,265 Over five years 176 (12) 164 182 (15) 167 4,418 (386) 4,032 4,343 (367) 3,976 Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Gross Present Value Gross Present Value Investment in of Minimum Investment in of Minimum Finance Lease Unearned Lease Payment Finance Lease Unearned Lease Payment Receivable Income Receivable Receivable Income Receivable $M $M $M $M $M $M Not later than one year 1,284 (118) 1,166 1,248 (116) 1,132 One year to five years 2,084 (143) 1,941 1,864 (135) 1,729 Over five years 165 (11) 154 160 (13) 147 3,533 (272) 3,261 3,272 (264) 3,008 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables include overdrafts, home loans, credit card and other personal lending, term loans, and discounted bills. These financial assets are held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows. The contractual cash flows on these financial assets comprise the payment of principal and interest only. These instruments are accordingly measured at amortised cost. Loans, bills discounted and other receivables are recognised on settlement date, when funding is advanced to the borrowers. They are initially recognised at their fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs such as broker fees. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method and are presented net of provisions for impairment. For the accounting policy for provisions for impairment, refer to Note 3.2. For information on the Group’s management of credit risk, refer to Note 9.2. Finance leases, where the Group acts as lessor, are also included in Loans, bills discounted and other receivables. Finance leases are those where substantially all the risks and rewards of the lease asset have been transferred to the lessee. Lease receivables are recognised at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. Finance lease income reflects a constant periodic return on this net investment and is recognised within interest income in the Income Statement. Critical accounting judgements and estimates When applying this effective interest method the Group has estimated the behavioural term of each loan portfolio by reference to historical prepayment rates and the contractual maturity. 150 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Contractual maturity tables Group Maturity Period at 30 June 2019 Maturing 1 Maturing Maturing Year Between 1 After or Less and 5 Years 5 Years Total Industry (1) $M $M $M $M Australia Sovereign 14,139 2,117 506 16,762 Agriculture 3,647 5,273 371 9,291 Bank and other financial 5,470 3,046 159 8,675 Home loans 11,859 51,092 404,410 467,361 Construction 1,381 1,494 363 3,238 Other personal 6,848 12,978 1,682 21,508 Asset financing 3,065 4,757 125 7,947 Other commercial and industrial 41,763 66,223 10,221 118,207 Total Australia 88,172 146,980 417,837 652,989 Overseas Sovereign 446 982 8 1,436 Agriculture 3,201 5,874 1,392 10,467 Bank and other financial 2,253 4,295 89 6,637 Home loans 3,155 709 51,717 55,581 Construction 295 164 242 701 Other personal 1,264 378 282 1,924 Asset financing 22 191 203 416 Other commercial and industrial 9,119 14,780 6,931 30,830 Total overseas 19,755 27,373 60,864 107,992 Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 107,927 174,353 478,701 760,981 (1) The industry split has been prepared in line with industry exposures in Note 9.2. Maturing 1 Maturing Maturing Year Between 1 After or Less and 5 Years 5 Years Total Interest rate $M $M $M $M Australia 74,978 128,798 332,678 536,454 Overseas 18,408 21,952 11,767 52,127 Total variable interest rates 93,386 150,750 344,445 588,581 Australia 13,194 18,182 85,159 116,535 Overseas 1,347 5,421 49,097 55,865 Total fixed interest rates 14,541 23,603 134,256 172,400 Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 107,927 174,353 478,701 760,981 151 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Group Maturity Period at 30 June 2018 Maturing 1 Maturing Maturing Year Between 1 After or Less and 5 Years 5 Years Total Industry (1) $M $M $M $M Australia Sovereign 13,745 2,490 588 16,823 Agriculture 3,589 5,078 331 8,998 Bank and other financial 6,805 5,818 328 12,951 Home loans 9,861 41,930 399,576 451,367 Construction 1,223 1,465 340 3,028 Other personal 7,663 13,976 2,019 23,658 Asset financing 3,188 5,263 130 8,581 Other commercial and industrial 42,482 65,382 10,817 118,681 Total Australia 88,556 141,402 414,129 644,087 Overseas Sovereign 1,023 466 82 1,571 Agriculture 2,533 5,371 2,026 9,930 Bank and other financial 3,684 3,206 185 7,075 Home loans 3,202 657 46,439 50,298 Construction 273 148 217 638 Other personal 1,190 333 321 1,844 Asset financing 23 173 261 457 Other commercial and industrial 7,954 17,153 7,022 32,129 Total overseas 19,882 27,507 56,553 103,942 Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 108,438 168,909 470,682 748,029 (1) The industry split has been prepared in line with industry exposures in Note 9.2. Maturing 1 Maturing Maturing Year Between 1 After or Less and 5 Years 5 Years Total Interest rate $M $M $M $M Australia 73,612 122,146 328,864 524,622 Overseas 18,035 22,730 13,235 54,000 Total variable interest rates 91,647 144,876 342,099 578,622 Australia 14,944 19,256 85,265 119,465 Overseas 1,847 4,777 43,318 49,942 Total fixed interest rates 16,791 24,033 128,583 169,407 Gross loans, bills discounted and other receivables 108,438 168,909 470,682 748,029 152 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Provisions for impairment losses $M $M $M $M $M Collective provision Opening balance 2,763 2,747 2,818 2,510 2,482 (1) Change on adoption of AASB 9 1,055 979 Net collective provision funding 724 716 617 629 646 Impairment losses written off (901) (871) (894) (818) (789) Impairment losses recovered 206 201 210 191 182 Other 57 (30) (4) 46 (11) Closing balance 3,904 2,763 2,747 3,537 2,510 Individually assessed provisions Opening balance 870 980 944 779 897 Net new and increased individual provisioning 619 625 670 556 559 Write-back of provisions no longer required (142) (262) (192) (127) (242) Discount unwind to interest income (23) (25) (31) (23) (25) Impairment losses written off (500) (548) (454) (446) (473) Other 71 100 43 62 63 Closing balance 895 870 980 801 779 Total provisions for impairment losses 4,799 3,633 3,727 4,338 3,289 Less: Off Balance Sheet provisions (84) (28) (34) (82) (28) Total provisions for loan impairment 4,715 3,605 3,693 4,256 3,261 (1) The adoption of AASB 9 impairment requirements on 1 July 2018 resulted in $968 million increase in the Group’s collective provisions on loans, bills discounted and other receivables (Bank: $895 million) and $87 million increase in collective provisions for off-balance sheet instruments (Bank: $84 million). As permitted by AASB 9, comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 refer to Note 1.1. Of the total $1,401 million loans written-off by the Group during the year ended 30 June 2019, $424 million remain subject to enforcement activity. Of the total $1,264 million loans written-off by the Bank during the year ended 30 June 2019, $394 million remain subject to enforcement activity. Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Provision ratios % % % % % Total provisions for impaired assets as a % of gross 32. 77 33. 60 36. 05 35. 36 37. 18 impaired assets (1) Total provisions for impairment losses as a % of gross loans 0. 63 0. 49 0. 51 0. 65 0. 50 and acceptances (1) Gross impaired assets include non-performing facilities, restructured facilities and unsecured retail managed facilities 90 days or more past due. For impaired assets classification refer to Note 9.2. Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Loan impairment expense $M $M $M $M $M Net collective provision funding 724 716 617 629 646 Net new and increased individual provisioning 619 625 670 556 559 Write-back of individually assessed provisions (142) (262) (192) (127) (242) Total loan impairment expense 1,201 1,079 1,095 1,058 963 153 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Movement in provisions for impairment and credit exposures by ECL stage The tables below provide movements in the Group’s and the Bank’s impairment provisions and credit exposures by ECL stage for the year ended 30 June 2019. Movements in provisions for impairment in the tables below are attributable to the following items:  Net transfers between stages: net movements in provisions for impairment due to transfers of credit exposures between Stage 1, Stage 2 and Stage 3 prior to re-measurement between 12-month and lifetime ECL.  Net re-measurement on transfers between stages: net movements in provisions for impairment due to re-measurement between 12 month ECL and lifetime ECL as a result of transfers between stages.  Impact of transfers between 12 months and lifetime ECL: a total of net transfers between stages and net re-measurement on transfers between stages.  Net financial assets originated: net movements in provisions for impairment due to financial assets originated as well as exposure changes for existing credit exposures due to maturities, repayments or credit limit changes as well as changes in foreign exchange rates.  Movements in existing IAP including write-backs: net movements in existing Individually Assessed Provisions (IAP) excluding movements to or from collective provisions and write-offs.  Write-offs: decreases in the provisions for impairment due to the de-recognition of loans when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery.  Movement due to risk parameter and other changes: movements in provisions for impairment due to changes in credit risk parameters, forward looking economic scenarios or other assumptions as well as other changes in underlying credit quality that do not lead to transfers between Stage 1, Stage 2 and Stage 3. Movements in credit exposures in the tables below are attributable to the following items:  Net transfers between stages and financial assets originated: net movements in credit exposures due to transfers between Stage 1, Stage 2 and Stage 3 and due to financial assets originated as well as changes in existing credit exposures due to maturities, repayments or credit limit changes as well as changes in foreign exchange rates.  Write-offs: the de-recognition of credit exposures when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Group (1) 30 Jun 19 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 Collectively Collectively Collectively Individually Assessed Assessed Assessed Assessed Total $M $M $M $M $M Provisions for impairment losses (2) Opening balance 873 2,525 420 870 4,688 Net transfers between stages 700 (833) 14 119 Net re-measurement on transfers between stages (1,072) 1,596 568 1,092 Impact of transfers between 12 months and lifetime ECL (372) 763 582 119 1,092 Net financial assets originated 341 (999) (77) (735) Movements in existing IAP including write-backs 406 406 Write-offs (901) (500) (1,401) Movements due to risk parameter and other changes 63 230 456 749 Closing balance 905 2,519 480 895 4,799 Credit exposures (2) (3) Opening balance 709,231 190,688 4,017 2,020 905,956 Net transfers between stages and financial assets 38,727 (26,418) 1,490 698 14,497 originated Write-offs (901) (500) (1,401) Closing balance 747,958 164,270 4,606 2,218 919,052 (1) Refer to Note 9.2 for further analysis of provisions for impairment and credit exposures. (2) Movements in credit exposures exclude Cash and liquid assets and Receivables from other financial institutions. Movements in provisions for impairment losses include provisions in relation to these financial assets. As at 30 June 2019, collective provisions in Stage 1 include $9 million in relation to these financial assets. (3) The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 65% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Group as at 30 June 2019. 154 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Movement in provisions for impairment and credit exposures by ECL stage (continued) Bank (1) 30 Jun 19 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 Collectively Collectively Collectively Individually Assessed Assessed Assessed Assessed Total $M $M $M $M $M Provisions for impairment losses (2) Opening balance 783 2,313 393 779 4,268 Net transfers between stages 692 (832) 23 117 Net re-measurement on transfers between stages (1,037) 1,562 528 1,053 Impact of transfers between 12 months and lifetime ECL (345) 730 551 117 1,053 Net financial assets originated 323 (981) (40) (698) Movements in existing IAP including write-backs 351 351 Write-offs (818) (446) (1,264) Movements due to risk parameter and other changes 40 231 357 628 Closing balance 801 2,293 443 801 4,338 Credit exposures (2) (3) Opening balance 631,044 170,870 3,746 1,578 807,238 Net transfers between stages and financial assets 30,762 (26,871) 1,241 681 5,813 originated Write-offs (818) (446) (1,264) Closing balance 661,806 143,999 4,169 1,813 811,787 (1) Refer to Note 9.2 for further analysis of provisions for impairment and credit exposures. (2) Movements in credit exposures exclude cash and liquid assets and receivables from other financial institutions. Movements in provisions for impairment losses include provisions in relation to these financial assets. As at 30 June 2019, collective provisions in Stage 1 include $9 million in relation these financial assets. (3) The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 65% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Bank as at 30 June 2019. Movements in provisions for impairment during the year were due to the following:  A net increase in the Group’s Stage 1 credit exposures of $38,727 million (Bank: $30,762 million) driven by home loans portfolio growth, partly offset by net transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 and Stage 3 reflecting increases in corporate troublesome assets, heightened consumer finance arrears and forward looking adjustments.  A net reduction in the Group’s Stage 2 credit exposures of $26,418 million (Bank: $26,871 million) mainly driven by corporate portfolio optimisation, partly offset by net transfers to Stage 2, mainly from Stage 1 reflecting increases in corporate troublesome assets, heightened consumer finance arrears and forward looking adjustments. The impact of forward looking adjustments accounts for approximately 65% of the Group’s and the Bank’s Stage 2 credit exposures.  A net increase in the Group’s Stage 3 credit exposures of $787 million (Bank: $658 million) driven by net transfers to Stage 3 from Stage 1 and Stage 2 reflecting increases in corporate troublesome assets and impaired home loans, partly offset by write-offs. 155 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Sensitivity of provisions for impairment to changes in forward looking assumptions As described in Note 1.1, the Group applies four alternative macro-economic scenarios (Central, Upside, Downside and Severe Downside scenarios) to reflect unbiased probability-weighted range of possible future outcomes in estimating ECL. Assuming 100% weighting on the Central scenario and holding all other assumptions (including forward looking adjustments) constant the Group’s provisions for impairment would be approximately $3,639 million (Bank: $3,290 million) compared to $4,799 million (Bank: $4,338 million) provisions for impairment recognised as at 30 June 2019. Assuming 100% weighting on the Downside Scenario and holding all other assumptions (including forward looking adjustments) constant the Group’s total provisions for impairment would be approximately $4,802 million (Bank: $4,338 million). By providing loans to customers, the Group bears the risk that the future circumstances of customers might change, including their ability to repay their loans in part or in full. While the Group’s credit and responsible lending policies aim to minimise this risk, there will always be instances where the Group will not receive the full amount owed and hence a provision for impaired loans will be necessary. On 1 July 2018, the Group adopted the AASB 9 impairment requirements, which resulted in the implementation of an expected credit loss impairment model. As a result, from 1 July 2018 provisions are recognised in accordance with the AASB 9 expected credit loss approach. The details of the Group’s accounting policies and critical accounting judgements and estimates involved in calculating AASB 9 impairment provisions for the year ended 30 June 2019 are provided in Note 1.1. 156 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group Individually assessed provisions by 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 industry classification $M $M $M $M $M Australia Sovereign Agriculture 51 56 47 42 133 Bank and other financial 14 16 27 29 36 Home loans 246 236 249 193 148 Construction 76 21 25 25 20 Other personal 3 6 9 7 10 Asset financing 10 16 18 28 28 Other commercial and industrial 369 343 442 483 400 Total Australia 769 694 817 807 775 Overseas Sovereign Agriculture 46 25 25 23 14 Bank and other financial 4 Home loans 4 5 4 6 10 Construction 1 1 8 1 Other personal 3 1 Asset financing 10 10 10 Other commercial and industrial 73 145 123 85 77 Total overseas 126 176 163 137 112 Total individually assessed provisions 895 870 980 944 887 157 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Loans written off by industry classification $M $M $M $M $M Australia Sovereign Agriculture 59 28 17 84 65 Bank and other financial 1 3 1 10 36 Home loans 134 126 115 82 72 Construction 44 13 16 11 14 Other personal 787 764 792 747 686 Asset financing 17 23 41 54 45 Other commercial and industrial 126 179 210 249 404 Total Australia 1,168 1,136 1,192 1,237 1,322 Overseas Sovereign Agriculture 2 3 15 7 3 Bank and other financial 5 5 5 69 Home loans 2 2 4 7 8 Construction 2 1 8 Other personal 70 65 60 54 42 Asset financing Other commercial and industrial 152 207 64 112 35 Total overseas 233 283 156 180 157 Gross loans written off 1,401 1,419 1,348 1,417 1,479 Less recovery of amounts previously written off: Australia 190 187 194 211 165 Overseas 16 14 16 14 11 Total amounts recovered 206 201 210 225 176 Net loans written off 1,195 1,218 1,138 1,192 1,303 158 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Loans recovered by industry classification $M $M $M $M $M Australia Sovereign Agriculture 1 Bank and other financial 1 1 27 9 Home loans 4 2 3 3 3 Construction 1 1 1 Other personal 169 165 170 154 125 Asset financing 2 5 7 4 4 Other commercial and industrial 14 14 12 21 24 Total Australia 190 187 194 211 165 Overseas Sovereign Agriculture Bank and other financial 1 Home loans 1 1 1 1 1 Construction 1 1 Other personal 11 10 11 10 10 Asset financing Other commercial and industrial 4 2 3 2 Total overseas 16 14 16 14 11 Total loans recovered 206 201 210 225 176 159 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Stable and well diversified funding sources are critical to the Group’s ability to fund its lending and investing activities and support growing its business. Our main sources of funding include customer deposits and term funds raised in domestic and offshore wholesale markets via issuing debt securities and loan capital. The Group also relies on repurchase agreements as a source of short-term wholesale funding. Refer to Note 9.4 for the Group’s management of liquidity and funding risk. Group (1) Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M Australia Certificates of deposit 30,924 31,405 33,331 33,496 Term deposits 148,313 149,924 148,491 150,086 On-demand and short-term deposits 308,299 300,607 308,338 300,768 Deposits not bearing interest 49,274 46,082 49,245 46,058 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 19,099 14,696 19,215 14,806 Total Australia 555,909 542,714 558,620 545,214 Overseas Certificates of deposit 12,144 8,509 8,818 6,069 Term deposits 39,147 43,896 5,869 13,707 On-demand and short-term deposits 23,491 22,640 481 1,154 Deposits not bearing interest 5,349 4,475 63 56 Total overseas 80,131 79,520 15,231 20,986 Total external deposits and other public borrowings 636,040 622,234 573,851 566,200 (1) Current year balances reflect the adoption of AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ on 1 July 2018. As permitted by AASB 9, comparative information has not been restated. For details on adoption of AASB 9, refer to Note 1.1. The majority of the amounts are due to be settled within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. The contractual maturity profile of Certificates of deposit and Term deposits are shown in the table below: Group At 30 June 2019 Maturing Maturing Maturing Maturing Three Between Between Six after Months or Three and and Twelve Twelve Less Six Months Months Months Total $M $M $M $M $M Australia (1) Certificates of deposit 14,674 13,182 1,232 1,836 30,924 Term deposits 92,825 39,389 13,835 2,264 148,313 Total Australia 107,499 52,571 15,067 4,100 179,237 Overseas (1) Certificates of deposit 5,938 3,156 3,005 45 12,144 Term deposits 17,820 13,129 6,127 2,071 39,147 Total overseas 23,758 16,285 9,132 2,116 51,291 Total certificates of deposits and term deposits 131,257 68,856 24,199 6,216 230,528 (1) All certificates of deposit issued by the Group are for amounts greater than $100,000. 160 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group At 30 June 2018 Maturing Maturing Maturing Maturing Three Between Between Six after Months or Three and and Twelve Twelve Less Six Months Months Months Total $M $M $M $M $M Australia (1) Certificates of deposit 15,321 9,286 2,351 4,447 31,405 Term deposits 83,431 25,576 32,222 8,695 149,924 Total Australia 98,752 34,862 34,573 13,142 181,329 Overseas (1) Certificates of deposit 3,425 2,441 2,601 42 8,509 Term deposits 22,758 10,033 7,901 3,204 43,896 Total overseas 26,183 12,474 10,502 3,246 52,405 Total certificates of deposits and term deposits 124,935 47,336 45,075 16,388 233,734 (1) All certificates of deposit issued by the Group are for amounts greater than $100,000. Deposits from customers include certificates of deposit, term deposits, savings deposits, other demand deposits and debentures. Deposits are initially recognised at their fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost. Interest incurred is recognised within Net Interest Income using the effective interest method. Securities sold under repurchase agreements are retained in the Financial Statements where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the Group. A liability for the agreed repurchase amount is recognised within deposits and other public borrowings. Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M Deposits and other borrowings (1) 6,217 8,124 6,217 7,118 Debt instruments 714 399 155 264 Trading liabilities 1,589 1,724 1,589 1,724 Total liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 8,520 10,247 7,961 9,106 (1) Current period balances reflect the adoption of AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ on 1 July 2018. As permitted by AASB 9, comparative information has not been restated. For details on adoption of AASB 9, refer to Note 1.1. As at 30 June 2019, $5,201 million of the Group’s total liabilities at fair value through Income Statement (Bank: $4,642 million) are expected to be settled within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. As at 30 June 2018, the majority of the Group’s and the Bank’s liabilities at fair value through Income Statement were expected to be settled within 12 months. The amount that would be contractually required to be paid at maturity to the holders of the financial liabilities designated at fair value through Income Statement for the Group is $8,524 million (2018: $10,093 million) and for the Bank is $7,960 million (2018: $8,949 million). The Group designates certain liabilities at fair value through the Income Statement on origination when doing so eliminates or reduces an accounting mismatch, or where the liabilities contain embedded derivatives which must otherwise be separated and carried at fair value. Trading liabilities are incurred principally for the purpose of repurchasing or settling in the near term. Subsequent to initial recognition, these liabilities are measured at fair value. Changes in fair value (except those due to changes in credit risk) are recognised in Other Banking Income. Changes in fair value relating to the Group’s own credit risk are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income. Interest incurred is recognised within Net Interest Income using the effective interest method. 161 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Note $M $M $M $M Medium-term notes 98,342 99,579 84,014 87,474 Commercial paper 20,158 26,868 17,596 23,922 Securitisation notes 4.4 12,177 13,089 Covered bonds 4.4 33,313 32,758 29,452 28,588 (1) Total debt issues 163,990 172,294 131,062 139,984 Short Term Debt Issues by currency USD 20,147 27,008 17,585 24,061 AUD 10 1,009 10 1,009 GBP 3,470 2,949 3,470 2,949 Other currencies 227 335 227 335 Total short term debt issues 23,854 31,301 21,292 28,354 Long Term Debt Issues by currency (2) USD 48,293 51,472 43,802 48,017 EUR 36,172 33,057 28,601 26,842 AUD 37,909 35,066 24,770 20,875 GBP 3,653 4,701 2,510 3,614 NZD 3,596 3,954 834 1,028 JPY 2,115 3,505 1,989 3,390 Other currencies 8,331 9,175 7,197 7,801 Offshore loans (all JPY) 67 63 67 63 Total long term debt issues 140,136 140,993 109,770 111,630 Maturity Distribution of Debt Issues (3) Less than twelve months 50,095 59,980 42,993 50,994 Greater than twelve months 113,895 112,314 88,069 88,990 Total debt issues 163,990 172,294 131,062 139,984 (1) Debt issues include unrealised movements of $8,994 million in 2019 predominantly due to foreign exchange gains and losses. (2) Long-term debt disclosed relates to debt issues which have a maturity at inception of greater than 12 months. (3) Represents the remaining contractual maturity of the underlying instrument. The Group’s long-term debt issues include notes issued under the: USD70 billion Euro Medium Term Note Program; the USD50 billion US Medium Term Note Program; USD30 billion Covered Bond Program; Unlimited Domestic Debt Program; Unlimited ASB Domestic Medium Term Note Program; USD25 billion CBA New York Branch Medium Term Note Program; EUR7 billion ASB Covered Bond Program; USD10 billion ASB US Medium Term Note Program and other applicable debt documentation. Notes issued under debt programs are both fixed and variable rate. Interest rate risk associated with the notes is incorporated within the Bank’s interest rate risk framework. The Bank, from time to time, as part of its balance sheet management, may consider opportunities to repurchase outstanding long-term debt pursuant to open-market purchases or other means. Such repurchases help manage the Bank’s debt maturity profile, overall funding costs and assist in meeting regulatory changes and requirements. 162 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 (1) Short term borrowings by Commercial paper program $M (except where indicated) Total Outstanding at year end (2) 20,158 26,868 28,800 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 24,557 32,336 33,779 Average amount outstanding 21,592 30,007 29,226 US Commercial Paper Program Outstanding at year end (2) 20,120 26,792 28,393 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 24,481 32,127 31,460 Average amount outstanding 21,494 29,887 27,593 Weighted average interest rate on: Average amount outstanding 2. 6% 1. 8% 1. 2% Outstanding at year end 2. 7% 2. 3% 1. 5% Euro Commercial Paper Program Outstanding at year end (2) 38 76 407 Maximum amount outstanding at any month end 163 219 2,789 Average amount outstanding 98 120 1,633 Weighted average interest rate on: Average amount outstanding 2. 2% 1. 5% 1. 0% Outstanding at year end 2. 7% 2. 2% 1. 2% (1) Short-term borrowings include callable medium term notes of $3,696 million (2018: $4,433 million) which have been excluded from the table above. (2) The amount outstanding at year end is measured at amortised cost. As At As At Exchange rates utilised (1) Currency 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 AUD 1.00 = USD 0. 7013 0. 7387 EUR 0. 6170 0. 6350 GBP 0. 5533 0. 5635 NZD 1. 0460 1. 0909 JPY 75. 6460 81. 7215 (1) End of day, Sydney time. Guarantee arrangement Guarantee under the Commonwealth Bank Sale Act Historically, the due payment of all monies payable by the Bank was guaranteed by the Commonwealth of Australia under section 117 of the Commonwealth Banks Act 1959 (as amended) at 30 June 1996. With the sale of the Commonwealth’s shareholding in the Bank this guarantee has been progressively phased out under transitional arrangements found in the Commonwealth Bank Sale Act 1995. Demand deposits are no longer guaranteed by the Commonwealth under this guarantee. However, debt issues payable by the Bank under a contract entered into prior to 19 July 1996 remain guaranteed until maturity. 163 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Debt issues include short and long-term debt issues of the Group and consist of commercial paper, securitisation notes, covered bonds and medium term notes. Debt issues are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Premiums, discounts and associated issue expenses are recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method from the date of issue, to ensure the carrying value of securities equals their redemption value by maturity date. Interest is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method. Any profits or losses arising from redemption prior to maturity are taken to the Income Statement in the period in which they are realised. The Group hedges interest rate and foreign currency rate risk on certain debt issues. When fair value hedge accounting is applied to fixed rate debt issues, the carrying values are adjusted for changes in fair value related to the hedged risks. The Group enters into transactions in the normal course of business that transfers financial assets to counterparties or to Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs). Transferred financial assets that do not qualify for de-recognition are typically associated with repurchase agreements and our covered bonds and securitisation programs. The underlying assets remain on the Group’s Balance Sheet. At the Balance Sheet date, transferred financial assets that did not qualify for de-recognition and their associated liabilities are as follows: Group Repurchase Agreements Covered Bonds Securitisation (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M $M $M Carrying amount of transferred assets 19,129 14,696 39,129 37,012 13,521 14,661 Carrying amount of associated liabilities 19,099 14,696 33,313 32,758 12,177 13,089 For those liabilities that have recourse only to the transferred assets: Fair value of transferred assets 13,524 14,667 Fair value of associated liabilities 12,177 13,089 Net position 1,347 1,578 Bank Repurchase Agreements Covered Bonds Securitisation (2) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M $M $M Carrying amount of transferred assets 19,245 14,806 34,160 32,210 70,274 71,136 Carrying amount of associated liabilities 19,215 14,806 29,452 28,588 69,800 70,484 For those liabilities that have recourse only to the transferred assets: Fair value of transferred assets 70,281 71,155 Fair value of associated liabilities 69,800 70,484 Net position 481 671 (1) Securitisation liabilities of the Group include RMBS notes issued by securitisation SPVs and held by external investors. (2) Securitisation liabilities of the Bank include borrowings from securitisation SPVs, including the SPVs that issue only internally held notes for repurchase with central banks, recognised on transfer of residential mortgages by the Bank. The carrying amount of associated liabilities from securitisation SPVs is recorded under loans due to controlled entities. 164 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Repurchase Agreements Securities sold under agreement to repurchase are retained on the Balance Sheet when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the Group, and the counterparty liability is included separately on the Balance Sheet when cash consideration is received. Securitisation Programs The Group pools and equitably assigns residential mortgages as securities to investors through a series of wholly controlled securitisation vehicles. Where the Bank and ASB retain substantially all of the risks and rewards associated with the mortgages, the Bank and ASB continue to recognise the mortgages on their Balance Sheets. The Group is entitled to any residual income of the securitisation programs after all payments due to investors have been met. The investors have recourse only to the pool of mortgages in the SPV they have invested in. Covered Bonds Programs To complement existing wholesale funding sources, the Group has established two global covered bond programs for the Bank and ASB. Certain residential mortgages have been assigned to SPV’s associated with covered bond programs to provide security on the payments to investors. Similarly to securitisation programs, the Group is entitled to any residual income after all payments due to covered bond investors have been met. As the Bank and ASB retain substantially all of the risks and rewards associated with the mortgages, the Bank and ASB continue to recognise the mortgages on their Balance Sheets. The covered investors have dual recourse to the Bank and the covered pool assets. Critical accounting judgements and estimates The Group exercises judgement at inception and periodically thereafter, to assess whether a structured entity should be consolidated based on the Bank’s power over the relevant activities of the entity and the significance of its exposure to variable returns of the structured entity. Such assessments are predominantly required for the Group’s securitisation programs, and structured transactions such as covered bond programs. 165 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements In addition to loans, the Group holds other assets to support its activities. Cash and liquid assets, receivables due from other financial institutions, trading assets and investment securities are held for liquidity purposes, to generate returns and to meet customer demand. The mix and nature of assets is driven by multiple factors including the Board’s risk appetite, regulatory requirements, customer demand and the generation of shareholder returns. The Group also transacts derivatives to meet customer demand and to manage its financial risks (interest rate, foreign currency, commodity and credit risks). Refer to Note 9.1 for additional information relating to the Group’s approach to managing financial risks through the use of derivatives. Group (1) Bank (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M Notes, coins, cash at banks and money at short call 16,655 22,897 15,534 21,351 Securities purchased under agreements to resell 12,732 13,520 11,378 12,230 Total cash and liquid assets 29,387 36,417 26,912 33,581 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. Cash and liquid assets include cash at branches, cash at banks, nostro balances, money at call with an original maturity of three months or less and securities purchased under agreements to resell. Cash and liquid assets are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Interest is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method. Securities, including bonds and equities, purchased under agreements to resell are not recognised in the Financial Statements where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the counterparty. An asset for the agreed resale amount by the counterparty is recognised within Cash and liquid assets. 166 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group (1) Bank (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Assets at Fair Value through Income Statement $M $M $M $M Trading Government bonds, notes and securities 21,955 18,078 21,949 16,923 Corporate/financial institution bonds, notes and securities 3,264 6,108 3,264 5,112 Shares and equity investments 29 116 5 6 Commodities 7,258 7,952 7,258 7,952 Total trading assets 32,506 32,254 32,476 29,993 Insurance (2) Investments backing life risk contracts 21 Investments backing life investment contracts 351 Total life insurance investment assets 372 Other Government securities 81 49 Receivables due from other corporate/financial institutions 434 209 235 Shares and equity investments 238 Other lending 418 417 Total other assets at fair value through Income Statement 1,171 258 652 Total assets at fair value through Income Statement 33,677 32,884 33,128 29,993 Maturity Distribution of assets at fair value through income statement Less than twelve months 33,450 32,247 32,947 29,724 More than twelve months 227 637 181 269 Total assets at fair value through Income Statement 33,677 32,884 33,128 29,993 (1) Current year balances reflect the adoption of AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ on 1 July 2018. As permitted by AASB 9, comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9, refer to Note 1.1. (2) Life insurance assets have been reclassified to assets held for sale following the announced sale of PT Commonwealth Life. These assets are categorised as assets held for trading, insurance assets and other investments. Trading assets are those acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term. Insurance assets are investments that back life insurance and life investment contracts. Other assets are those that are designated at fair value through Income Statement at inception. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in Other Banking Income. 167 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Derivatives are classified as “Held for Trading” or “Held for Hedging”. Held for Trading derivatives are contracts entered into in order to meet customers’ needs, to undertake market making and positioning activities, or for risk management purposes that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Held for Hedging derivatives are instruments held for risk management purposes, which meet the criteria for hedge accounting. Derivative financial instruments are contracts whose values are derived from one or more underlying prices, indexes or other variables. The fair value of derivative financial instruments is set out in the following tables: Group (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Asset Liability Asset Liability Derivatives assets and liabilities $M $M $M $M Held for trading Foreign exchange rate related contracts: Forwards 5,404 (5,492) 8,118 (7,961) Swaps 4,078 (7,327) 7,457 (8,505) Options 349 (346) 462 (415) Total foreign exchange rate related contracts 9,831 (13,165) 16,037 (16,881) Interest rate related contracts: Swaps 6,978 (3,758) 4,834 (3,458) Futures 46 (132) 6 (57) Options 554 (463) 531 (736) Total interest rate related contracts 7,578 (4,353) 5,371 (4,251) Credit related swaps 21 (49) 46 (65) Equity related contracts: Swaps 10 (26) 12 (40) Options 1 (3) 1 (5) Total equity related contracts 11 (29) 13 (45) Commodity related contracts: Swaps 207 (193) 397 (386) Options 57 (76) 146 (85) Total commodity related contracts 264 (269) 543 (471) Identified embedded derivatives 160 (60) 229 (58) Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 17,865 (17,925) 22,239 (21,771) (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. Held for trading derivatives are expected to be recovered or due to be settled within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. 168 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Asset Liability Asset Liability $M $M $M $M Fair value hedges Foreign exchange rate related swaps 5,089 (2,384) 6,538 (3,783) Interest rate related swaps 379 (1,440) 278 (1,672) Total fair value hedges 5,468 (3,824) 6,816 (5,455) Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange rate related swaps 1,470 (643) 2,335 (744) Interest rate related swaps 411 (365) 734 (493) Commodity price related swaps (5) Total cash flow hedges 1,881 (1,013) 3,069 (1,237) Net investment hedges Foreign exchange rate related forwards 1 (15) 9 (9) Total net investment hedges 1 (15) 9 (9) Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for hedging 7,350 (4,852) 9,894 (6,701) (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. The majority of hedging derivatives are expected to be recovered or due to be settled more than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date. 169 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Bank (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Asset Liability Asset Liability Derivatives assets and liabilities $M $M $M $M Held for trading Foreign exchange rate related contracts: Forwards 5,392 (5,465) 8,081 (7,937) Swaps 5,036 (8,161) 8,291 (9,197) Options 348 (345) 460 (413) Derivatives held with controlled entities 41 (2,015) 16 (1,734) Total foreign exchange rate related contracts 10,817 (15,986) 16,848 (19,281) Interest rate related contracts: Swaps 6,735 (3,653) 4,610 (3,226) Futures 47 (132) 6 (57) Options 554 (463) 531 (736) Derivatives held with controlled entities 16 (91) 73 (87) Total interest rate related contracts 7,352 (4,339) 5,220 (4,106) Credit related swaps 21 (49) 46 (65) Equity related contracts: Swaps 10 (26) 12 (40) Options 1 (3) 1 (5) Total equity related contracts 11 (29) 13 (45) Commodity related contracts: Swaps 207 (193) 397 (386) Options 57 (76) 146 (85) Total commodity related contracts 264 (269) 543 (471) Identified embedded derivatives 160 (60) 229 (58) Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 18,625 (20,732) 22,899 (24,026) (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. Held for trading derivatives are expected to be recovered or due to be settled within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. 170 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Bank (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Asset Liability Asset Liability $M $M $M $M Fair value hedges Foreign exchange rate related contracts: Swaps 3,707 (1,670) 5,087 (3,052) Derivatives held with controlled entities (1,948) 35 (1,365) Total foreign exchange rate related contracts 3,707 (3,618) 5,122 (4,417) Interest rate related contracts: Swaps 333 (1,393) 213 (1,477) Derivatives held with controlled entities (68) 13 (27) Total interest rate related contracts 333 (1,461) 226 (1,504) Total fair value hedges 4,040 (5,079) 5,348 (5,921) Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange rate related contracts: Swaps 1,329 (471) 2,011 (586) Derivatives held with controlled entities (97) 16 (30) Total foreign exchange rate related contracts 1,329 (568) 2,027 (616) Interest rate related contracts: Swaps 316 (255) 602 (299) Derivatives held with controlled entities Total interest rate related contracts 316 (255) 602 (299) Commodity price related contracts: Swaps (5) Total commodity price related contracts (5) Total cash flow hedges 1,645 (828) 2,629 (915) Net investment hedges Foreign exchange rate related forward contracts 1 (15) 9 (9) Total net investment hedges 1 (15) 9 (9) Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for hedging 5,686 (5,922) 7,986 (6,845) (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. The majority of hedging derivatives are expected to be recovered or due to be settled more than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date. 171 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements The table below shows the deferred gains and losses, which are expected to be transferred to the Income Statement in the period which the hedge forecast transaction takes place: Group Bank Total Total 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M Within 6 months 47 (39) 57 (33) 6 months 1 year (103) 29 (32) 38 1 2 years (340) 16 (215) 68 2 5 years 1,476 (131) 1,516 (25) After 5 years 53 (95) 207 57 Net deferred gains/(losses) 1,133 (220) 1,533 105 Derivatives transacted for hedging purposes Derivatives are initially measured at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, gains or losses on derivatives are recognised in the Income Statement, unless they are entered into for hedging purposes and designated into a cash flow hedge. Hedging strategy and hedge accounting The Group risk management strategy (refer notes 9.1 and 9.3) is to manage market risks within risk limits to minimise profit and capital volatility. The use of derivative and other hedging instruments for hedging purposes gives rise to potential volatility in the Income Statement because of mismatches in the accounting treatment between derivative and other hedging instruments and the underlying exposures being hedged. The Group’s and the Bank’s objective is to reduce volatility in the Income Statement by applying hedge accounting. Fair value hedges Fair value hedges are used by the Group to manage exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability or unrecognised firm commitments, predominantly associated with investment securities, debt issues and loan capital. Changes in fair values can arise from fluctuations in interest or foreign exchange rates. The Group principally uses interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and futures to protect against such fluctuations. Changes in the value of fair value hedges are recognised in the Income Statement, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. All gains and losses associated with the ineffective portion of fair value hedge relationships are recognised immediately as ‘Other Banking Income’ in the Income Statement. If the hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, it is discontinued. For fair value hedges of interest rate risk, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item is amortised to the Income Statement from the date of discontinuation over the period to maturity of the previously designated hedge relationship using the effective interest method. If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value adjustment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedges are used by the Group to manage exposure to variability in future cash flows, which could affect profit or loss and may result from fluctuations in interest and exchange rates or in commodity prices on financial assets, financial liabilities or highly probable forecast transactions, predominantly associated with floating rate domestic loans and deposits. The Group principally uses interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, futures and equity related swaps to protect against such fluctuations. Changes in fair value associated with the effective portion of a cash flow hedge are recognised through Other Comprehensive Income in the Cash Flow Hedge Reserve within equity. Ineffective portions are recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the Income Statement in the period in which the hedged forecast transaction takes place. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is reclassified to profit or loss in the period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is recycled immediately to the Income Statement. Where it is appropriate, non-derivative financial assets and liabilities are also designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedge relationships. 172 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Derivatives transacted for hedging purposes (continued) Net investment hedges The Group holds investments in foreign operations, where changes in net assets resulting from changes in foreign currency rates are recognised in foreign currency translation reserve and results in volatility in shareholders’ equity. To protect against the foreign currency risk, the Group enters into foreign currency forwards that are designated as hedging instruments in net investment hedges. Gains and losses on derivative contracts relating to the effective portion of the net investment hedge are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve in equity. Ineffective portions are recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Income Statement when the foreign subsidiary or branch is disposed of. Risk components In some hedging relationships, the Group and the Bank designate risk components of hedged items as follows:  Benchmark interest rate risk as a component of interest rate risk, such as the Bank Bill Benchmark Rate component; and  Spot exchange rate risk as a component of foreign currency risk for foreign currency financial assets and liabilities. Hedging the benchmark interest rate risk or spot exchange rate risk components results in other risks, such as credit risk and liquidity risk, being excluded from the hedge accounting relationship. Economic relationships and hedge effectiveness The Group performs both prospective and retrospective tests to determine the economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, and to assess hedge effectiveness. At inception of the hedge relationship, prospective testing is performed on a matched terms basis. This test checks that the critical terms are matched between the hedging instrument and the hedged item. At the same time a hedging ratio is established by matching the notional of the derivatives with the principal of the portfolio or financial instruments being hedged, in most cases the ratio is 100%. Retrospective testing for each reporting period uses a regression model, which compares the change in the fair value of the hedged item and the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument. For a hedge to be deemed effective, the change in fair values should be within 80 to 125% of each other. Should the result fall outside this range the hedge would be deemed ineffective and recognised immediately through the income statement in line with each hedge relationship policy above. Sources of hedge ineffectiveness affecting hedge accounting are:  Differences in discounting between the hedged item and the hedging instrument. Collateralised derivatives are discounted using Overnight Indexed Swaps (OIS) discount curves, which are not applied to the hedged item;  Change in the credit risk of the hedging instrument; and  Mismatches between the contractual terms of the hedged item and the hedging instrument. No other sources of hedge ineffectiveness have arisen during the year. Embedded derivatives In certain instances, a derivative may be embedded within a host contract. It is accounted for separately as a stand-alone derivative at fair value, where:  the host contract is not carried at fair value through the Income Statement; and  the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to the host contract. 173 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Hedging instruments The following table provides details of the Group’s and the Bank’s hedging instruments by the type of hedge relationship in which they are designated and the type of risk being hedged. Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Derivative Derivative Derivative Derivative Notional Assets Liability Notional Assets Liability $M $M $M $M $M $M Fair value hedges Interest rate 112,725 379 (1,440) 98,365 333 (1,461) Foreign exchange 709 7 (6) Interest rate and foreign exchange 59,070 5,082 (2,378) 55,587 3,707 (3,618) Total fair value hedges 172,504 5,468 (3,824) 153,952 4,040 (5,079) Cash flow hedges Interest rate 529,431 411 (365) 481,685 316 (255) Foreign exchange 19,400 1,470 (643) 16,835 1,329 (568) Commodity price 80 (5) 80 (5) Total cash flow hedges 548,911 1,881 (1,013) 498,600 1,645 (828) Net investment hedges Foreign exchange 481 1 (15) 481 1 (15) Total net investment hedges 481 1 (15) 481 1 (15) Total hedging instrument 721,896 7,350 (4,852) 653,033 5,686 (5,922) assets/(liabilities) In addition to derivative instruments used to hedge foreign currency risk, the Group and the Bank designate debt issues as hedging instruments of certain foreign exchange risk exposures. The carrying value of debt issues designated as cash flow hedging instruments as at 30 June 2019 was $949 million with average maturity of 4 years for the Group and $62 million with average maturity of 1 year for the Bank. 174 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Hedging instruments (continued) The table below provides maturity analysis of expected notional values of the Group’s hedging instruments by the type of hedge relationship in which they are designated and the type of risk being hedged: Group 30 Jun 19 Notional Amounts Due within Due from 1 Due beyond 1 year to 5 years 5 years Total Hedged Risk $M $M $M $M Fair value hedges Interest rate 16,714 45,248 50,763 112,725 Foreign exchange 709 709 Interest rate and foreign exchange 12,575 29,577 16,918 59,070 Interest rate 338,071 185,963 5,397 529,431 Cash flow hedges and net investment hedges Foreign exchange 12,867 4,722 2,292 19,881 Commodity price 5 23 52 80 The weighted average fixed interest rate of interest rate swaps hedging interest rate risk is 2.00%. The major currency pairs of cross currency swaps designated in hedge relationships are receive USD / pay AUD and receive EUR / pay USD with weighted average foreign currencies rates of: AUD/USD 0.85 and USD/EUR 0.82. The table below provides maturity analysis of expected notional values of the Bank’s hedging instruments by the type of hedge relationship in which they are designated and the type of risk being hedged: Bank 30 Jun 19 Notional Amounts Due within Due from 1 Due beyond 1 year to 5 years 5 years Total Hedged Risk $M $M $M $M Fair value hedges Interest rate 14,685 36,050 47,630 98,365 Foreign exchange Interest rate and foreign exchange 10,649 29,850 15,088 55,587 Cash flow hedges and Interest rate 316,484 160,217 4,984 481,685 net investment hedges Foreign exchange 10,436 4,588 2,292 17,316 Commodity price 5 23 52 80 The weighted average fixed interest rate of interest rate swaps hedging interest rate risk is 2.00%. The major currencies of cross currency swaps designated in hedge relationships are receive USD / pay AUD and receive EUR / pay USD with weighted average foreign currencies rate: AUD/USD 0.84 and USD/EUR 0.83. 175 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Hedged items in fair value hedges The table below provides details of the Group’s and the Bank’s hedged items designated in fair value hedge relationships by the type of risk being hedged: Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 Carrying Fair Value Carrying Fair Value Amount Adjustment (1) (2) Amount Adjustment (1) (2) Hedged Items Hedged Risk $M $M $M $M Investment securities at fair value through Interest rate 44,493 4,438 40,064 4,425 other comprehensive income Investment securities at fair value through Interest rate and 10,130 201 10,130 201 other comprehensive income foreign exchange Loans, bills discounted and other Interest rate 2,136 63 57 57 receivables Shares in and loans to controlled entities Interest rate 1,533 65 Interest rate and Shares in and loans to controlled entities 19,690 853 foreign exchange Deposits and other public borrowings Interest rate 557 7 557 7 Interest rate and Deposits and other public borrowings 49 5 49 5 foreign exchange Assets held for sale Foreign exchange 1,161 49 Debt issues Interest rate 26,319 746 17,713 573 Interest rate and Debt issues 63,566 2,155 47,585 1,368 foreign exchange Loan capital interest bearing Interest rate 5,974 326 5,582 316 Interest rate and Loan capital interest bearing 9,443 192 9,443 193 foreign exchange (1) Represents the accumulated amount of the fair value adjustment included in the carrying amount. Positive amounts represent increases in the carrying amount of the asset or liability. The cumulative amount that is related to ceased hedge relationships where the risk being hedged was interest rate and foreign exchange risk is nil. (2) Changes in fair value of the hedged item used as a basis to determine effectiveness. The changes in fair value of the hedged items are recognised in Other Banking Income. 176 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Hedge items in cash flow hedges and net investment hedges The table below provides details of the Group’s and the Bank’s hedged items designated in cash flow and net investment hedge relationships by the type of risk being hedged: Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 Cash Flow Foreign Cash Foreign Hedge Currency Flow Currency Reserve (1) Translation Hedge Translation Reserve (2) Reserve (1) Reserve (2) Hedged Items Hedged Risk $M $M $M $M Cash Flow Hedges Investment securities at fair value Foreign exchange 15 15 through other comprehensive income Loans, bills discounted and other Interest rate 4,085 3,834 receivables Shares in and loans to controlled entities Interest rate 3 Shares in and loans to controlled entities Foreign exchange 68 Deposits and other public borrowings Interest rate (2,741) (2,447) Debt issues Interest rate (7) (6) Debt issues Foreign exchange (117) 76 Loan capital interest bearing Interest rate and Foreign exchange 7 7 Highly probable forecast transactions Foreign exchange (92) Highly probable forecast transactions Commodity price (17) (17) Net Investment Hedges Foreign Operations Foreign exchange (33) (33) Total 1,133 (33) 1,533 (33) (1) Represents the accumulated effective amount of the hedging instrument deferred to Cash Flow Hedge Reserve. The cumulative amount related to ceased hedge relationships where the risk being hedged was interest rate and foreign exchange risk is a loss of $13 million for the Group and the Bank. A cumulative loss of $1 million related to ceased hedge relationships was amortised to Income Statement during the period. (2) Represents the accumulated effective amount of the hedging instrument deferred to Foreign Currency Translation Reserve. The cumulative amount related to ceased hedge relationships where the risk being hedged was foreign exchange risk is nil. 177 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Hedge effectiveness The table below details effectiveness of the Group’s and the Bank’s hedges by the type of hedge relationship and the type of risk being hedged: Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 Change in Change in Hedge Change in Change in Hedge Value of Value of Ineffectiveness Value of Value of Ineffectiveness Hedged Hedging recognised in Hedged Hedging recognised in Item (1) Instrument Income Item (1) Instrument Income (2) statement statement (2) $M $M $M $M $M $M Fair value hedges Interest rate 1,257 (1,269) (12) 1,384 (1,397) (13) Foreign exchange 49 (49) Interest rate and Foreign (1,864) 1,885 21 (760) 783 23 exchange Total fair value hedges (558) 567 9 624 (614) 10 Cash flow hedges and net investment hedges Interest rate (1,279) 1,283 4 (1,302) 1,308 6 Foreign exchange (51) 51 (101) 101 Commodity prices (5) 5 (5) 5 Total cash flow hedges and net investment (1,335) 1,339 4 (1,408) 1,414 6 hedges (1) Changes in value of hedged item for fair value hedges is recognised in Other Banking Income. Changes in value of the hedged item for cash flow hedges is only used as basis for recognising ineffectiveness and represents the lower of the change in the hedged item and the hedging instrument. During the year, the unrealised gains deferred to the Cash flow hedge reserve were $1,355 million for the Group and $1,428 million for the Bank, and a loss recognised in the Net investment hedge reserve was $20 million for the Group and the Bank. (2) Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in Other Banking Income. 178 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group (1) Bank (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M Investment securities at fair value through OCI Government bonds, notes and securities 50,560 48,454 Corporate/financial institution bonds, notes and securities 18,075 16,407 Shares and equity investments 67 45 (2) Covered bonds, mortgage backed securities and SSA 10,210 8,306 Total investment securities at fair value through OCI 78,912 73,212 Investment securities at amortised cost Government bonds, notes and securities 6 (2) Covered bonds, mortgage backed securities and SSA 7,349 7,349 Total investment securities at amortised cost 7,355 7,349 Total investment securities 86,267 80,561 Available-for-Sale Investments (AASB 139) Government bonds, notes and securities 46,363 44,701 Corporate/financial institution bonds, notes and securities 21,372 20,356 Shares and equity investments 298 45 (2) Covered bonds, mortgage backed securities and SSA 14,207 12,629 Total available-for-sale investments (AASB 139) 82,240 77,731 (1) Current year balances reflect the adoption of AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ on 1 July 2018. As permitted by AASB 9, comparative information has not been restated. (2) Supranational, Sovereign and Agency Securities (SSA). As at 30 June 2019, Investment Securities at Fair Value through OCI expected to be recovered within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date were $10,409 million (2018: $14,772 million) for the Group, and $8,639 million (2018: $13,478 million) for the Bank. As at 30 June 2019, Investment Securities at Amortised Cost amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date were $1,622 million (2018: Nil) for the Group and the Bank. As at 30 June 2018, Available for Sale investments expected to be recovered within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date were $14,772 million for the Group, and $13,478 million for the Bank. 179 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Group Maturity Period at 30 June 2019 10 or Non0 to 1 Year 1 to 5 Years 5 to 10 Years more Years Maturing Total $M % $M % $M % $M % $M $M Investment securities at fair value through OCI Government bonds, notes and securities 3,712 1. 99 16,221 1. 46 24,978 1. 70 5,649 2. 77 50,560 Corporate/financial institution bonds, notes 4,805 1. 59 12,934 2. 58 336 2. 52 18,075 and securities Shares and equity investments 67 67 Covered bonds, mortgage backed 1,849 1. 92 6,349 1. 72 1,340 1. 78 672 3. 34 10,210 securities and SSA Total investment securities at fair value 10,366 35,504 26,654 6,321 67 78,912 through OCI Investment securities at amortised cost Government bonds, notes and securities 6 0. 66 6 Covered bonds, mortgage backed 22 2. 72 256 2. 39 7,071 2. 32 7,349 securities and SSA Total investment securities at 6 22 256 7,071 7,355 amortised cost Total investment securities 10,372 35,526 26,910 13,392 67 86,267 Investment securities primarily include public debt securities held as part of the Group’s liquidity portfolio. Investment securities at Fair Value through OCI (FVOCI) Debt securities This category includes debt securities held within the business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling the assets. The contractual cash flows on these financial assets comprise payments of principal and interest only. These securities are initially recognised at their fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income. Interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses on these securities are recognised in the Income Statement. The securities are assessed for impairment using the expected credit loss approach described in Note 1.1. Impairment is recognised in the Loan Impairment Expense line in the Income Statement. When FVOCI debt securities are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in Other Comprehensive Income is reclassified to the Other Banking Income line in the Income Statement. Equity securities This category also includes non-traded equity instruments designated at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income. Fair value gains and losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on these equity instruments are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and are not reclassified to the Income Statement on derecognition. Investment securities at amortised cost This category includes debt securities held within the business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows. The contractual cash flows on these financial assets comprise the payment of principal and interest only. These securities are initially recognised at their fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method and are presented net of provisions for impairment. For the accounting policy for provisions for impairment, refer to Note 1.1. 180 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 The Group’s other assets comprise assets not included in its lending, investing, trading and other banking activities. Other Assets include property, plant and equipment held for use and for lease through our asset finance businesses. Other assets also include software, brand names and goodwill. These assets support the Group’s business activities. Group (1) Bank (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M Goodwill Purchased goodwill at cost 5,974 6,941 2,522 2,522 Closing balance 5,974 6,941 2,522 2,522 Computer Software Costs Cost 4,837 4,633 4,396 4,122 Accumulated amortisation (3,125) (2,814) (2,842) (2,440) Closing balance 1,712 1,819 1,554 1,682 Brand Names (2) Cost 203 206 186 186 Accumulated amortisation (2) (1) Closing balance 201 205 186 186 Other Intangibles (3) Cost 351 342 219 192 Accumulated amortisation (273) (217) (164) (116) Closing balance 78 125 55 76 Total Intangible assets 7,965 9,090 4,317 4,466 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (2) Brand names predominantly represent the value of royalty costs foregone by the Group through acquiring the Bankwest brand name. The royalty costs that would have been incurred by an entity using the Bankwest brand name are based on an annual percentage of income generated by Bankwest. The Bankwest brand name has an indefinite useful life as there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the brand name is expected to generate cash flows. This balance also includes the Aussie Home Loans brand name ($16 million) which has an indefinite useful life. They are not subject to amortisation, but require annual impairment testing. No impairment was required this period. The Count Financial brand name of $3 million was impaired during the year ended 30 June 2019. (3) Other intangibles include the value of customer and credit card relationships acquired from Bankwest and Aussie Home Loans. This value represents future net income generated from the relationships that existed at Balance Sheet date. The assets have a useful life of between 6 and 10 years based on the attrition rates of customers. Other intangibles also include prepaid software licences with a net book value of $54 million (30 June 2018: $67 million). Customer relationship intangibles in relation to Count Financial of $13 million were impaired during the year ended 30 June 2019. Impairment tests for goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives To assess whether goodwill and other assets with indefinite useful lives are impaired, the carrying amount of a cash-generating unit or a group of cash-generating units are compared to the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is determined based on fair value less cost to sell, primarily using an earnings multiple applicable to that type of business. The category of this fair value is Level 3 as defined in Note 9.5. Earnings multiples relating to the Group‘s Banking cash-generating units are sourced from publicly available data associated with Australian businesses displaying similar characteristics to those cash-generating units, and are applied to current earnings. The key assumption is the Price-Earnings (P/E) multiple observed for these businesses, which for the Banking businesses were in the range of 11.6x – 12.0x (2018: 10.9x – 11.2x). The goodwill allocated to the Wealth Management and IFS cash-generating units is not significant. 181 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Goodwill allocation to cash generating units Group (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M Retail Banking Services 3,744 3,841 Business and Private Banking 1,271 1,271 Wealth Management 679 1,551 New Zealand 269 258 IFS and Other 11 20 Total 5,974 6,941 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. Reconciliation of the carrying amounts of Intangible Assets is set out below: Group (1) Bank (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M Goodwill Opening balance 6,941 7,872 2,522 2,522 Additions 446 (2) Transfers/disposals/other adjustments (967) (1,377) Closing balance 5,974 6,941 2,522 2,522 Computer Software Costs Opening balance 1,819 1,934 1,682 1,735 (3) Additions 343 486 287 399 (4) Amortisation and write-offs (450) (553) (415) (452) Reclassification to assets held for sale (48) Closing balance 1,712 1,819 1,554 1,682 Brand Names Opening balance 205 189 186 186 Additions 16 (5) Impairment (4) Closing balance 201 205 186 186 Other Intangibles Opening balance 125 100 76 77 Additions 140 178 142 139 (6) Amortisation and impairment (187) (153) (163) (140) Closing balance 78 125 55 76 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (2) Includes reclassifications to assets held for sale and foreign currency revaluation. (3) Primarily relates to internal development costs. (4) Includes amounts associated with discontinued operations. (5) The Count Financial brand name of $3 million was impaired during the year ended 30 June 2019. (6) Customer relationship intangibles in relation to Count Financial of $13 million were impaired during the year ended 30 June 2019. 182 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Intangible assets are identifiable non-monetary assets without physical substance. They are recognised only if it is probable the asset will generate future benefits for the Group. Those assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment annually. All intangible assets must be tested for impairment when there is an indication that its carrying amount may be greater than its recoverable amount. Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of an entity and represents the excess of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually through allocation to a group of Cash Generating Units (CGUs). The CGUs’ recoverable amount is then compared to the carrying amount of the CGUs including goodwill and an impairment is recognised for any excess carrying value. Computer software costs Certain internal and external costs directly incurred in acquiring and developing software, net of specific project related grants, are capitalised and amortised over the estimated useful life on a straight line basis. The majority of software projects are amortised over two to five years. The Group’s core banking software is amortised over ten years. Software maintenance is expensed as incurred. Brand names Brand names acquired in a business combination include Aussie Home Loans, Bankwest and Count Financial Limited and these were initially recognised at fair value. Aussie Home Loans and Bankwest brand names are assessed as having an indefinite useful life as there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the brand names are expected to generate cash flows. Count Financial brand name has been fully impaired during the year. The remaining brand names are amortised over their useful life. Other intangibles Other intangibles predominantly comprise customer relationships. Customer relationships acquired as part of a business combination are initially measured at fair value. They are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. Amortisation is calculated based on the timing of projected cash flows associated with those relationships. Critical accounting judgements and estimates Goodwill is allocated to CGUs whose recoverable amount is calculated for the purpose of impairment testing. The recoverable amount calculation relies primarily on publicly available earnings multiples, which are disclosed on page 181. 183 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Group (1) (2) Bank (1) (2) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Note $M $M $M $M Accrued interest receivable 2,421 2,377 2,577 3,114 (3) Accrued fees/reimbursements receivable 1,117 1,255 258 205 Securities sold not delivered 1,893 1,823 1,323 1,398 Intragroup current tax receivable 320 283 Current tax assets 624 24 609 3 Prepayments 291 253 190 143 Defined benefit superannuation plan surplus 10.2 462 581 462 581 Other 307 611 171 485 Total other assets 7,115 6,924 5,910 6,212 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (2) Current period balances reflect the adoption of AASB 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ on 1 July 2018. As permitted by AASB 15 comparative information has not been restated. For details on adoption of AASB 15 refer to Note 1.1. (3) Accrued fees/reimbursements receivable as at 30 June 2019 include trail commission receivable of $442 million for the Group. Except for the defined benefits superannuation plan surplus, the majority of the above amounts are expected to be recovered within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date. Other assets include interest and fee receivables, current tax assets, prepayments receivables on unsettled trades and the surplus within defined benefit plans. Interest receivables are recognised on an accruals basis, fees and reimbursements receivable are recognised once the service is provided and trade date accounted securities sold not delivered are recognised between trade execution and final settlement. The remaining other assets are recognised on an accruals or service performed basis and amortised over the period in which the economic benefits from these assets are received. Further defined benefit plan details are provided in Note 10.2. 184 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Other liabilities primarily represent provisions recognised, interest payable, fees and bills payable and unsettled trades. Other provisions principally cover annual leave and long service leave employee entitlements as well as general insurance claims, provisions for customer remediation, compliance and regulation programs and litigations. Also, it includes provision for impairment losses on financial guarantees and other off-balance sheet instruments issued by the Group. They do not relate to individually assessed provisions or collective provisions recognised on impaired financial assets of the Group (such as impaired home loans). Certain provisions involve significant judgement to determine the likely outcome of events as well as a reliable estimate of the outflow. Where future events are uncertain or where the outflow cannot be reliably determined, these are disclosed as contingent liabilities. Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the Group’s Balance Sheet but disclosed in Note 12.1. Commentary on certain other provisions and contingent liabilities are given in Note 7.1. Group (1) Bank (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Note $M $M $M $M Employee entitlements 958 880 906 839 General insurance claims 292 219 Customer remediation 959 162 901 134 Dividends 8.4 119 113 119 113 Compliance and regulation 213 283 213 283 (2) Off-balance sheet instruments 84 28 82 28 Other 126 175 116 164 Total other provisions 2,751 1,860 2,337 1,561 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (2) The adoption of AASB 9 impairment requirements on 1 July 2018 resulted in an $87 million increase in the Group’s collective provisions for off-balance sheet instruments (Bank: $84 million). As permitted by AASB 9, comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 refer to Note 1.1. Maturity distribution of other provisions Group (1) Bank (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M Less than twelve months 2,284 1,606 1,825 1,352 More than twelve months 467 254 512 209 Total other provisions 2,751 1,860 2,337 1,561 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 185 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Group (1) Bank (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Reconciliation $M $M $M $M General insurance claims: Opening balance 219 273 Additional provisions 637 530 Amounts utilised during the year (564) (584) Closing balance 292 219 Customer remediation: Opening balance 162 202 134 194 (2) Additional provisions 963 162 903 135 Amounts utilised during the year (166) (157) (136) (162) Release of provision (45) (33) Closing balance 959 162 901 134 Compliance and regulation: Opening balance 283 69 283 69 (3) Additional provisions 125 389 125 389 Amounts utilised during the year (188) (175) (188) (175) Release of provision (7) (7) Closing balance 213 283 213 283 Off-balance sheet instruments: Opening balance 28 25 28 25 Changes on adoption of AASB 9 (4) 87 84 Additional provisions 3 3 Release of provision (31) (30) Closing balance 84 28 82 28 Other: Opening balance 175 264 164 227 Additional provisions 57 135 49 93 Amounts utilised during the year (100) (131) (97) (113) Release of provision (56) (43) Reclassification to liabilities held for sale (6) (37) Closing balance 126 175 116 164 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (2) Customer remediation includes provisions recognised during the current year for Aligned Advice, Banking and other Wealth Management remediation including related program costs. (3) Compliance and regulation includes additional provisions recognised during the current year for Financial Crimes Compliance Program of Action, ASIC investigation, Better Risk Outcomes Program (BROP) and litigation related costs. (4) The adoption of AASB 9 impairment requirements on 1 July 2018 resulted in an $87 million increase in the Group’s collective provisions for off-balance sheet instruments (Bank: $84 million). As permitted by AASB 9, comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 refer to Note 1.1. General insurance claims This provision is to cover future claims on general insurance contracts that have been incurred but not reported. The provision will be realised upon settlement of claims whose maturities were uncertain at the reporting date. Customer remediation This provision covers customer remediation costs and related program costs. Compliance and regulation This provision relates to project and other administrative costs associated with certain compliance and regulatory programs of the Group. 186 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Other provisions Other provisions include provisions for redundancy and restructuring costs, self-insurance provisions, make-good provisions in relation to property leases, and provisions for certain other costs. Provisions for employee entitlements (such as long service leave, annual leave and other employee benefits) This provision is calculated based on expected payments. Where the payments are expected to be more than one year in the future, these provisions factor in the expected period of service by employees, as well as salary increases. These future obligations are discounted using a market observable rate. Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising from past events where a payment to settle the obligation is probable and can be reliably estimated. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of the provision is measured as the present value of expenditures required to settle the obligation, based on a market observable rate. Critical accounting judgements and estimates Provisions are held in respect of a range of future obligations, some of which involve significant judgement about the likely outcome of various events and estimated future cash flows. Customer remediation Provisions for customer remediation require significant levels of estimation and judgement. The amount raised depends on a number of different assumptions, such as the number of years impacted, the forecast refund rate and the average cost per case. The Group is committed to comprehensively and efficiently addressing the full range of remediation issues impacting customers of the Banking and Wealth Management businesses. Significant resources have been committed to a comprehensive program of work, to ensure that all issues are identified and addressed. Aligned Advice remediation During the current year, the Group raised a provision for Aligned Advice remediation issues and program costs, including ongoing service fees charged where no service was provided. Aligned advisors are not employed by the Group but are representatives authorised to provide financial advice under the licences of the Group’s subsidiaries, Financial Wisdom Limited, Count Financial Limited and Commonwealth Financial Planning Limited (Pathways only). As at 30 June 2019, the Group holds a provision of $534 million in relation to Aligned Advice remediation. This includes $251 million for customer fee refunds, $123 million for interest on fees subject to refunds and $160 million for costs to implement the remediation program. The Group’s estimate of the proportion of fees to be refunded is based on sample testing and assumes a refund rate of 24%. This compares to a refund rate of 22% which was paid for our salaried advisors. An increase/(decrease) in the failure rate by 1% would result in an increase/(decrease) in the provision of approximately $15 million. The Group is finalising its remediation approach in consultation with ASIC. Banking and other Wealth customer remediation During the year ended 30 June 2019, the Group recognised provisions of $384 million for Banking and other Wealth Management customer remediation programs. The provision raised for banking remediation includes an estimate of refunds and interest to customers relating to business banking products, including bank guarantees, cash deposit accounts, merchants billing and certain commercial lending products. The wealth remediation provision includes an estimate of refunds and interest relating to advice quality, fees where no service was provided in the Commonwealth Financial Planning business, the Loan Protection Insurance product and certain other products. Litigation, investigations and reviews The Group is party to legal proceedings and the subject of investigations and reviews. These include the matters outlined below as at 30 June 2019. Provisions have been raised where indicated in line with the principles outlined in the accounting policy section of this note. Litigation Shareholder class actions In October 2017 CBA was served with a shareholder class action proceeding filed in the Federal Court of Australia alleging breaches of CBA’s continuous disclosure obligations and misleading and deceptive conduct in relation to the subject matter of the civil penalty proceedings brought by Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC). The AUSTRAC proceedings concerned contraventions of the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006 (Cth). The resolution of the proceedings was approved by the Federal Court on 20 June 2018 with CBA paying a penalty of $700 million and legal costs. In the shareholder class action, it is alleged that CBA shareholders who acquired an interest in CBA shares between 1 July 2015 and 3 August 2017 suffered loss caused by the alleged conduct. 187 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Litigation, investigations and reviews (continued) Litigation (continued) Shareholder class actions (continued) On 29 June 2018 a similar second shareholder class action in relation to the subject matter of the AUSTRAC proceedings was served on CBA on behalf of certain CBA shareholders who acquired an interest in CBA shares between 16 June 2014 and 3 August 2017. On 10 July 2019, court orders were made confirming the two class action proceedings would continue, would be case managed together and proceed by way of one harmonised statement of claim. It is currently not possible to determine the ultimate impact of these claims, if any, on the Group. The Group denies the allegations and continues to defend both claims. The Group has provided for legal costs expected to be incurred in the defence of the claims. Superannuation class action On 9 October 2018, a class action claim was filed against CBA and Colonial First State Investments Limited (CFSIL) in the Federal Court of Australia. The claim relates to investment in cash and deposit options (which are cash and deposit products prioritised by CBA) in Colonial First State FirstChoice Superannuation Trust and Commonwealth Essential Super. The main allegation is that members with these options in the funds received lower interest rates on them than they would have received had CFSIL put them in equivalent products with higher interest rates obtainable on the market. It is alleged that CBA was involved in CFSIL’s breaches as trustee of the funds and CFSIL’s breaches as Responsible Entity of the underlying managed investment schemes. Both CBA and CFSIL deny the allegations and filed a defence to the claim on 20 December 2018. The class action lawyers made further amendments to the claim filing an amended statement of claim on 16 April 2019. The amendments introduced additional allegations relating to another term deposit and a breach of trust in respect of adviser commissions, however the commissions claim is made against CFSIL only. CBA and CFSIL filed a defence to the amended claim on 7 June 2019 denying the new claims. It is currently not possible to determine the ultimate impact of this claim, if any, on the Group. The Group has provided for the legal costs expected to be incurred in the defence of the claim. ASIC bank bill swap rate On 21 June 2018 the Federal Court approved the agreement between CBA and the Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC) to resolve the proceedings concerning alleged market manipulation and unconscionable conduct in respect of the bank bill market. Accordingly CBA has paid a civil penalty of $5 million and a community benefit payment of $15 million to Financial Literacy Australia. It also agreed to pay ASIC’s costs of the investigation and legal costs. The Group provided for these costs in the prior period. As part of the settlement CBA also entered into an Enforceable Undertaking with ASIC under which CBA undertook to engage an independent expert to assess changes it has made (and will make) to its policies, procedures, controls systems, training, guidance and framework for the monitoring and supervision of employees and trading in Prime Bank Bills and CBA’s BBSW referenced product businesses. On 5 October 2018, CBA appointed EY as the independent expert. CBA provided its BBSW Program of remediation work to ASIC and EY on 21 December 2018. EY reviewed the BBSW Program and provided certain recommendations in their report dated 23 April 2019. CBA considered those recommendations with ASIC and EY and delivered its Final BBSW Program to ASIC and EY on 23 July 2019. EY are due to report on CBA’s Final BBSW Program on 30 August 2019. The Group has provided for costs associated with implementation of the BBSW program. Investigations and reviews ASIC investigation In September 2017, following the commencement of the civil proceedings against CBA by AUSTRAC, ASIC launched an investigation in relation to the Group’s disclosure in respect of the matters the subject of the AUSTRAC proceedings. ASIC is also investigating, among other things, whether the officers and directors at CBA complied with other specific obligations under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). CBA continues to engage with ASIC in respect of the investigation and respond to requests made by ASIC. It is currently not possible to predict the ultimate impact of this investigation, if any, on the Group. The Group has provided for the legal costs expected to be incurred in relation to this investigation. APRA’s prudential inquiry into CBA On 28 August 2017, APRA announced it would establish an independent prudential inquiry (the Inquiry) into the Group with the goal of identifying shortcomings in the governance, culture and accountability frameworks. The final report of the Inquiry was released on 1 May 2018 (the Final Report). The Final Report made a number of findings regarding the complex interplay of organisational and cultural factors within the Group and the need for enhanced management of non-financial risks. In response to the Final Report, the Group acknowledged that it will implement all of the recommendations and agreed to adjust its minimum operational risk capital requirements by an additional $1 billion (risk weighted assets $12.5 billion) until such time as the recommendations are implemented to APRA’s satisfaction. CBA has entered into an Enforceable Undertaking under which CBA’s remedial action (Remedial Action Plan) in response to the Final Report would be agreed and monitored regularly by APRA. The Remedial Action Plan provides a detailed program of change outlining how CBA will improve the way it runs its business, manages risk, and works with regulators. The Remedial Action Plan also provides a comprehensive assurance framework, with Promontory Australasia (Sydney) Pty Ltd (Promontory) having been appointed as the independent reviewer and which is required to report to APRA on the Group’s progress against committed milestones every 3 months. 188 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Litigation, investigations and reviews (continued) Investigations and reviews (continued) APRA’s prudential inquiry into CBA (continued) Promontory has submitted two reports in September 2018 and December 2018 which have also been released by CBA. Promontory has noted that the Remedial Action Plan program of work remains on track and CBA’s commitment to implementing the Inquiry’s recommendations in a timely and comprehensive way continued to be strong with all 156 milestones on schedule to be delivered by the due date. Promontory is providing APRA with quarterly progress reports, and CBA is committed to report publicly on its progress against the Remedial Action Plan twice a year. The Group has provided for costs associated with the implementation of the Remedial Action Plan. The Royal Commission The Royal Commission was established on 14 December 2017 and was authorised to inquire into misconduct by financial service entities (including CBA). Seven rounds of hearings into misconduct in the banking and financial services industry were held throughout 2018, covering a variety of topics including consumer and business lending, financial advice, superannuation, insurance and a policy round. The Royal Commission’s final report was delivered on 1 February 2019. The final report included 76 policy recommendations to the Australian Government and findings in relation to the case studies investigated during the hearings, with a number of referrals being made to regulators for misconduct by financial institutions, which is expected to result in heightened levels of enforcement action across the industry. The 76 recommendations covered many of CBA’s business areas, and also canvassed the role of the regulators and the approach to be taken to customer focus, culture and remuneration. The recommendations regarding the role of regulators and their approach to enforcement may increase enforcement activity, costs and reputational impact for financial institutions. CBA released a statement to the ASX on 8 March 2019 welcoming the final report and committing to actions to deliver on the recommendations. The Government has accepted 75 of the 76 recommendations. Ongoing service fees in Commonwealth Financial Planning Following an ASIC investigation, Commonwealth Financial Planning (CFP) entered into an Enforceable Undertaking (EU) with ASIC in April 2018 and agreed to certain variations on 20 December 2018. Under the EU, as varied, CFP agreed, among other things, to provide an attestation to ASIC in relation to remediation of ongoing service over the period July 2015 to January 2018 and in relation to CFP’s current ongoing service compliance systems and processes. Although CFP was not in a position to sign the attestation in January 2019, CFP provided the attestation to ASIC on 30 May 2019. ASIC has since confirmed that it is satisfied with the attestation and compliance with the obligations under the EU is now finalised (save for the payment of some remaining refunds due to customers by 30 September 2019). CFP has not charged ongoing service fees since 1 February 2019, and has not entered into new ongoing service agreements since that date. CFP is moving to a new model where customers will pay for advice once they have received it. Fair Work Ombudsman (FWO) Investigation The FWO has commenced an investigation in relation to CBA’s self-disclosure of discrepancies in employee arrangements and entitlements. CBA continues to engage with the FWO in respect of the investigation and respond to requests made by the FWO. It is currently not possible to predict the ultimate impact of this investigation, if any, on the Group. New Zealand compliance audit findings The Labour Inspectorate in New Zealand is undertaking a programme of compliance audits on a number of organisations in respect of the Holidays Act 2003 (the “Holidays Act”). On 18 December 2018 ASB Bank Limited (ASB) received the Labour Inspectorate’s report of its findings on ASB’s compliance with the Holidays Act. The findings, based on a sample of employees, include that ASB has not complied with the requirements of the Holidays Act by not including certain incentive payments in ASB’s calculation of gross earnings under the Holidays Act. ASB’s position in relation to that finding is that the application of the law is uncertain and yet to be definitively determined. That finding, if extrapolated to ASB’s entire workforce, would result in an estimated liability of NZD31 million in total for the preceding six years’ annual holiday payments. ASB will continue to engage with the Labour Inspectorate on the matter. Enforceable Undertaking accepted by Office of Australian Information Commission The Australian Information Commissioner (Commissioner) has accepted an Enforceable Undertaking (EU) offered by CBA. The EU underpins execution of further enhancements to the management and retention of customer personal information within CBA and certain subsidiaries. The EU follows CBA’s ongoing work to address two incidents: one relating to the disposal by a third party of magnetic data tapes containing historical customer statements and the other relating to potential unauthorised internal user access to certain systems and applications containing customer personal information. CBA reported both incidents to the Commissioner in 2016 and 2018 respectively and has since been working to address these incidents and respond to inquiries made by the Commissioner. CBA has found no evidence to date, as a result of these incidents, that our customers’ personal information was compromised, or that there have been any instances of unauthorised access by CBA employees or third parties. It is not currently possible to estimate the financial impact of the Group’s response under the EU. 189 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Litigation, investigations and reviews (continued) Investigations and reviews (continued) Program of Action The Group continues to strengthen its financial crime capabilities, and has invested significantly, recognising the crucial role that it plays, including through the Program of Action with coverage across all aspects of financial crime (including anti-money laundering/counter-terrorism financing, sanctions and anti-bribery and corruption) and all business units. The Group has provided for certain costs of running the Program of Action. Remediation and Compliance Programs The Group undertakes ongoing compliance activities, including review of products, advice, conduct and services provided to customers, as well as interest, fees and premiums charged. Some of these investigations and reviews have resulted in remediation programs and where required the Group consults with the respective regulator on the proposed remediation action. There is a risk that where a breach has occurred, regulators may also impose fines and/or sanctions. Provisions are recognised when it is probable an outflow will be required to address a past event and where a reliable estimate is available. There remains a contingent liability with respect to these matters, however the aggregate potential liability of the above matters cannot be reliably estimated. Other matter Financial Wisdom Limited, a subsidiary of the Group, has agreements pre-dating 2013, which provide authorised representatives with the ability to sell their client book to the subsidiary in certain circumstances contingent upon a number of key conditions being met. The agreements provide for the sale at a multiple of ongoing revenue subject to a range of criteria (including potential discount factors). The authorised representative must apply to commence the conditional sale process. No applications have been received to date. It is not currently possible to reliably estimate the financial impact of these agreements. Group (1) Bank (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M Bills payable 756 931 664 827 Accrued interest payable 2,676 2,745 2,059 2,163 (2) (3) (4) Accrued fees, employee incentives and other items payable 2,390 3,194 1,906 2,523 Securities purchased not delivered 2,414 2,456 1,774 1,942 (3) (5) Unearned income 1,439 1,389 1,011 968 Other 610 910 1,626 1,722 Total bills payable and other liabilities 10,285 11,625 9,040 10,145 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (2) The balance as at 30 June 2018 includes a payable for AUSTRAC civil penalty of $700 million. (3) Current period balances reflect the adoption of AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ on 1 July 2018. As permitted by AASB 15 comparative information has not been restated. For details on adoption of AASB 15 refer to Note 1.1. (4) Accrued fees payable as at 30 June 2019 include trail commissions payable of $265 million for the Group. (5) Unearned income includes annual facility fees, commitment fees and upfront fees that are deferred and recognised over the service periods. Of the unearned income recognised at the beginning of the period, the Group and the Bank has recognised $177 million and $174 million, respectively, as income for the period ended 30 June 2019. Bills Payable and Other Liabilities include accrued interest payable, accrued incentives payable, accrued fees payable and unearned income. Bills Payable and Other Liabilities are measured at the contractual amount payable. As most payables are short-term in nature, the contractual amount payable approximates fair value. 190 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 The Group maintains a strong capital position in order to satisfy regulatory capital requirements, provide financial security to its depositors and creditors and adequate return to its shareholders. The Group’s Shareholders’ Equity includes issued ordinary shares, retained earnings and reserves. This section provides analysis of the Group’s Shareholders’ Equity including changes during the period. The Bank is an Authorised Deposit-taking Institution (ADI) regulated discretionary capital distributions. Tier 1 capital is the aggregate of by APRA under the authority of the Banking Act 1959. APRA has CET1 and Additional Tier 1 capital. Tier 2 Capital is hybrid and debt set minimum regulatory capital requirements for banks based on the instruments that fall short of necessary conditions to qualify as Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) guidelines. Additional Tier 1 to APRA. Total Capital is the aggregate of Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital. The Basel III measurement and monitoring of capital has been effective from 1 January 2013. APRA has adopted a more The tangible component of the investment in the insurance and conservative approach than the minimum standards published by funds management operations are deducted 100% from CET1. the BCBS and also adopted an accelerated timetable for Capital adequacy is measured by means of risk based capital ratios. implementation. The requirements define what is acceptable as capital and provide methods of measuring the risks incurred by the The capital ratios reflect capital (CET1, Additional Tier 1, Tier 2 and Total Capital) as a percentage of total Risk Weighted Assets (RWA). Bank. RWA represents an allocation of risks associated with the Group’s The regulatory capital requirements are measured for the Extended assets and other related exposures. Licenced Entity Group (known as “Level 1”, comprising the Bank and The Group has a range of instruments and methodologies available APRA approved subsidiaries) and for the Bank and all of its banking to effectively manage capital. These include share issues and subsidiaries, which includes ASB Bank (known as “Level 2” or the buybacks, dividend and DRP policies, hybrid capital raising and “Group”). dated and undated subordinated loan capital issuances. All major All entities which are consolidated for accounting purposes are capital related initiatives require approval of the Board. included within the Group capital adequacy calculations except for: The Group’s capital position is monitored on a continuous basis and  The insurance and funds management operating subsidiaries; reported monthly to the Executive Leadership Team and at regular and intervals throughout the year to the Board.  The entities through which securitisation of Group assets are The Group’s capital ratios throughout the 2017, 2018 and 2019 conducted. financial years were in compliance with both APRA minimum capital Regulatory capital is divided into Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1), adequacy requirements and the Board approved minimums. The Additional Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital. CET1 primarily consists Group is required to inform APRA immediately of any breach or of Shareholders’ Equity, less goodwill and other prescribed potential breach of its minimum prudential capital adequacy adjustments. Additional Tier 1 Capital is comprised of high quality requirements, including details of remedial action taken or planned capital providing a permanent and unrestricted commitment of to be taken. funds, is freely available to absorb losses, ranks behind the claims of depositors and other more senior creditors and provides for fully 191 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Group Bank Currency 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Amount (M) Endnotes $M $M $M $M Tier 1 Loan Capital (1) Undated FRN USD 100 143 135 143 135 (2) Undated PERLS VI AUD 2,000 1,999 1,999 (3) Undated PERLS VII AUD 3,000 2,985 2,978 2,985 2,978 (3) Undated PERLS VIII AUD 1,450 1,441 1,436 1,441 1,436 (3) Undated PERLS IX AUD 1,640 1,628 1,622 1,628 1,622 (3) Undated PERLS X AUD 1,365 1,356 1,356 1,352 1,352 (3) Undated PERLS XI AUD 1,590 1,580 1,576 Total Tier 1 Loan Capital 9,133 9,526 9,125 9,522 Tier 2 Loan Capital (4) AUD denominated 1,774 1,773 1,774 1,773 (5) USD denominated 4,616 4,380 4,616 4,380 (6) JPY denominated 968 896 968 896 (7) GBP denominated 266 266 (8) NZD denominated 379 729 (9) EUR denominated 5,259 5,107 5,259 5,107 (10) Other currencies denominated 318 309 318 309 Total Tier 2 Loan Capital 13,314 13,460 12,935 12,731 Fair value hedge adjustments 519 6 509 (4) (1) Total Loan Capital 22,966 22,992 22,569 22,249 (1) Loan Capital includes unrealised movements of $220 million in 2019 predominantly due to foreign exchange gains and losses. As at 30 June 2019, $1,604 million of securities issued by the Group and $1,620 million of securities issued by the Bank were contractually due for redemption in the next 12 months (the Group has the right to call some securities earlier than the contractual maturity). (1) USD100 million Floating Rate Notes (2) PERLS VI On 15 October 1986, the State Bank of Victoria issued On 17 October 2012, the Bank issued $2,000 million of Perpetual USD125 million of floating rate notes, the current outstanding Exchangeable Resaleable Listed Securities (PERLS VI). All PERLS balance is USD100 million. The floating rate notes are perpetual but VI were redeemed for cash on 17 December 2018. were able to be redeemed from October 1991. They were assigned (3) PERLS VII, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX, PERLS X and to the Bank on 1 January 1991. PERLS XI The Bank entered into an agreement with the Commonwealth of On 1 October 2014, the Bank issued $3,000 million of CommBank Australia on 31 December 1991 which provides that, if certain PERLS VII Capital Notes (PERLS VII). On 30 March 2016, the Bank events occur, the Bank may either issue CBA ordinary shares to the issued $1,450 million of CommBank PERLS VIII Capital Notes Commonwealth of Australia, or (with the consent of the (PERLS VIII). On 31 March 2017, the Bank issued $1,640 million of Commonwealth of Australia) conduct a renounceable rights issue CommBank PERLS IX Capital Notes (PERLS IX). On 6 April 2018, for CBA ordinary shares to all shareholders. The capital raised must the Bank issued $1,365 million of CommBank PERLS X Capital be used to pay any amounts due and payable on the floating rate Notes (PERLS X). On 17 December 2018, the Bank issued $1,590 notes. million of CommBank PERLS XI Capital Notes (PERLS XI). PERLS The floating rate notes were issued into the international markets VII, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX, PERLS X and PERLS XI are and are subject to English law. They qualify as Additional Tier 1 subordinated, unsecured notes. Capital of the Bank under the Basel III transitional arrangements for PERLS VII, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX, PERLS X and PERLS XI are capital instruments as implemented by APRA. listed on the ASX and are subject to New South Wales law. They qualify as Additional Tier 1 Capital of the Bank under Basel III as implemented by APRA. 192 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 (4) AUD denominated Tier 2 loan capital issuances ASB Notes 2 are listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange (NZX)  $25 million subordinated floating rate notes, issued April 1999, debt market and are subject to New South Wales and New Zealand due April 2029; law. They qualify as Tier 2 Capital of the Bank and ASB under  $1,000 million subordinated notes issued November 2014, due Basel III as implemented by APRA and the RBNZ. November 2024; and (9) EUR denominated Tier 2 loan capital issuances  $750 million subordinated notes issued June 2016, due  EUR1,000 million subordinated notes, issued August 2009, due June 2026. August 2019; (5) USD denominated Tier 2 loan capital issuances  EUR1,250 million subordinated notes issued April 2015, due  USD1,250 million subordinated notes issued December 2015, April 2027; and due December 2025;  EUR 1,000 million subordinated EMTN, issued October 2017,  USD750 million subordinated Euro Medium Term Notes (EMTN) due October 2029. issued October 2016, due October 2026; and (10) Other foreign currency denominated Tier 2 loan  USD 1,250 million subordinated notes issued January 2018, due capital issuances in January 2048.  CNY1,000 million subordinated notes issued March 2015, due (6) JPY denominated Tier 2 loan capital issuances March 2025; and  JPY20 billion perpetual subordinated EMTN, issued  HKD608 million subordinated EMTN issued March 2017, due February 1999; March 2027.  JPY40 billion subordinated EMTNs issued December 2016 All Tier 2 Capital securities issued prior to 1 January 2013 qualify as (three tranches JPY20 billion, JPY10 billion and JPY10 billion), Tier 2 Capital of the Bank under the Basel III transitional due December 2026; and arrangements for capital instruments as implemented by APRA. All  JPY13.3 billion subordinated EMTN issued March 2017, due Tier 2 Capital securities issued after 1 January 2013 qualify as March 2027. Tier 2 Capital of the Bank under Basel III as implemented by APRA. (7) GBP denominated Tier 2 loan capital issuances PERLS VII, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX, PERLS X and PERLS XI, and all Tier 2 Capital securities issued after 1 January 2013, are subject  GBP150 million subordinated EMTN, issued June 2003, and to Basel III, under which these securities must be exchanged for a redeemed in December 2018. variable number of CBA ordinary shares or written down if a capital trigger event (PERLS VII, PERLS VIII, PERLS IX, PERLS X and (8) NZD denominated Tier 2 loan capital issuances PERLS XI only) or a non-viability trigger event (all securities) occurs.  NZD400 million subordinated, unsecured notes, issued April Any exchange will occur as described in the terms of the applicable 2014, and redeemed in June 2019: instrument documentation. On 17 April 2014, a wholly owned entity of the Bank (ASB Bank Limited) issued NZD400 million subordinated, unsecured notes (ASB Notes) with a face value of NZD1 each. All ASB Notes were redeemed for cash on 17 June 2019; and  NZD400 million subordinated, unsecured notes, issued November 2016, due December 2026: On 30 November 2016, ASB Bank Limited issued NZD400 million subordinated, unsecured notes (ASB Notes 2) with a face value of NZD1 each. Loan capital are instruments issued by the Group, which qualify as regulatory capital under the Prudential Standards set by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) and the Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ). Loan capital is initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Interest expense incurred is recognised in Net Interest Income. 193 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M Ordinary Share Capital Shares on issue: Opening balance 37,535 35,266 37,533 35,262 (1) Issue of shares (net of issue costs) 164 164 (2) (3) Dividend reinvestment plan (net of issue costs) 748 2,105 748 2,107 38,283 37,535 38,281 37,533 Less treasury shares: Opening balance (265) (295) (4) Purchase of treasury shares (93) (95) (69) (4) Sale and vesting of treasury shares 95 125 (263) (265) (69) Closing balance 38,020 37,270 38,212 37,533 (1) During the year ended 30 June 2018, shares issued relate to the acquisition of the remaining 20% interest in AHL Holding Pty Limited. (2) The determined dividend includes an amount attributable to the dividend reinvestment plan of $749 million (final 2017/2018), $536 million (interim 2017/2018) and $1,573 million (final 2016/2017). The value of shares issued under plans rules net of issue costs for the respective periods was $748 million, $533 million and $1,572 million. (3) The DRP in respect of 2018/2019 interim dividend was satisfied in full through the on-market purchase and transfer of 8,080,558 shares to participating shareholders. (4) The movement in treasury shares relate to amounts held within life insurance statutory funds, and 1,178,102 shares acquired at an average price of $69.95 for satisfying the Company’s obligations under various equity settled share plans. Other than shares purchased as part of the Non-Executive Director fee sacrifice arrangements disclosed in Note 10.3, shares purchased were not on behalf of or initially allocated to a director. Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Number of shares on issue Shares Shares Shares Shares Opening balance (excluding treasury shares deduction) 1,759,842,930 1,729,868,161 1,759,842,930 1,729,868,161 (1) Issue of shares 2,087,604 2,087,604 Dividend reinvestment plan issues: 2016/2017 Final dividend fully paid ordinary 20,772,433 20,772,433 shares $75.73 2017/2018 Interim dividend fully paid ordinary 7,114,732 7,114,732 shares $75.38 2017/2018 Final dividend fully paid ordinary 10,396,577 10,396,577 shares $72.05 2018/2019 Interim dividend fully paid ordinary shares $73.21 (2) Closing balance (excluding treasury shares deduction) 1,770,239,507 1,759,842,930 1,770,239,507 1,759,842,930 (3) (4) Less: treasury shares (2,508,628) (3,489,325) Closing balance 1,767,730,879 1,756,353,605 1,770,239,507 1,759,842,930 (1) During the year ended 30 June 2018, the number of shares issued relates to the acquisition of the remaining 20% interest in AHL Holdings Pty Limited. (2) The DRP in respect of 2018/2019 interim dividend was satisfied in full through the on-market purchase and transfer of 8,080,558 shares at $73.21 to participating shareholders. (3) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (4) Relates to treasury shares held within the life insurance statutory funds and the employees share scheme. Ordinary shares have no par value and the Company does not have a limited amount of share capital. Ordinary shares entitle holders to receive dividends payable to ordinary shareholders and to participate in the proceeds available to ordinary shareholders on winding up of the Company in proportion to the number of fully paid ordinary shares held. On a show of hands every holder of fully paid ordinary shares present at a meeting in person or by proxy is entitled to one vote, and upon a poll one vote for each share held. 194 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Retained Profits $M $M $M $M Opening balance 28,360 26,274 23,819 22,256 (1) Changes on adoption of new accounting standards (955) (868) Restated opening balance 27,405 26,274 22,951 22,256 Actuarial (losses)/gains from defined benefit superannuation plans (49) 161 (50) 159 Losses on liabilities at fair value due to changes in own credit risk (2) (2) Realised gains and dividend income on treasury shares 12 16 Net profit attributable to Equity holders of the Bank 8,571 9,329 7,783 8,875 Total available for appropriation 35,939 35,778 30,684 31,288 Transfers from/(to) general reserve 126 47 (2) (4) Transfers from asset revaluation reserve 23 19 23 19 Interim dividend cash component (2,949) (2,969) (2,949) (2,969) (2) (3) Interim dividend Dividend reinvestment plan (592) (536) (592) (536) Final dividend cash component (3,316) (2,406) (3,316) (2,406) (3) Final dividend Dividend reinvestment plan (749) (1,573) (749) (1,573) Closing balance 28,482 28,360 23,099 23,819 (1) The Group adopted AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ and AASB 15 ‘Revenue’ on 1 July 2018. The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities impacted by the adoption were adjusted through opening retained profits and reserves on 1 July 2018 as if the Group has always applied the new requirements. As permitted by AASB 9 and AASB 15, comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15 refer to Note 1.1. (2) The DRP in respect of 2018/2019 interim dividend was satisfied in full through the on-market purchase and transfer of 8,080,558 shares to participating shareholders. (3) The determined dividend includes an amount attributable to the dividend reinvestment plan of $749 million (final 2017/2018), $536 million (interim 2017/2018), and $1,573 million (final 2016/2017). The value of shares issued under plans rules net of issue costs for the respective periods was $748 million, $533 million, and $1,572 million. 195 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Reserves $M $M $M $M General Reserve Opening balance 859 906 584 580 Transfer (to)/from retained profits (126) (47) 2 4 Closing balance 733 859 586 584 Capital Reserve Opening balance 1,254 1,254 Closing balance 1,254 1,254 Asset Revaluation Reserve Opening balance 235 223 206 196 Revaluation of properties 38 35 37 33 Transfer to retained profits (23) (19) (23) (19) Income tax effect (4) (4) (4) (4) Closing balance 246 235 216 206 Foreign Currency Translation Reserve Opening balance 448 457 88 35 Currency translation adjustments of foreign operations 491 (9) 233 39 Currency translation on net investment hedge (20) 15 (19) 14 Income tax effect (7) (15) Closing balance 912 448 302 88 Cash Flow Hedge Reserve Opening balance (160) (107) 70 66 Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedging instruments: Recognised in other comprehensive income 1,087 (260) 1,356 6 Transferred to Income Statement: Interest income (630) (960) (674) (975) Interest expense 898 1,160 746 985 Income tax effect (408) 7 (425) (12) Closing balance 787 (160) 1,073 70 Employee Compensation Reserve Opening balance 145 164 139 164 Current period movement 16 (19) 22 (25) Closing balance 161 145 161 139 196 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M Investment Securities Revaluation Reserve Opening balance (1) Change on adoption of AASB 9 149 227 Restated opening balance 149 227 Net gains on revaluation of investment securities 140 18 Net gains on investment securities transferred to Income Statement on (42) (42) disposal Income tax effect 6 18 Closing balance 253 221 Available-for-sale Investments Reserve Opening balance 149 226 227 261 (1) Change on adoption of AASB 9 (149) (227) Restated opening balance 226 261 Net losses on revaluation of available-for-sale investments (185) (135) Net losses on available-for-sale investments transferred to Income Statement 87 87 on disposal Income tax effect 21 14 Closing balance 149 227 Total Reserves 3,092 1,676 3,813 2,568 Shareholders' Equity attributable to Equity holders of the Bank 69,594 67,306 65,124 63,920 Shareholders' Equity attributable to Non-controlling interests 55 554 Total Shareholders' Equity 69,649 67,860 65,124 63,920 (1) The Group and the Bank adopted AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ on 1 July 2018. The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities impacted by the adoption were adjusted through opening retained profits and reserves on 1 July 2018 as if the Group and the Bank have always applied the new requirements. As permitted by AASB 9, comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 refer to Note 1.1. 197 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Shareholders’ equity includes ordinary share capital, retained profits and reserves. Policies for each component are set out below: Ordinary share capital Ordinary shares are recognised at the amount paid up per ordinary share, net of directly attributable issue costs. Where the Bank or entities within the Group purchase shares in the Bank, the consideration paid is deducted from total Shareholders’ equity and the shares are treated as treasury shares until they are subsequently sold, reissued or cancelled. Where such shares are sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in Shareholders’ Equity. Retained profits Retained profits includes the accumulated profits for the Group including certain amounts recognised directly in retained profits less dividends paid. Reserves General Reserve The general reserve is derived from revenue profits and is available for dividend payments except for undistributable profits in respect of the Group’s life insurance business. Capital reserve The capital reserve held by the Bank relates to historic internal Group restructuring performed at fair value. The capital reserve is eliminated on consolidation. Asset revaluation reserve The asset revaluation reserve is used to record revaluation adjustments on the Group’s property assets. Where an asset is sold or disposed of, any balance in the reserve in relation to the asset is transferred directly to retained profits. Foreign currency translation reserve Exchange differences arising on translation of the Group’s foreign operations are accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve. Specifically assets and liabilities are translated at the prevailing exchange rate at Balance Sheet date; revenue and expenses are translated at the transaction date; and all resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve. When a foreign operation is disposed of, exchange differences are recycled out of the reserve and recognised in the Income Statement. Cash flow hedge reserve The cash flow hedge reserve is used to record fair value gains or losses associated with the effective portion of designated cash flow hedging instruments. Amounts are reclassified to the Income Statement when the hedged transaction impacts profit or loss. Employee compensation reserve The employee compensation reserve is used to recognise the fair value of shares and other equity instruments issued to employees under the employee share plans and bonus schemes. Investment securities revaluation reserve The investment securities revaluation reserve includes changes in the fair value of investment securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. For debt securities, these changes are reclassified to the Income Statement when the asset is derecognised. For equity securities, these changes are not reclassified to the Income Statement when derecognised. 198 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Note $M $M $M $M $M Ordinary Shares Interim ordinary dividend (fully franked) (2019: 200 cents; 2018: 200 cents; 2017: 199 cents) Interim ordinary dividend paid cash component only 2,949 2,969 2,871 2,949 2,969 (1) Interim ordinary dividend paid Dividend Reinvestment Plan 592 536 558 592 536 Total dividend paid 3,541 3,505 3,429 3,541 3,505 Other provision carried 119 113 100 119 113 Dividend proposed and not recognised as a liability (fully franked) (2019: 231 cents; 2018: 231 cents; 2017: 230 cents) (2) 4,089 4,065 3,979 4,089 4,065 Provision for dividends Opening balance 113 100 90 113 100 Provision made during the year 7,606 7,484 7,237 7,606 7,484 Provision used during the year (7,600) (7,471) (7,227) (7,600) (7,471) Closing balance 7.1 119 113 100 119 113 (1) The DRP in respect of the 2018/2019 interim dividend was satisfied in full through the on-market purchase and transfer of 8,080,558 shares to participating shareholders. (2) The 2019 final dividend will be satisfied by cash disbursements with the Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRP) anticipated to be satisfied in full through an on-market purchase of shares. The 2018 final dividend was satisfied by cash disbursements of $3,316 million and $749 million being reinvested by the participants through the DRP. The 2017 final dividend was satisfied by cash disbursements of $2,406 million and $1,573 million being reinvested by the participants through the DRP. Final dividend The Directors have declared a franked final dividend of 231 cents per share amounting to $4,089 million. The dividend will be payable on 26 September 2019 to shareholders on the register at 5pm AEST on 15 August 2019. The ex-dividend date is 14 August 2019. The Board determines the dividends based on the Group’s net profit after tax (“cash basis”) per share, having regard to a range of factors including:  Current and expected rates of business growth and the mix of business;  Capital needs to support economic, regulatory and credit ratings requirements;  Investments and/or divestments to support business development;  Competitors comparison and market expectations; and  Earnings per share growth. Dividend franking account After fully franking the final dividend to be paid for the year, the amount of credits available at the 30% tax rate as at 30 June 2019 to frank dividends for subsequent financial years, is $1,190 million (2018: $1,464 million). This figure is based on the franking accounts of the Bank at 30 June 2019, adjusted for franking credits that will arise from the payment of income tax payable on profits for the year, franking debits that will arise from the payment of dividends proposed, and franking credits that the Bank may be prevented from distributing in subsequent financial periods. The Bank expects that future tax payments will generate sufficient franking credits for the Bank to be able to continue to fully frank future dividend payments. These calculations have been based on the taxation law as at 30 June 2019. 199 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Dividend history Half-year Full Year DRP Payout Payout DRP Participation Cents Per Ratio (1) Ratio (1) Price Rate (2) Half year ended Share Payment Date % % $ % 31 December 2016 199 04/04/2017 70. 1 83. 21 16. 3 30 June 2017 230 29/09/2017 79. 0 74. 6 75. 73 39. 5 31 December 2017 200 28/03/2018 71. 4 75. 38 15. 3 30 June 2018 231 28/09/2018 91. 9 81. 2 72. 05 18. 4 31 December 2018 200 28/03/2019 77. 0 73. 21 16. 7 30 June 2019 231 26/09/2019 103. 0 89. 0 (1) Dividend Payout Ratio: dividends divided by statutory earnings (earnings are net of dividends on other equity instruments). (2) DRP Participation Rate: the percentage of total issued share capital participating in the DRP. Dividends represent a distribution of profits that holders of ordinary shares receive from time to time. Dividends are not accrued as a liability until a dividend declaration is made by the Board of the Bank. The liability is reduced when the dividend is paid. The Board takes into consideration factors including the Group’s relative capital strength and the Group’s existing dividend payout ratio guidelines in determining the amount of dividends to be paid. 200 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 The Group is exposed to business, financial and non-financial risks arising from its operations. The Group manages these risks through its Risk Management Framework (Framework) that evolves with emerging risks arising from the changing business environment, better practice approaches, and regulatory and community expectations. The components of the Framework are illustrated below, including the governance that enables executive and Board oversight of these risks. Our Risk Principles Trust and Reputation Risk Culture and Conduct Risk CBA Group Board Group Strategy Group Risk Appetite Statement Governance Board Risk Committee Executive Executive Risk Insurance Asset and Liability Non-Financial Risk Leadership Committee subsidiary Committee Committee Team (ELT) (ERC) boards (ALCO) (NFRC) Reporting BU Leadership Business Unit (BU) Leadership BU NFRC Committees Teams Teams Strategic Credit Insurance Market Liquidity Operational Compliance Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Fines or Value destruction Losses from failure Unplanned losses Losses from Not being able Losses from sanctions from Risk policies & Procedures or less than planned of counterparties from events that unexpected to meet fnancial failure of internal non-compliance value creation to pay their debts we provide changes in market obligations as they processes, systems with laws and due to changes in to CBA insurance for rates and prices fall due or people regulations the external and internal operating environments Managed through Managed through Managed through Managed through Our Operational Compliance and assessments underwriting conservative a diverse and Risk Management conduct controls of counterparty standards and market risk limits, stable pool of Framework applies are embedded The Board quality, obtaining limits, claims daily monitoring funding sources, a range of tools in business approves Group collateral and controls, of market risk maintaining and techniques to processes, and BU strategies, by diversifying catastrophe exposures, hedging suffcient liquidity identify and assess routinely monitored monitors strategy portfolios via modelling and strategies, stress buffers, conducting risks, design and and supported execution progress our strategy and reinsurance to limit testing and regular regular stress tests monitor controls and by mandatory and operating concentration large loss tests of Value at and daily monitoring report and manage compliance training environment limits. exposure. Risk models. of liquidity ratios. issues. for all staff. changes and Risk Infrastructure regularly appraises the strategy Financial Risks Non-Financial Risks Business Risks (may include impacts across one or more fnancial or non-fnancial risk types) Customer Climate and Macroeconomic Competition Technology Regulatory Political Societal preferences environment Further details on each of the material risks, and how the Group manages them are outlined in this note. 201 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements The Group’s embedded Framework enables the appropriate  Reviews regular reports from Management on the measurement development and implementation of strategies, policies and of risk and the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk procedures to manage its risks. The Framework incorporates the management and internal controls systems; requirements of APRA’s prudential standard for risk management  Forms a view on the independence of the risk function by (CPS 220) supported by the three key documentary components: meeting with the Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO) at the will of  The Group Risk Appetite Statement (RAS) articulates the type the Committee or the CRO. and degree of risk the Board is prepared to accept and the The Group operates a Three Lines of Accountability (3LoA) model maximum level of risk that the institution must operate within. which places accountability for risk ownership with Line 1 Business  The Group Risk Management Approach (RMA) describes how Units (BUs) while focussing the mandate of Line 2 Risk Teams on the Group ensures the comprehensive management of risks appetite and framework, oversight, assurance, approval or across the Group in support of achieving its strategic goals. acceptance of risk and advice. Line 3 Audit provides independent  The Group Business Plan (Plan) summarises the Group’s assurance to the Board, regulators and other stakeholders of the approach to the implementation of its strategic objectives. The effectiveness of risk management, internal controls and governance. Plan has a rolling three year duration and reflects material risks This model recognises that the business is best positioned to make arising from its implementation. optimal long-term risk-reward decisions that consider the full end-toend value chain. The Framework is underpinned by key foundational components, in particular: Risk policies & procedures Risk culture and conduct risk Risk policies and procedures provide guidance to the business on Risk culture is the beliefs, values and practices within the the management of each material risk. They support the Framework organisation that determine how risks are identified, measured, by: governed, and acted upon. A strong risk culture guides our actions  Summarising the principles and practices to be used by the in a resilient and flexible way when we need to react and make Group in identifying and assessing its material risks; sound judgements in new and unfamiliar circumstances. The  Quantifying the financial operating tolerances for material risks; organisation’s culture influences employee behaviours and has the and potential to lead to poor conduct. The Board’s RAS in relation to  Clearly stating the types of risk outcomes to which the Group is conduct requires business practices that are fair to our customers, protects the fair and efficient operation of the market and engender intolerant. confidence in our products and services. The Group’s risk culture Risk reporting emphasises doing what is right, accountability, service, excellence and getting things done the right way. Annually the CBA Board forms Regular management information is produced which allows financial a view regarding the effectiveness of the Group’s risk culture in and non-financial risk positions to be monitored against approved keeping risk taking within appetite. Action plans are initiated and Risk Appetite and policy limits. At Board level, the majority of risk monitored to drive positive risk culture changes in areas of need. reporting is provided to the Board Risk Committee but regulatory relationships, strategic risk and reputational matters, capital and Trust and reputation liquidity risk are reported directly. Controls reporting is provided to The reputation of the Group and trust of stakeholders are significant the Audit Committee. The Chairs of the Board Risk and Audit assets. Damage to the Group’s reputation arises from negative Committees report to the Board post Committee meetings. perception on the part of customers, counterparties, shareholders, investors, debt holders, market analysts, regulators and other Risk management infrastructure relevant stakeholders of the Group. The Group’s purpose and The Framework is supported by key infrastructure systems and values combined with the organisational culture and our conduct as processes for the management of the Group’s material risk types. an organisation and as individuals form the framework which The key risk management systems and processes in place include: protects this asset. Potential adverse reputational impacts are  Established risk identification and assessment processes; mitigated by managing our material risks well, living by our Code of  Risk controls and mitigation plans; Conduct and actively focusing on transparency in business decisions and engagement with our customers. In addition the  A Management Information System to measure and aggregate Group has a corporate responsibility plan focused on driving positive risks across the Group; change through education, innovation and good business practice.  Risk models and tools;  A Risk-Adjusted-Performance Measurement (RAPM) process The four key elements that operationalise the Framework are: that is a means of assessing the performance of a business after Risk governance adjustment for its capital consumption and is used as a basis for The Group is committed to ensuring that its risk management executive incentives; and practices reflect a high standard of governance. This enables  An Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) Management to undertake, in an effective manner, prudent riskused in combination with other risk management practices taking activities. The Board operates as the highest level of the (including stress testing), to understand, manage and quantify Group’s risk governance as specified in its Charter. The Risk the Group’s risks; the outcomes of which are used to inform risk Committee oversees the Framework and helps formulate the decisions, set capital buffers and assist strategic planning. Group’s risk appetite for consideration by the Board. In particular it:  Monitors the Group’s risk profile (including identification of emerging risks); 202 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Material risk types Risk Type Description Governing Policies and Key Key Limits, Standards and Measurement Management Committees Approaches Credit Risk Credit risk is the potential for loss Governing Policies: The following credit concentration frameworks set arising from the failure of a  Group Credit Risk Principles, credit portfolio concentration limits: counterparty to meet their Framework and Governance  Large Credit Exposure Policy; contractual obligations to the  Group and Business Unit  Country Risk Exposure Policy; and Group. At a portfolio level, credit Credit Risk Policies  Industry Sector Concentration Policy. risk includes concentration risk Credit risk indicators with associated intervention arising from interdependencies Key Management Committee: levels are set in the Group RAS for corporate and between customers, and  Executive Risk Committee retail exposures and cascaded to BUs. Group and concentrations of exposures to  Loan Loss Provisioning BU Credit Risk Policies cover the credit risk geographical regions and industry Committee exposure cycle. sectors. The measurement of credit risk is primarily based on the APRA accredited Advanced Internal Ratings Based (AIRB) approach. Market Risk Market risk is the risk that market Governing Policies: The Group Market Risk Policy sets limits and (including Equity rates and prices will change and  The Group Market Risk Policy standards with respect to the following: Risk) that this may have an adverse effect  Traded Market Risk; on the profitability and/or net worth Key Management Committee:  Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book of the Group. This includes  Asset and Liability Committee (IRRBB); changes in interest rates, foreign  Residual Value Risk; exchange rates, equity and  Non-traded Equity Risk; and commodity prices, credit spreads,  Market Risk in Insurance Businesses. and the resale value of operating The respective measurement approaches for leased assets at maturity (lease these risks include: residual value risk).  Value at Risk, Stress Testing;  Market Value Sensitivity, Net Interest Earnings at Risk;  Aggregate Residual Value Risk Margin;  Aggregate Portfolio Limit; and  Value at Risk. Liquidity and Liquidity risk is the combined risks Governing Policies: The Group Liquidity Policy sets limits and Funding Risk of not being able to meet financial  Group Liquidity Risk standards with respect to the following: obligations as they fall due (funding Management Policy  The Liquidity Coverage Ratio, which sets liquidity risk), and that liquidity in minimum levels for liquid assets; financial markets, such as the Key Management Committee:  The Net Stable Funding Ratio, which market for debt securities, may  Asset and Liability Committee encourages stable funding of core assets; reduce significantly (market liquidity  Market and idiosyncratic stress test risk). scenarios; and  Limits that set tolerances for the sources and tenor of funding. The measurement of liquidity risk uses scenario analysis, covering both adverse and ordinary operating circumstances. Operational Risk Operational risk is the risk of loss Governing Policies: A range of Operational Risk indicators are resulting from inadequate or failed  Operational Risk included in the Group Risk Appetite Statement internal processes, people and Management Framework (RAS). systems or from external events. (ORMF)  Operational Risk Policies and The measurement of operational risk capital is Standards based on an APRA accredited Advanced Measurement Approach. The approach combines Key Management Committee: internal and external loss experience and  Executive Leadership Team business judgements captured through Scenario NonFinancial Risk Analysis. Committee. Compliance Risk Compliance risk is the risk of Governing Policies: The CMF sets the standards on how the Group sanctions, financial loss, or  Group Compliance identifies, assesses, manages, monitors and reputational damage we may suffer Management Framework reports on Compliance management. as a result of the Group’s failure to (CMF) comply with laws, regulations,  Group and Business Unit The CMF is supported by a number of key policies rules, statements of regulatory Compliance Policies which are set out in the Group Risk Management policy, and codes of conduct Approach (RMA). applicable to its business activities Key Management Committee: (not including operational risk Compliance statements and indicators are  Executive Leadership Team failures) and includes societal included in the Group Risk Appetite Statement NonFinancial Risk expectations. (RAS). Committee. Financial crime represents a subcomponent of Compliance Risk and covers risks including Anti Money Laundering, Counter Terrorism Financing, Anti-Bribery and Corruption, and Sanctions. 203 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Material risk types (continued) Risk Type Description Governing Policies and Key Key Limits, Standards and Measurement Management Committees Approaches Insurance Risk Insurance risk is the risk of loss due Governing Policies: The key limits and standards with respect to to the potential for events the Group  Product Management Policy insurance risk are set via the end-to-end policies has insured against occurring more  Underwriting Policy of insurance writing businesses. The major frequently or with greater severity  Claims Management Policy methods include: than anticipated.  Sound product design and pricing to ensure  Reinsurance Management Policy that customers understand the extent of Insurance risk also covers their cover and that premiums are sufficient inadequacy in product design, to cover the risk involved; pricing, underwriting, claims Key Management Committee:  Executive Committees of  Controls to ensure payment of valid claims management and reinsurance without undue delay; management as well as variations insurance writing businesses  Regular review of insurance experience (as in policy lapses, servicing loss ratios, new business volumes and expenses, and option take up lapse rates), so that product design, policy rates. liabilities and pricing remains sound; and  Transferring a proportion of insurance risk to reinsurers to keep within risk appetite.  Insurance risk is measured using actuarial techniques which are used to establish the likelihood and severity of possible insurance claims. Strategic Risk Strategic Risk is the risk of material Governing Policies: The Group assesses, monitors and responds to stakeholder value destruction or  Group Strategic Risk Strategic Risk throughout its processes for: less than planned value creation Management Policy  strategy development, approval and review; due to changes in the Group’s  identifying and monitoring changes and external and internal operating Key Management Committee: potential changes to the operating environments (including environment; and  Executive Leadership Team macroeconomic conditions,  monitoring execution progress of strategies. competitive forces, technology, regulatory, political and social In developing the strategy, the following is trends, customer preference and considered: the environment).  impact of strategy on the Group’s risk profile and measures of risk appetite;  recent execution progress; and  assumptions around the operating environment. Climate Change is an important component of strategic risk. As for all other strategic risks, the potential adverse impacts of climate change manifest, and are therefore measured and managed, as an outcome in the Group’s other material risks. In order to understand these potential impacts, and in support of our commitment to limiting climate change in line with the Paris Agreement, and the responsible global transition to net zero emissions by 2050 we:  Develop scenario analyses to understand the impacts of both transition and physical climate-related risks on our business and the implications for strategic and tactical portfolio decisions; and  Have developed policy frameworks which consider Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues, including climate change impacts in assessing our relationships with customers and suppliers. In addition, Corporate Responsibility programs:  Outline our objectives for safeguarding the environment, while supporting economic growth and development; and  Provide guidelines in monitoring and reducing our own greenhouse gas emissions and energy use. 204 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Credit risk management principles and portfolio standards The Group has clearly defined credit policies for the approval and such that it is inappropriate to rely completely on a statistical management of credit risk. Credit policies apply to all credit risks, model. External ratings may be used for benchmarking in the with specific portfolio standards applying to all major lending expert judgement assessment. areas. These set the minimum requirements in assessing the integrity and ability of counterparties to meet their contracted The CRR is designed to: financial obligations for repayment, acceptable forms of collateral  Aid in assessing changes to counterparty credit quality; and security and the frequency of credit reviews.  Influence decisions on approval, management and pricing of The Group’s credit policies and frameworks include concentration individual credit facilities; and limits, which are designed to achieve portfolio outcomes that are  Provide the basis for reporting details of the Group's credit consistent with the Group’s risk appetite and risk/return portfolio. expectations. Credit risk-rated exposures are generally reviewed on an The Credit Portfolio Assurance unit, part of Group Audit and individual basis, at least annually, and fall within the following Assurance, reviews credit portfolios and business unit compliance categories: with credit policies, frameworks, application of credit risk ratings and other key practices on a regular basis.  “Pass” – these credit facilities qualify for approval of new or increased exposure on normal commercial terms; and The credit risk portfolio has two major segments:  “Troublesome or Impaired Assets (TIAs)” – these credit (i) Retail managed segment facilities are not eligible for new or increased exposure, unless it facilitates rehabilitation to “pass grade” or protects or This segment has sub-segments covering housing loans, credit improves the Group’s position by maximising recovery cards, personal loans, and personal overdrafts. It also covers prospects. Where a counterparty is in default but no loss is most non-retail lending where the aggregated credit exposure to a group of related obligors is less than $1 million. expected based on an assessment of the security position and other factors, the facility may be classed as troublesome Auto-decisioning is used to approve credit applications for eligible but not impaired. Where a loss is expected, a facility is counterparties in this segment. Auto-decisioning uses a scorecard classified as impaired. Restructured facilities, where the approach based on a combination of factors, which may include original contractual arrangements have been modified outside the Group’s historical experience on similar applications, commercial terms to provide concessions for the customer’s information from a credit reference bureau, the Group’s existing knowledge of a counterparty’s behaviour and updated information financial difficulties, are classified as impaired. provided by the counterparty. Default is to be recorded with one or more of the following: Loan applications that do not meet scorecard Auto-decisioning  The customer is 90 days or more overdue on a scheduled requirements may be referred to a Personal Credit Approval credit repayment; or Authority (PCAA) for manual decisioning.  The customer is unlikely to repay their credit obligation to the After loan origination, these portfolios are managed using Group in full without taking action, such as realising on behavioural scoring systems and a delinquency band approach, available security. such as actions taken when loan payments are greater than 30 days past due differ from actions when payments are greater than Credit risk measurement 60 days past due. Loans past due are reviewed by the relevant The measurement of credit risk uses analytical tools to calculate Arrears Management or Financial Assistance Team. both: (i) Expected, and (ii) Unexpected Loss probabilities for the credit portfolio. The use of analytical tools is governed by the (ii) Risk-rated segment Credit Rating Governance Committee. This segment comprises non-retail exposures, including bank and sovereign exposures. Each exposure is assigned an internal (i) Expected loss Credit Risk-Rating (CRR) based on Probability of Default (PD) Expected Loss (EL) is the product of: and Loss Given Default (LGD).  PD; Either a PD Rating Tool or expert judgement is used to determine  Exposure at Default (EAD); and the PD for customers in this segment. Expert judgement is used  LGD. where the complexity of the transaction and/or the counterparty is The PD, expressed as a percentage, is the estimate of the probability that a client will default within the next 12 months. 205 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Credit risk measurement (continued) Credit risk mitigation, collateral and other credit EAD is the estimate of the amount of a facility that will be enhancements outstanding under a facility in the event of default. Estimates are The Group has policies and procedures in place setting out the based on a downturn in economic conditions. The estimate is circumstances where acceptable and appropriate collateral is to based on the actual amount outstanding, plus the undrawn be taken to mitigate credit risk. These include valuation amount multiplied by a credit conversion factor (CCF). The CCF parameters, review frequency and independence of valuation. represents the potential rate of conversion from undrawn 12 months prior to default to drawn at default. For most committed The general nature of collateral that may be taken, and the facilities, the Group applies a CFF of 100% to the undrawn balances held, are summarised below by financial asset classes. amount. Cash and liquid assets For uncommitted facilities, the EAD will generally be the drawn Collateral is not usually sought on the majority of cash and liquid balance only. For defaulted facilities, it is the actual amount asset balances as these types of exposures are generally outstanding at default. For retail exposures, a modelling approach considered low risk. However, securities purchased under can be used based on factors including limit usage, arrears and agreement to resell are collateralised by highly liquid debt loan type to segment accounts into homogeneous pools to securities. The collateral related to agreements to resell has been calculate EAD. legally transferred to the Group subject to an agreement to return LGD expressed as a percentage, is the estimated proportion of a them for a fixed price. facility likely to be lost in the event of default. LGD is impacted by: The Group’s cash and liquid asset balance included $14,527  Type and level of any collateral held; million (2018: $21,148 million) deposited with central banks and is considered to carry less credit risk.  Liquidity and volatility of collateral;  Carrying costs (effectively the costs of providing a facility that Receivables due from other financial institutions is not generating an interest return); and Collateral is usually not sought on these balances as exposures  Realisation costs. are generally considered to be of low risk. The exposures are Various factors are considered when calculating PD, EAD and mainly short term and to investment grade banks. LGD. Considerations include the potential for default by a Trading assets at fair value through income statement borrower due to economic, management, industry and other risks, and Investment securities at fair value through OCI and the mitigating benefits of any collateral held as security. These assets are carried at fair value, which accounts for the (ii) Unexpected loss credit risk. Investment securities at amortised cost are measured at amortised cost and presented net of provisions for impairment. In addition to EL, a more stressed loss amount is calculated. This Collateral is not generally sought from the issuer or counterparty Unexpected Loss estimate directly affects the calculation of but collateral may be implicit in the terms of the instrument (such regulatory and internal economic capital requirements. Refer to as an asset-backed security). the Performance Overview section and Note 8.1 for information relating to regulatory capital. Insurance assets Climate related risk These assets are carried at fair value, which accounts for the credit risk. Collateral is not generally sought or provided on these Climate risk is a risk for the Group. The impacts of climate change types of assets, other than a fixed charge over properties backing have the potential to affect our customers’ ability to service and Australian mortgage investments. In most cases the credit risk of repay their loans, and the value of collateral the Group holds to insurance assets is borne by policyholders. However, on certain secure loans. These impacts include long-term changes in insurance contracts the Group retains exposure to credit risk. climatic conditions, extreme weather events, and the action taken by governments, regulators or society more generally to transition Other assets at fair value through income statement to a low carbon economy. These assets are carried at fair value, which accounts for the credit risk. The Group is a major provider of non-retail loans. A key step in credit risk due diligence for non-retail lending is the assessment Derivative assets of potential transactions for environmental, social and governance The Group’s use of derivative contracts is outlined in Note 5.3. (ESG) risks, including climate risk, through our ESG Risk The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk on derivative Assessment Tool. All Institutional Banking and Markets loans, as contracts. The counterparty credit risk is affected by the nature of well as large loans in other business units, are evaluated through the trades, the counterparty, netting, and collateral arrangements. the Group’s compulsory ESG risk assessment process. Credit risk from derivatives is mitigated where possible (typically The risk of climate change is assessed at origination and during for financial institutions counterparties, but less frequently for corporate or government counterparties) through netting the annual review process. Exposures with medium or high risk agreements, whereby derivative assets and liabilities with the profile are subject to additional due diligence and heightened same counterparty can be offset and cleared with Central consideration and assessment in the credit process. As at 30 June Counterparties (CCPs). The International Swaps and Derivatives 2019, there is considered to be no material risk of loss due to Association (ISDA) Master Agreement (or other derivative climate-related risk in our client exposures. agreements) are used by the Group as an agreement for documenting Over-the-Counter (OTC) derivatives. 206 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Derivative assets (continued) The fair value of collateral held and the potential effect of offset obtained by applying master netting agreements are disclosed in Note 9.7. Due from controlled entities Collateral is not generally taken on these intergroup balances. Credit commitments and contingent liabilities The Group applies fundamentally the same risk management policies for off Balance Sheet risks as it does for its on Balance Sheet risks. Collateral may be sought depending on the strength of the counterparty and the nature of the transaction. Of the Group’s off Balance Sheet exposures, $103,713 million (2018: $100,110 million) are secured. Loans, bills discounted and other receivables The principal collateral types for loans and receivable balances are:  Mortgages over residential and commercial real estate; and  Charges over business assets such as cash, shares, inventory, fixed assets and accounts receivables. Collateral security is generally taken except for government, bank and corporate counterparties that are often externally risk-rated and of strong financial standing. Longer term consumer finance, such as housing loans, are generally secured against real estate, while short term revolving consumer credit is generally not secured by formal collateral. The collateral mitigating credit risk of the key lending portfolios is addressed in the table ‘Collateral held against Loans, Bills Discounted and Other Receivables’ within this note. 207 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Maximum exposure to credit risk by industry and asset class before collateral held or other credit enhancements Group At 30 June 2019 Bank and Asset Other AgriOther Home ConstrOther FinancComm and Sovereign culture Financial Loans uction Personal ing Indust. Other Total $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Australia Credit risk exposures relating to on Balance Sheet assets: Cash and liquid assets 4,575 11,930 16,505 Receivables due from other 3,037 3,037 financial institutions Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 21,354 941 9,308 31,603 Other 81 434 414 242 1,171 Derivative assets 1,414 64 18,550 4 1,150 21,182 Investment securities: At amortised cost 9 7,341 7,350 At fair value through Other 43,540 16,893 67 60,500 Comprehensive Income Loans, bills discounted and 16,762 9,291 8,675 467,361 3,238 21,508 7,947 118,207 652,989 other receivables (1) Bank acceptances 3 2 27 32 Other assets (2) 488 3 5,496 10 230 14,175 20,402 Assets held for sale 1,423 5,633 3,943 4,211 15,210 Total on Balance Sheet 89,646 9,361 78,930 467,361 3,244 21,518 7,947 133,346 18,628 829,981 Australia Credit risk exposures relating to off Balance Sheet assets: Guarantees 36 20 1,584 324 3,195 5,159 Loan commitments 605 1,975 7,675 67,874 2,331 21,207 34,156 135,823 Other commitments 58 11 1,362 1,390 214 12 2,963 6,010 Total Australia 90,345 11,367 89,551 535,235 7,289 42,939 7,959 173,660 18,628 976,973 Overseas Credit risk exposures relating to on Balance Sheet assets: Cash and liquid assets 9,952 2,930 12,882 Receivables due from other 5,056 5,056 financial institutions Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 602 251 50 903 Insurance Other Derivative assets 169 12 2,110 1,742 4,033 Investment securities: At amortised cost 5 5 At fair value through Other 16,092 2,320 18,412 Comprehensive Income Loans, bills discounted and 1,436 10,467 6,637 55,581 701 1,924 416 30,830 107,992 other receivables (1) Bank acceptances (2) Other assets 30 338 4 8 49 1,308 1,737 Assets held for sale 683 469 23 166 1,341 Total on Balance Sheet 28,969 10,479 20,111 55,581 701 1,928 424 32,694 1,474 152,361 Overseas Credit risk exposures relating to off Balance Sheet assets: Guarantees 10 949 54 334 1,347 Loan commitments 419 834 5,034 7,875 222 2,098 48 9,849 26,379 Other commitments 473 3 612 1,088 Total Overseas 29,388 11,323 26,567 63,456 980 4,026 472 43,489 1,474 181,175 Total gross credit risk 119,733 22,690 116,118 598,691 8,269 46,965 8,431 217,149 20,102 1,158,148 (1) Loans, bills discounted and other receivables is presented gross of provisions for impairment and unearned income in line with Note 3.1. (2) For the purpose of reconciling to the Balance Sheet, “Other Assets” predominantly comprises assets which do not give rise to credit exposure, including Property, plant and equipment, Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures, Intangible Assets, Deferred tax assets and Other assets. 208 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Maximum exposure to credit risk by industry and asset class before collateral held or other credit enhancements (continued) Group At 30 June 2018 Bank and Asset Other AgriOther Home ConstrOther FinancComm and Sovereign culture Financial Loans uction Personal ing Indust. Other Total $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Australia Credit risk exposures relating to on Balance Sheet assets: Cash and liquid assets 4,461 10,974 15,435 Receivables due from other 2,644 2,644 financial institutions Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 15,917 2,780 10,223 28,920 Other 49 209 258 Derivative assets 1,371 45 20,865 4 1,736 24,021 Available-for-sale 39,906 26,525 298 66,729 investments Loans, bills discounted and 16,823 8,998 12,951 451,367 3,028 23,658 8,581 118,681 644,087 other receivables (1) Bank acceptances 2 2 35 39 Other assets (2) 1,030 4 4,272 1 7 237 15,100 20,651 Assets held for sale 1,521 4,585 4,172 3,136 13,414 Total on Balance Sheet 81,078 9,049 85,805 451,367 3,035 23,665 8,581 135,382 18,236 816,198 Australia Credit risk exposures relating to off Balance Sheet assets: Guarantees 44 18 991 6 307 3,059 4,425 Loan commitments 907 1,750 7,837 66,483 2,439 21,783 34,995 136,194 Other commitments 54 22 736 1 1,357 10 3,021 5,201 Total Australia 82,083 10,839 95,369 517,857 7,138 45,448 8,591 176,457 18,236 962,018 Overseas Credit risk exposures relating to on Balance Sheet assets: Cash and liquid assets 16,688 4,294 20,982 Receivables due from other 6,578 6,578 financial institutions Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 2,161 1,085 88 3,334 Insurance 358 14 372 Other Derivative assets 348 16 4,586 3,162 8,112 Available-for-sale 12,515 2,995 1 15,511 investments Loans, bills discounted and 1,571 9,930 7,075 50,298 638 1,844 457 32,129 103,942 other receivables (1) Bank acceptances 340 340 (2) Other assets 30 798 2 3 10 43 1,334 2,220 Assets held for sale 1,788 452 2,240 Total on Balance Sheet 33,671 9,946 29,213 50,300 638 1,847 467 35,763 1,786 163,631 Overseas Credit risk exposures relating to off Balance Sheet assets: Guarantees 1 9 1,486 40 304 1,840 Loan commitments 349 1,007 4,266 7,268 230 1,977 10,799 25,896 Other commitments 9 5 607 1 1,018 1,640 Total Overseas 34,030 10,967 35,572 57,568 909 3,824 467 47,884 1,786 193,007 Total gross credit risk 116,113 21,806 130,941 575,425 8,047 49,272 9,058 224,341 20,022 1,155,025 (1) Loans, bills discounted and other receivables is presented gross of provisions for impairment and unearned income in line with Note 3.1. (2) For the purpose of reconciling to the Balance Sheet, “Other Assets” predominantly comprises assets which do not give rise to credit exposure, including Property, plant and equipment, Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures, Intangible Assets, Deferred tax assets and Other assets. 209 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Large exposures Concentrations of exposure to any counterparty or counterparty group are controlled by a large credit exposure policy, which defines a graduated limit framework that restricts credit limits based on the internally assessed CRR, the type of client, and facility tenor. All exposures outside the policy limits require approval by the Executive Risk Committee and are reported to the Board Risk Committee. The following table shows the number of the Group’s Corporate and Industrial aggregated counterparty exposures (including direct and contingent exposures), which individually were greater than 5% of the Group’s capital resources (Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital): Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Number Number 5% to less than 10% of the Group's capital resources 10% to less than 15% of the Group's capital resources The Group has a high quality, well diversified credit portfolio, with 61% of the gross loans and other receivables in domestic mortgage loans and a further 7% in overseas mortgage loans, primarily in New Zealand. Overseas loans account for 14% of loans and advances. Distribution of financial assets by credit classification When doubt arises as to the collectability of a credit facility, the financial instrument is classified and reported as impaired. Provisions for impairment are raised where there is objective evidence of impairment and for an amount adequate to cover assessed credit related losses. The Group regularly reviews its financial assets and monitors adherence to contractual terms. Credit risk-rated exposures are assessed, at least at each Balance Sheet date, to determine whether the financial asset is impaired. Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality The tables on pages 211 to 213 provide information about the gross carrying amount of the Group’s and the Bank’s loans, bills discounted and other receivables by credit rating grade and ECL stage as at 30 June 2019. This segmentation of loans in retail and risk-rated portfolios is based on the mapping of a counterparty’s internally assessed PD to S&P Global ratings, reflecting a counterparty’s ability to meet their credit obligations. In particular, retail PD pools have been aligned to the Group’s PD grades which are consistent with rating agency views of credit quality segmentation. Investment grade is representative of lower assessed default probabilities with other classifications reflecting progressively higher default risk. Specifically, Investment grade corresponds to S&P ratings AAA to BBB-, Pass grade corresponds to S&P ratings BB+ to B-, Weak grade corresponds to S&P ratings below CCC. For Stage 3, weak grade includes exposures in default. 210 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality Group 30 Jun 19 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 Collectively Collectively Collectively Individually Assessed Assessed Assessed Assessed Total Loans, bills and discounted and other receivables $M $M $M $M $M Credit grade Investment 380,159 30,212 410,371 Pass 231,412 87,280 318,692 Weak 9,159 15,024 4,500 2,110 30,793 Gross carrying amount 620,730 132,516 4,500 2,110 759,856 Undrawn credit commitments Credit grade Investment 78,502 14,470 92,972 Pass 35,709 11,381 47,090 Weak 748 425 87 88 1,348 Total undrawn credit commitments 114,959 26,276 87 88 141,410 Total credit exposures 735,689 158,792 4,587 2,198 901,266 Impairment provision 897 2,444 479 895 4,715 ECL coverage % 0. 1 1. 5 10. 4 40. 7 0. 5 Financial guarantees and other off Balance Sheet instruments Credit grade Investment 8,866 1,553 10,419 Pass 3,358 3,689 7,047 Weak 45 236 19 20 320 Total financial guarantees and other off Balance Sheet 12,269 5,478 19 20 17,786 instruments Impairment provision 8 75 1 84 ECL coverage % 0. 1 1. 4 5. 3 0. 5 Total Credit Exposures Credit grade Investment 467,527 46,235 513,762 Pass 270,479 102,350 372,829 Weak 9,952 15,685 4,606 2,218 32,461 (1) Total credit exposures 747,958 164,270 4,606 2,218 919,052 Total impairment provision 905 2,519 480 895 4,799 ECL coverage % 0. 1 1. 5 10. 4 40. 4 0. 5 (1) The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 65% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Group as at 30 June 2019. 211 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Distribution of Financial Instruments by Credit Quality (continued) Bank 30 Jun 19 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 Collectively Collectively Collectively Individually Assessed Assessed Assessed Assessed Total Loans, bills and discounted and other receivables $M $M $M $M $M Credit grade Investment 353,676 28,113 381,789 Pass 182,819 72,105 254,924 Weak 8,681 13,529 4,081 1,728 28,019 Gross carrying amount 545,176 113,747 4,081 1,728 664,732 Undrawn credit commitments Credit grade Investment 75,156 14,395 89,551 Pass 28,875 10,180 39,055 Weak 728 383 70 65 1,246 Total undrawn credit commitments 104,759 24,958 70 65 129,852 Total credit exposures 649,935 138,705 4,151 1,793 794,584 Impairment provision 793 2,220 441 801 4,255 ECL coverage % 0. 1 1. 6 10. 6 44. 7 0. 5 Financial guarantees and other off Balance Sheet instruments Credit grade Investment 8,762 1,553 10,315 Pass 3,064 3,511 6,575 Weak 45 230 18 20 313 Total financial guarantees and other off Balance Sheet 11,871 5,294 18 20 17,203 instruments Impairment provision 8 73 2 83 ECL coverage % 0. 1 1. 4 11. 1 0. 5 Total Credit Exposures Credit grade Investment 437,594 44,061 481,655 Pass 214,758 85,796 300,554 Weak 9,454 14,142 4,169 1,813 29,578 (1) Total credit exposures 661,806 143,999 4,169 1,813 811,787 Total impairment provision 801 2,293 443 801 4,338 ECL coverage % 0. 1 1. 6 10. 6 44. 2 0. 5 (1) The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 65% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Bank as at 30 June 2019. 212 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality (continued) The tables below present the Group’s and the Bank’s total impairment provisions on lending assets by ECL stage as at 30 June 2019. 30 Jun 19 Impairment provisions, $M Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 12 months ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL Collectively Collectively Collectively Individually Portfolio (1) assessed assessed assessed assessed Total Retail Secured lending 266 393 132 271 1,062 Unsecured lending 474 934 217 3 1,628 Total retail 740 1,327 349 274 2,690 Non-retail Corporate and business lending, bank and 168 1,192 131 621 2,112 sovereign entities (2) Total (3) 908 2,519 480 895 4,802 (1) Exposures subject to impairment provisions include drawn balances, undrawn credit commitments, financial guarantees and debt securities classified at fair value through OCI. (2) Stage 1 provision includes $3 million ECL in relation to investment securities at fair value through OCI. (3) The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 65% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Group as at 30 June 2019. Bank 30 Jun 19 Impairment provisions, $M Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 3 12 months ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL Collectively Collectively Collectively Individually Portfolio (1) (2) assessed assessed assessed assessed Total Retail Secured lending 234 353 122 261 970 Unsecured lending 434 906 200 3 1,543 Total retail 668 1,259 322 264 2,513 Non-retail Corporate and business lending, bank and 135 1,034 121 537 1,827 sovereign entities (3) Total (4) 803 2,293 443 801 4,340 (1) Exposures subject to impairment provisions include drawn balances, undrawn credit commitments, financial guarantees and debt securities classified at fair value through OCI. (2) Impairment provisions exclude $21 million recognised in relation to the Bank’s loans to controlled entities. (3) Stage 1 provision includes $2 million ECL in relation to investment securities at fair value through OCI. (4) The assessment of significant increase in credit risk includes the impact of forward looking adjustments for emerging risk at an industry, geographical location or a particular portfolio segment level, which are calculated by stressing an exposure’s internal credit rating grade at the reporting date. This accounts for approximately 65% of Stage 2 credit exposures for the Bank as at 30 June 2019. 213 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Prior year comparative credit risk disclosures The credit risk disclosures on pages 214 to 219 were included in the Financial Report for the year ended 30 June 2018 and do not reflect the adoption of AASB 9 on 1 July 2018. These tables are not directly comparable to the credit risk information as at 30 June 2019 provided under AASB 9 on pages 211 to 213 above. Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality The table below segregates financial instruments into neither past due nor impaired, past due but not impaired and impaired. An asset is considered to be past due when a contracted amount, including principal or interest, has not been met when due or it is otherwise outside contracted arrangements. Excluding some retail portfolios, the amount included as past due is the entire contractual balance, rather than the overdue portion. Group 30 Jun 18 Neither Past Past due Total Provisions Due nor but not Im paired for Im pairm ent Im paired Im paired Assets Gross Losses Net $M $M $M $M $M $M Cash and liquid assets 36,417 36,417 36,417 Receivables due from other financial 9,222 9,222 9,222 institutions Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 32,254 32,254 32,254 Insurance 372 372 372 Other 258 258 258 Derivative assets 32,081 52 32,133 32,133 Available-for-sale investments 82,240 82,240 82,240 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables: Australia 628,865 13,071 2,151 644,087 (3,178) 640,909 Overseas 100,904 2,152 886 103,942 (427) 103,515 Bank acceptances 379 379 379 Assets held for sale 11,999 11,999 11,999 Credit related commitments 175,106 90 175,196 (28) 175,168 Total 1,110,097 15,223 3,179 1,128,499 (3,633) 1,124,866 214 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Prior year comparative credit risk disclosures (continued) Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality (continued) Bank 30 Jun 18 Neither Past Past Due Total Provisions Due nor but not Im paired for Im pairm ent Im paired Im paired Assets Gross Losses Net $M $M $M $M $M $M Cash and liquid assets 33,581 33,581 33,581 Receivables due from other financial 8,376 8,376 8,376 institutions Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 29,993 29,993 29,993 Insurance Other Derivative assets 30,834 51 30,885 30,885 Available-for-sale investments 77,731 77,731 77,731 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables: Australia 620,641 13,066 2,130 635,837 (3,171) 632,666 Overseas 24,681 23 326 25,030 (90) 24,940 Bank acceptances 379 379 379 Shares in and loans to controlled 118,252 118,252 118,252 entities Credit related commitments 159,521 85 159,606 (28) 159,578 Total 1,103,989 13,089 2,592 1,119,670 (3,289) 1,116,381 215 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Prior year comparative credit risk disclosures (continued) Credit quality of loans, bills discounted and other receivables which were neither past due nor impaired For the analysis below, financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired have been segmented into investment, pass and weak classifications. This segmentation of loans in retail and risk-rated portfolios is based on the mapping of a counterparty’s internally assessed PD to S&P Global ratings, reflecting a counterparty’s ability to meet their credit obligations. In particular, retail PD pools have been aligned to the Group’s PD grades which are consistent with rating agency views of credit quality segmentation. Investment grade is representative of lower assessed default probabilities with other classifications reflecting progressively higher default risk. No consideration is given to LGD, the impact of any recoveries or the potential benefit of mortgage insurance. Group 30 Jun 18 Other Home Other Asset Commercial Loans Personal Financing and Industrial Total Credit grading $M $M $M $M $M Australia Investment 307,993 4,608 643 71,525 384,769 Pass 124,371 13,863 7,435 83,185 228,854 Weak 7,567 4,045 243 3,387 15,242 Total Australia 439,931 22,516 8,321 158,097 628,865 Overseas (1) Investment 15,471 9 23,837 39,317 Pass 32,327 1,544 424 26,078 60,373 Weak 888 326 1,214 Total overseas 48,686 1,544 433 50,241 100,904 Total loans which were neither past due nor 488,617 24,060 8,754 208,338 729,769 impaired (1) For New Zealand Housing Loans, PDs reflect Reserve Bank of New Zealand requirements resulting in higher PDs on average and lower grading. 216 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Prior year comparative credit risk disclosures (continued) Credit quality of loans, bills discounted and other receivables which were neither past due nor impaired (continued) Bank 30 Jun 18 Other Home Other Asset Commercial Loans Personal Financing and Industrial Total Credit grading $M $M $M $M $M Australia Investment 307,974 4,603 641 70,727 383,945 Pass 117,245 13,847 7,386 83,066 221,544 Weak 7,539 4,039 243 3,331 15,152 Total Australia 432,758 22,489 8,270 157,124 620,641 Overseas Investment 65 1 18,711 18,777 Pass 295 2 5,544 5,841 Weak 63 63 Total overseas 360 2 1 24,318 24,681 Total loans which were neither past due nor 433,118 22,491 8,271 181,442 645,322 impaired 217 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Prior year comparative credit risk disclosures (continued) Other financial assets which were neither past due nor impaired The majority of all other financial assets of the Group and the Bank that were neither past due nor impaired as at 30 June 2018 were of investment grade. Age analysis of loans, bills discounted and other receivables that are past due but not impaired For the purposes of this analysis an asset is considered to be past due when any payment under the contractual terms has been missed. Past due loans are not classified as impaired if no loss to the Group is expected. Unsecured consumer loans are impaired at 90 days past due and may be classified as impaired earlier if non-commercial repayment arrangements are agreed or a related loan is classified as impaired. Group 30 Jun 18 Other Home Other Asset Commercial Loans Personal (1) Financing and Industrial Total Loans which were past due but not impaired $M $M $M $M $M Australia Past due 1 29 days 4,703 550 146 1,170 6,569 Past due 30 59 days 1,770 180 38 199 2,187 Past due 60 89 days 1,005 121 11 93 1,230 Past due 90 179 days 1,410 2 140 1,552 Past due 180 days or more 1,292 2 239 1,533 Total Australia 10,180 853 197 1,841 13,071 Overseas Past due 1 29 days 1,227 205 13 268 1,713 Past due 30 59 days 162 44 4 7 217 Past due 60 89 days 63 19 1 8 91 Past due 90 179 days 45 14 2 15 76 Past due 180 days or more 26 7 22 55 Total overseas 1,523 289 20 320 2,152 Total loans which were past due but not 11,703 1,142 217 2,161 15,223 impaired (1) Included in these balances are credit card facilities and other unsecured portfolio managed facilities up to 90 days past due. At 90 days past due all unsecured portfolio managed facilities are classified as impaired. 218 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Prior year comparative credit risk disclosures (continued) Age analysis of loans, bills discounted and other receivables that are past due but not impaired Bank 30 Jun 18 Other Home Other Asset Commercial Loans Personal (1) Financing and Industrial Total Loans which were past due but not impaired $M $M $M $M $M Australia Past due 1 29 days 4,701 550 146 1,170 6,567 Past due 30 59 days 1,769 180 38 199 2,186 Past due 60 89 days 1,005 121 11 93 1,230 Past due 90 179 days 1,409 2 140 1,551 Past due 180 days or more 1,291 2 239 1,532 Total Australia 10,175 853 197 1,841 13,066 Overseas Past due 1 29 days 20 20 Past due 30 59 days 2 2 Past due 60 89 days Past due 90 179 days Past due 180 days or more 1 1 Total overseas 22 1 23 Total loans which were past due but not 10,197 853 197 1,842 13,089 impaired (1) Included in these balances are credit card facilities and other unsecured portfolio managed facilities up to 90 days past due. At 90 days past due all unsecured portfolio managed facilities are classified as impaired. Impaired Assets by Classification Assets in credit risk rated portfolios and retail managed portfolios are assessed for objective evidence that the financial asset is impaired. Impaired assets are split into the following categories:  Non-Performing Facilities;  Restructured Facilities; and  Unsecured retail managed facilities 90 days or more past due. Non-performing facilities are facilities against which an individually assessed provision for impairment has been raised and facilities where loss of principal or interest is anticipated. Interest income on these facilities is reserved and taken to the Income Statement only if paid in cash or if a recovery is made. Restructured facilities are facilities where the original contractual terms have been modified to non-commercial terms due to financial difficulties of the borrower. Interest on these facilities is taken to the Income Statement. Failure to comply fully with the modified terms will result in immediate reclassification to non-performing. Unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due are credit cards, personal loans and other unsecured retail products which are 90 days or more past due. These loans are collectively provided for. The Group does not manage credit risk based solely on arrears categorisation, but also uses credit risk rating principles as described earlier in this note. 219 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Impaired assets by classification (continued) Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 $M $M $M $M $M Australia Non-Performing assets: Gross balances 2,217 1,711 1,962 2,002 1,940 Less provisions for impairment (826) (694) (817) (807) (775) Net non-performing assets 1,391 1,017 1,145 1,195 1,165 Restructured assets: Gross balances 428 264 174 221 144 Less provisions for impairment (13) (4) Net restructured assets 415 260 174 221 144 Unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due: Gross balances 245 254 251 252 251 Less provisions for impairment (199) (161) (157) (169) (130) Net unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due 46 93 94 83 121 Net Australia impaired assets 1,852 1,370 1,413 1,499 1,430 Overseas Non-Performing assets: Gross balances 518 695 686 560 454 Less provisions for impairment (126) (176) (163) (138) (112) Net non-performing assets 392 519 523 422 342 Restructured assets: Gross balances 196 242 101 67 54 Less provisions for impairment (6) (20) Net restructured assets 190 222 101 67 54 Unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due: Gross balances 18 13 13 14 12 Less provisions for impairment (17) (13) (12) (13) (9) Net unsecured retail products 90 days or more past due 1 1 1 3 Net Overseas impaired assets 583 741 625 490 399 Total net impaired assets 2,435 2,111 2,038 1,989 1,829 220 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Impaired assets by size Group Australia Overseas Total Australia Overseas Total 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 18 Impaired assets by size $M $M $M $M $M $M Less than $1 million 1,698 266 1,964 1,418 139 1,557 $1 million to $10 million 628 147 775 569 197 766 Greater than $10 million 564 319 883 242 614 856 (1) (2) Total 2,890 732 3,622 2,229 950 3,179 Movement in impaired assets Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Movement in gross impaired assets $M $M $M $M $M Gross impaired assets opening balance 3,179 3,187 3,116 2,855 3,367 New and increased 2,289 2,136 2,164 2,370 2,095 Balances written off (1,245) (1,196) (1,225) (1,328) (1,355) Returned to performing or repaid (1,328) (1,666) (1,637) (1,460) (1,903) Portfolio managed new/increased/return to 727 718 769 679 651 performing/repaid Gross impaired assets closing balance (1) (2) 3,622 3,179 3,187 3,116 2,855 (1) As at 30 June 2019, impaired assets include those assets in Stage 3 that are considered impaired, as well as $139 million of restructured assets in Stage 2. Stage 3 assets include impaired assets and those that are defaulted but not impaired as they are well secured. (2) Includes $3,454 million of loans and advances and $168 million of other financial assets (30 June 2018: $3,037 million of loans and advances and $142 million of other financial assets). 221 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Impaired assets by industry and status Group 30 Jun 19 Gross Total Provisions Net Total Impaired for Impaired Impaired Net Balance Assets Assets (1) Assets Write-offs (2) Recoveries (2) Write-offs (2) Industry $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Loans Australia Sovereign 16,762 Agriculture 9,291 114 (52) 62 59 59 Bank and other financial 8,675 6 (15) (9) 1 1 Home loans 467,361 1,596 (272) 1,324 134 (4) 130 Construction 3,238 82 (84) (2) 44 (1) 43 Other personal 21,508 276 (202) 74 787 (169) 618 Asset financing 7,947 78 (10) 68 17 (2) 15 Other commercial and 118,207 626 (403) 223 126 (14) 112 industrial Total loans Australia 652,989 2,778 (1,038) 1,740 1,168 (190) 978 Loans Overseas Sovereign 1,436 Agriculture 10,467 298 (46) 252 2 2 Bank and other financial 6,637 10 10 5 5 Home loans 55,581 204 (10) 194 2 (1) 1 Construction 701 1 1 2 2 Other personal 1,924 16 (20) (4) 70 (11) 59 Asset financing 416 2 2 Other commercial and 30,830 145 (73) 72 152 (4) 148 industrial Total loans Overseas 107,992 676 (149) 527 233 (16) 217 Total loans 760,981 3,454 (1,187) 2,267 1,401 (206) 1,195 Other balances Australia Credit commitments 146,992 111 111 Derivatives 21,182 1 1 Total other balances 168,174 112 112 Australia Other balances Overseas Credit commitments 28,814 9 9 Derivatives 4,033 47 47 Total other balances 32,847 56 56 Overseas Total other balances 201,021 168 168 Total 962,002 3,622 (1,187) 2,435 1,401 (206) 1,195 (1) Includes $895 million of individually assessed provisions and $292 million of collective provisions. Provisions for impaired assets include $9 million for restructured assets in Stage 2. (2) Write-off, recoveries and net write-offs are not recognised against credit commitments or derivatives as these exposures are closed out and converted to loans and receivables on impairment. Write-offs and recoveries take place subsequent to this conversion. 222 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Impaired assets by industry and status (continued) Group 30 Jun 18 Gross Total Provisions Net Total Impaired for Impaired Impaired Net Balance Assets Assets (1) Assets Write-offs (2) Recoveries (2) Write-offs (2) Industry $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Loans Australia Sovereign 16,823 Agriculture 8,998 94 (56) 38 28 28 Bank and other financial 12,951 7 (16) (9) 3 (1) 2 Home loans 451,367 1,256 (236) 1,020 126 (2) 124 Construction 3,028 16 (21) (5) 13 13 Other personal 23,658 289 (171) 118 764 (165) 599 Asset financing 8,581 63 (16) 47 23 (5) 18 Other commercial and 118,681 426 (343) 83 179 (14) 165 industrial Total loans Australia 644,087 2,151 (859) 1,292 1,136 (187) 949 Loans Overseas Sovereign 1,571 Agriculture 9,930 365 (25) 340 3 3 Bank and other financial 7,075 9 9 5 5 Home loans 50,298 89 (5) 84 2 (1) 1 Construction 638 1 (1) 1 (1) Other personal 1,844 11 (33) (22) 65 (10) 55 Asset financing 457 4 4 Other commercial and 32,129 407 (145) 262 207 (2) 205 industrial Total loans Overseas 103,942 886 (209) 677 283 (14) 269 Total loans 748,029 3,037 (1,068) 1,969 1,419 (201) 1,218 Other balances Australia Credit commitments 145,820 75 75 Derivatives 24,021 3 3 Total other balances 169,841 78 78 Australia Other balances Overseas Credit commitments 29,376 15 15 Derivatives 8,112 49 49 Total other balances 37,488 64 64 Overseas Total other balances 207,329 142 142 Total 955,358 3,179 (1,068) 2,111 1,419 (201) 1,218 (1) Includes $870 million of individually assessed provisions and $198 million of collective provisions. (2) Write-off, recoveries and net write-offs are not recognised against credit commitments or derivatives as these exposures are closed out and converted to loans and receivables on impairment. Write-offs and recoveries take place subsequent to this conversion. 223 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Collateral held against loans, bills discounted and other receivables Group 30 Jun 19 Home Other Asset Commercial Loans Personal Financing and Industrial Total (1) Maximum exposure ($M) 522,942 23,432 8,363 206,244 760,981 Collateral classification: Secured (%) 99. 1 12. 2 98. 7 49. 0 83. 4 Partially secured (%) 0. 9 1. 3 15. 7 4. 8 Unsecured (%) 87. 8 35. 3 11. 8 (1) As at 30 June 2019, total exposures in ECL Stage 3 were $6,610 million. 60% of these exposures were secured, 26% partially secured and 14% unsecured. Group 30 Jun 18 Home Other Asset Commercial Loans Personal Financing and Industrial Total Maximum exposure ($M) 501,665 25,502 9,038 211,824 748,029 Collateral classification: Secured (%) 99. 1 12. 4 99. 4 44. 7 81. 2 Partially secured (%) 0. 9 0. 6 15. 3 4. 9 Unsecured (%) 87. 6 40. 0 13. 9 Bank 30 Jun 19 Home Other Asset Commercial Loans Personal Financing and Industrial Total (1) Maximum exposure ($M) 460,031 21,497 7,900 176,306 665,734 Collateral classification: Secured (%) 99. 0 13. 0 98. 4 46. 5 82. 9 Partially secured (%) 1. 0 1. 6 15. 2 4. 6 Unsecured (%) 87. 0 38. 3 12. 5 (1) As at 30 June 2019, total exposures in ECL Stage 3 were $5,809 million. 65% of these exposures were secured, 20% partially secured and 15% unsecured. Bank 30 Jun 18 Home Other Asset Commercial Loans Personal Financing and Industrial Total Maximum exposure ($M) 444,583 23,633 8,531 184,120 660,867 Collateral classification: Secured (%) 99. 1 13. 4 99. 2 40. 7 79. 6 Partially secured (%) 0. 9 0. 8 14. 7 4. 8 Unsecured (%) 86. 6 44. 6 15. 6 For the purposes of the collateral classification above, home loans are classified as secured unless they are impaired in which case they are classified as partially secured. For other types of credit exposures, a facility is determined to be secured where its ratio of exposure to the estimated value of collateral (adjusted for lending margins) is less than or equal to 100%. A facility is deemed to be partly secured when this ratio exceeds 100% but not more than 250%, and unsecured when either no security is held (e.g. can include credit cards, personal loans, small business loans, and exposures to highly rated corporate entities), or where the secured loan to estimated value of collateral exceeds 250%. Home loans Home loans are generally secured by fixed charges over borrowers’ residential properties. In limited circumstances, collateral in the form of cash or commercial property may be provided in addition to residential properties. Further, with the exception of some relatively small portfolios, for loans with a Loan to Valuation Ratio (LVR) of higher than 80% either a Low Deposit Premium or margin is levied, or Lenders Mortgage Insurance (LMI) is taken out to cover the difference between the principal plus interest owing and the net amount received from selling the collateral post default. 224 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Collateral held against loans, bills discounted and other receivables (continued) Personal lending Personal lending (such as credit cards and personal loans) are predominantly unsecured, whilst margin lending is secured. Asset finance The Group leases assets to corporate and retail clients. When the title to the underlying assets is held by the Group as collateral, the balance is deemed fully secured. In other instances, a client’s facilities may be secured by collateral valued at less than the carrying amount of the credit exposure. These facilities are deemed partly secured or unsecured. Other commercial and industrial lending The Group’s main collateral types for other commercial and industrial lending consists of secured rights over specified assets of the borrower in the form of: commercial property; land rights; cash (usually in the form of a charge over a deposit); guarantees by company Directors; a charge over a company’s assets (including debtors, inventory and work in progress); or a charge over shares. In other instances, a client’s facilities may be secured by collateral with value less than the carrying amount of the credit exposure. These facilities are deemed partly secured or unsecured. 225 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Market risk measurement The Group uses Value-at-Risk (VaR) as one of the measures of Average As at Average As at Traded and Non-traded market risk. VaR measures potential loss Traded Market Risk June June June June using historically observed market movements and correlation VaR (1-day 97.5% 2019 (1) 2019 2018 (1) 2018 between different markets. confidence) $M $M $M $M VaR is modelled at a 97.5% confidence level. This means that there Interest rate risk 7. 6 9. 0 8. 4 12. 5 is a 97.5% probability that the loss will not exceed the VaR estimate Foreign exchange on any given day. 1. 9 3. 6 2. 2 2. 7 risk The VaR measured for Traded market risk uses two years of daily Equities risk 0. 1 0. 1 0. 2 0. 1 movement in market rates. The VaR measure for Non-traded Commodities risk 3. 1 3. 3 3. 2 3. 6 Banking Book market risk uses six years of daily movement in market rates. The VaR measure for the insurance business is a Credit spread risk 1. 7 1. 3 2. 0 1. 4 forward-looking measure based on ten thousand simulations, which Diversification are calibrated to current market conditions and past price (6. 9) (10. 0) (7. 7) (9. 4) benefit movements. Total general 7. 5 7. 3 8. 3 10. 9 A 1-day holding period is used for trading book positions. A 20day market risk holding period is used for Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book, Undiversified risk 2. 2 2. 1 2. 5 2. 3 insurance business market risk and Non-traded equity risk. ASB Bank 0. 2 0. 1 0. 3 0. 1 VaR is driven by historical observations and is not an estimate of the maximum loss that the Group could experience from an extreme Total 9. 9 9. 5 11. 1 13. 3 market event. As a result of this limitation, management also uses stress testing to measure the potential for economic loss at (1) Average VaR calculated for each 12 month period. confidence levels significantly higher than 97.5%. Management then Non-traded market risk uses these results in decisions to manage the economic impact of market risk positions. Interest rate risk in the banking book Average As at Average As at Interest rate risk is the current and prospective impact to the Group’s Total Market Risk June June June June financial condition due to adverse changes in interest rates to which VaR (1-day 97.5% 2019 (1) 2019 2018 (1) 2018 the Group’s Balance Sheet is exposed. The maturity transformation confidence) $M $M $M $M activities of the Group create mismatches in the repricing terms of Traded Market Risk 9. 9 9. 5 11. 1 13. 3 assets and liabilities positions. These mismatches may have undesired earnings and value outcomes depending on the interest Non-Traded Interest Rate rate movements. The Group’s objective is to manage interest rate 36. 7 36. 3 43. 1 37. 6 Risk (2) risk to achieve stable and sustainable net interest income in the Non-Traded Equity long-term. 4. 9 5. 0 5. 3 4. 7 Risk (2) The Group measures and manages the impact of interest rate risk Non-Traded Insurance in two ways: 5. 1 5. 6 5. 4 5. 6 Market Risk (2) (a) Next 12 months’ earnings (1) Average VaR calculated for each 12 month period. Interest rate risk from an earnings perspective is the impact based (2) The risk of these exposures has been represented in this table using a one day holding period. In practice however, these ‘non-traded’ exposures are on changes to the net interest income over the next 12 months. managed to a longer holding period. The risk to net interest income over the next 12 months from Traded market risk changes in interest rates is measured on a monthly basis. Traded market risk is generated through the Group’s participation in Earnings risk is measured through sensitivity analysis, which applies financial markets to service its customers. The Group trades and an instantaneous 100 basis point parallel shock in interest rates distributes interest rate, foreign exchange, debt, equity and across the yield curve. commodity products, and provides treasury, capital markets and risk management services to its customers globally. The prospective change to the net interest income is measured by using an Asset and Liability Management simulation model which The Group maintains access to markets by quoting bid and offer incorporates both existing and anticipated new business in its prices with other market makers and carries an inventory of treasury, assessment. The change in the Balance Sheet product mix, growth, capital market and risk management instruments, including a broad funding and pricing strategies is incorporated. range of securities and derivatives. Assets and liabilities that reprice directly from observable market rates are measured based on the full extent of the rate shock that is applied. 226 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Non-Traded Market Risk (continued) Non-traded equity risk The Group retains Non-Traded equity risk primarily through Interest rate risk in the banking book (continued) business activities in Wealth Management. Products that are priced based on Group administered or A 20-day, 97.5% confidence VaR is used to measure the economic discretionary interest rates and that are impacted by customer impact of adverse changes in value. behaviour are measured by taking into consideration the historic repricing strategy of the Group and repricing behaviours of As at As at customers. In addition to considering how the products have been June June repriced in the past the expected change in price based on both the Non-Traded Equity VaR 2019 2018 current and anticipated competitive market forces are also (20 day 97.5% confidence) $M $M considered in the sensitivity analysis. VaR 22. 4 21. 2 The figures in the following table represent the potential unfavourable change to the Group’s net interest earnings during the Market risk in insurance businesses year based on a 100 basis point parallel rate shock. There are two main sources of market risk in the life insurance businesses: (i) market risk arising from guarantees made to June June policyholders; and (ii) market risk arising from the investment of Net Interest 2019 (1) 2018 Shareholders’ capital. Earnings at Risk $M $M Average monthly exposure AUD 421. 9 229. 2 Guarantees (to policyholders) All financial assets within the life Insurance Statutory Funds directly NZD (2) 8. 0 23. 3 support either the Group's life insurance or life investment contracts. High monthly exposure AUD 558. 0 311. 5 Market risk arises for the Group on contracts where the liabilities to (2) policyholders are guaranteed by the Group. The Group manages NZD 15. 5 44. 3 this risk by having an asset and liability management framework Low monthly exposure AUD 217. 8 120. 2 which includes the use of hedging instruments. The Group also (2) monitors the risk on a monthly basis. NZD 1. 1 4. 3 Shareholders’ capital As at balance date AUD 450. 3 231. 4 A portion of financial assets held within the Insurance business, both NZD (2) 8. 3 10. 5 within the Statutory Funds and in the Shareholder Funds of the life (1) Exposures over a 12 month period. NZD exposures are presented in NZD. insurance company represents shareholder (Group) capital. Market (2) Net interest earnings at risk for NZD decreased during the period due to an risk also arises for the Group on the investment of this capital. update to products classified as sensitive to interest rate changes. Shareholders’ funds in the Australian life insurance businesses are invested 99% in income assets (cash and fixed interest) and 1% in (b) Economic value growth assets as at 30 June 2019. Interest rate risk from the economic value perspective is based on a A 20-day 97.5% VaR measure is used to capture the Non-traded 20-day 97.5% VaR measure. market risk exposures. Measuring the change in the economic value of equity is an Average Average assessment of the long-term impact to the earnings potential of the Non-Traded VaR in Australian June June Group present valued to the current date. The Group assesses the Life Insurance Business (1) 2019 (2) 2018 (2) potential change in its economic value of equity through the (20 day 97.5% confidence) $M $M application of the VaR methodology. Shareholder funds (3) 1. 1 1. 1 A 20-day 97.5% VaR measure is used to capture the net economic (4) value impact over the long-term or total life of all Balance Sheet Guarantees (to Policyholders) 22. 8 23. 6 assets and liabilities to adverse changes in interest rates. (1) On 21 September 2017, the Group announced the sale of 100% of its Australian life insurance business (CommInsure Life) to AIA. CommInsure The impact of customer prepayments on the contractual cash flows Life is presented as a discontinued operation with assets and liabilities for fixed rate products is included in the calculation. Cash flows for reclassified as held for sale as at 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2018. For further discretionary priced products are behaviourally adjusted and details, see Note 11.3. (2) Average VaR calculated for each 12 month period. repriced at the resultant profile. (3) VaR in relation to the investment of shareholder funds. (4) VaR in relation to product portfolios where the Group has guaranteed The figures in the following table represent the net present value of liabilities to policyholders. the expected change in the Group’s future earnings in all future periods for the remaining term of all existing assets and liabilities. Average Average June June Non-Traded Interest Rate VaR 2019 (1) 2018 (1) (20 day 97.5% confidence) (2) $M $M AUD Interest rate risk 164. 1 192. 9 (3) NZD Interest rate risk 2. 2 3. 3 (1) Average VaR calculated for each 12 month period. (2) VaR is only for entities that have material risk exposure. (3) ASB data (expressed in NZD) is for the month-end date. 227 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Structural foreign exchange risk Structural foreign exchange risk is the risk that movements in foreign Subsidiaries within the Colonial Holding Company Group apply their exchange rates may have an adverse effect on the Group’s own liquidity and funding strategies to address their specific needs. Australian dollar earnings and economic value when the Group’s The Group’s New Zealand banking subsidiary, ASB Bank, manages foreign currency denominated earnings and capital are translated its own domestic liquidity and funding needs in accordance with its into Australian dollars. The Group’s only material exposure to this own liquidity policies and the policies of the Group. ASB’s liquidity risk arises from its New Zealand banking and insurance, Asian and policy is also overseen by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. US operations. Liquidity and funding policies and management Lease residual value risk The Group’s liquidity and funding policies provide that: The Group takes lease residual value risk on assets such as industrial, mining, rail, aircraft, marine, technology, healthcare and  An excess of liquid assets over the minimum prescribed under other equipment. A lease residual value guarantee exposes the APRA’s Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) requirement is Group to the movement in second-hand prices of these assets. maintained. Australian ADIs are required to meet a 100% LCR, calculated as the ratio of high quality liquid assets to 30 day net Commonwealth Bank Group Super Fund cash outflows projected under a prescribed stress scenario; The Commonwealth Bank Group Super Fund (the Fund) has a  A surplus of stable funding from various sources, as measured defined benefit portion that creates market risk for the Group. by APRA’s Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR), is maintained. Risk Management and Human Resources provide oversight of the The NSFR is calculated by applying APRA prescribed factors to market risks of the Fund held and managed on behalf of the assets and liabilities to determine a ratio of required stable employees receiving defined benefit pension funds on behalf of the funding to available stable funding which must be greater than Group (refer to Note 10.2). 100%;  Additional internal funding and liquidity metrics are also calculated and stress tests additional to the LCR are run;  Short and long-term wholesale funding limits are established, monitored and reviewed regularly; Overview  The Group’s wholesale funding market capacity is regularly The Group’s liquidity and funding policies are designed to ensure it assessed and used as a factor in funding strategies; will meet its obligations as and when they fall due by ensuring it is  Balance Sheet assets that cannot be liquidated quickly are able to borrow funds on an unsecured basis, has sufficient liquid funded with stable deposits or term borrowings that meet assets to borrow against on a secured basis, or sell to raise minimum maturity requirements with appropriate liquidity immediate funds without adversely affecting the Group’s net asset buffers; value.  Liquid assets are held in Australian dollar and foreign currency The Group’s liquidity policies are designed to ensure it maintains denominated securities in accordance with expected sufficient cash balances and liquid asset holdings to meet its requirements; obligations to customers, in both ordinary market conditions and  The Group has three categories of liquid assets within its during periods of extreme stress. These policies are intended to domestic liquid assets portfolio. The first includes cash, protect the value of the Group’s operations during periods of government and Australian semi-government securities. The unfavourable market conditions. second includes Negotiable Certificates of Deposit, bank bills, The Group’s funding policies are designed to achieve diversified bank term securities, supranational bonds, Australian sources of funding by product, term, maturity date, investor type, Residential Mortgage-backed Securities (RMBS) and securities investor location, currency and concentration, on a cost effective that meet certain Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) criteria for basis. This objective applies to the Group’s wholesale and retail purchases under reverse repo. The final category is internal funding activities. RMBS, being mortgages that have been securitised but retained Liquidity and funding risk management framework by the Bank, that are repo-eligible with the RBA under stress; The CBA Board is ultimately responsible for the sound and prudent and management of liquidity risk across the Group. The Group’s liquidity  Offshore branches and subsidiaries adhere to liquidity policies and funding policies, structured under a formal Group Liquidity and and hold appropriate foreign currency liquid assets to meet Funding Risk Management Framework, are approved by the Board required obligations. and agreed with APRA. The Group has an Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO) the charter of which includes reviewing the management of assets and liabilities, reviewing liquidity and funding policies and strategies, as well as regularly monitoring compliance with those policies across the Group. Group Treasury manages the Group’s liquidity and funding positions in accordance with the Group’s liquidity policies and has ultimate authority to execute liquidity decisions should the Group Contingent Funding Plan be activated. Group Risk Management provides oversight of the Group’s liquidity and funding risks and compliance with Group policies and manages the Group’s relationship with prudential regulators. 228 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Liquidity and funding policies and management (continued) The Group’s key funding tools include:  Its consumer retail funding base, which includes a wide range of retail transaction accounts, savings accounts and term deposits for individual consumers;  Its small business customer and institutional deposit base; and  Its wholesale international and domestic funding programs which include its Australian dollar Negotiable Certificates of Deposit; Australian dollar bank bills; Asian Transferable Certificates of Deposit program; Australian, U.S. and Euro Commercial Paper programs; US Extendible Notes programs; Australian dollar Domestic Debt Program; U.S.144a and 3a2 Medium-Term Note Programs; Euro Medium-Term Note Program; multi jurisdiction Covered Bond program; and its Medallion securitisation program. The Group’s key liquidity tools include:  A regulatory liquidity management reporting system delivering granular customer and product type information to inform business decision making, product development and resulting in a greater awareness of the liquidity risk adjusted value of banking products;  A liquidity management model similar to a “maturity ladder” or “liquidity gap analysis”, that allows forecasting of liquidity needs on a daily basis;  An additional liquidity management model that implements the agreed prudential liquidity policies. This model is calibrated with a series of “stress” liquidity crisis scenarios, incorporating both systemic and idiosyncratic crisis assumptions, such that the Group will have sufficient liquid assets available to ensure it meets all of its obligations as and when they fall due;  Central bank repurchase agreement facilities including the RBA’s Committed Liquidity Facility that provide the Group with the ability to borrow funds on a secured basis, even when normal funding markets are unavailable; and  A robust Contingent Funding Plan that is regularly tested so that it can be activated in case of need due to a liquidity event. 229 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Maturity analysis of monetary liabilities Amounts shown in the tables below are based on contractual undiscounted cash flows for the remaining contractual maturities. Group Maturity Period as at 30 June 2019 0 to 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Not Months Months Years Years Specified Total $M $M $M $M $M $M Monetary liabilities Deposits and other public borrowings (1) 524,555 105,532 6,903 676 637,666 Payables due to other financial institutions 19,486 3,902 41 23,429 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 4,590 2,299 621 1,244 8,754 Derivative financial instruments: Held for trading 17,925 17,925 Held for hedging purposes (net-settled) 59 293 829 714 1,895 Held for hedging purposes (gross-settled): Outflows 2,391 14,346 35,918 26,791 79,446 Inflows (2,264) (13,642) (34,332) (26,250) (76,488) Bank acceptances 32 32 Insurance policy liabilities Debt issues and loan capital 17,913 36,163 89,164 53,483 196,723 Managed funds units on issue Other monetary liabilities 5,657 374 495 58 6,584 Liabilities held for sale 561 169 956 491 13,052 15,229 Total monetary liabilities 590,905 149,436 100,595 57,207 13,052 911,195 Guarantees (2) 6,506 6,506 Loan commitments (2) 162,202 162,202 Other commitments (2) 7,098 7,098 Total off Balance Sheet items 175,806 175,806 Total monetary liabilities and off Balance Sheet items 766,711 149,436 100,595 57,207 13,052 1,087,001 Group (3) Maturity Period as at 30 June 2018 0 to 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Not Months Months Years Years Specified Total $M $M $M $M $M $M Monetary liabilities Deposits and other public borrowings (1) 502,021 103,788 17,587 489 623,885 Payables due to other financial institutions 18,064 2,827 44 20,935 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 6,622 1,747 524 1,441 10,334 Derivative financial instruments: Held for trading 21,771 21,771 Held for hedging purposes (net-settled) 19 155 1,238 838 2,250 Held for hedging purposes (gross-settled): Outflows 644 13,185 34,427 20,938 69,194 Inflows (614) (11,825) (32,652) (19,651) (64,742) Bank acceptances 331 48 379 Insurance policy liabilities 451 451 Debt issues and loan capital 18,597 43,784 96,080 46,296 204,757 Managed funds units on issue Other monetary liabilities 6,582 903 96 23 7,604 Liabilities held for sale 182 572 274 143 12,886 14,057 Total monetary liabilities 574,219 155,184 117,574 50,561 13,337 910,875 Guarantees (2) 6,265 6,265 Loan commitments (2) 162,090 162,090 Other commitments (2) 6,841 6,841 Total off Balance Sheet items 175,196 175,196 Total monetary liabilities and off Balance Sheet items 749,415 155,184 117,574 50,561 13,337 1,086,071 (1) Includes deposits that are contractually at call, customer savings and cheque accounts. These accounts provide a stable source of long-term funding. (2) All off Balance Sheet items are included in the 0 to 3 months maturity band to reflect their earliest possible maturity. (3) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 230 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Maturity analysis of monetary liabilities (continued) Bank Maturity Period as at 30 June 2019 0 to 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Not Months Months Years Years Specified Total $M $M $M $M $M $M Monetary liabilities Deposits and other public borrowings (1) 483,254 86,453 4,781 594 575,082 Payables due to other financial institutions 18,734 3,902 41 22,677 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 4,588 1,736 621 1,244 8,189 Derivative financial instruments: Held for trading 20,732 20,732 Held for hedging purposes (net-settled) 19 167 917 697 1,800 Held for hedging purposes (gross-settled): Outflows 1,846 13,444 41,604 31,830 88,724 Inflows (1,744) (12,767) (39,565) (30,526) (84,602) Bank acceptances 32 32 Debt issues and loan capital 16,603 30,046 70,125 45,362 162,136 Due to controlled entities 5,196 6,311 24,499 69,768 105,774 Other monetary liabilities 5,539 335 458 55 6,387 Total monetary liabilities 554,799 129,627 103,481 119,024 906,931 Guarantees (2) 6,026 6,026 Loan commitments (2) 146,483 146,483 Other commitments (2) 6,944 6,944 Total off Balance Sheet items 159,453 159,453 Total monetary liabilities and off Balance Sheet items 714,252 129,627 103,481 119,024 1,066,384 Bank (3) Maturity Period as at 30 June 2018 0 to 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Not Months Months Years Years Specified Total $M $M $M $M $M $M Monetary liabilities Deposits and other public borrowings (1) 464,588 88,005 14,496 468 567,557 Payables due to other financial institutions 17,197 2,808 44 20,049 Liabilities at fair value through Income Statement 5,480 1,747 524 1,441 9,192 Derivative financial instruments: Held for trading 24,026 24,026 Held for hedging purposes (net-settled) 11 47 996 822 1,876 Held for hedging purposes (gross-settled): Outflows 644 17,173 34,868 22,579 75,264 Inflows (614) (15,189) (33,192) (21,302) (70,297) Bank acceptances 331 48 379 Debt issues and loan capital 15,333 37,730 78,067 39,379 170,509 Due to controlled entities 6,174 6,070 24,411 68,672 105,327 Other monetary liabilities 6,274 779 65 10 7,128 Total monetary liabilities 539,444 139,218 120,235 112,113 911,010 Guarantees (2) 5,835 5,835 Loan commitments (2) 147,098 147,098 Other commitments (2) 6,673 6,673 Total off Balance Sheet items 159,606 159,606 Total monetary liabilities and off Balance Sheet items 699,050 139,218 120,235 112,113 1,070,616 (1) Includes deposits that are contractually at call, customer savings and cheque accounts. These accounts provide a stable source of long-term funding. (2) All off Balance Sheet items are included in the 0 to 3 months maturity band to reflect their earliest possible maturity. (3) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 231 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Fair value hierarchy for financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value The classification in the fair value hierarchy of the Group’s and the Bank’s financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value is presented in the tables below. An explanation of how fair values are calculated and the levels in the fair value hierarchy are included in the accounting policy within this note. Group Fair Value as at 30 June 2019 Fair Value as at 30 June 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 24,599 7,907 32,506 22,078 10,176 32,254 (1) Insurance 372 372 Other 319 852 1,171 49 209 258 Derivative assets 59 25,072 84 25,215 42 31,998 93 32,133 Investment securities at fair value 77,193 1,666 53 78,912 through Other Comprehensive Income Available-for-sale investments 74,234 7,941 65 82,240 Bills discounted 4,280 4,280 (1) Assets held for sale 934 7,631 2,339 10,904 2,012 8,061 1,818 11,891 Total financial assets measured at fair 103,104 43,128 2,476 148,708 102,695 58,757 1,976 163,428 value Financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis Liabilities at fair value through Income 1,583 6,937 8,520 1,724 8,523 10,247 Statement Derivative liabilities 132 22,579 66 22,777 57 28,075 340 28,472 (1) Life investment contracts 337 337 (1) Liabilities held for sale 3 6,325 496 6,824 5 6,985 353 7,343 Total financial liabilities measured at 1,718 35,841 562 38,121 1,786 43,920 693 46,399 fair value (1) As at 30 June 2019, assets and liabilities of CommInsure Life, CFSGAM, PT Commonwealth Life, Count Financial and the Group’s investment in BoCommLife are presented as held for sale. As at 30 June 2018, assets and liabilities of CommInsure Life, Sovereign and the Group’s investment in BoCommLife are presented as held for sale. 232 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Fair value hierarchy for financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value (continued) Bank Fair Value as at 30 June 2019 Fair Value as at 30 June 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis Assets at fair value through Income Statement: Trading 24,569 7,907 32,476 20,813 9,180 29,993 Other 652 652 Derivative assets 56 24,171 84 24,311 41 30,751 93 30,885 Investment securities at fair value 72,479 680 53 73,212 through Other Comprehensive Income Available-for-sale investments 69,988 7,678 65 77,731 Bills discounted 4,280 4,280 Total financial assets measured at fair 97,104 33,410 137 130,651 95,122 47,609 158 142,889 value Financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis Liabilities at fair value through Income 1,583 6,378 7,961 1,724 7,382 9,106 Statement Derivative liabilities 132 26,456 66 26,654 57 30,474 340 30,871 Total financial liabilities measured at 1,715 32,834 66 34,615 1,781 37,856 340 39,977 fair value 233 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Analysis of movements between fair value hierarchy levels During the year ended 30 June 2018, $1,722 million of trading securities were reclassified from Level 2 to Level 1 due to changes in the observability of inputs. The tables below summarise movements in Level 3 balance during the year. Transfers have been reflected as if they had taken place at the end of the reporting periods. Transfers in and out of Level 3 were due to changes in the observability of inputs. Level 3 movement analysis for the year ended 30 June 2019 Group Financial Assets Financial Liabilities Investment Securities at Available Assets Life Liabilities Insurance Derivative Fair Value for Sale held for Derivative Investment held for Assets Assets through OCI Investments Sale (1) Liabilities Contracts Sale (1) $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M As at 1 July 2017 1,530 67 139 (102) (565) Purchases 618 (2) Sales/(settlements) (208) (18) (100) 14 212 Gains/(losses) in the year: Recognised in the Income (122) (15) (144) Statement Recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income Transfers in 59 26 1,818 (108) (353) Transfers out (1,818) 353 As at 30 June 2018 93 65 1,818 (340) (353) Gains/(losses) recognised in the Income Statement for (103) (15) (144) financial instruments held as at 30 June 2018 As at 1 July 2018 93 65 1,818 (340) (353) Changes on adoption of new 65 (65) accounting standard (3) Purchases 15 499 Sales/(settlements) (8) Gains/(losses) in the year: Recognised in the Income (5) 22 198 Statement Recognised in the Statement (4) of Comprehensive Income Transfers in (143) Transfers out (19) 76 As at 30 June 2019 84 53 2,339 (66) (496) Gains/(losses) recognised in the Income Statement for 22 22 175 financial instruments held as at 30 June 2019 (1) As at 30 June 2019, assets and liabilities of CommInsure Life, CFSGAM, PT Commonwealth Life, Count Financial and the Group’s investment in BoCommLife are presented as held for sale. As at 30 June 2018, assets and liabilities of CommInsure Life, Sovereign and the Group’s investment in BoCommLife were presented as held for sale. (2) Sales/ settlements includes the impact of changing fund ownership percentage held via the Group’s life insurance operations. (3) Current year balances reflect the adoption of AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ on 1 July 2018. As permitted by AASB 9 comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 refer to Note 1.1. Level 3 available-for-sale securities were reclassified to Investment securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income on adoption of AASB 9 on 1 July 2018. 234 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Analysis of movements between fair value hierarchy levels (continued) Level 3 movement analysis for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) The valuation of insurance assets directly impacts the life investment contracts they are backing. The Group’s exposure to other financial instruments measured at fair value based in full or in part or non-market observable inputs is restricted to a small number of financial instruments, which comprise an insignificant component of the portfolios to which they belong. As such, changes in fair value assumptions on all these instruments due to size or backing by policy holder funds generally have minimal impact on the Group’s Income Statement and Shareholders’ Equity. Bank Financial Financial Assets Liabilities Investment Securities at Available Derivative Fair Value for Sale Derivative Assets through OCI Investments Liabilities $M $M $M $M As at 1 July 2017 67 139 (103) Purchases Sales/(settlements) (18) (100) 15 Gains/(losses) in the period: Recognised in the Income Statement (15) (144) Recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income Transfers in 59 26 (108) Transfers out As at 30 June 2018 93 65 (340) Gains/(losses) recognised in the Income Statement for (15) (144) financial instruments held as at 30 June 2018 As at 1 July 2018 93 65 (340) (1) Changes on adoption of new accounting standard 65 (65) Purchases 15 Sales/(settlements) (8) Gains/(losses) in the period: Recognised in the Income Statement (5) 198 Recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (4) Transfers in Transfers out (19) 76 As at 30 June 2019 84 53 (66) Gains/(losses) recognised in the Income Statement for 22 175 financial instruments held as at 30 June 2019 (1) Current year balances reflect the adoption of AASB 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ on 1 July 2018. As permitted by AASB 9 comparative information has not been restated. For details on the adoption of AASB 9 refer to Note 1.1. Level 3 available-for-sale securities were reclassified to Investment securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income on adoption of AASB 9 on 1 July 2018. 235 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Fair value information for financial instruments not measured at fair value The estimated fair values and fair value hierarchy of the Group’s and the Bank’s financial instruments not measured at fair value are presented below: Group 30 Jun 19 Carrying value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Cash and liquid assets 29,387 16,655 12,732 29,387 Receivables due from other financial institutions 8,093 8,093 8,093 Investment securities at amortised cost 7,355 7,330 15 7,345 Loans and other receivables 755,141 755,515 755,515 Bank acceptances of customers 32 32 32 Other assets 5,431 1,893 3,532 6 5,431 Assets held for sale 699 354 326 19 699 Total financial assets 806,138 18,934 32,013 755,555 806,502 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Deposits and other public borrowings 636,040 636,465 18 636,483 Payables due to other financial institutions 23,370 23,370 23,370 Bank acceptances 32 32 32 Debt issues 163,990 164,295 164,295 Bills payable and other liabilities 8,236 2,414 5,822 8,236 Loan capital 22,966 9,477 14,168 23,645 Liabilities held for sale 3,963 1,831 2,132 3,963 Total financial liabilities 858,597 11,923 845,951 2,150 860,024 Financial guarantees, loan commitments and other off 171,084 171,084 171,084 Balance Sheet instruments 236 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Fair value information for financial instruments not measured at fair value (continued) Group 30 Jun 18 Carrying value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Cash and liquid assets 36,417 22,896 13,521 36,417 Receivables due from other financial institutions 9,222 9,222 9,222 Loans and other receivables 739,085 739,545 739,545 Bank acceptances of customers 379 379 379 Other assets 5,455 1,823 3,630 2 5,455 Assets held for sale 192 107 85 192 Total financial assets 790,750 25,205 26,458 739,547 791,210 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Deposits and other public borrowings 622,234 622,327 622,327 Payables due to other financial institutions 20,899 20,899 20,899 Bank acceptances 379 379 379 Debt issues 172,294 173,895 173,895 Bills payable and other liabilities (1) 9,326 2,459 6,867 9,326 Loan capital 22,992 9,566 14,131 23,697 Liabilities held for sale 2,621 13 923 1,685 2,621 Total financial liabilities 850,745 12,417 839,042 1,685 853,144 Financial guarantees, loan commitments and other off 170,586 170,586 170,586 Balance Sheet instruments (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 237 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Fair value information for financial instruments not measured at fair value (continued) Bank 30 Jun 19 Carrying value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Cash and liquid assets 26,912 15,534 11,378 26,912 Receivables due from other financial institutions 7,334 7,334 7,334 Investment securities at amortised cost 7,349 7,340 9 7,349 Loans and other receivables 660,476 660,660 660,660 Bank acceptances of customers 32 32 32 Loans to controlled entities 120,193 113,029 113,029 Other assets 4,158 1,324 2,829 5 4,158 Total financial assets 826,454 16,890 28,881 773,703 819,474 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Deposits and other public borrowings 573,851 574,164 18 574,182 Payables due to other financial institutions 22,618 22,618 22,618 Bank acceptances 32 32 32 Due to controlled entities 105,774 105,774 105,774 Debt issues 131,062 132,071 132,071 Bills payable and other liabilities 6,403 1,774 4,629 6,403 Loan capital 22,569 9,483 13,764 23,247 Total financial liabilities 862,309 11,289 747,246 105,792 864,327 Financial guarantees, loan commitments and other off 154,731 154,731 154,731 Balance Sheet instruments 238 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Fair value information for financial instruments not measured at fair value (continued) Bank 30 Jun 18 Carrying value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Cash and liquid assets 33,581 21,351 12,230 33,581 Receivables due from other financial institutions 8,376 8,376 8,376 Loans and other receivables 652,370 652,794 652,794 Bank acceptances of customers 379 379 379 Loans to controlled entities 106,431 106,509 106,509 Other assets 4,717 1,398 3,317 2 4,717 Total financial assets 805,854 23,128 23,923 759,305 806,356 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value on a recurring basis Deposits and other public borrowings 566,200 566,200 566,200 Payables due to other financial institutions 20,014 20,014 20,014 Bank acceptances 379 379 379 Due to controlled entities 105,327 105,309 105,309 Debt issues 139,984 142,064 142,064 Bills payable and other liabilities (1) 7,455 1,942 5,513 7,455 Loan capital 22,249 9,561 13,373 22,934 Total financial liabilities 861,608 11,882 747,164 105,309 864,355 Financial guarantees, loan commitments and other off 155,012 155,012 155,012 Balance Sheet instruments (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 239 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Valuation Fair value is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. On initial recognition, the transaction price generally represents the fair value of the financial instrument, unless there is observable information from an active market that provides a more appropriate fair value. The fair value for financial instruments traded in active markets at the reporting date is based on their quoted market price or dealer price quotations, without any deduction for transaction costs. Assets and long positions are measured at a quoted bid price; liabilities and short positions are measured at a quoted asking price. Where the Group has positions with offsetting market risks, mid-market prices are used to measure the offsetting risk positions and a quoted bid or asking price adjustment is applied only to the net open position as appropriate. Non-market quoted financial instruments are mostly valued using valuation techniques based on observable inputs except where observable market data is unavailable. Where market data is unavailable the financial instrument is initially recognised at the transaction price, which is generally the best indicator of fair value. This may differ from the value obtained from the valuation model. The timing of the recognition in the Income Statement of this initial difference in fair value depends on the individual facts and circumstances of each transaction, but is never later than when the market data becomes observable. The difference may be either amortised over the life of the transaction, recognised when the inputs become observable or on derecognition of the instrument, as appropriate. The fair value of Over-the-Counter (OTC) derivatives includes credit valuation adjustments (CVA) for derivative assets to reflect the credit worthiness of the counterparty. Fair value of uncollateralised derivative assets and uncollateralised derivative liabilities incorporate funding valuation adjustments (FVA) to reflect funding costs and benefits to the Group. These adjustments are applied after considering any relevant collateral or master netting arrangements. Fair value hierarchy The Group utilises various valuation techniques and applies a hierarchy for valuation inputs that maximise the use of observable market data, if available. Under AASB 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ all financial and non-financial assets and liabilities measured or disclosed at fair value are categorised into one of the following three fair value hierarchy levels: Quoted Prices in Active Markets – Level 1 This category includes assets and liabilities for which the valuation is determined by reference to unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets where the quoted price is readily available, and the price represents actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. An active market is one in which transactions occur with sufficient volume and frequency to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. Financial instruments included in this category are liquid government bonds, financial institution and corporate bonds, certificates of deposit, bank bills, listed equities and exchange traded derivatives. Valuation technique using observable inputs – Level 2 This category includes assets and liabilities that have been valued using inputs other than quoted prices as described for Level 1, but which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. The valuation techniques include the use of discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other market accepted valuation models. Financial instruments included in this category are commercial papers, mortgage-backed securities and OTC derivatives including interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and FX options. Valuation technique using significant unobservable inputs – Level 3 This category includes assets and liabilities where the valuation incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Unobservable inputs are those not readily available in an active market due to market illiquidity or complexity of the product. These inputs are generally derived and extrapolated from observable inputs to match the risk profile of the financial instrument, and are calibrated against current market assumptions, historic transactions and economic models, where available. These inputs may include the timing and amount of future cash flows, rates of estimated credit losses, discount rates and volatility. Financial instruments included in this category for the Group and Bank are assets backing insurance liabilities held through infrastructure funds, certain exotic OTC derivatives and certain asset-backed securities valued using unobservable inputs. 240 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Critical accounting judgements and estimates Valuation techniques are used to estimate the fair value of securities. When using valuation techniques the Group makes maximum use of market inputs and relies as little as possible on entity specific inputs. It incorporates all factors that the Group believes market participants would consider in setting a price and is consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments. Data inputs that the Group relies upon when valuing financial instruments relate to counterparty credit risk, volatility, correlation and extrapolation. Periodically, the Group calibrates its valuation techniques and tests them for validity using prices from any observable current market transaction in the same instruments (i.e. without modification or repackaging) and any other available observable market data. Collateral accepted as security for assets The Group takes collateral where it is considered necessary to support both on and off Balance Sheet financial instruments. The Group evaluates each customer’s creditworthiness on a case-by-case basis. The amount of collateral taken, if deemed necessary, is based on management’s credit evaluation of the counterparty. The Group has the right to sell, re-pledge, or otherwise use some of the collateral received. At Balance Sheet date the carrying value of cash accepted as collateral (and recognised on the Group’s and the Bank’s Balance Sheets) and the fair value of securities accepted as collateral (but not recognised on the Group’s or the Bank’s Balance Sheets) were as follows: Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M Cash 6,147 6,884 5,568 6,155 Securities 12,732 13,520 11,379 12,230 Collateral held 18,879 20,404 16,947 18,385 Collateral held which is re-pledged or sold Assets pledged As part of standard terms of transactions with other banks, the Group has provided collateral to secure liabilities. At Balance Sheet date, the carrying value of assets pledged as collateral to secure liabilities were as follows: Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M Cash 5,837 6,064 5,781 5,679 (1) Securities 21,022 15,495 21,138 15,604 Assets pledged 26,859 21,559 26,919 21,283 Asset pledged which can be re-pledged or re-sold by counterparty 21,022 15,495 21,138 15,604 (1) These balances include assets sold under repurchase agreements. The liabilities related to these repurchase agreements are disclosed in Note 4.1. The Group and the Bank have pledged collateral as part of entering into repurchase and derivative agreements. These transactions are governed by standard industry agreements. 241 n offset on the Balance Sheet and amounts covered by enforceable netting arrangements or similar agreements that do not qualify for set off. e are deemed to be economically settled and therefore outside the scope of these disclosures. Group 30 Jun 19 Subject to Enforceable Master Netting or Similar Agreements ts offset on the Balance Sheet Amounts not offset on the Balance Sheet nce Amount Reported on the Financial Financial Collateral Not subject to Total Balance unt offset (1) Balance Sheet Instruments (2) (Received)/Pledged (2) Net Amount Netting Agreements Sheet amount $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M 13 (17,801) 23,112 (14,318) (5,095) 3,699 2,103 25,215 32 12,732 (565) (12,146) 21 12,732 61 (313) 348 348 348 06 (18,114) 36,192 (14,883) (17,241) 4,068 2,103 38,295 56) 20,727 (22,029) 14,318 4,086 (3,625) (748) (22,777) 99) (19,099) 565 18,534 (19,099) 21) 313 (508) (508) (508) 76) 21,040 (41,636) 14,883 22,620 (4,133) (748) (42,384) on margin netting reflected on other Balance Sheet lines. f financial instruments and financial collateral not set off on the Balance Sheet have been capped by relevant netting agreements so as not to exceed the net amounts of financial er collateralisation, where it exists, is not reflected in the tables. As a result, the above collateral balances will not correspond to the tables in Note 9.6. Group 30 Jun 18 Subject to Enforceable Master Netting or Similar Agreements ts offset on the Balance Sheet Amounts not offset on the Balance Sheet nce Amount Reported on the Financial Financial Collateral Not subject to Total Balance unt offset (1) Balance Sheet Instruments (2) (Received)/Pledged (2) Net Amount Netting Agreements Sheet amount $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M 23 (6,794) 30,129 (19,344) (6,770) 4,015 2,004 32,133 20 13,520 (765) (12,755) 13,520 16 (230) 286 286 286 59 (7,024) 43,935 (20,109) (19,525) 4,301 2,004 45,939 66) 10,149 (27,317) 19,344 4,567 (3,406) (1,155) (28,472) 96) (14,696) 765 13,931 (14,696) 56) 230 (426) (426) (426) 18) 10,379 (42,439) 20,109 18,498 (3,832) (1,155) (43,594) tion margin netting reflected on other Balance Sheet lines. of financial instruments and financial collateral not set off on the Balance Sheet have been capped by relevant netting agreements so as not to exceed the net amounts of financial ver collateralisation, where it exists, is not reflected in the tables. As a result the above collateral balances will not correspond to the tables in Note 9.6. Bank 30 Jun 19 Subject to Enforceable Master Netting or Similar Agreements ts offset on the Balance Sheet Amounts not offset on the Balance Sheet ce Amount Reported on the Financial Financial Collateral Not subject to Total Balance unt offset (1) Balance Sheet Instruments (2) (Received)/Pledged (2) Net Amount Netting Agreements Sheet amount M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M 87 (17,273) 22,214 (14,065) (4,697) 3,452 2,097 24,311 78 11,378 (573) (10,784) 21 11,378 65 (17,273) 33,592 (14,638) (15,481) 3,473 2,097 35,689 39) 19,944 (25,895) 14,065 4,039 (7,791) (759) (26,654) 15) (19,215) 573 18,642 (19,215) 54) 19,944 (45,110) 14,638 22,681 (7,791) (759) (45,869) tion margin netting reflected on other Balance Sheet lines. of financial instruments and financial collateral not set off on the Balance Sheet have been capped by relevant netting agreements so as not to exceed the net amounts of financial ver collateralisation, where it exists, is not reflected in the tables. As a result the above collateral balances will not correspond to the tables in Note 9.6. Bank 30 Jun 18 Subject to Enforceable Master Netting or Similar Agreements ts offset on the Balance Sheet Amounts not offset on the Balance Sheet ce Amount Reported on the Financial Financial Collateral Not subject to Total Balance unt offset (1) Balance Sheet Instruments (2) (Received)/Pledged (2) Net Amount Netting Agreements Sheet amount M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M 83 (6,794) 28,689 (18,887) (5,955) 3,847 2,196 30,885 30 12,230 (765) (11,465) 12,230 13 (6,794) 40,919 (19,652) (17,420) 3,847 2,196 43,115 85) 10,149 (29,636) 18,887 4,375 (6,374) (1,235) (30,871) 06) (14,806) 765 14,041 (14,806) 91) 10,149 (44,442) 19,652 18,416 (6,374) (1,235) (45,677) tion margin netting reflected on other Balance Sheet lines. of financial instruments and financial collateral not set off on the Balance Sheet have been capped by relevant netting agreements so as not to exceed the net amounts of financial ver collateralisation, where it exists, is not reflected in the tables. As a result the above collateral balances will not correspond to the tables in Note 9.6. ce sheet ncial assets and liabilities that are subject to set off under netting agreements, such as the ISDA Master Agreement. All outstanding transactions e-out netting applied if an event of default or other predetermined events occur. Financial collateral refers to cash and non-cash collateral obtained by enabling the collateral to be realised in an event of default or if other predetermined events occur. ents and Security Lending Agreements ncial assets and liabilities that are subject to set off under netting agreements, such as global master repurchase agreements and global master g agreements, all outstanding transactions with the same counterparty can be offset and close-out netting applied if an event of default or other ypically comprises highly liquid securities which are legally transferred and can be liquidated in the event of counterparty default. et amount is presented in the Balance Sheet if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts, and there the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements The Group employs over 50,000 people across multiple jurisdictions and remunerates its employees through both fixed and variable arrangements. This section outlines details of the share-based payment and superannuation components of employee remuneration and provides an overview of key management personnel arrangements. The Group operates a number of cash and equity settled share plans as detailed below. Long Term Variable Remuneration (LTVR) The Group’s 2019 LTVR award for the CEO and Group Executives is made under the Employee Equity Plan (EEP). LTVR awards up to and including the 2018 financial year were made under the Group Leadership Reward Plan (GLRP). LTVR focuses efforts on achieving superior performance for key stakeholders – being customers, community, employees and shareholders – in order to create sustainable long-term shareholder value and drive positive culture and behaviours in the Group. Participants are awarded a maximum number of Rights, which may convert into CBA shares on a 1-for-1 basis. The Board has discretion to apply a cash equivalent. The Rights may vest at the end of a performance period of four years subject to the satisfaction of performance measures as follows: For awards up to and including the 2017 financial year:  25% of the award is assessed against Customer Satisfaction compared to ANZ, NAB, Westpac and other key competitors for our wealth management business by reference to independent external surveys; and  75% of the award is assessed against Total Shareholder Return (TSR) compared to the 20 largest companies listed on the ASX (by market capitalisation) at the beginning of each respective performance period, excluding resource companies and CBA. For awards made from the 2018 financial year:  75% of the award is assessed against TSR compared to the 20 largest companies listed on the ASX (by market capitalisation) at the beginning of each respective performance period, excluding resource companies and CBA.  12.5% of the award is assessed against a Relative Trust and Reputation measure; and  12.5% of the award is assessed against an Absolute Employee Engagement measure. A positive TSR gateway applies to the Trust and Reputation and Employee Engagement measures. Refer to the Remuneration Report for further details on LTVR. The following table provides details of outstanding awards of Rights granted under LTVR awards: Outstanding Outstanding Expense Period 1 July Granted Vested Forfeited 30 June ($'000) 30 Jun 19 678,801 294,619 (34,099) (130,802) 808,519 7,186 30 Jun 18 1,174,899 215,356 (174,139) (537,315) 678,801 4,329 The weighted average fair value at the grant date for TSR was $33.57 and $49.87 for both Trust and Reputation and Employee Engagement Rights issued during the year (2018: $36.94 for TSR and $57.11 for both Trust and Reputation and Employee Engagement). The fair value of the Rights granted during the period has been independently calculated at grant date using a Monte Carlo pricing model based on market information and excluding the impact of non-market performance conditions. The assumptions included in the valuation of the 2019 financial year award include a share price of $71.77, a risk-free interest rate of 2.29%, a 5.83% dividend yield on the Bank’s ordinary shares and a volatility in the Bank share price of 15%. Group Rights Plan (GRP) and Employee Equity Plan (EEP) The GRP and EEP Restricted Shares facilitate mandatory short-term variable remuneration deferral, sign-on incentives and retention awards. Participants are awarded rights or restricted shares that vest provided the participant remains in employment of the Group until vesting date. The following table provides details of outstanding awards of rights and shares granted under the GRP and EEP. 246 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Group Rights Plan (GRP) and Employee Equity Plan (EEP) (continued) Outstanding Outstanding Expense Period 1 July Granted Vested Forfeited 30 June ($'000) 30 Jun 19 2,246,204 1,086,280 (993,435) (186,582) 2,152,467 77,136 30 Jun 18 2,125,927 1,045,179 (849,508) (75,394) 2,246,204 67,725 The weighted average fair value at grant date of the awards issued during the year was $71.08 (2018: $75.67). Employee Share Acquisition Plan (ESAP) Under the ESAP eligible employees have the opportunity to receive up to $1,000 worth of shares each year if the Group meets the required performance hurdle of growth in the Group’s net profit after tax (“cash basis”). If the hurdle is not met, the Board has discretion to determine whether a full award, a partial award or no award is made. The number of shares a participant receives is calculated by dividing the award amount by the average price paid for CBA shares purchased during the purchase period preceding the grant date. Shares granted are restricted from sale until the earlier of three years or until such time as the participant ceases employment with the Group. Participants receive full dividend entitlements and voting rights attached to those shares. While the Group did not achieve the ESAP performance target for the 2018 financial year, the Board exercised its discretion and approved a partial award of $550 during the financial year ended 30 June 2019 to each eligible employee to recognise their contribution through-out the year. The following table provides details of shares granted under the ESAP: Number of Shares Total Number of Total Period Allocation date Participants Allocated per Participant Shares Allocated Issue Price $ Fair Value $ 30 Jun 19 16 Nov 2018 30,960 7 216,720 70.86 15,356,779 30 Jun 18 8 Sep 2017 31,780 12 381,360 79.11 30,169,390 It is estimated that approximately $34 million of CBA shares will be purchased on market at the prevailing market price for the 2019 grant. Other employee awards A number of other plans are operated by the Group, including:  The Employee Share (Performance Unit) Plan and Employee Equity Plan (EEP) Cash Settled Rights are cash-based versions of the GRP and EEP; and  The International Employee Share Acquisition Plan, which is the cash-based version of the ESAP. The following table provides a summary of the movement in awards during the year: Outstanding Outstanding Expense Period 1 July Granted Vested Forfeited 30 June ($'000) 30 Jun 19 509,927 162,180 (242,026) (48,657) 381,424 15,805 30 Jun 18 458,764 251,284 (168,925) (31,196) 509,927 21,405 The weighted average fair value at grant date of the awards issued during the year was $71.35 (2018: $75.70). Salary sacrifice arrangements The Group facilitates the purchase of CBA shares via salary sacrifice as follows: Type Arrangements Salary Sacrifice  Australian based employees and Non-Executive Directors can elect to sacrifice between $2,000 and $5,000 p.a. of their fixed remuneration and/or annual STVR or fees (in the case of Non-Executive Directors) (ESSSP)  Restricted from sale for a minimum of two years and a maximum of seven years or earlier, if the employee ceases employment with the Group (or retires from the Group in the case of Non-Executive Directors). Non-Executive  Required to defer 20% of post-tax fees until a minimum shareholding requirement of 5,000 shares is reached. Directors  Restricted from sale for ten years or when the Non-Executive Director retires from the Board if earlier. (NEDSP) 247 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Salary sacrifice arrangements (continued) Shares are purchased on market at the prevailing market price at that time and receive full dividend entitlements and voting rights. The following table provides details of shares granted under the ESSSP and NEDSP (voluntary fee sacrifice). Number of Average purchase Total purchase Period Participants shares purchased price $ consideration $ 30 Jun 19 952 47,205 71.57 3,378,462 30 Jun 18 983 41,390 77.68 3,215,222 During the year four (2018: four) Non-Executive Directors applied $103,151 in fees (2018: $74,991) to purchase 1,424 shares (2018: 988 shares). Date of Last Actuarial Name of Plan Type Form of Benefit Assessment of the Fund Commonwealth Bank Group Defined Benefits Indexed pension and lump sum 30 June 2018 Super and Accumulation(1) Commonwealth Bank of Australia Defined Benefits Indexed pension and lump sum 30 June 2016 (UK) Staff Benefits Scheme (CBA and Accumulation(1) (UK) SBS) (1) The defined benefit formulae are generally comprised of final salary, or final average salary, and service. Regulatory framework Both plans operate under trust law with the assets of the plans held separately in trust. The Trustee of Commonwealth Bank Group Super is Commonwealth Bank Officers Superannuation Corporation Pty Limited. The Trustee of CBA (UK) SBS is Commonwealth Bank of Australia (UK) Staff Benefits Scheme Trustee Company Limited. Both Trustees are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group. The Trustees do not conduct any business other than trusteeship of the plans. The plans are managed and administered on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of each trust deed and relevant legislation. The funding of the plans complies with regulations in Australia and the UK respectively. Funding and contributions An actuarial assessment as at 30 June 2018 showed Commonwealth Bank Group Super remained in funding surplus. The Bank agreed to continue contributions of $20 million per month to the plan. Employer contributions paid to the plan are subject to tax at the rate of 15% in the plan. An actuarial assessment of the CBA (UK) SBS as at 30 June 2016 was completed in September 2017. It confirmed a funding deficit of GBP26.2 million ($47.4 million). The Bank agreed to pay deficit reduction contributions of GBP5 million ($9 million) per annum, paid monthly from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2022. The Group’s expected contributions to the Commonwealth Bank Group Super and the CBA (UK) SBS for the year ended 30 June 2020 are $240 million and GBP7.5 million ($13.6 million) respectively. 248 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Defined benefit superannuation plan Commonwealth Bank Group Super CBA(UK)SBS Total 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Note $M $M $M $M $M $M Present value of funded obligations (3,004) (2,826) (711) (645) (3,715) (3,471) Fair value of plan assets 3,438 3,355 739 697 4,177 4,052 Net pension assets/(liabilities) as at 30 June 434 529 28 52 462 581 Amounts in the Balance Sheet: Assets 6.2 434 529 28 52 462 581 Net assets/(liabilities) 434 529 28 52 462 581 The amounts recognised in the Income Statement are as follows: Current service cost (36) (36) (6) (6) (42) (42) Net interest income/(expense) 16 13 2 18 13 Employer financed benefits within accumulation (279) (289) (279) (289) division (1) Total included in superannuation plan (299) (312) (4) (6) (303) (318) expense Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Opening defined benefit obligation (2,826) (2,910) (645) (656) (3,471) (3,566) Current service cost (36) (36) (6) (6) (42) (42) Interest cost (119) (122) (17) (17) (136) (139) Member contributions (6) (6) (6) (6) Actuarial (losses) from changes in (18) (18) demographic assumptions Actuarial gains/(losses) from changes in financial (228) (25) (69) 29 (297) 4 assumptions Actuarial gains from changes in other 45 57 45 57 assumptions Payments from the plan 184 216 39 35 223 251 Exchange differences on foreign plans (13) (30) (13) (30) Closing defined benefit obligation (3,004) (2,826) (711) (645) (3,715) (3,471) Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: Opening fair value of plan assets 3,355 3,336 697 645 4,052 3,981 Interest income 135 135 19 17 154 152 Return on plan assets (excluding interest income) 165 143 34 17 199 160 Member contributions 6 6 6 6 Employer contributions 240 240 15 22 255 262 Employer financed benefits within accumulation (279) (289) (279) (289) division Payments from the plan (184) (216) (39) (35) (223) (251) Exchange differences on foreign plans 13 31 13 31 Closing fair value of plan assets 3,438 3,355 739 697 4,177 4,052 (1) Represents superannuation contributions required by the Bank to meet its obligations to members of the defined contribution division of Commonwealth Bank Group Super. 249 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Economic assumptions Commonwealth Bank Group Super CBA(UK)SBS 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Economic assumptions % % % % The above calculations were based on the following assumptions: Discount rate 3. 20 4. 20 2. 30 2. 70 Inflation rate 1. 60 2. 10 3. 50 3. 30 Rate of increases in salary 2. 40 2. 90 4. 50 4. 30 In addition to financial assumptions, the mortality assumptions for pensioners can materially impact the defined benefit obligations. These assumptions are age related and allowances are made for future improvement in mortality. The expected life expectancies (longevity) for pensioners are set out below: Commonwealth Bank Group Super CBA(UK)SBS 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Expected life expectancies for pensioners Years Years Years Years Male pensioners currently aged 60 28. 8 28. 8 28. 0 27. 6 Male pensioners currently aged 65 23. 9 23. 8 23. 2 23. 1 Female pensioners currently aged 60 31. 2 33. 1 29. 9 29. 8 Female pensioners currently aged 65 26. 1 28. 1 25. 1 25. 0 Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The table below sets out the sensitivities of the present value of defined benefit obligations at 30 June to a change in the principal actuarial assumptions: Commonwealth Bank Group Super CBA(UK)SBS 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 Impact of change in assumptions on liabilities % % 0.25% decrease in discount rate 3. 70 4. 90 0.25% increase in inflation rate 2. 96 3. 30 0.25% increase to the rate of increases in salary 0. 47 0. 30 Longevity increase of 1 year 4. 76 3. 70 Average duration The average duration of defined benefit obligation at 30 June is as follows: Commonwealth Bank Group Super CBA(UK)SBS 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 19 Years Years Average duration at balance date 13 19 250 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Risk management The pension plans expose the Group to longevity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk, inflation risk and market risk. The Trustees perform Asset-Liability Matching (ALM) exercises to ensure the plan assets are well matched to the nature and maturities of the defined benefit obligations. The Commonwealth Bank Group Super’s investment strategy comprises 41% growth and 59% defensive assets. Inflation and interest rate risks are partly mitigated by investing in long dated fixed interest securities which better match the average duration of liabilities and entering into inflation and interest rate swaps. The allocation of assets backing the defined benefit portion of the Commonwealth Bank Group Super is as follows: Commonwealth Bank Group Super 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Fair value % of plan Fair value % of plan Asset allocations $M asset $M asset Cash 83 2. 4 81 2. 4 (1) Equities Australian 193 5. 6 253 7. 5 (1) Equities Overseas 591 17. 2 570 17. 0 (1) Bonds Commonwealth Government 967 28. 1 679 20. 2 (1) Bonds Semi-Government 956 27. 8 1,179 35. 1 (1) Bonds Corporate and other 71 2. 1 79 2. 4 (2) Real Estate and Infrastructure 346 10. 1 334 10. 0 Derivatives (33) (1. 0) (17) (0. 5) (3) Other 264 7. 7 197 5. 9 Total fair value of plan assets 3,438 100. 0 3,355 100. 0 (1) Values based on prices or yields quoted in an active market. (2) This includes listed and unlisted property and infrastructure investments. (3) These are alternative investments which are not included in the traditional asset classes of equities, fixed interest securities, real estate and cash. They include multiasset investments, liquid alternative investments and hedge funds. The Australian equities fair value includes $15.3 million of Commonwealth Bank shares. The real estate fair value includes $1.4 million of property assets leased to the Bank. The bonds – corporate and other fair value includes $0.4 million of Commonwealth Bank debt securities. The other asset allocation includes $0.5 million of Commonwealth Bank shares and $0.1 million debt securities held in a multi-asset fund. Detailed remuneration disclosures by Key Management Personnel (KMP) are provided in the Remuneration Report of the Directors’ Report on pages 82 to 106. Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Key Management Personnel compensation $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 Short-term benefits (1) (2) 23,326 23,127 21,413 23,127 Post-employment benefits 457 421 400 421 Long-term benefits 864 854 836 854 (1) Share-based payments 14,715 11,235 14,405 11,235 Total 39,362 35,637 37,054 35,637 (1) Non-Executive Director fees for the 2018 financial year have been restated to reflect car parking benefits (including associated fringe benefits tax) and the proportion between cash fees and Non-Executive Directors’ share plan shares for some individuals. (2) Short-term benefits includes termination benefits of $1,294,969 (2018: $4,700,917) 251 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Security holdings Details of the aggregate security holdings of KMP are set out below. Previous Acquired/ Years Net Balance Granted as Awards Change Balance Class (1) 1 July 18 (2) Remuneration Vested (3) Other (4) 30 June 19 (5) Non-Executive Directors Ordinary (6) 138,406 9,145 (97,190) 50,361 PERLS 8,600 (5,830) 2,770 Executives Ordinary 228,623 96,267 (114,930) 209,960 LTVR Rights 440,321 294,619 (18,390) (131,133) 585,417 Deferred Shares 38,818 (14,923) 23,895 Deferred Rights 54,353 7,064 (41,896) 409 19,930 Sign-on equity 9,234 125,772 (42,651) 92,355 PERLS 2,330 (2,330) (1) LTVR rights are subject to performance hurdles. Deferred shares represent the deferred STVR awarded in the 2019 financial year. Deferred rights represent the deferred STVR awarded under Executive General Manager arrangements and retention awards received as rights in prior years, as well as the CEO ASB’s 2018 financial year STVR award. Sign-on equity includes sign-on awards received as deferred rights or shares. PERLS include cumulative holdings of all PERLS securities issued by the Group. (2) Due to the changes in KMP during the 2019 financial year, aggregate security holdings balance at 1 July 2018 does not align to the balance disclosed for 30 June 2018. (3) LTVR rights, deferred shares and deferred rights become ordinary shares or are cash settled upon vesting. (4) Net change other incorporates changes resulting from purchases, sales, forfeitures and appointment or departure of KMP during the year. (5) 30 June 2019 balances represent aggregate shareholdings of all KMP at balance date. (6) Non-Executive Directors who hold fewer than 5,000 Commonwealth Bank shares are required to receive 20% of their total after-tax base fees as CBA shares. These shares are subject to a 10-year trading restriction (the shares will be released earlier if the Non-Executive Director leaves the Board). Loans to KMP All loans to KMP (including close family members or entities controlled, jointly controlled, or significantly influenced by them, or any entity over which any of those family members or entities held significant voting power) have been made in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other employees and customers, including the term of the loan, security required and the interest rate (which may be fixed or variable). There has been no write down of loans during the period. Details of aggregate loans to KMP are set out below: 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $'000 $'000 Loans 12,337 12,914 Interest charged 480 476 Other transactions of KMP Financial Instrument Transactions Financial instrument transactions (other than loans and shares disclosed within this report) of KMP occur in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms and conditions no more favourable than those given to other employees and customers. Disclosure of financial instrument transactions regularly made as part of normal banking operations is limited to disclosure of such transactions with KMP and entities controlled or significantly influenced by them. All such financial instrument transactions that have occurred between entities within the Group and their KMP have been trivial or domestic in nature and were in the nature of normal personal banking and deposit transactions. Transactions other than Financial Instrument Transactions of Banks All other transactions with KMP and their related entities and other related parties are conducted on an arm’s length basis in the normal course of business and on commercial terms and conditions. These transactions principally involve the provision of financial and investment services by entities not controlled by the Group. Services agreements The maximum contingent liability for termination benefits in respect of service agreements with the Chief Executive Officer and other Group KMP at 30 June 2019 was $2,254,283 (2018: $3,096,820). 252 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 The Group structure includes the Bank legal entity and its interests in operating and special purpose subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. These entities were either acquired or established and their classification is driven by the Bank’s level of control or influence. These entities operating activities include banking, advice, funds management, specialised customer financing and asset backed financing across multiple jurisdictions. Subsidiaries The key subsidiaries of the Bank are: Entity Name Entity Name Australia (a) Banking CBA Covered Bond Trust Medallion Trust Series 2015-2 Commonwealth Securities Limited Medallion Trust Series 2016-1 Medallion Trust Series 2008-1R Medallion Trust Series 2016-2 Medallion Trust Series 2011-1 Medallion Trust Series 2017-1 Medallion Trust Series 2013-1 Medallion Trust Series 2017-1P Medallion Trust Series 2013-2 Medallion Trust Series 2017-2 Medallion Trust Series 2014-1 Residential Mortgage Group Pty Ltd Medallion Trust Series 2014-2 Medallion Trust Series 2018-1 Medallion Trust Series 2015-1 (b) Insurance and Funds Management Capital 121 Pty Limited Commonwealth Insurance Limited (1) Colonial Holding Company Limited The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited Commonwealth Insurance Holdings Limited (1) This subsidiary is classified as a discontinued operation. All the above subsidiaries are 100% owned and incorporated in Australia. 253 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Subsidiaries (continued) Extent of Beneficial Entity Name Interest if not 100% Incorporated in New Zealand and Other Overseas (a) Banking ASB Bank Limited New Zealand ASB Covered Bond Trust New Zealand ASB Finance Limited New Zealand ASB Holdings Limited New Zealand ASB Term Fund New Zealand CommBank Europe Limited Malta Medallion NZ Series Trust 2009-1R New Zealand PT Bank Commonwealth 99% Indonesia (b) Insurance and Funds Management PT Commonwealth Life (1) 80% Indonesia (1) First Gas Limited 12% New Zealand (1) As at 30 June 2019, PT Commonwealth Life and First Gas Limited are classified as discontinued operations. The Group also consolidates a number of unit trusts and other companies as part of the ongoing investment activities of the life insurance and wealth businesses. These investment vehicles are excluded from the above list. Significant Judgements and Assumptions Control and voting rights Holding more than 50% of an entity’s voting rights typically indicates that the Group has control over the entity. Significant judgement is involved where the Group either holds more than 50% of the voting rights but does not control an entity, or where the Group is deemed to control an entity despite holding less than 50% of the voting rights. Agent or principal The Group is deemed to have power over an investment fund when it holds either the responsible entity (RE) and/or the manager function of that fund. Whether that power translates to control depends on whether the Group is deemed to act as an agent or a principal of that fund. Management have determined that the Group acts as a principal and controls a fund when it cannot be easily removed as a manager or RE by investors and when its economic interest in that fund is substantial compared to the economic interest of other investors. In all other cases the Group acts as agent and does not control the fund. Non-controlling interests Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M Shareholders' Equity 55 554 Total non-controlling interests 55 554 New Zealand Perpetual Preference Shares of AUD505 million issued by ASB Capital Limited and ASB Capital No.2 Limited, the Group’s New Zealand subsidiaries, were bought back and subsequently cancelled in May 2019. As at 30 June 2019, non-controlling interests include minority shareholders’ interest in the Group’s subsidiaries, PT Bank Commonwealth, PT Commonwealth Life and First Gas Limited. 254 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Significant restrictions There were no significant restrictions on the ability to transfer cash or other assets, pay dividends or other capital distributions, provide or repay loans and advances between the entities within the Group. There were also no significant restrictions on the Group's ability to access or use the assets and settle the liabilities of the Group resulting from protective rights of non-controlling interests. Associates and joint ventures There were no individually significant investments in associates or joint ventures held by the Group as at 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2018. In addition, there were no significant restrictions on the ability of associates or joint ventures to transfer funds to the Bank or its subsidiaries in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans or advances made. The Group’s investments in associates and joint ventures are shown in the table below. Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Ownership Ownership Principal Country of Balance $M $M Interest % Interest % Activities Incorporation Date Commercial Bank of Hangzhou Co., Ltd 1,816 1,680 18 18 China 31-Dec Banking First State European Diversified Funds 121 4 3 Luxembourg 31-Dec Infrastructure Fund FCP-SIF (1) Management Commercial Qilu Bank Co., Ltd 771 638 18 18 China 31-Dec Banking Vietnam International Commercial Commercial 242 210 20 20 Vietnam 31-Dec Joint Stock Bank Banking Other 172 193 Various Various Various Various Various Carrying amount of investments 3,001 2,842 in associates and joint ventures Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Share of Associates' and Joint Ventures profits (2) $M $M Operating profits before income tax 315 321 Income tax expense (27) (52) (3) Operating profits after income tax 288 269 (1) The investment in First State European Diversified Infrastructure Fund FCP-SIF has been classified as held for sale following the announced sale of CFSGAM. (2) Excludes information concerning associates and joint ventures classified as held for sale. (3) This amount is recognised within Note 2.3 in the share of profits of associates and joint ventures net of impairment. Structured entities A structured entity is an entity in which voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding control. Structured entities are generally created to achieve a narrow and well defined objective with restrictions around their ongoing activities. Depending on the Group’s power over the activities of the entity and its exposure to and ability to influence its own returns, it may consolidate the entity. In other cases it may sponsor or have exposure to such an entity but not consolidate it. Consolidated structured entities The Group has the following contractual arrangements which require it to provide financial support to its structured entities. 255 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Structured entities (continued) Securitisation structured entities The Group provides liquidity facilities to Medallion, Medallion NZ and Swan structured entities. The liquidity facilities can only be drawn to cover cash flow shortages relating to mismatches in timing of cash inflows due from securitised asset pools and cash outflows due to note holders. These ‘timing mismatch’ facilities rank pari passu with other senior secured creditors. The facilities limit is $877 million (2018: $857 million). The Group has no contractual obligations to purchase assets from its securitisation structured entities. Covered bonds trust The Group provides funding and support facilities to CBA Covered Bond Trust and ASB Covered Bond Trust (the ‘Trusts’). The Trusts are bankruptcy remote SPVs that guarantee any debt obligations owing under the US$30 billion CBA Covered Bond Programme and the EUR7 billion ASB Covered Bond Programme, respectively. The funding facilities allow the Trusts to hold sufficient residential mortgage loans to support the guarantees provided to the Covered Bonds. The Group also provides various swaps to the Trusts to hedge any interest rate and currency mismatches. The Group, either directly or via its wholly owned subsidiaries, Securitisation Advisory Services Pty Limited and Securitisation Management Services Limited, provides various services to the Trusts including servicing and monitoring of the residential mortgages. Structured asset finance structured entities The Group has no contractual obligation to provide financial support to any of its Structured asset finance structured entities. During the year ended 30 June 2019, the Bank entered into a debt forgiveness arrangement with two wholly owned structured entities for the total of $7 million (2018: $17 million). The financial impact of the debt forgiveness was fully eliminated on consolidation. Unconsolidated structured entities The Group has exposure to various securitisation vehicles via Residential Mortgage-backed Securities (RMBS) and Asset-backed Securities (ABS). The Group may also provide derivatives and other commitments to these vehicles. The Group also has exposure to Investment funds and other financing vehicles. Securitisations Securitisations involve transferring assets into an entity that sells beneficial interests to investors through the issue of debt and equity notes with varying levels of subordination. The notes are collateralised by the assets transferred to these vehicles and pay a return based on the returns of those assets, with residual returns paid to the most subordinated investor. The Group may trade or invest in RMBS and ABS, which are backed by Commercial Properties, Consumer Receivables, Equipment and Auto Finance. The Group may also provide lending, derivatives, liquidity and commitments to these securitisation entities. Other financing Asset-backed entities are used to provide tailored lending for the purchase or lease of assets transferred by the Group or its clients. The assets are normally pledged as collateral to the lenders. The Group engages in raising finance for assets such as aircraft, trains, vessels and other infrastructure. The Group may also provide lending, derivatives, liquidity and commitments to these entities. Investment funds The Group conducts investment management and other fiduciary activities as responsible entity, trustee, custodian, advisor or manager for investment funds and trusts, including superannuation and approved deposit funds, wholesale and retail trusts. The Group’s exposure to investment funds includes holding units in the investment funds and trusts, providing lending facilities, derivatives and receiving fees for services. The nature and extent of the Group’s interests in these entities are summarised below. Interests do not include derivatives and other positions where the Group creates rather than absorbs variability of the Structured entity, for example deposits. These have been excluded from the below table. 256 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Unconsolidated structured entities (continued) 30 Jun 19 Other Investment RMBS ABS Financing Funds Total Exposures to unconsolidated structured entities $M $M $M $M $M Assets at fair value through income statement trading 242 242 Investment securities 7,619 476 8,095 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 1,977 1,602 5,454 7,367 16,400 Other assets Assets held for sale 1,108 1,108 Total on Balance Sheet exposures 9,596 2,078 5,454 8,717 25,845 (1) Total notional amounts of off Balance Sheet exposures 2,761 729 539 4,302 8,331 Total maximum exposure to loss 12,357 2,807 5,993 13,019 34,176 (2) Total assets of the entities 55,508 9,523 17,542 329,237 411,810 (1) Relates to undrawn facilities. (2) Size of the entities is generally the total assets of the entities, except for Real Estate Investment Trusts where the size is based on the Group’s credit exposure of $9,073 million. 30 Jun 18 Other Investment RMBS ABS Financing (1) Funds Total Exposures to unconsolidated structured entities $M $M $M $M $M Assets at fair value through income statement trading 22 43 65 Available-for-sale investments 7,233 652 224 8,109 Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 3,056 1,576 5,576 8,089 18,297 Other assets 401 401 Assets held for sale 824 824 Total on Balance Sheet exposures 10,311 2,228 5,576 9,581 27,696 (2) Total notional amounts of off Balance Sheet exposures 2,027 674 1,068 4,302 8,071 Total maximum exposure to loss 12,338 2,902 6,644 13,883 35,767 (3) Total assets of the entities 52,230 9,869 16,101 332,443 410,643 (1) In prior years, Other Financing included exposures to structured entities where the Group had recourse only to assets of the structured entities. Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year and includes all exposures to structured entities. (2) Relates to undrawn facilities. (3) Size of the entities is generally the total assets of the entities, except for Real Estate Investment Trusts where the size is based on the Group’s credit exposure of $9,688 million. 257 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Unconsolidated structured entities (continued) The Group’s exposure to loss depends on the level of subordination of the interest, which indicates the extent to which other parties are obliged to absorb credit losses before the Group. An overview of the Group’s interests, relative ranking and external credit rating, for vehicles that have credit subordination in place, is summarised in the table below, and include securitisation vehicles and other financing. 30 Jun 19 Other Ranking and credit rating of exposures RMBS ABS Financing Total to unconsolidated structured entities $M $M $M $M Senior (1) 12,269 2,807 5,993 21,069 (2) Mezzanine 88 88 Total maximum exposure to loss 12,357 2,807 5,993 21,157 (1) All ABS and RMBS exposures and $3,901 million of other financing exposures are rated investment grade. $2,092 million of other financing exposures are sub-investment grade. (2) All RMBS exposures are rated investment grade. 30 Jun 18 (1) Other Ranking and credit rating of exposures RMBS ABS Financing Total to unconsolidated structured entities $M $M $M $M (2) Senior 12,254 2,902 6,644 21,800 (3) Mezzanine 84 84 Total maximum exposure to loss 12,338 2,902 6,644 21,884 (1) In prior years, Other Financing included exposures to structured entities where the Group had recourse only to assets of the structured entities. Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year and includes all exposures to structured entities. (2) All ABS exposures, $12,240 million of RMBS exposures and $4,067 million of other financing exposures are rated investment grade. $14 million of RMBS and $2,577 million of other financing exposures are sub-investment grade. (3) All RMBS exposures are rated investment grade. Sponsored unconsolidated structured entities For the purposes of this disclosure, the Group sponsors an entity when it manages or advises the entity’s program, places securities into the market on behalf of the entity, provides liquidity and/or credit enhancements to the entity, or the Group’s name appears in the Structured Entity. As at 30 June 2019, the Group has not sponsored any unconsolidated structured entities. 258 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Subsidiaries The consolidated financial report comprises the financial report of the Bank and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities (including structured entities) over which the Bank has control. The Bank controls an entity when it has:  power over the relevant activities of the entity, for example through voting or other rights;  exposure to, or rights to, variable returns from the Bank’s involvement with the entity; and  the ability to use its power over the entity to affect the Bank’s returns from the entity. Consolidation of structured entities The Group exercises judgement at inception and periodically thereafter, to assess whether that structured entity should be consolidated based on the Bank’s power over the relevant activities of the entity and the significance of its exposure to variable returns of the structured entity. Such assessments are predominately required for the Group’s securitisation program, structured transactions and involvement with investment funds. Transactions between subsidiaries in the Group are eliminated. Non-controlling interests and the related share of profits in subsidiaries are shown separately in the consolidated Income Statement, Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity, and Balance Sheet. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and de-consolidated when control ceases. Subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less accumulated impairments at the Bank level. Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. At the acquisition date, the cost of the business is the fair value of the purchase consideration, measured as the aggregate of the fair values of assets transferred, equity instruments issued, or liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured at fair value on the acquisition date. Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the Group’s share of assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed on the date of acquisition. If there is a deficit instead, this discount on acquisition is recognised directly in the consolidated Income Statement, but only after a reassessment of the identification and measurement of the net assets acquired. Investments in associates and joint ventures Associates and joint ventures are entities over which the Group has significant influence or joint control, but not control. In the consolidated financial report, they are equity accounted. They are initially recorded at cost and adjusted for the Group’s share of the associates’ and joint ventures’ post-acquisition profits or losses and other comprehensive income (OCI), less any dividends received. At the Bank level, they are accounted for at cost less accumulated impairments. The Group assesses, at each Balance Sheet date, whether there is any objective evidence of impairment. If there is an indication that an investment may be impaired, then the entire carrying amount of the investment in associate or joint venture is tested for impairment by comparing the recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less disposal costs) with the carrying amount. Impairment losses recognised in the Income Statement are subsequently reversed through the Income Statement if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised. Banking transactions are entered into with related parties in the normal course of business on an arm’s length basis. These include loans, deposits and foreign currency transactions, upon which some fees and commissions may be earned. Details of amounts paid or received from related parties, in the form of dividends or interest, are set out in Notes 2.3 and 2.1. The Bank’s aggregate investments in, and loans to controlled entities are disclosed in the table below. Amounts due to controlled entities are disclosed in the Balance Sheet of the Bank. Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M Shares in controlled entities 10,728 11,821 Loans to controlled entities 109,465 106,431 Total shares in and loans to controlled entities 120,193 118,252 As at 30 June 2019, loans to controlled entities in the table above are presented net of $21 million provisions for impairment. 259 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements The Group receives fees on an arm’s length basis of $61 million (2018: $118 million) from funds included in assets held for sale. The Bank provides letters of comfort to other entities within the Group on standard terms. Guarantees include a $175 million (2018: $175 million) guarantee to AFS license holders in respect of excess compensation claims. During the year ended 30 June 2019, the Bank entered into reimbursement arrangements totalling $396 million with its subsidiaries, Avanteos Investments Limited, Count Financial Limited, Financial Wisdom Limited and Commonwealth Financial Planning Limited (for the Pathways business (CFPL)), to cover potential remediation of ongoing service failures to customers, deceased estates, and inappropriate advice and other matters. This amount includes $374 million for Aligned Advice remediation and $22 million for other wealth remediation programs. The Group and the Bank have provided for these costs. The Bank is the head entity of the tax consolidated group and has entered into tax funding and tax sharing agreements with its eligible Australian resident subsidiaries. The details of these agreements are set out in Note 2.5. The amount receivable by the Bank under the tax funding agreement with the tax consolidated entities is $320 million as at 30 June 2019 (2018: $283 million receivable). This balance is included in ‘Other assets’ in the Bank’s separate Balance Sheet. All transactions between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation. Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial or operational decisions, or a separate party controls both. The definition includes subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, pension plans as well as other persons. Completed transactions Life insurance business in New Zealand On 21 September 2017, the Group announced the sale of 100% of its New Zealand life insurance business (Sovereign) to AIA Group Limited (AIA) for $1.3 billion. The sale agreement includes a long-term partnership with AIA for the provision of life insurance products to customers in New Zealand. The sale of Sovereign completed on 2 July 2018, resulting in a total post-tax gain of $117 million (net of transaction and separation costs). This includes $135 million post-tax gain net of transaction and separation costs recognised during the year ended 30 June 2019, and $18 million post-tax transaction and separation costs recognised during the year ended 30 June 2018. TymeDigital SA On 1 November 2018, the Group completed the sale of Commonwealth Bank of South Africa (Holding Company) Limited (TymeDigital SA) to the minority shareholder, African Rainbow Capital, resulting in a total post-tax loss of $113 million. Colonial First State Global Asset Management On 31 October 2018, the Group announced the sale of Colonial First State Global Asset Management (CFSGAM) to Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (MUTB). The sale of CFSGAM completed on 2 August 2019, resulting in final sale proceeds of $4.2 billion and a total post tax gain of $1.5 billion (inclusive of separation costs and subject to final tax calculations and completion adjustments). Ongoing transactions Life insurance businesses in Australia On 21 September 2017, the Group announced the 100% sale of its Australian life insurance businesses (CommInsure Life) to AIA for $2.5 billion. The sale agreement includes a long-term partnership with AIA for the provision of life insurance products to customers in Australia. The sale of CommInsure Life remains subject to the completion of the transfer of the Group’s stake in BoCommLife out of CommInsure Life and its associated Chinese regulatory approvals. The Group and AIA remain fully committed to completing the CommInsure Life transaction. The Group and AIA are also well progressed in exploring an alternative path to complete the CommInsure Life transaction prior to the transfer of the Group’s stake in BoCommLife. The alternative path is expected to be subject only to Australian regulatory approvals. The Group expects to be able to provide further details of this alternative path by the end of the first quarter of the financial year 2020, if the sale of BoCommLife has not substantially progressed in that timeframe. BoCommLife On 23 May 2018, the Group announced the sale of its 37.5% equity interest in BoCommLife to Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co. Ltd (MSI). On completion, CBA is expected to receive proceeds of approximately $891 million. The sale of BoCommLife is subject to Chinese regulatory approvals, and is expected to be completed in the second half of the calendar year 2019. 260 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Ongoing transactions (continued) PT Commonwealth Life On 23 October 2018, the Group announced the sale of its 80% interest in its Indonesian life insurance business, PT Commonwealth Life (PTCL), to FWD Group (FWD). As part of the sale, CBA’s Indonesian banking subsidiary, PT Bank Commonwealth (PTBC), will enter into a 15-year life insurance distribution partnership with FWD. On completion, CBA is expected to receive $426 million in consideration for the sale of PTCL and entering the distribution partnership. The sale is subject to regulatory approvals in Indonesia and is now expected to complete in the second half of calendar year 2019. Count Financial On 13 June 2019, the Group announced the sale of its 100% interest in Count Financial Limited (Count Financial) to CountPlus Limited (CountPlus) for $2.5 million. Completion is expected to occur in October 2019. Upon completion, the Group will provide an indemnity to CountPlus capped at $200 million. This indemnity amount represents a potential contingent liability of $56 million in excess of a $144 million Count Financial remediation provision included in the Group’s total Aligned Advice provision of $534 million as at 30 June 2019. Refer to Note 7.1 for further information. The assets and liabilities of Count Financial have been presented as held for sale as at 30 June 2019. Count Financial has not been classified as a discontinued operation. Financial impact of discontinued operations on the Group The performance and net cash flows of the Group’s interests in CommInsure Life, Sovereign, BoCommLife, PTCL, CFSGAM and TymeDigital SA are set out in the tables below: Full Year Ended (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M Net interest income 6 (9) Other banking income 20 21 20 Net banking operating income 26 21 11 Funds management income 1,102 1,194 1,138 Investment revenue 391 503 513 Claims, policyholder liability and commission revenue/(expense) (548) (604) (644) Net funds management operating income 945 1,093 1,007 Premiums from insurance contracts 1,256 2,066 2,305 Investment revenue 539 367 216 Claims, policyholder liability and commission expense from insurance contracts (1,503) (1,702) (1,861) Net insurance operating income 292 731 660 Total net operating income before operating expenses 1,263 1,845 1,678 Operating expenses (938) (1,110) (989) Net profit before tax 325 735 689 Income tax expense (48) (172) (176) Policyholder tax (50) (58) (32) Net profit after tax and before transaction and separation costs 227 505 481 Losses on disposals of businesses net of transaction and separation costs (9) (227) Non-controlling interests (7) (6) (11) Net profit after income tax from discontinued operations attributable to Equity 211 272 470 holders of the Bank (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. 261 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Earnings per share for profit from discontinued operations attributable to equity holders of the parent: Full Year Ended (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Cents per Share Earnings per share from discontinued operations: Basic 11. 9 15. 5 27. 4 Diluted 11. 1 14. 5 25. 9 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. Cash flow statement Full Year Ended (1) (2) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M Net cash used in operating activities (563) (543) (739) Net cash from investing activities 809 1,080 1,120 Net cash used in financing activities (180) (659) (122) Net cash (outflows)/inflows from discontinued operations 66 (122) 259 (1) Comparative information has been restated to conform to presentation in the current year. (2) Represents cash flows from the underlying businesses classified as discontinued operations and excludes proceeds from disposal. 262 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Balance sheet The balance sheet of the Group’s interest in CommInsure Life, Sovereign, BoCommLife, PTCL, CFSGAM and Count Financial are set out in the table below. TymeDigital SA did not meet the held for sale classification criteria as at 30 June 2018. Count Financial met the held for sale criteria as at 30 June 2019 but has not been reclassified as a discontinued operation. As at (1) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Assets held for sale $M $M Cash and liquid assets 354 108 Assets at fair value through Income Statement 10,417 11,867 Investment securities at fair value through other comprehensive income 260 Available-for-sale investments 10 Intangible assets 2,049 1,372 Property, plant and equipment 1,510 1,225 Investment in associates and joint ventures 607 401 Deferred tax assets 145 13 Other assets 1,207 630 (2) Total assets 16,549 15,626 Liabilities held for sale Insurance policy liabilities 10,854 11,188 Deferred tax liabilities 404 763 Deposits and other public borrowings 1,268 871 Managed funds units on issue 2,197 1,698 Other liabilities 1,073 380 Total liabilities 15,796 14,900 (1) Intragroup balances have been eliminated; however it will impact the final gain/loss on disposal of the discontinued operations. (2) Includes assets of Count Financial classified as held for sale as at 30 June 2019 and assets of the businesses classified as discontinued operations. Excludes other assets classified as held for sale. As at 30 June 2019, the foreign currency translation reserve relating to discontinued operations was $69 million (30 June 2018: $63 million, 30 June 2017: $61 million); the investment securities revaluation reserve relating to discontinued operations was $11 million. As at 30 June 2018 and 30 June 2017, the available-for-sale investments revaluation reserve relating to discontinued operations was $4 million and $13 million respectively. 263 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements This section includes other information about the Group’s operations that is disclosed to provide a more complete view of our business. It includes customer related commitments and contingent liabilities that arise in the ordinary course of business through certain lending arrangements. In addition, it covers the impact of adopting new accounting standards, notes to the statement of cash flows, lease commitments and remuneration of auditors. Finally, details of events that have taken place subsequent to the Balance Sheet date are provided. Details of contingent liabilities and off Balance Sheet instruments are presented below and in Note 7.1. The face (contract) value, as disclosed below, represents the maximum amount that could be lost if the counterparty fails to meet its financial obligations. The credit equivalent amounts are a measure of potential loss to the Group in the event of non-performance by the counterparty. The credit commitments shown in the table below also constitute contingent assets. These commitments would be classified as loans and other assets in the Balance Sheet should they be drawn upon by the customer. Group Face Value Credit Equivalent 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Credit risk related instruments $M $M $M $M Guarantees 6,506 6,265 5,387 5,185 Documentary letters of credit 326 761 322 753 Performance related contingents 4,722 4,610 2,362 2,531 Commitments to provide credit 162,202 162,090 154,408 157,636 Other commitments 2,050 1,470 2,040 1,470 Total credit risk related instruments 175,806 175,196 164,519 167,575 Bank Face Value Credit Equivalent 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Credit risk related instruments $M $M $M $M Guarantees 6,026 5,835 4,907 4,754 Documentary letters of credit 249 720 248 715 Performance related contingents 4,722 4,593 2,362 2,514 Commitments to provide credit 146,483 147,098 140,035 144,102 Other commitments 1,973 1,360 1,963 1,360 Total credit risk related instruments 159,453 159,606 149,515 153,445 264 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Credit default financial guarantees are unconditional undertakings given to support the obligations of a customer to third parties. Other forms of financial guarantees include documentary letters of credit which are undertakings by the Group to pay or accept drafts drawn by a supplier of goods against presentation of documents in the event of payment default by a customer. Financial guarantees are recognised within other liabilities and are initially measured at their fair value, equal to the premium received. Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group’s liability under each guarantee is measured at the higher of the amount initially recognised less cumulative amortisation recognised in the Income Statement, and the expected credit loss recognised under AASB 9. Any increase in the liability relating to financial guarantees is recorded in the Income Statement. The premium received is recognised in the Income Statement in other operating income on a straight line basis over the life of the guarantee. Performance related contingencies are undertakings that oblige the Group to pay third parties should a customer fail to fulfil a contractual nonmonetary obligation. Performance related contingencies are performance guarantees and do not meet the definition of a financial guarantee, because they do not transfer credit risk. Performance guarantees are recognised when it is probable that an obligation has arisen. The amount of any provision is the best estimate of the amount required to fulfil the obligation. Commitments to provide credit include all obligations on the part of the Group to provide credit facilities (unutilised credit lines or undrawn portions of credit lines) against which clients can borrow money under defined terms and conditions. Such loan commitments are made either for a fixed period, or are cancellable by the Group subject to notice conditions. As facilities may expire without being drawn upon, the notional amounts do not necessarily reflect future cash requirements. Under AASB 9 loan commitments must be measured with reference to the quantum of expected credit losses required to be recognised. In the case of undrawn loan commitments, the inherent credit risk is managed and monitored by the Group together with the drawn component as a single credit exposure. The exposure at default on the entire facility is therefore used to calculate the cumulative expected credit losses. Upon a loan drawdown by the counterparty, the amount of the loan is accounted for in accordance with accounting policies for loans and receivables. Other commitments to provide credit include commitments with certain drawdowns, standby letters of credit and bill endorsements. The details of the Group’s accounting policies and critical judgements and estimates involved in calculating the AASB 9 impairment provisions for the year ended 30 June 2019 are provided in Note 1.1. Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M Lease Commitments Property, Plant and Equipment Due within one year 673 681 626 619 Due after one year but not later than five years 1,805 1,764 1,668 1,593 Due after five years 1,600 1,811 1,466 1,658 Total lease commitments property, plant and equipment 4,078 4,256 3,760 3,870 Lease arrangements Operating leases are entered into to meet the business needs of entities in the Group. Leases are primarily over commercial and retail premises and plant and equipment. Lease rentals are determined in accordance with market conditions when leases are entered into or on rental review dates. The total expected future sublease payments to be received are $77 million as at 30 June 2019 (2018: $88 million). 265 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements (a) Reconciliation of net profit after income tax to net cash provided by/ (used in) operating activities Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M $M Net profit after income tax 8,590 9,348 9,952 7,783 8,875 (Increase)/decrease in interest receivable (36) (62) (14) 537 (17) (Decrease)/increase in interest payable (69) 112 (26) (104) 243 Net (increase)/decrease in assets at fair value through (4,935) 1,536 2,788 (3,089) 2,079 Income Statement (excluding life insurance) Net loss/(gain) on sale of controlled entities and associates 61 184 (2) 236 172 Net movement in derivative assets/liabilities 6,606 3,381 (492) 8,873 4,830 Net loss/(gain) on sale of property, plant and equipment 9 17 (6) 11 17 Equity accounting (profit)/loss (231) (287) (292) 63 7 Loan impairment expense 1,201 1,079 1,095 1,058 963 Depreciation and amortisation (including asset 1,011 968 1,229 912 777 write downs) (Decrease)/increase in liabilities at fair value through (603) (258) 121 (1,013) (41) Income Statement (excluding life insurance) Increase in other provisions 783 156 114 722 205 (Decrease)/increase in income taxes payable (1,082) (461) 603 (1,573) (484) (Decrease)/increase in deferred tax liabilities (457) 400 (14) (27) Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets 67 (538) (573) (140) (106) (Increase)/decrease in accrued fees/reimbursements (111) 20 (238) (53) (68) receivable (Decrease)/increase in accrued fees and other items (340) 631 18 (775) 801 payable Decrease in life insurance contract policy liabilities (787) (836) (1,240) Cash flow hedge ineffectiveness (4) (4) (20) (6) 4 Loss/(gain) on changes in fair value of hedged items 558 (765) 799 (624) (763) Dividend received controlled entities and associates (1,473) (2,085) Changes in operating assets and liabilities arising from cash 6,577 (15,461) (15,228) 7,157 (15,771) flow movements Other 1,278 1,949 619 635 1,953 Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities 18,086 1,109 (807) 19,110 1,591 (b) Reconciliation of cash For the purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, cash includes cash and money at short call. Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $M $M $M $M $M Notes, coins and cash at banks 16,930 17,110 14,836 15,633 15,586 Other short-term liquid assets 80 5,895 8,281 (99) 5,765 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 17,010 23,005 23,117 15,534 21,351 266 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 (c) Non-cash financing and investing activities Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M Shares issued under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan 748 2,105 1,143 (d) Disposal of controlled entities Group 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 $M $M $M Net assets 1,128 Cash consideration received 1,304 Cash and cash equivalents held in disposed entities 45 During the financial year, the following fees were paid or payable for services provided by the auditor of the Group and the Bank, and its network firms: Group Bank 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 a) Audit and audit related services Audit services PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 23,858 21,292 16,776 14,040 Network firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 5,334 5,939 1,204 1,027 Total remuneration for audit services 29,192 27,231 17,980 15,067 Audit related services PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 3,809 4,416 2,630 3,736 Network firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 1,697 2,133 34 145 Total remuneration for audit related services 5,506 6,549 2,664 3,881 Total remuneration for audit and audit related services 34,698 33,780 20,644 18,948 b) Non-audit services Taxation services PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 925 757 228 561 Network firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 470 1,508 266 481 Total remuneration for tax related services 1,395 2,265 494 1,042 Other Services PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 7,315 10,955 7,315 10,933 Network firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 600 66 3 Total remuneration for other services 7,915 11,021 7,318 10,933 Total remuneration for non-audit services 9,310 13,286 7,812 11,975 (1) Total remuneration for audit and non-audit services 44,008 47,066 28,456 30,923 (1) An additional amount of $10,497,464 (2018: $11,850,256) was paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers by way of fees for entities not consolidated into the Financial Statements. Of this amount, $7,521,734 (2018: $8,093,111) relates to audit and audit-related services. 267 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements The Audit Committee has considered the non-audit services provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers and is satisfied that the services and the level of fees are compatible with maintaining auditors’ independence. All such services were approved by the Audit Committee in accordance with pre-approved policies and procedures. Audit related services principally include assurance and attestation relating to sustainability reporting and comfort letters over financing programmes as well as reviews of internal control systems. Taxation services include assistance with tax software configuration as well as advice regarding tax returns and submissions, and Australia/foreign tax legislation. Other services include benchmarking and process reviews on the Bank’s response to the Royal Commission, IT security assessments, and consulting services related to corporate transactions. Adoption of AASB 16 ‘Leases’ On 1 July 2019, the Group adopted AASB 16 ‘Leases’ replacing the previous standard AASB 117 ‘Leases’. AASB 117 required leases to be classified as operating leases or finance leases according to their economic substance at inception of the lease. Finance leases were recognised on the Balance Sheet. Operating leases were not recognised on the Balance Sheet and rent payable was recognised as an expense over the lease term. AASB 16 introduces a single accounting model for recognising and measuring lease arrangements. A contract contains a lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time. Lessor accounting remains largely unchanged from the previous standard. Under lessee accounting, AASB 16 requires all leases to be recognised on the Balance Sheet, unless the underlying asset is of low value or the lease has a term of 12 months or less. From 1 July 2019, the Group will recognise a ‘right-of-use asset’ representing its right to use leased assets and a ‘lease liability’, measured as the present value of future lease payments. The income statement will include depreciation of the right-of-use asset and interest expense on the lease liability over the lease term. Total lease expense recognised over the life of a lease remains unchanged as compared to AASB 117, however the timing of expense recognition changes, with a higher expense recognised in the earlier stages of a lease due to the interest expense being determined on the lease liability that amortises over the lease term. The Group has applied the modified retrospective approach in adopting AASB 16, and measured the right-of-use asset for certain existing premises as if AASB 16 has always been applied. The resulting transition adjustments will be recognised in opening retained profits. For other leases, the right-of-use asset is measured as equal to the lease liability. Under this approach no restatement to comparative information is required. The adoption of AASB 16 is expected to increase assets by approximately $2,755 million and increase liabilities by approximately $2,951 million. This will result in a post-tax decrease in retained profits of $138 million and an increase in deferred tax asset of $58 million. This predominantly relates to leases over the Group’s commercial and retail premises. Management judgement applied in determining these values includes the determination of whether an arrangement contains a lease, the term of the lease, the discount rate and future lease cash flows. Interest Rate Benchmark Reform Interbank offered rates (IBORs), such as LIBOR, play a critical role in global financial markets, serving as reference rates for derivatives, loans and securities, and as parameters in the valuation of financial instruments. The global regulatory community has initiated various programmes to develop alternative benchmarks (known as “IBOR reform”) within certain jurisdictions. In response to the uncertainty about the long-term viability of these benchmark rates, the IASB announced in 2018 that it would establish a project to consider the financial reporting implications of the reform. It is expected to have an impact on various elements of financial instrument accounting, including hedge accounting, loan modifications, as well as fair value methodologies and disclosures. In May 2019, the IASB published an Exposure Draft Interest Rate Benchmark Reform which proposes exceptions to specific hedge accounting requirements in IFRS 9 and IAS 39. The IASB expects to issue final guidance later in 2019. The Group is monitoring these developments and continues to assess the expected impact. 268 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Other Accounting Developments AASB 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, amends the accounting for insurance contracts and will replace AASB 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’, AASB 1023 ‘General Insurance Contracts’ and AASB 1038 ‘Life Insurance Contracts’. AASB 17 will apply to the Group from 1 July 2021. The impact of AASB 17 is dependent on the Group’s composition at the time of adoption. The Group is still assessing the impact of AASB 17. AASB Interpretation 23 ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments’ (Interpretation 23) clarifies the recognition and measurement criteria where there is uncertainty over income tax treatments. It requires an assessment of each uncertain tax position to determine whether it is probable that a taxation authority will accept the position. Where it is not considered probable, the effect of the uncertainty will be reflected in determining the relevant taxable profit or loss, tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits or tax rates. The amount will be determined as either the single most likely amount or the sum of the probability weighted amounts in a range of possible outcomes, whichever better predicts the resolution of the uncertainty. Judgements will be reassessed as and when new facts and circumstances are presented. Interpretation 23 will apply to the Group from 1 July 2019, and is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group. A revised conceptual framework has been issued, which contains new definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses in the framework. These changes will apply to the Group from 1 July 2020, where the criteria are not inconsistent with the specific requirements of an accounting standard. The changes are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group. Other amendments to existing standards that are not yet effective are not expected to result in significant changes to the Group's accounting policies. The Group adopted AASB 9 and AASB 15 on 1 July 2018. The Group’s current accounting policies for the recognition and measurement of financial assets are detailed in Notes 3.1, 3.2, 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 and the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers is detailed in Note 2.3. A summary of accounting policies that applied to financial instruments and revenue recognition for the comparative periods is provided below. Financial instruments The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories:  available-for-sale investments;  loans and receivables;  financial assets at fair value through the Income Statement; and  derivative assets. The classification of financial instruments at initial recognition depends on their purpose, characteristics and management’s intention when acquiring them. Available-for-sale investments The Group Available-for-sale (AFS) investments are non-derivative financial assets that are not classified at fair value through the Income Statement or as loans and receivables. They primarily include public debt securities held as part of the Group’s liquidity portfolio. Subsequent to initial recognition, AFS investments are measured at fair value with unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised in the AFS investment reserve within equity, net of applicable income taxes until such investments are sold, collected, otherwise disposed of, or become impaired. Interest, premiums and dividends are recognised in the Income Statement when earned. Foreign exchange gains and losses on AFS equity instruments are recognised directly in equity. The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date, whether there is any objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events which have an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the AFS investments that can be reliably estimated. For equity securities classified as an AFS investment, the main indicators of impairment are significant changes in the market, economic or legal environment and a significant or prolonged decline in fair value below cost. If any such evidence exists for AFS investments, cumulative losses are removed from equity and recognised in the Income Statement. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of an AFS debt security increases and the increase can be linked objectively to an event occurring after the impairment event, the impairment is reversed through the Income Statement. Impairment losses on AFS equity securities are not reversed. Upon disposal, the accumulated change in fair value within the AFS investments reserve is transferred to the Income Statement and reported within Other Banking Income. 269 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Notes to the financial statements Financial instruments (continued) Loans and receivables Loans, bills discounted and other receivables are financial assets, with fixed and determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loans, bills discounted and other receivables include overdrafts, home loans, credit card and other personal lending, term loans, discounted bills and finance leases. Loans and receivables are recognised on settlement date, when funding is advanced to the borrowers. The loans and receivables are initially recognised at their fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs such as broker fees. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method and are presented net of provisions for impairment. Discounted bills are included in this category due to their financing nature, however they meet the definition of a trading asset. They are measured at fair value through the Income Statement with directly attributable transaction costs expensed. The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether there is any objective evidence of impairment. If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and other receivables has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset's carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred), discounted at the financial asset's original effective interest rate. Short-term balances are not discounted. Loans and other receivables are presented net of provisions for loan impairment. Guarantees and other contingent liabilities are accounted for as off Balance Sheet items. Provisioning for these exposures is calculated under AASB 137 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’. Loan assets under committed lending facilities are not recognised until the facilities are drawn upon. However, the Group has determined that it is appropriate to establish provisions in relation to such facilities where a customer has been downgraded. These provisions are disclosed as other liabilities in the Balance Sheet. Provisions for impairment of financial assets are raised to cover assessed credit related losses where there is objective evidence of impairment (i.e. where the Group does not expect to receive all of the cash flows contractually due). Individually assessed provisions against loans are subject to change as new information becomes available to reassess the level of impairment against a loan. Loans and receivables that do not have an individually assessed provision are assessed collectively for impairment. The collective provision is maintained to reduce the carrying amount of portfolios of similar loans and receivables to their estimated recoverable amounts at the Balance Sheet date. Increases or decreases in the provision amount are recognised in the Income Statement. Financial assets at fair value through the Income Statement These assets are categorised as assets held for trading, insurance assets and other investments. Trading assets are those acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term. Insurance assets are investments that back life insurance and life investment contracts. Other assets are those that are designated at fair value through Income Statement at inception. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in Other Banking Income. Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially measured at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, gains or losses on derivatives are recognised in the Income Statement, unless they are entered into for hedging purposes and designated into a cash flow hedge. Revenue recognition Lending fees and commission income include:  Facility fees earned for managing and administering credit and other facilities for customers, which are recognised over the service period;  Commitment fees to originate a loan that is unlikely to be drawn down which are recognised when the commitment is issued; and  Fee income earned for providing advisory or arrangement services, placement and underwriting services, which are recognised when the related service is completed. Trading income represents both realised and unrealised gains and losses from changes in the fair value of trading assets, liabilities and derivatives, which are recognised in the period in which they arise. Net gain/(loss) on non-trading financial instruments includes realised gains and losses from non-trading financial assets and liabilities (i.e. available-for-sale investments), as well as realised and unrealised gains and losses on non-trading derivatives that are held for risk management purposes. Net gain/(loss) on the sale of property, plant and equipment is the difference between proceeds received and their carrying values. Net hedging ineffectiveness is measured on fair value, cash flow and net investment hedges. Dividends received on non-trading equity investments including controlled entities are recognised either on the ex-dividend date or when the right to receive payment is established. 270 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Revenue recognition (continued) Net funds management operating income includes fees earned where the Group acts as the Responsible Entity, Trustee or Manager for a number of wholesale, superannuation, and investment funds or trusts. Management fees are recognised over the service period. Performance fees are recognised when it is probable that the revenue will be received. General insurance premiums received and receivable are recognised as revenue when they are earned, based on actuarial assessment of the likely pattern in which risk will emerge. The portion not yet earned based on the pattern assessment is recognised as unearned premium liability. Claims are recognised as an expense when the liability is established. The Group recognises its share of the profits or losses from associate or joint venture investments, less any dividends received or impairment recognised. Other income includes rental income on operating leases which are recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term. This is offset by depreciation and impairment expense on the associated operating lease assets held by the Group. For the Bank, this includes management fee income for services provided to subsidiaries. Other income also includes the impact of foreign currency revaluations for foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities. These assets and liabilities are retranslated at the spot rate at balance date. Exchange differences arising upon settling or translating monetary items at different rates to those at which they were initially recognised or previously reported, are recognised in the Income Statement. Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRP) The Bank expects the DRP for the final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2019 will be satisfied in full by an on-market purchase and transfer of shares of approximately $683 million. Completion of CFSGAM Sale On 31 October 2018, the Group announced the sale of Colonial First State Global Asset Management (CFSGAM) to Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (MUTB). The sale of CFSGAM completed on 2 August 2019, resulting in final sale proceeds of $4.2 billion and a total post tax gain of $1.5 billion (inclusive of separation costs and subject to final tax calculations and completion adjustments). Update on Aligned Advice businesses Ceasing to provide licensee services through Financial Wisdom The Group has decided to cease providing licensee services through Financial Wisdom and will proceed with an assisted closure. The Group will support advisers through an orderly transition to alternative arrangements, including self-licensing or joining another licensee. The Group will also continue to manage customer remediation arising from past issues at Financial Wisdom. The cost of customer remediation for Financial Wisdom has been included in customer remediation provisions recognised by the Group during the year. Commonwealth Financial Planning Limited-Pathways (CFP-Pathways) advisers to transition to new licensee arrangements In July 2019, the Group reached a decision to allow CFP-Pathways advisers to transition to self-licensing arrangements or move to another licensee. The estimated pre-tax costs of supporting the Financial Wisdom and CFP-Pathways businesses, their advisers and their customers through this transition, as well as other internal project costs, is approximately $26 million. Investment in Klarna Holding AB (Klarna) The Group has committed an investment of US$100 million into Klarna Holding AB (Klarna), as part of their US$460 million capital raise. The Group will become Klarna’s exclusive partner in Australia and New Zealand and intends to further invest at the parent and local level to support this partnership. 271 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Directors’ declaration The Directors of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia declare that in their opinion: (a) the consolidated financial statements and notes for the year ended on 30 June 2019, as set out on pages 112 to 271, are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), including: (i) complying with the Australian Accounting Standards and any further requirements in the Corporations Regulations 2001; and (ii) giving a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position as at 30 June 2019 and its performance for the year ended 30 June 2019; (b) there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Commonwealth Bank of Australia will be able to pay its debts as and when they become due and payable. Note 1.1 of the consolidated financial statements includes a statement of compliance with the International Financial Reporting Standards. The Directors have been given the declarations required by section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) for the year ended 30 June 2019. This declaration is made in accordance with a resolution of the Directors. Catherine Livingstone AO Matt Comyn Chairman Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 7 August 2019 7 August 2019 272 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Independent auditor’s report To the members of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia Report on the audit of the financial report Our opinion In our opinion: The accompanying financial report of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia (the Bank) and its controlled entities (together the Group) is in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: a. giving a true and fair view of the Bank's and Group's financial positions as at 30 June 2019 and of their financial performance for the year then ended; and b. complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001. What we have audited The Bank and Group financial report comprises:  the Bank and the Group balance sheets as at 30 June 2019;  the Bank and the Group income statements for the year then ended;  the Bank and the Group statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended;  the Bank and the Group statements of changes in equity for the year then ended;  the Bank and the Group statements of cash flows for the year then ended;  the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies; and  the directors’ declaration. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report section of this report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence We are independent of the Bank and the Group in accordance with the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 and the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to our audit of the financial report in Australia. We have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo, GPO BOX 2650, SYDNEY NSW 2001 T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au 273 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Independent auditor’s report Our audit approach Bank and Group audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial report as a whole, taking into account the geographic and management structure of the Bank and the Group, their accounting processes and controls and the industries in which they operate. We also ensured that the audit team had the appropriate skills and competencies needed for the audit of a complex financial services group. This included industry expertise in retail, business and institutional banking, and insurance and wealth management financial services, as well as specialists and experts in IT, actuarial, tax, treasury and valuation. The Group is structured into 6 business segments being Retail Banking Services (RBS), Business and Private Banking (B&PB), Institutional Banking and Markets (IB&M), Wealth Management (WM), New Zealand (NZ), International Financial Services and Corporate Centre (IFS and Corporate Centre). In designing our scope we considered the structure of the Bank and the Group and further identified those entities or business activities within each business segment for which the Bank and the Group prepares financial information for inclusion in the financial report (referred to as components). The nature, timing and extent of audit work performed for each component was determined by the components’ risk characteristics and financial significance to the Bank and the Group and consideration of whether sufficient evidence had been obtained for our opinion on the financial report as a whole. This involved either:  an audit of the complete financial information of a component (full scope);  an audit of one or more of the component’s account balances, classes of transactions or disclosures (specified scope);  analytical procedures performed at the Group level; or  audit procedures at a Group level, including over the consolidation of the Group’s reporting units and the preparation of the financial report. Set out on the next page is an overview of our Bank and Group audit approach highlighting key aspects of our audit. 274 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 1 Full scope audits are performed for the purposes of standalone legal entity statutory financial reports as required. Bank and Group materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial report is free from material misstatement. Items are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users taken on the basis of the financial report. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall Bank and Group materiality for the financial report, which we have set out in the table below: Overall Bank and $510 million (2018: $615 million) Group materiality How we determined it Approximately 5% of 2019 financial year profit before tax (PBT) (2018: approximately 5% of 2018 financial year PBT) for the Bank. Rationale for the We chose net profit before income tax because, in our view, it is the metric materiality against which the performance of the Bank and the Group is most commonly benchmark applied measured and is a generally accepted benchmark in the financial services industry. We performed our audit over both the Bank and the Group financial information concurrently. We apply the lower of materiality calculated based on the Bank or the Group PBT in order to avoid duplication of work. As the Bank has a lower PBT, we calculated materiality based on the Bank PBT and applied this during the audit of both the Bank and the Group. We selected 5% based on our professional judgement noting that it is also within the range of commonly acceptable quantitative materiality measures. 275 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Independent auditor’s report Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial report for the current year. We describe each key audit matter and include a summary of the principal audit procedures we performed to address those matters in the table below. The key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial report as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Further, any commentary on the outcomes of a particular audit procedure is made in that context. We communicated the key audit matters to the Audit and Risk Committee. The key audit matters identified below relate to both the Bank and the Group audit with the exception of the valuation of insurance policy holder liabilities which relates only to the Group. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Loan impairment provisions (Bank and Group Level; Relevant components: RBS, B&PB, IB&M, NZ ASB) AASB 9 Financial Instruments was adopted by We developed an understanding of the controls the Bank and the Group for the financial year relevant to our audit over the following areas and beginning 1 July 2018. assessed whether they were appropriately designed and were operating effectively throughout the year Insofar as it applies to loan impairment provisions, on a sample basis: AASB 9 introduces an expected credit loss (ECL) impairment model which takes into account forward· Review and approval of forward looking information reflecting potential future looking information used in ECL economic events. The Bank and the Group developed models; new models which are reliant on data as well as a · Reliability and accuracy of critical data number of estimates including the impact of multiple elements used in ECL models; and economic scenarios and other assumptions such as · Review and approval of ECL model defining a significant increase in credit risk. adjustments and the ECL loan impairment provisions by the Bank’s We considered this a key audit matter due to and the Group’s Loan Loss the subjective judgements made by the Bank Provisioning Committee (LLPC). and the Group in determining when to recognise impairment provisions including: In addition to controls testing, we along with PwC actuarial experts, performed the · Models used to calculate ECLs (ECL following audit procedures, amongst others on models) are inherently complex and a sample basis: judgement is applied in determining the appropriate construct of model to be · Assessed the ECL model methodology applied; and applied against general market practice and the results of model · A number of assumptions are made by monitoring performed, including the Bank and Group concerning the back-testing of actual losses against values of inputs to the ECL models and predicted losses; how inputs correlate with one another. · Considered the Bank’s and the Provisions for impairment of loans that exceed Group’s judgements including the specific thresholds are individually assessed by reasonableness of forward-looking the Bank and the Group. These provisions are information incorporated into the ECL 276 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Loan impairment provisions (Bank and Group Level; Relevant components: RBS, B&PB, IB&M, NZ ASB) established based on the expected future cash models by assessing the forecasts, repayments and estimated proceeds from the assumptions and probability value of the collateral held by the Bank and the weightings applied in the multiple Group in respect of those loans. During the economic scenarios; financial year ended 30 June 2019, the · Agreed a sample of data used as input to majority of the Bank’s and the Group’s the ECL models to relevant source individually assessed provisions for specific documentations; lending assets related primarily to business and · Compared the modelled calculations to our corporate loans. own calculated expectations as determined by independently applying the model Relevant references in the financial methodology; and report · Assessed the appropriateness of model Refer notes 1.1 and 3.2 for further information. adjustments identified by the Bank and the Group against internal and external supporting information. For a selection of individually assessed provisions for specific lending assets, we performed the following audit procedures, amongst others: · Examined cashflow forecasts supporting the impairment calculation by assessing judgements (in particular the amount and timing of recoveries) made by the Bank and the Group in the context of the borrowers’ circumstances based on the detailed loan and counterparty information known by the Bank and the Group; and · Compared inputs in the Bank’s and the Group’s estimates (such as valuation of collateral held) to external information where available. We also assessed the appropriateness of the Group’s disclosures against the requirements of Australian Accounting Standards. 277 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Independent auditor’s report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Judgemental valuation of financial instruments (Bank and Group Level; Relevant components: IB&M, NZ – ASB, WM – Colonial Mutual Life Assurance) The Bank and Group hold financial We developed an understanding of the controls instruments measured at fair value relevant to our audit over the following areas and representing 14% of the total assets and 4% assessed whether they were appropriately designed of the total liabilities of the Bank and 15% of and were operating effectively throughout the year: the total assets and 4% of the total liabilities · Valuation model governance control of the Group. The financial instruments held framework; at fair value include: · Completeness and accuracy of data inputs, · Derivative assets and liabilities; including sourcing independent market · Investment securities at fair value data inputs; though other comprehensive income; · Methodology for the determination of fair · Life insurance assets and liabilities; value adjustments; and and · The Bank and Group’s assessment of its · Bills discounted and other assets and own models used to measure fair value. liabilities designated at fair value. In relation to the fair value of financial instruments The majority of the Bank’s and the Group’s as at 30 June 2019, together with PwC valuation financial instruments are considered to be experts, we compared the Bank’s and the Group’s non-complex in nature as fair value is based calculation of fair value to our own independent on prices and rates that can be easily calculation across a sample of financial observed in the relevant markets. On this instruments. This involved sourcing independent basis the majority of the Bank’s and the inputs from market data providers or external Group’s financial instruments are classified sources and using our own valuation models. We under Australian Accounting Standards as considered the results to assess whether there was either ‘Level 1’ (i.e. where key inputs to the evidence of systemic bias or error in the Bank and valuation is based on quoted prices in the the Group’s calculation of fair value. market) or ‘Level 2’ (i.e. where key inputs to the valuation is based on observable prices in the market). We considered these Level 1 and Level 2 financial instruments to be a key audit matter due to their financial significance to the Bank and the Group. The Group also holds a limited number of financial instruments considered to be ‘Level 3’ in nature under Australian Accounting Standards (i.e. where key inputs to the valuation require additional judgement as observable inputs are not available in the market due to market illiquidity or complexity of the product) primarily in respect to complex derivatives, certain assetbacked securities and infrastructure funds. While the Bank’s and the Group’s holdings of such instruments is limited relative to total 278 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Judgemental valuation of financial instruments (Bank and Group Level; Relevant components: IB&M, NZ – ASB, WM – Colonial Mutual Life Assurance) financial instrument holdings, we considered their valuation to be a key audit matter because there is more judgement involved in determining their value. Relevant references in the financial report Refer notes 1.1, 4.2, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4 and 9.5 for further information. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provisions for customer remediation and project costs associated with regulatory compliance matters (Bank and Group level; Relevant components: All) The Bank and the Group have assessed the We developed an understanding of the Bank’s need to raise provisions in relation to and the Group’s processes for identifying and assessing the impact of customer remediation customer remediation payments, legal payments, legal proceedings and project costs proceedings, project costs associated with associated with compliance matters and compliance matters and investigations and investigations and reviews from its regulators. reviews from its regulators including APRA’s We read the minutes of the Bank’s main Enforceable Undertaking, amongst others. governance meetings (i.e. Audit Committee, Risk We considered this a key audit matter due to Committee and Board of Directors), attended the Bank’s Audit and Risk Committee meetings and the subjective judgements required by the considered correspondence with relevant Bank and the Group in determining: regulatory bodies. · the probability of financial outcomes We discussed ongoing legal matters with the based on available information; directors and management. We obtained written · the estimate of customer remediation representations from the Group Chief Executive payment amounts; and Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Group · the project costs associated with the General Counsel and obtained access to relevant documents in order to develop our remediation activities, and regulatory understanding of the matters. proceedings, investigations and reviews. For material provisions, we considered the Relevant references in the financial judgement as to whether there is potential material financial exposure for the Bank and the report Group, and if so, the amount of any provision Refer notes 1.1 and 7.1 for further information. required. This included · inspecting the Bank’s and the Group’s underlying calculations and assumptions made against available information; and 279 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Independent auditor’s report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provisions for customer remediation and project costs associated with regulatory compliance matters (Bank and Group level; Relevant components: All) · assessing assumptions in light of historical trends, if possible; or · developing an understanding of the basis of estimating the provisions and discussing the assumptions, including costs of identifying and remediating affected customers. Where the Bank and the Group determined that they were unable to reliably estimate the possible financial impact of a remediation activity or investigations, we considered relevant information available in relation to the activities and investigations to assess the appropriateness of this conclusion. We also assessed the adequacy of related disclosures against the requirements of Australian Accounting Standards. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of insurance policyholder liabilities (Group Level; Relevant components: WM Colonial Mutual Life Assurance) We considered this a key audit matter because To assess the appropriateness of a selection of the Group’s valuation of the provisions for the actuarial assumptions used to determine the settlement of future insurance claims involves value of insurance policyholder liabilities, we complex and subjective judgements about along with PwC actuarial experts performed future events, both internal and external to the the following audit procedures, amongst business, for which small changes in others: assumptions can result in a material impact to · Compared the methodology and the valuation of these liabilities. The Group’s models used by the Group to those insurance policyholder liabilities relate to the commonly applied in the insurance life insurance businesses. industry and recognised by regulatory In determining the valuation of the liabilities, standards; the key actuarial assumptions made by the · Developed an understanding of and Group’s experts include: evaluated the relevant controls the Group has in place over processes · Expected amount, timing and duration relating to the valuation of insurance of claims and/or policy payments, policyholder liabilities. This included likely lapse rates of policies by the Group’s use of models, the quality policyholders, mortality and morbidity of oversight and controls over rates, acquisition and maintenance assumptions within those models, and expenses; and the Group’s preparation of the 280 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of insurance policyholder liabilities (Group Level; Relevant components: WM Colonial Mutual Life Assurance) · Long term economic assumptions manually calculated components of the including inflation rates. liability; · Compared inputs (for example Relevant references in the financial inflation rates) used by the Group in report calculating the insurance policy Refer note 1.1 and 11.3 for further information. liability to relevant supporting evidence, such as external market WM – Colonial Mutual Life Assurance data; business segment was classified as a · Considered the impact of changes in discontinued operation as at 30 June 2019. assumptions and methodologies over the year and compared these to historical experience and industry trends; · Compared the underlying supporting data relating to policyholder information used in the Group's valuation to source documentation; and · Tested that all relevant policy data was included in the Group’s valuation models by reference to source systems. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Operation of financial reporting Information Technology (IT) systems and controls (Bank and Group Level; Relevant components: All) We considered this a key audit matter because For material financial statement balances we the Bank’s and the Group’s operations and developed an understanding of the business financial reporting processes are heavily processes, key controls and IT systems used to dependent on IT systems for the processing generate and support those balances. Our and recording of a significant volume of procedures included evaluating and testing the transactions. design and operating effectiveness of certain controls over the continued integrity of the IT In particular, in common with all banks, access systems that are relevant to financial rights to technology are important because reporting. This involved assessing: they are intended to ensure that changes to applications and data are appropriately · The technology control environment: authorised. Ensuring staff have appropriate the governance processes and access to IT systems, and that access is controls used to monitor and enforce monitored, are key controls in mitigating the control consciousness throughout the potential for fraud or error as a result of a Group’s technology teams; change to an application or underlying data. · Change management: the processes and controls used to develop, test and 281 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Independent auditor’s report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Operation of financial reporting Information Technology (IT) systems and controls (Bank and Group Level; Relevant components: All) The Bank’s and the Group’s controls over IT authorise changes to the functionality systems include: and configurations within systems; · System development: the project · The framework of governance over IT disciplines which ensure that new systems; systems are developed to meet a · Program development and changes; defined business need, are · Access to process, data and IT appropriately tested before operations; and implementation and that data is · Governance over generic and converted and transferred completely privileged user accounts. and accurately; · Security: the access controls designed to enforce segregation of duties, govern the use of generic and privileged accounts or ensure that data is only changed through authorised means; and · IT operations: the controls over key operations are used to ensure that any issues that arise are managed appropriately For IT operations within the scope of our audit where technology services are provided by a third party, we considered: · Assurance reports from the third party’s auditor on the design and operating effectiveness of controls; and · Managements monitoring control over the third party. We also carried out tests, on a sample basis, of system functionality that was key to our audit testing in order to assess the accuracy of certain system calculations, the generation of certain reports and the operation of certain system enforced access controls. Where we noted design or operating effectiveness matters relating to IT systems and applications controls relevant to our audit, we performed alternative or additional audit procedures. 282 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Other information The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual report for the year ended 30 June 2019, but does not include the financial report and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information and accordingly we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon, with the exception of our limited assurance report over the Non-Financial Performance Metrics as detailed in pages 297 to 304 of the annual report. In connection with our audit of the financial report, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of the directors for the financial report The directors of the Bank are responsible for the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Act 2001 and for such internal controls as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view and is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial report, the directors are responsible for assessing the ability of the Bank and the Group to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Bank or the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial report as a whole is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial report. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial report is located at the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: http://www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_responsibilities/ar1.pdf. This description forms part of our auditor's report. 283 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Independent auditor’s report Report on the Remuneration Report Our opinion on the Remuneration Report We have audited the information on pages 87 to 106 included as part of the Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 106 of the Directors’ Report for the year ended 30 June 2019. In our opinion, the Remuneration Report complies with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Responsibilities The directors of the Bank are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Remuneration Report in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Remuneration Report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. PricewaterhouseCoopers Matthew Lunn Sydney Partner 7 August 2019 284 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Other information Sharehtolder information286 Five year financial summary 292 Profit reconciliation 295 Environmental, customer, social and governance metrics 297 Glossary of terms 307 Contact information 319 285 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Shareholder information Top 20 holders of fully paid Ordinary Shares as at 15 July 2019 Rank Name of holder Number of shares % 1 HSBC Custody Nominees 397,409,964 22. 38 2 J P Morgan Nominees Australia 227,194,600 12. 79 3 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 107,321,430 6. 04 4 National Nominees Limited 54,993,385 3. 10 5 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 52,285,037 2. 94 6 Bond Street Custodians Limited 10,516,197 0. 59 7 Australian Foundation Investment 7,900,000 0. 44 8 Netwealth Investments Limited 3,671,926 0. 21 9 Navigator Australia 3,557,307 0. 20 10 Milton Corporation Limited 3,141,670 0. 18 11 Argo Investments Limited 3,103,731 0. 17 12 Nulis Nominees (Australia) 1,972,809 0. 11 13 Mr Barry Martin Lambert 1,643,613 0. 09 14 McCusker Holdings Pty Ltd 1,480,000 0. 08 15 Invia Custodian Pty Limited 1,466,696 0. 08 16 Australian Executor Trustees Limited <IPS SUPER A/C> 1,390,671 0. 08 17 Australian Executor Trustees 1,128,471 0. 06 18 BNP Paribas Noms (NZ) Ltd <DRP> 1,118,847 0. 06 19 RBC Dexia Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited 1,093,191 0. 06 20 Joy Wilma Lambert 1,068,250 0. 06 The top 20 shareholders hold 883,457,795 shares which is equal to 49.72% of the total shares on issue. Substantial shareholding The following organisations have disclosed a substantial shareholding notice to ASX. As at 15 July 2019, the Bank has received no further update in relation to these substantial shareholdings. Number of Percentage of Name shares voting power BlackRock Group (1) 86,557,665 5 The Vanguard Group, Inc. (2) 88,022,378 5 (1) Substantial shareholder notice dated 16 May 2017. (2) Substantial shareholder notice dated 20 July 2018. Stock exchange listing The shares of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia (Bank) are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange under the trade symbol of CBA, with Sydney being the home exchange. Details of trading activity are published in most daily newspapers, generally under the abbreviation of CBA or C’wealth Bank. The Bank is not currently in the market conducting an on market buy-back of its shares. Range of shares (fully paid Ordinary Shares and Employee Shares) as at 15 July 2019 Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Number of rights Range shareholders shareholders shares issued capital holders (1) 1 – 1,000 615,436 74. 12 182,687,480 10. 32 528 1,001 – 5,000 186,604 22. 47 388,993,488 21. 97 75 5,001 – 10,000 19,748 2. 38 134,440,420 7. 59 12 10,001 – 100,000 8,345 1. 01 157,362,846 8. 89 20 100,001 and over 174 0. 02 906,755,273 51. 23 1 Total 830,307 100.00 1,770,239,507 100. 00 636 Less than marketable parcel of $500 15,066 1. 81 43,989 0. 00 (1) The total number of rights on issue is 1,377,132 rights which carry no entitlement to vote. Voting rights Under the Bank’s Constitution, each ordinary shareholder registered at the record time who is present at a general meeting of the Bank in person or by proxy, attorney or official representative is entitled:  On a show of hands – to one vote; and 286 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Voting rights (continued)  On a poll – to one vote for each share held or represented. Every voting shareholder who casts a vote by direct vote shall also have one vote for each share held or represented. If a person present at a general meeting represents personally or by proxy, attorney or official representative more than one shareholder, on a show of hands the person is entitled to one vote only even though he or she represents more than one shareholder. If a shareholder is present in person and votes on a resolution, any proxy or attorney of that shareholder is not entitled to vote. If more than one official representative or attorney is present for a shareholder:  None of them is entitled to vote on a show of hands; and  On a poll only one official representative may exercise the shareholder’s voting rights and the vote of each attorney shall be of no effect unless each is appointed to represent a specified proportion of the shareholder’s voting rights, not exceeding in aggregate 100%. Top 20 holders of CommBank PERLS VII Capital Notes (“PERLS VII”) as at 15 July 2019 Number of Rank Name of holder securities % 1 HSBC Custody Nominees 3,047,409 10. 15 2 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 1,151,459 3. 84 3 Netwealth Investments Limited 565,792 1. 88 4 Bond Street Custodians Limited 305,473 1. 02 5 Australian Executor Trustees Limited <IPS SUPER A/C> 268,699 0. 90 6 J P Morgan Nominees Australia 243,102 0. 81 7 National Nominees Limited 236,403 0. 79 8 Navigator Australia 198,460 0. 66 9 Nulis Nominees (Australia) 195,930 0. 65 10 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 147,285 0. 49 11 Mutual Trust Pty Ltd 131,020 0. 44 12 Australian Executor Trustees 123,924 0. 41 13 Dimbulu Pty Ltd 100,000 0. 33 14 Invia Custodian Pty Limited 93,039 0. 31 15 Tandom Pty Ltd 90,000 0. 30 16 Randazzo C & G Developments Pty Ltd 84,286 0. 28 17 Tsco Pty Ltd 80,000 0. 27 18 Seymour Group Pty Ltd 73,700 0. 25 19 Willimbury Pty Ltd 70,673 0. 24 20 JMB Pty Ltd 67,850 0. 23 The top 20 PERLS VII security holders hold 7,274,504 securities which is equal to 24.25% of the total securities on issue. Stock exchange listing PERLS VII are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange under the trade symbol CBAPD. Details of trading activity are published in some daily newspapers. Range of Securities (PERLS VII) as at 15 July 2019 Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Range security holders security holders securities issued capital 1 – 1,000 27,458 86. 32 9,341,837 31. 14 1,001 – 5,000 3,846 12. 09 7,719,848 25. 73 5,001 – 10,000 294 0. 92 2,073,041 6. 91 10,001 – 100,000 201 0. 63 4,723,503 15. 75 100,001 and over 14 0. 04 6,141,771 20. 47 Total 31,813 100. 00 30,000,000 100. 00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 10 0. 03 24 0. 00 Voting rights PERLS VII do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 286 and 287 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. 287 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Shareholder information Top 20 holders of CommBank PERLS VIII Capital Notes (“PERLS VIII”) as at 15 July 2019 Number of Rank Name of holder securities % 1 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 3,154,343 21. 75 2 HSBC Custody Nominees 1,056,658 7. 29 3 Nora Goodridge Investments Pty Limited 130,328 0. 90 4 J P Morgan Nominees Australia 103,494 0. 71 5 Netwealth Investments Limited 99,456 0. 69 6 Piek Holdings Pty Ltd 93,000 0. 64 7 Snowside Pty Ltd <SNOWSIDE A/C> 79,083 0. 55 8 Nulis Nominees (Australia) 72,445 0. 50 9 Bond Street Custodians Limited 67,295 0. 46 10 V S Access Pty Ltd <V S ACCESS A/C> 62,482 0. 43 11 Dimbulu Pty Ltd 50,000 0. 35 12 Mifare Pty Ltd 50,000 0. 35 13 Randazzo C & G Developments Pty Ltd 50,000 0. 35 14 Navigator Australia 48,837 0. 34 15 Adirel Holdings Pty Ltd 47,000 0. 32 16 Resthaven Incorporated 45,500 0. 31 17 Federation University Australia 45,000 0. 31 18 Australian Executor Trustees Limited <IPS Super A/C> 40,485 0. 28 19 Taverners J Pty Ltd <TAVERNERS INT UNIT A/C> 37,736 0. 26 20 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 36,959 0. 25 The top 20 PERLS VIII security holders hold 5,370,101 securities which is equal to 37.04% of the total securities on issue. Stock exchange listing PERLS VIII are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange under the trade symbol CBAPE. Details of trading activity are published in some daily newspapers. Range of Securities (PERLS VIII) as at 15 July 2019 Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Range security holders security holders securities issued capital 1 – 1,000 13,166 88. 92 4,271,200 29. 46 1,001 – 5,000 1,443 9. 74 3,046,293 21.01 5,001 – 10,000 122 0. 82 905,144 6.24 10,001 – 100,000 72 0. 49 1,987,221 13.70 100,001 and over 5 0. 03 4,290,142 29.59 Total 14,808 100. 00 14,500,000 100.00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 4 0. 03 11 0.00 Voting rights PERLS VIII do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 286 and 287 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. 288 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Top 20 holders of CommBank PERLS IX Capital Notes (“PERLS IX”) as at 15 July 2019 Number of Rank Name of holder securities % 1 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 2,589,716 15.79 2 HSBC Custody Nominees 1,413,464 8.63 3 Navigator Australia 203,372 1.24 4 Bond Street Custodians Limited 173,879 1.06 5 Dimbulu Pty Ltd 147,700 0.90 6 Mutual Trust Pty Ltd 124,678 0.76 7 Netwealth Investments Limited 113,297 0.69 8 Nulis Nominees (Australia) 103,288 0.63 9 J P Morgan Nominees Australia 100,576 0.61 10 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 95,806 0.58 11 Australian Executor Trustees Limited <IPS Super A/C> 94,382 0.58 12 Australian Executor Trustees 84,463 0.52 13 National Nominees Limited 83,936 0.51 14 Fibora Pty Ltd 59,590 0.36 15 Invia Custodian Pty Limited 54,551 0.33 16 Ernron Pty Ltd <ERNRON A/C> 34,530 0.21 17 Sir Moses Montefiore Jewish Home <INCOME A/C> 30,660 0.19 18 Pendant Realty Pty Ltd 30,000 0.18 19 Port Stephens Veterans and Aged Care Ltd 30,000 0.18 20 J C Family Investments Pty Limited <J HERRINGTON SUPER FUND A/C> 25,843 0.16 The top 20 PERLS IX security holders hold 5,593,731 securities which is equal to 34.11% of the total securities on issue. Stock exchange listing PERLS IX are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange under the trade symbol CBAPF. Details of trading activity are published in some daily newspapers. Range of Securities (PERLS IX) as at 15 July 2019 Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Range security holders security holders securities issued capital 1 – 1,000 18,464 90.44 5,742,936 35.02 1,001 – 5,000 1,755 8.60 3,618,114 22.06 5,001 – 10,000 124 0.61 920,287 5.61 10,001 – 100,000 62 0.30 1,476,149 9.00 100,001 and over 10 0.05 4,642,514 28.31 Total 20,415 100.00 16,400,000 100.00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 6 0.03 12 0.00 Voting rights PERLS IX do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 286 and 287 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. 289 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Shareholder information Top 20 holders of CommBank PERLS X Capital Notes (“PERLS X”) as at 15 July 2019 Number of Rank Name of holder securities % 1 HSBC Custody Nominees 1,427,800 10.46 2 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 1,111,081 8.14 3 Netwealth Investments Limited 119,572 0.88 4 Navigator Australia 114,154 0.84 5 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 104,896 0.77 6 Bond Street Custodians Limited 101,114 0.74 7 Dimbulu Pty Ltd 100,000 0.73 8 Randazzo C & G Developments Pty Ltd 80,000 0.59 9 National Nominees Limited 77,946 0.57 10 Rakio Pty Ltd <PIEKARSKI GYMPIE A/C> 77,000 0.56 11 J P Morgan Nominees Australia 62,051 0.45 12 Eastcote Pty Ltd <VAN LIESHOUT FAMILY A/C> 50,000 0.37 13 Federation University Australia 50,000 0.37 14 Harriette & Co Pty Ltd <HARRIETTE INVESTMENT A/C> 50,000 0.37 15 Hanson Tsai Pty Ltd <HANSON A/C> 43,900 0.32 16 Mr Roni G Sikh 40,492 0.30 17 Mutual Trust Pty Ltd 40,228 0.29 18 Ainsley Heath Investments Pty Ltd 35,500 0.26 19 Invia Custodian Pty Limited <INCOME POOL A/C> 34,215 0.25 20 Australian Executor Trustees Limited <IPS SUPER A/C> 33,217 0.24 The top 20 PERLS X security holders hold 3,753,166 securities which is equal to 27.50% of the total securities on issue. Stock exchange listing PERLS X are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange under the trade symbol CBAPG. Details of trading activity are published in some daily newspapers. Range of Securities (PERLS X) as at 15 July 2019 Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Range security holders security holders securities issued capital 1 – 1,000 14,000 88.58 4,720,603 34.58 1,001 – 5,000 1,607 10.17 3,508,304 25.70 5,001 – 10,000 121 0.77 931,659 6.83 10,001 – 100,000 72 0.46 2,061,634 15.10 100,001 and over 3 0.02 2,427,800 17.79 Total 15,803 100.00 13,650,000 100.00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 3 0.02 9 0.00 Voting rights PERLS X do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 286 and 287 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. 290 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Top 20 holders of CommBank PERLS XI Capital Notes (“PERLS XI”) as at 15 July 2019 Number of Rank Name of holder securities % 1 HSBC Custody Nominees 1,372,735 8.64 2 Netwealth Investments Limited 244,889 1.54 3 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd 211,807 1.33 4 Australian Executor Trustees Limited <IPS SUPER A/C> 150,421 0.95 5 Bond Street Custodians Limited 150,160 0.94 6 Dimbulu Pty Ltd 150,000 0.94 7 J P Morgan Nominees Australia 133,620 0.84 8 National Nominees Limited 119,032 0.75 9 Navigator Australia 103,313 0.65 10 Eastcote Pty Limited 100,000 0.63 11 G Harvey Investments Pty Limited 100,000 0.63 12 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 86,389 0.54 13 V S Access Pty Ltd 80,000 0.50 14 Nulis Nominees (Australia) 79,018 0.50 15 Australian Executor Trustees 76,171 0.48 16 Edgelake Proprietary Limited <EDGELAKE A/C> 49,267 0.31 17 Pamdale Investments Pty Ltd 46,860 0.29 18 J Santini Development Pty Ltd <J SANTINI DEVELOPMENT A/C> 46,000 0.29 19 V S Access Pty Ltd <V S ACCESS A/C> 42,718 0.27 20 Junax Capital Pty Ltd 40,000 0.25 The top 20 PERLS XI security holders hold 3,382,400 securities which is equal to 21.27% of the total securities on issue. Stock exchange listing PERLS XI are subordinated unsecured notes issued by the Bank. They are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange under the trade symbol CBAPH. Details of trading activity are published in some daily newspapers. Range of Securities (PERLS XI) as at 15 July 2019 Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Range security holders security holders securities issued capital 1 – 1,000 17,225 88.31 6,018,262 37.85 1,001 – 5,000 2,029 10.40 4,286,713 26.96 5,001 – 10,000 167 0.86 1,231,903 7.75 10,001 – 100,000 75 0.38 1,994,930 12.55 100,001 and over 9 0.05 2,368,192 14.89 Total 19,505 100.00 15,900,000 100.00 Less than marketable parcel of $500 7 0.04 10 0.00 Voting rights PERLS XI do not confer any voting rights in the Bank but if they are exchanged for ordinary shares of the Bank in accordance with their terms of issue, then the voting rights of the ordinary shares will be as set out on pages 286 and 287 for the Bank’s ordinary shares. 291 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Five year financial summary 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 (1) 30 Jun 17 (1) 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 $M $M $M $M $M Net interest income 18,120 18,342 17,546 16,858 15,827 Other operating income (2) 6,291 6,580 6,831 7,043 7,751 Total operating income 24,411 24,922 24,377 23,901 23,578 Operating expenses (11,269) (10,995) (10,129) (9,957) (10,003) Impairment expense (1,201) (1,079) (1,095) (1,256) (988) Net profit before tax 11,941 12,848 13,153 12,688 12,587 Income tax expense (3,437) (3,920) (3,752) (3,497) (3,439) Non-controlling interests (12) (13) (13) (20) (21) Net profit after tax from continuing operations ( cash basis ) 8,492 8,915 9,388 9,171 9,127 Net profit after tax from discontinued operations 214 497 493 274 Net profit after tax ( cash basis ) 8,706 9,412 9,881 9,445 9,127 Treasury shares valuation adjustment 6 2 (23) 4 (28) Hedging and IFRS volatility (79) 101 73 (199) 6 (Loss)/gain on disposal of controlled entities/investments (61) (183) Bankwest non-cash items (1) (3) (3) (27) (52) Net profit after income tax attributable to Equity holders of the 8,571 9,329 9,928 9,223 9,053 Bank statutory basis Contributions to profit (after tax) Retail Banking Services 4,267 4,823 4,423 4,540 3,994 Business and Private Banking 2,658 2,845 2,736 1,522 1,495 Institutional Banking and Markets 1,071 1,170 1,360 1,190 1,285 Wealth Management 160 255 201 400 643 New Zealand 1,050 975 871 785 882 Bankwest 778 795 IFS and Other (714) (1,153) (203) (44) 33 Net profit after tax from continuing operations ( cash basis ) 8,492 8,915 9,388 9,171 9,127 Investment experience after tax 3 (4) (7) (24) (150) Net profit after tax underlying basis 8,495 8,911 9,381 9,147 8,977 Balance Sheet Loans, bills discounted and other receivables 755,141 743,365 731,762 695,398 639,262 Total assets 976,502 975,165 976,318 932,945 873,489 Deposits and other public borrowings 636,040 622,234 626,655 588,045 543,231 Total liabilities 906,853 907,305 912,658 872,437 820,684 Shareholders' Equity 69,649 67,860 63,660 60,508 52,805 Net tangible assets (including discontinued operations) 59,580 56,844 53,090 49,630 41,334 Risk weighted assets Basel III (APRA) 452,762 458,612 437,063 394,667 368,721 Average interest earning assets 864,174 854,264 834,741 790,596 736,164 Average interest bearing liabilities 761,115 759,583 755,612 733,754 693,376 Assets (on Balance Sheet) Australia 824,651 811,491 817,519 783,114 741,249 Assets (on Balance Sheet) New Zealand 99,661 94,622 89,997 83,832 72,299 Assets (on Balance Sheet) Other 52,190 69,052 68,802 65,999 59,941 (1) Comparative information for 2018 and 2017 has been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1 and refinements to the allocation of customer balances. (2) Includes investment experience. 292 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 (1) Shareholder summary from continuing operations Earnings per share (cents) Basic Statutory 473. 7 518. 8 549. 9 525. 6 553. 1 Cash basis 480. 8 510. 3 545. 4 538. 3 556. 9 Fully diluted Statutory 457. 5 503. 2 532. 9 513. 3 539. 1 Cash basis 464. 2 495. 2 528. 7 525. 4 542. 7 Shareholder summary including discontinued operations Earnings per share (cents) Basic Statutory 485. 6 534. 3 577. 3 542. 0 553. 1 Cash basis 493. 0 538. 8 574. 1 554. 5 556. 9 Fully diluted Statutory 468. 6 517. 7 558. 8 529. 0 539. 1 Cash basis 475. 4 522. 0 555. 8 540. 9 542. 7 Dividends per share fully franked (cents) 431 431 429 420 420 Dividend cover statutory (times) 1. 1 1. 1 1. 3 1. 3 1. 3 Dividend cover cash (times) 1. 1 1. 2 1. 3 1. 3 1. 3 Dividend payout ratio (%) Statutory 89. 0 81. 2 74. 6 78. 4 75. 8 Cash basis 87. 6 80. 4 75. 0 76. 5 75. 2 Net tangible assets per share ($) including discontinued operations 33. 7 32. 3 30. 7 28. 9 25. 4 Weighted average number of shares (statutory basic) (M) 1,765 1,746 1,720 1,692 1,627 Weighted average number of shares (statutory fully diluted) (M) 1,897 1,852 1,816 1,771 1,711 Weighted average number of shares (cash basic) (M) 1,766 1,747 1,721 1,694 1,630 Weighted average number of shares (cash fully diluted) (M) 1,898 1,853 1,817 1,773 1,714 Number of shareholders (1) (2) (3) 831,655 851,539 844,527 857,052 820,462 Share prices for the year ($) Trading high 83. 99 85. 12 87. 74 88. 88 96. 69 Trading low 65. 23 67. 22 69. 22 69. 79 73. 57 End (closing price) 82. 78 72. 87 82. 81 74. 37 85. 13 (1) Comparative information for 2018 and 2017 has been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy detailed in Note 1.1. (2) This includes employees. (3) Comparative information for 2016 and 2015 has been restated to include employees. 293 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Five year financial summary 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 (1) Performance ratios (%) from continuing operations Return on average Shareholders' Equity Statutory 12. 3 13. 9 15. 4 15. 8 18. 2 Cash basis 12. 5 13. 6 15. 3 16. 1 18. 2 Return on average total assets Statutory 0. 9 0. 9 1. 0 1. 0 1. 1 Cash basis 0. 9 0. 9 1. 0 1. 0 1. 1 Net interest margin 2. 10 2. 15 2. 10 2. 13 2. 15 Performance ratios (%) including discontinued operations Return on average Shareholders' Equity Statutory 12. 6 14. 3 16. 2 16. 3 18. 2 Cash basis 12. 8 14. 4 16. 0 16. 6 18. 2 Return on average total assets Statutory 0. 9 1. 0 1. 0 1. 0 1. 1 Cash basis 0. 9 1. 0 1. 0 1. 0 1. 1 Capital adequacy Common Equity Tier 1 Basel III (APRA) 10. 7 10. 1 10. 1 10. 6 9. 1 Capital adequacy Tier 1 Basel III (APRA) 12. 7 12. 3 12. 1 12. 3 11. 2 Capital adequacy Tier 2 Basel III (APRA) 2. 8 2. 7 2. 1 2. 0 1. 5 Capital adequacy Total Basel III (APRA) 15. 5 15. 0 14. 2 14. 3 12. 7 Leverage Ratio Basel III (APRA) (%) 5. 6 5. 5 5. 1 5. 0 n/a Liquidity Coverage Ratio Spot Basis (%) 129 131 129 120 120 Net interest margin 2. 11 2. 15 2. 11 2. 14 2. 15 Other information (numbers) (1) Full-time equivalent employees from continuing operations 42,921 42,462 42,359 43,178 45,948 Full-time equivalent employees including discontinued operations 45,165 45,753 45,614 45,129 45,948 Branches/services centres (Australia) 1,172 1,082 1,121 1,131 1,147 Agencies (Australia) 3,560 3,589 3,664 3,654 3,670 ATMs 3,963 4,253 4,398 4,381 4,440 EFTPOS terminals (active) 217,608 219,245 217,098 217,981 208,202 (1) (2) Productivity from continuing operations Total operating income per full-time (equivalent) employee ($) 568,644 591,876 579,023 552,805 508,578 Employee expense/Total operating income (%) 24. 2 21. 8 22. 4 24. 1 24. 9 Total operating expenses/Total operating income (%) 46. 2 44. 1 41. 6 41. 7 42. 8 (1) (2) Productivity including discontinued operations Total operating income per full-time (equivalent) employee ($) 540,391 580,859 568,685 545,237 508,578 Employee expense/Total operating income (%) 25. 5 23. 2 24. 0 24. 4 24. 9 Total operating expenses/Total operating income (%) 47. 8 45. 5 41. 7 42. 4 42. 8 (1) Comparative information has been restated for 2018 and 2017 to align to presentation in the current year. (2) The productivity metrics have been calculated on a cash basis. 294 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Full Year Ended 30 June 2019 (Loss)/gain on Treasury Net profit Net profit disposal and Hedging Bankwest shares after tax after tax acquisition of and IFRS non-cash valuation Investment statutory cash basis controlled entities (1) volatility items (2) adjustment experience basis $M $M $M $M $M $M $M 34,588 34,588 (16,468) (16,468) 18,120 18,120 5,068 42 (116) 4,994 23,188 42 (116) 23,114 1,072 1 1,073 147 3 150 24,407 42 (116) 4 24,337 4 (4) 24,411 42 (116) 24,337 (11,269) (102) (2) (11,373) (1,201) (1,201) 11,941 (60) (116) (2) 11,763 (3,437) 8 37 1 (3,391) (12) (12) erations 8,492 (52) (79) (1) 8,360 rations (4) 214 (9) 6 211 8,706 (61) (79) (1) 6 8,571 million separation costs for NewCo, $33 million impairment loss and transaction costs associated with the disposal of Count Financial, partly offset by a $35 million net gain on ued operations net profit after tax includes: $82 million transaction and separation costs associated with the disposal of CommInsure Life, $71 million transaction and separation set by $135 million gain net of transaction and separation costs associated with the disposal of Sovereign and $9 million net gain on acquisitions and disposals of other businesses. expenses of $2 million, and an income tax benefit of $1 million. nd other interest income. perations is presented net of non-controlling interests. Full Year Ended 30 June 2018 (1) (Loss)/gain on Treasury Net profit Net profit disposal and Hedging Bankwest shares after tax after tax acquisition of and IFRS non-cash valuation Investment statutory cash basis controlled entities (2) volatility items (3) adjustment experience basis $M $M $M $M $M $M $M 34,144 34,144 (15,802) (15,802) 18,342 18,342 5,215 65 143 5,423 23,557 65 143 23,765 1,119 5 1,124 238 3 241 24,914 65 143 8 25,130 8 (8) 24,922 65 143 25,130 (10,995) (30) (4) (11,029) (1,079) (1,079) 12,848 35 143 (4) 13,022 (3,920) 9 (42) 1 (3,952) (13) (13) erations 8,915 44 101 (3) 9,057 rations (5) 497 (227) 2 272 9,412 (183) 101 (3) 2 9,329 o presentation in the current year. illion gain recognised on acquisition of AHL, $11 million gain on sale of County Banks, partly offset by $21 million demerger costs for NewCo and $4 million loss due to the dilution ed operations net profit after tax includes: $118 million transaction and separation costs associated with the disposal of CommInsure Life, $91 million impairment due to the ration and $18 million transaction and separation costs associated with the disposal of Sovereign. expenses of $4 million, and an income tax benefit of $1 million. nd other interest income. perations is presented net of non-controlling interests. The Group’s wholly owned and operated entities includes Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA), Bankwest, ASB, PT Bank Commonwealth and others. All metrics capture data of the wholly owned and operated entities of the Commonwealth Bank Group (the Group), excluding Aussie Home Loans (AHL), associates and joint ventures such as equigroup unless otherwise stated. PwC has provided limited assurance on the metrics below, excluding the low carbon transition, for the year ended 30 June 2019. The PwC Limited Assurance Report is available on page 305 and 306. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group) tCO2-e 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 185,624 181,771 197,439 210,447 222,631 Scope 1 Emissions 7,624 8,740 9,694 9,063 9,729 Scope 2 Emissions 78,757 87,277 96,595 107,762 115,580 (1) Scope 3 Emissions 99,243 85,754 91,150 93,622 97,322 Greenhouse Gas Emissions per FTE (Scope 1 & 2) 1. 9 2. 1 2. 3 2. 6 2. 7 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) tCO2-e 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 166,393 156,553 168,686 180,898 190,936 Scope 1 Emissions 6,983 7,257 7,411 7,682 8,025 Scope 2 Emissions 71,128 76,866 83,723 94,255 101,125 (1) Scope 3 Emissions 88,282 72,430 77,553 78,961 81,786 Greenhouse Gas Emissions per FTE (Scope 1 & 2) 2. 1 2. 3 2. 6 2. 9 3. 0 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) tCO2-e 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 6,279 9,030 7,822 8,599 8,640 Scope 1 Emissions 82 733 1,348 436 632 Scope 2 Emissions 1,938 2,462 2,661 3,213 3,393 Scope 3 Emissions 4,259 5,834 3,813 4,950 4,615 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Other overseas) tCO2-e 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 13,288 16,189 20,930 20,950 23,055 Scope 1 Emissions 559 750 935 945 1,072 Scope 2 Emissions 5,690 7,949 10,211 10,294 11,062 Scope 3 Emissions 7,039 7,490 9,784 9,711 10,921 (1) FY19 Scope 3 emissions include emissions from base buildings and paper use for the first time. 297 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Environmental, customer, social and governance metrics Australia Operations Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions tCO2-e 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Stationary Emissions Total 357 389 541 663 1,167 (1) Stationary Emissions Natural gas 332 Stationary Emissions Diesel (1) 25 Transport Emissions 6,626 6,868 6,870 7,019 6,858 Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions tCO2-e 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Purchased Electricity 71,128 76,866 83,723 94,255 101,125 Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions tCO2-e 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Stationary Emissions 73 79 116 133 238 Purchased Electricity 8,272 10,021 10,503 12,453 13,989 Data Centres 38,182 39,647 44,052 41,261 38,247 Waste to Landfill 1,401 1,334 1,306 1,663 1,130 Transport Emissions 20,531 21,349 21,576 23,451 28,182 Office Paper Use (1) 30 Base Building Emissions (1) 19,793 (1) Reported for the first time in 2019. 298 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Waste (Australia) t 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Total Waste 2,898 2,891 2,325 1,407 1,855 Waste to landfill (Commercial operations) 1,167 1,088 680 755 960 Waste recycled (Commercial operations) 835 804 590 652 895 (1) Waste secure (Commercial operations) 896 999 1,055 Water (Australia) kL 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Total water (2) 216,102 172,134 171,477 114,608 90,784 (2) Commercial operations 189,997 138,696 130,353 73,537 51,800 Data centre 26,105 33,438 41,124 41,071 38,984 Energy (Australia) (1) GJ 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Energy consumption Total 594,360 625,222 684,744 716,995 718,911 Fuels 112,675 112,671 129,671 142,418 139,394 Purchased electricity 313,065 339,270 365,617 399,781 414,733 Data centre electricity 168,620 173,281 189,456 174,796 164,784 Office paper usage (Australia) (1) t 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Office paper (A3 and A4) 570 629 750 Low carbon transition (3) 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Renewable energy lending exposure $M 3,644 3,716 2,800 2,200 1,400 Business lending emissions intensity(4) (kgCO2-e/AUD) N/A (5) 0. 26 0. 28 0. 29 0. 28 Climate bond arrangement $M 1,845 2,014 1,018 50 (1) Reported for the first time in 2019. (2) FY19 commercial water use includes new commercial buildings and old commercial buildings that have not been vacated. (3) Low carbon metrics have not been covered by the PwC limited assurance report. (4) For methodology and further details, please refer to www.commbank.com.au/about-us/opportunity-initiatives/performance-reporting. (5) Our methodology for estimating financed emissions relies on client-specific data, which limits the timing for conducting this assessment. 299 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Environmental, customer, social and governance metrics Customer satisfaction 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 CBA Retail Net Promoter Score (NPS) (1) # (10. 0) Rank 3rd CBA Retail Net Promoter Score (NPS) (1) # 4. 2 1. 7 1. 8 3. 9 Rank 1st 1st 1st 2nd CBA Online NPS # 30. 9 31. 3 Rank 1st 1st CBA Business NPS # (22. 4) (19. 6) (13. 1) (13. 0) 0. 2 Rank 3rd 4th 1st 3rd 2nd (1) Bankwest Retail Banking NPS # (11. 4) Bankwest Retail Banking Customer Advocacy (1) out of 10 7. 4 7. 4 7. 6 7. 4 (1) Bankwest Business Banking NPS # 0. 9 Bankwest Business Banking Customer Advocacy (1) out of 10 7. 5 7. 2 7. 8 7. 2 ASB Retail Banking Customer Satisfaction % 74. 8 76. 3 74. 4 74. 5 73. 0 Rank 3rd 3rd 3rd 3rd 3rd ASB Business and Rural Banking Customer Satisfaction % 68. 0 74. 0 75. 0 78. 0 76. 0 Rank 1st 1st 1st 1st 1st PT Bank Commonwealth Banking Service Excellence Performance % 86. 4 84. 5 70. 0 68. 3 84. 7 Rank 1st 1st 7th 8th 3rd Customer complaints # 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Customer Complaints Resolved 69,503 62,073 53,813 42,673 Customer Complaints Number escalated to an external dispute resolution (EDR) scheme (2) 6,665 (2) Customer Complaints Privacy Complaints 22 22 15 (1) June 2019 NPS results now sourced from DBM Consumer Atlas and based on Priority Customer Segment. Previously reported by Roy Morgan Research with results based on Total Market. The NPS was previously reported using a score out of 10 and now on a scale of negative 100 to positive 100 by DBM Consumer Atlas. Results are not comparable over time. (2) Reported for the first time in 2019. 300 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Full-time equivalent (FTE) employees (1) # 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Total 45,165 45,753 45,614 45,129 45,948 Australia 37,137 36,446 35,701 35,273 35,797 New Zealand 5,038 5,538 5,409 5,518 5,371 Others 2,990 3,769 4,504 4,338 4,780 Employment type (Headcount) (1) (2) # 30 Jun 19 Full-time (3) 33,125 (3) Part-time 7,900 Casual (3) 438 Headcount (1) # 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Total (3) 50,482 51,371 51,779 51,120 52,605 Employee engagement % 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Employee engagement index CBA 68 72 78 77 81 Employee turnover (voluntary) 11.3 11.8 10.1 11.3 10.2 Employee turnover (involuntary) (3) 4. 0 4. 2 Gender diversity % 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Women in workforce 57. 2 57. 4 57. 8 58. 0 58. 5 Women in Manager and above roles 45. 0 44. 6 44. 4 43. 6 43. 2 Women in Executive Manager and above roles 39. 1 37. 6 36. 7 35. 2 33. 9 Women in Senior Leadership (Group Executives) 22. 2 20. 0 Gender pay equity female to male base salary comparison Ratio 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Executive General Manager 0. 97 0. 94 0. 95 0. 96 General Manager 0. 98 0. 99 1. 03 0. 99 Executive Manager 0. 99 1. 00 1. 00 1. 00 Manager / Professional 0. 99 0. 98 0. 98 0. 99 Team Member 1. 01 1. 00 1. 00 0. 99 Age diversity % 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 <25 years 7. 4 7. 3 8. 1 8. 3 8. 9 25-34 years 31. 5 33. 2 34. 8 35. 9 36. 9 35-44 years 31. 9 31. 0 29. 7 29. 5 29. 1 45-54 years 19. 9 19. 5 18. 9 18. 5 17. 8 55-64 years 8. 4 8. 0 7. 6 7. 2 6. 8 65+ years 0. 9 0. 8 0. 6 0. 6 0. 5 (1) FTE and headcount numbers include discontinued operations. (2) Employment type breakdown excludes ASB, fixed term contractors and contingent workers. (3) Reported for the first time in 2019. 301 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Environmental, customer, social and governance metrics Australia, Africa, Indigenous, Cultural NZ Middle Pacific Cultural diversity based Index (CDI) British, Irish Europe Asia East Americas Islanders on ancestry 2019 # % % % % % % CBA overall 0. 78 50. 02 14. 79 28. 41 3. 10 1. 42 2. 26 General Manager and above 0. 54 72. 32 13. 99 7. 14 3. 87 2. 08 0. 60 Executive Manager and above 0. 63 65. 72 17. 60 11. 48 2. 84 1. 98 0. 38 2016 Australia Census (ancestry) 0. 59 69 12 14 4 1 1 2016 Australia Census (Question 7 on Aboriginal or Torres Strait Indigenous workforce % 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Islander) CBA Indigenous workforce (ancestry) 0. 88 1. 00 0. 80 2. 80 Other diversity dimensions % 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Employees who identify as having a disability 10. 5 11. 9 Employees who identify as LGBTI 3. 4 3. 4 Flexibility % 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Employees working flexibly 73. 9 73. 7 69. 4 43. 4 44. 5 Employees working part-time or job-sharing 19. 5 19. 7 19. 4 19. 8 20. 1 Employees with caring responsibilities 50. 7 53. 0 Employees who have accessed parental leave (1) # 30 Jun 19 Female employees 1,479 Male employees 917 Human Capital Development # 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Number of graduates 183 188 149 119 114 (1) Reported for the first time in 2019. 302 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 Training hours # Female Male Total Female Male Total Executive Managers and above 40,795 61,054 101,849 70,019 69,373 139,392 Others 795,978 577,415 1,373,393 983,633 724,364 1,707,997 Total 836,773 638,469 1,475,242 1,053,652 793,737 1,847,389 Training hours per employee Hours Female Male Total Female Male Total Executive Managers and above 31. 6 29. 7 30. 4 57. 5 34. 6 43. 3 Others 27. 2 22. 3 24. 9 35. 0 31. 6 33. 5 Total 27. 4 22. 8 25. 2 35. 9 31. 8 34. 0 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 ESG Training # 1,055 3,577 2,768 1,786 Safety and wellbeing 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (2) (2) (2) (LTIFR) Rate 1. 4 1. 4 1. 6 1. 6 2. 0 Absenteeism Days 7. 2 6. 0 5. 9 6. 0 6. 0 Health, safety and wellbeing training (1) # 31,733 Community Investment $M 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Total community investment 280.8 290. 1 266. 0 262. 6 243. 4 Cash contributions 41. 6 55. 5 37. 2 37. 8 31. 3 Time volunteering 1. 1 1. 1 1. 2 1. 4 1. 8 Foregone revenue 223. 9 220. 3 215. 9 211. 8 203. 5 Program implementation costs 14. 2 13. 2 11. 7 11. 6 6. 8 Community investment as a percentage of pre-tax profit % 2. 4 2. 2 2. 0 2. 0 1. 9 Financial literacy programs # 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 School banking students (active) 244,636 299,074 321,389 325,797 305,844 Start Smart students (booked) (3) 427,527 568,649 574,246 557,475 298,505 Indigenous community support 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 Indigenous Customer Assistance Line (calls received) # 202,444 180,225 168,218 170,789 (4) Australian Indigenous supplier spend $'000 2,959 2,226 1,460 1,080 (1) Reported for the first time in 2019. (2) Prior year data has been restated due to claims received after year-end reporting date as well as expanded scope to include New Zealand employees. (3) The Start Smart Pathways program for Vocational students ceased in FY19. (4) FY19 includes first tier (direct) spend only. Previous years include first and second tier (indirect) spend. Results are not comparable over time. 303 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Environmental, customer, social and governance metrics Board diversity # 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 30 Jun 16 30 Jun 15 Male 5 6 6 8 8 Female 5 4 4 4 3 Total 10 10 10 12 11 Female Directors on Board % 50 40 40 33 27 % 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Training completion rates on our Code of Conduct 96. 7 99. 4 97. 6 Training completion rates on mandatory learning 93. 6 94. 4 96. 9 Conduct and whistleblowing # 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 17 Substantiated misconduct cases 1,869 1,259 1,022 (1) Misconduct cases resulting in termination 187 SpeakUP Program cases 311 143 171 Whistleblower cases 30 33 44 (1) Reported for the first time in 2019. 304 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Independent Limited Assurance Report To the Board of Directors of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia What we found Based on the work described below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Non-Financial Performance Metrics (Environmental, Customer, Social and Governance metrics), excluding the low carbon transition metrics (the Metrics), for the year ended 30 June 2019 have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the definitions established by management. What we did The Commonwealth Bank of Australia and its controlled entities (together, the Group) engaged us to perform a limited assurance engagement on the preparation of the Metrics for the year ended 30 June 2019. Subject matter The Metrics for the year ended 30 June 2019 are as presented in the Non-Financial Performance Metrics on pages 297 to 304 of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia 2019 Annual Report (the 2019 Annual Report). Reporting criteria The definitions for the Metrics are established by management and are as presented on pages 310 to 315 of the 2019 Annual Report. Our Independence and Quality Control We have complied with relevant ethical requirements related to assurance engagements, which are founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. The firm applies Auditing Standard ASQC 1 Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Reports and Other Financial Information, Other Assurance Engagements and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Inherent limitations Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements due to the selective testing of the information being examined. Therefore fraud, error or non-compliance may occur and not be detected. Additionally, non-financial data may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, given both its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and estimating such data. Limited assurance This engagement is aimed at obtaining limited assurance for our conclusions. As a limited assurance engagement is restricted primarily to enquiries and analytical procedures and the work is substantially less detailed than that undertaken for a reasonable assurance engagement, the level of assurance is lower than would be obtained in a reasonable assurance engagement. Professional standards require us to use negative wording in the conclusion of a limited assurance report. PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo, GPO BOX 2650, SYDNEY NSW 2001 T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. 305 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Independent limited assurance report b Responsibilities PwC Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on the work we performed. Management of the Group The management of the Group is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Subject matter in accordance with the Reporting criteria. Restriction on use This report has been prepared for the purpose of providing limited assurance on preparation of the Metrics of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia and may not be suitable for any other purpose. Our report is intended solely for the use and benefit of the Directors of Commonwealth Bank of Australia for the purpose described above, and we disclaim all liability and responsibility for the consequences of any other party using or relying on it. If any other party chooses to use or rely on it, they do so at their own risk. What our work involved We conducted our work in accordance with the Australian Standard on Assurance Engagements (ASAE) 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. This Standard requires that we comply with independence and ethical requirements and plan the engagement so that it will be performed effectively. Main procedures performed The procedures performed included:  Enquiries of relevant staff responsible for preparing the Metrics;  Enquiries about the design of the internal controls and systems used to collect and process the Metrics;  Where applicable, enquiries of third parties responsible for the preparation of data included in the Metrics;  Enquiries about the design of the systems used by third parties to collect and process the Metrics;  Comparing the Metrics to relevant underlying sources on a sample basis; and  Reading the Metrics presented in the Non-Financial Performance Metrics to determine whether they are in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the corporate responsibility performance. We believe that the information we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. PricewaterhouseCoopers Matthew Lunn Sydney Partner 7 August 2019 306 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Term Description Assets Under Management Assets Under Management (AUM) represents the market value of assets for which the Group acts as appointed manager. Growth and volatility in this balance is a key performance indicator for the Wealth Management business. Board The Board of Directors of the Group. Common Equity Tier 1 Capital The highest quality of capital available to the Group reflecting the permanent and unrestricted commitment of funds (CET1) that are freely available to absorb losses. It comprises ordinary share capital, retained earnings and reserves less prescribed deductions. Corporations Act Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) Customer satisfaction – Roy This represents satisfaction with Main Financial Institution (MFI) based on the relationship with the financial Morgan institution as measured by Roy Morgan Research. The figures are six months rolling averages and are based on respondents aged 14+. The measure is the percentage of customers who answered as being either “very satisfied” or “fairly satisfied” with their MFI. Net Promoter Score (NPS) is now the primary metric by which we assess customer satisfaction. Advocacy is measured on a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 being “Very Unlikely” and 10 being “Very likely” to recommend. (Measuring our customers’ satisfaction is important as satisfied customers usually return, they tell other people about their experiences, and they may well pay a premium for the privilege of doing business with an institution they trust.) Our aim is to retain our customers by providing quality service to them. Deferred Rights Deferred Rights to ordinary shares in CBA are used for deferred STVR awarded under Executive General Manager arrangements, sign-on and retention awards. These equity awards are subject to forfeiture if the Executive ceases to be employed by the Group prior to the vesting date as a result of resignation. Deferred shares Awarded from the 2018 financial year, deferred shares are ordinary shares in CBA, which are restricted until vesting and used for deferred STVR arrangements, sign-on and retention awards. These equity awards are subject to forfeiture if the Executive ceases to be employed by the Group prior to the vesting date as a result of resignation or serious misconduct. Dividend payout ratio (“cash Dividends paid on ordinary shares divided by net profit after tax (“cash basis”). basis”) Dividend payout ratio (“statutory Dividends paid on ordinary shares divided by net profit after tax (“statutory basis”). basis”) DPS Dividends per share. DRP Dividend reinvestment plan. DRP participation The percentage of total issued capital participating in the dividend reinvestment plan. Earnings per share (EPS) Basic earnings per share is the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Bank, divided by the weighted (basic) average number of ordinary shares on issue during the year per the requirements of relevant accounting standards. Earnings per share (EPS) Diluted earnings per share adjusts the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Bank and the weighted (diluted) average number of ordinary shares on issue used in the calculation of basic earnings per share, for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares per the requirements of relevant accounting standards. Expense to income ratio Represents operating expenses as a percentage of total operating income. The ratio is a key efficiency measure. Executives Collective term referring to the individuals in the following Executive groups: CEO, Group Executives, CEO ASB and Other Executives Full-time equivalent staff Includes all permanent full-time staff, part-time staff equivalents and external contractors employed through thirdparty agencies. Funds Under Administration Funds Under Administration (FUA) represents the market value of funds administered by the Group and excludes AUM. Growth and volatility in this balance is a key performance indicator for the Wealth Management business and New Zealand businesses. Group Commonwealth Bank of Australia and its subsidiaries. Group Executive (GE) Key Management Personnel who are also members of the Executive Leadership Team (excludes the CEO). Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book is the risk that the Bank’s profit derived from Net Interest Income Book (IRRBB) (interest earned less interest paid), in current and future periods, is adversely impacted by changes in interest rates. This is measured from two perspectives: quantifying the change in the net present value of the Balance Sheet’s future earnings potential, and secondly as the anticipated change to the Net Interest Income earned over 12 months. This calculation is driven by APRA regulations with further detail outlined in the Group’s Basel III Pillar 3 report. Key Management Personnel Persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of an entity, directly (KMP) or indirectly, including any Director (whether Executive or otherwise) of that entity. Long-Term Variable A variable remuneration arrangement that grants instruments to participating Executives that may vest over a Remuneration (LTVR) period of four years if performance hurdles are met. The Group’s LTVR plan for Executives is the GLRP and EEP from the 2019 financial year. 307 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Glossary of terms Term Description Net profit after tax (“cash basis”) Represents net profit after tax and non-controlling interests before noncash items including hedging and IFRS volatility. Bankwest non-cash items, treasury shares valuation adjustment, and losses or gains on acquisitions, disposal, closure and demerger of businesses. This is Management’s preferred measure of the Group’s financial performance. Net profit after tax (“statutory Represents net profit after tax and non-controlling interests, calculated in accordance with Australian Accounting basis”) Standards. This is equivalent to the statutory item “Net profit attributable to Equity holders of the Bank”. Net Promoter Score Consumer DBM Consumer MFI Net Promoter Score. Australian Population 14+ (from Aug 16; 18+ for data prior). Refers to customers’ likelihood to recommend their MFI using a scale from 0-10 (where 0 being ‘Not at all likely’ and 10 being ‘Extremely likely’) and is calculated by subtracting the percentage of Total Detractors (0-6) from the percentage of Promoters (9-10). Note that percentage signs are not used to report NPS. 6 month rolling average. CBA excludes Bankwest, Westpac exclude St George. Net Promoter Score Business DBM Business Net Promoter Score measures the net likelihood of recommendation to others of the customer’s main financial institution. Net Promoter Score is a trademark of Bain & Co Inc., Satmetrix Systems, Inc., and Mr Frederick Reichheld. Using a scale of 0 to 10 (0 means ‘extremely unlikely’ and 10 means ‘extremely likely’), the 0-6 raters (detractors) are deducted from the 9-10 raters (promoters). A 6-month rolling data is used. Net Promoter Score Mobile App Net Promoter Score – Mobile App (via mobile app on a mobile phone or tablet): Roy Morgan Research. Australian population 14+ who used the internet banking services of their (self-nominated) main financial institution in the last 4 weeks, rolling average of the last 6 months of spot scores, as at June 2019. Rank based on comparison to ANZ, NAB and Westpac. Net Promoter Score Internet Net Promoter Score –Internet Banking (via the website or mobile app): Roy Morgan Research. Australian population Banking 14+ who used the internet banking services of their (self-nominated) main financial institution in the last 4 weeks, rolling average of the last 6 months of spot scores as at June 2019. Rank based on comparison to ANZ, NAB and Westpac. Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) The NSFR more closely aligns the behaviour terms of assets and liabilities. It is the ratio of the amount of available stable funding (ASF) to the amount of required stable funding (RSF). ASF is the portion of an Authorised Deposit-taking Institution’s (ADI) capital and liabilities expected to be a reliable source of funds over a one year time horizon. RSF is a function of the liquidity characteristics and residual maturities of an ADI’s assets and off-balance sheet activities. Net tangible assets per share Net assets excluding intangible assets, non-controlling interests, and other equity instruments divided by ordinary shares on issue at the end of the period (excluding Treasury Shares deduction). Non-Executive Director Key Management Personnel who are not Executives. Other Overseas Represents amounts booked in branches and controlled entities outside Australia and New Zealand. Profit after capital charge (PACC) The Group uses PACC, a risk-adjusted measure, as a key measure of financial performance. It takes into account the profit achieved, the risk to capital that was taken to achieve it, and other adjustments. Return on equity – cash basis Based on cash net profit after tax (“cash basis”) and non-controlling interests less other equity instruments’ distributions applied to average shareholders’ equity, excluding non-controlling interests, other equity instruments and the treasury shares deduction relating to life insurance statutory funds. Return on equity – statutory basis Based on net profit after tax (“statutory basis”) less other equity instruments’ distributions applied to average shareholders’ equity, excluding non-controlling interests and other equity instruments. Rights Rights to ordinary shares in CBA granted under the GLRP or EEP and subject to performance hurdles. Short-Term Variable Variable remuneration paid subject to the achievement of predetermined performance hurdles over one financial Remuneration (STVR) year. Total Committed Exposure (TCE) Total Committed Exposure is defined as the balance outstanding and undrawn components of committed facility limits. It is calculated before collateralisation and excludes settlement exposures on derivatives. Weighted average number of The calculation incorporates the bonus element of any rights issue, discount element of any DRP and excludes shares (“cash basis”) “Treasury Shares” related to investment in the Bank’s shares held by the employee share scheme trust. Weighted average number of The calculation incorporates the bonus element of any rights issue, discount element of any DRP and excludes shares (“statutory basis”) “Treasury Shares” related to investments in the Bank’s shares held by both the life insurance statutory funds and by the employee share scheme trust. 308 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Statement Source #1 mobile banking app in The Forrester Banking WaveTM: Australian Mobile Apps, Q2 2019. Commonwealth Bank of Australia received the Australia highest industry WaveTM overall score among mobile apps in Australia in the Forrester's proprietary Industry WaveTM evaluation. Forrester Research does not endorse any company included in any Industry WaveTM report and does not advise any person or organization to select the products or services of any particular company based on the ratings included in such reports. #1 rated for online and mobile Online banking: CBA won Canstar's Bank of the Year – Online Banking award for 2019 (for the 10th year in a row). banking Awarded June 2019. Mobile banking: CBA won Canstar’s Bank of the Year – Mobile Banking award for 2019 (for the 4th year in a row). Awarded June 2019. Gender diverse leadership – 50% Refer to Board renewal and composition on page 68. of Board Directors are female Largest branch network in APRA authorised deposit-taking institutions' points of presence publication (Branch) as at 30 June 2018 and Australia reported 23 October 2018. Leading market share in home Home lending: Reserve Bank of Australia, Lending and Credit Aggregates, APRA Monthly Banking Statistics. CBA lending, household deposits and includes BWA and subsidiaries. Household deposits and credit cards: APRA Monthly Banking Statistics June 2019. credit cards CBA includes BWA. Leading payments provider with APRA authorised deposit-taking institutions' points of presence publication (EFTPOS) as at 30 June 2018 and largest merchant base reported 23 October 2018. Listed on DJSI Asia Pacific Refer to page 37. Main financial institution for 1 in 3 MFI Share measures the proportion of Banking and Finance MFI Customers that nominated each bank as their Australians Main Financial Institution. Main Financial Institution (MFI) definition: In the Roy Morgan Single Source Survey MFI is a customer determined response where one institution is nominated as the primary financial institution they deal with (when considering all financial products they hold). Peers includes ANZ Group, NAB Group and Westpac Group (including St George Group). CBA Group includes Bankwest. Source: Roy Morgan’s Single Source survey conducted by Roy Morgan, Australian population 14+ (12 month average to June 2019). New lending for Australian Includes Commercial Lending, Asset Finance and Institutional Lending (excluding other interest earning lending businesses assets, primarily Cash Management Pooling Facilities, Leasing, Trade Finance, and Debt Markets). The highest share of new migrant MFI Share measures the proportion of Banking and Finance MFI Customers who were not born in Australia and segments have been in Australia for less than 6 years that nominated each bank as their Main Financial Institution. Main Financial Institution (MFI) definition: In the Roy Morgan Single Source Survey MFI is a customer determined response where one institution is nominated as the primary financial institution they deal with (when considering all financial products they hold). Peers includes ANZ Group, NAB Group and Westpac Group (including St George Group). CBA Group includes Bankwest. Source: Roy Morgan’s Single Source survey conducted by Roy Morgan, Australian population 14+ (12 month average to June 2019). The highest share of youth MFI Share measures the proportion of Banking and Finance MFI Customers aged 14-24 that nominated each bank segments as their Main Financial Institution. Main Financial Institution (MFI) definition: In the Roy Morgan Single Source Survey MFI is a customer determined response where one institution is nominated as the primary financial institution they deal with (when considering all financial products they hold). Peers includes ANZ Group, NAB Group and Westpac Group (including St George Group). CBA Group includes Bankwest. Source: Roy Morgan’s Single Source survey conducted by Roy Morgan, Australian population 14+ (12 month average to June 2019). Workforce is more culturally Refer to environmental, customer, social and governance metrics on pages on 297 to 304. diverse than the Australian population 309 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Glossary of terms Metric Description Absenteeism Absenteeism refers to the average number of sick leave days (and, for CommSec employees, carers leave days) per Australia-based full-time equivalent (FTE). Bankwest is included from FY19. Age diversity Percentage of permanent employees (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave) and those contractors paid directly by the Group (including AHL), by their age group as at 30 June of the reporting year. The population excludes the employees of ASB. ASB – Business and Rural The proportion of each financial institution’s main bank business and rural customers surveyed by Kantar TNS that Banking Customer Satisfaction rated their main bank overall as ‘Excellent’ or ‘Very good’ (defined as the main provider of financial services by the business/rural customer) on a scale of 1 to 6 where 1 is ‘Excellent’ and 6 is ‘Very poor’. There are also ‘Don’t know’ and ‘Refused’ options. The metric is reported as a four quarter rolling average to 30 June, based on the New Zealand business and rural population. The ranking refers to ASB’s position relative to the other main four New Zealand banks. ASB – Retail Banking Customer The proportion of each financial institution’s main bank retail customers surveyed by Camorra Research Retail Satisfaction Market Monitor that rated their overall level of service as ‘Excellent’ or ‘Very good’ (defined as the main provider of financial services by the customer) on a scale of 1 to 5 where 1 is ‘Poor’ and 5 is ‘Excellent’. There is also a ‘Don’t know’ option. The metric is reported as a 12 month rolling average to June, based on the New Zealand population aged 15 to 79. The ranking refers to ASB’s position relative to the other four main New Zealand banks. Australian Indigenous supplier The Group’s total supplier diversity spend with Indigenous businesses in Australia. FY19 includes first tier spend spend are any payments made by CBA to an Indigenous business registered or certified by Supply Nation, and one Indigenous business which is currently in the application process to register with Supply Nation. It also includes grant payments made to Indigenous businesses registered or certified by Supply Nation, starting from FY19. FY18 and previous years include second tier (indirect) spend refers to payments made by one of the suppliers who has spent with Indigenous business registered or certified by Supply Nation for services and products directly related to the delivery of CBA awarded contracts. Cash contributions Total donations contributed by the Group through charitable gifts, community partnerships and matched giving. Matched giving excludes staff contributions. Commercial Operations Water Water consumption (kilolitres) includes tenanted usage from CBA, Bankwest and AHL’s commercial buildings in Australia. As at 30 June 2019, 51% of water usage is based on invoiced amounts, the remainder is estimated based on an average usage per m2 of net lettable area (NLA). For all waste and water related metrics, we have reported on all commercial buildings from FY18 onwards (for context, CBA occupies 50 commercial buildings as at 30 June 2019). FY17 and FY16 we reported for nine commercial buildings and FY15 for eight buildings. Community investments as a Total community investments as a percentage of the Group’s statutory pre-tax profit as at 30 June. percentage of pre-tax profit Cultural diversity index Cultural Diversity Index (CDI) is the concentration mix of all cultures of the Group’s employees, resulting in an index between 0 and 1, where the higher the score, the more diverse the population. The index is calculated using anonymous, self-disclosed demographic information by employees from the Group’s annual people and culture survey and benchmarked against the ancestry question in the Australian 2016 Census. The result captures the responses of CBA employees only, excluding Bankwest, CFSGAM, ASB and PTBC. Customer Complaints – The number of complaints resolved as at 30 June for the Group as recorded in the FirstPoint feedback system Resolved excluding Bankwest and ASB, as defined by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Regulatory Guide 165. This includes complaints which have taken more than five business days to resolve to the customer’s complete satisfaction and any complaints relating to hardship, a declined insurance claim, or the value of an insurance claim. Customer Complaints Number Number of complaints escalated to an EDR scheme for the Group, excluding Bankwest and ASB. This includes escalated to an external dispute complaints that have been through the Bank’s internal dispute resolution process and have escalated to an EDR resolution (EDR) scheme scheme, or have been raised directly with the EDR scheme. These complaints are recorded in Firstpoint and are managed by Group Customer Relations. EDR schemes include, but are not limited to, the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA), the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) and the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner (OAIC). Customer Complaints – Privacy Number of privacy related complaints escalated to the OAIC for the Group, excluding Bankwest and ASB. This Complaints includes complaints that have been through the Bank’s internal dispute resolution process and have escalated to the OAIC, or have been raised directly with the OAIC. These complaints are recorded in Firstpoint and are managed by Group Customer Relations. Data Centres Water CBA uses four data centres in Australia. CBA only has access to actual water consumption from invoices for two data centres and the other two data centres have been excluded. All data centres are not under operational control. 310 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Metric Description Employee engagement index – The index shows the proportion of employees replying with a score of 4 or 5 to four engagement questions in the CBA Group’s annual People and Culture Survey. These questions relate to satisfaction, retention, advocacy and pride on a scale of 1-5 (where 1 is ‘Strongly Disagree’ and 5 is ‘Strongly Agree’). The result captures the responses of CBA employees only, excluding Bankwest, CFSGAM and ASB. Employee turnover (involuntary) Refers to all involuntary exits of permanent employees as a percentage of the average permanent headcount paid directly by the Group (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave), including AHL and excluding ASB. Involuntary exits include redundancies and terminations for disciplinary reasons. Employee turnover (voluntary) Refers to all voluntary exits of permanent employees as a percentage of the average, permanent headcount paid directly by the Group (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave), including AHL and excluding ASB. Voluntary exits are determined to be resignations and retirements. Employees who identify as having The proportion of CBA employees that have selected one, or more than one, of the disability conditions in the last a disability 12 months, based on the survey responses in the Group’s annual people and culture survey. Based on the surveyed population for the ‘Employee Engagement Index – CBA’ metric, excluding PTBC, who answered this question. Employees who identify as LGBTI The proportion of CBA employees that identify as LGBTI in the last 12 months by nominating one, or more than one, of the LGBTI options in the Group’s annual people and culture survey. The result captures the responses of CBA employees only, excluding Bankwest, CFSGAM, ASB, Indonesia, Vietnam and China. Employees with caring The proportion of CBA employees that have selected any of the caring responsibility options in the last 12 months, responsibilities based on the survey responses in the Group’s annual people and culture survey. The result captures the responses of CBA employees only, excluding Bankwest, CFSGAM, ASB and China. Employees working flexibly The proportion of CBA employees that indicated that they used flexible work options in the last 12 months by nominating one, or more than one, of the flexible work options in the Group’s annual people and culture survey. Note this survey question was updated in the 2017 financial year. The result captures the responses of CBA employees only, excluding Bankwest, CFSGAM, ASB, Indonesia, Vietnam and China. Employees who have accessed Number of employees who have started primary or secondary carer parental leave during the reporting period and parental leave recorded in the CBA's HR system. This metric excludes employees of ASB. Employees working part-time or The number of employees at 30 June who are employed on a part-time or job share basis, as a percentage of job-sharing permanent employees (full-time, part-time, job share or on extended leave). Employment types The number of Australian employees (including AHL) who are permanent employees (full-time, part time, job share or on extended leave), and those contractors paid directly by the Group. Energy consumption – total Total energy use by CBA's Australian Operations is made up of: 1) electricity, natural gas and stationary fuel used in retail and commercial operations under CBA's operational control; and 2) Data centre electricity consumption from data centres outside CBA's operational control. Environmental, Social and Number of employees who have completed ESG learning modules recorded in CBA’s learning management Governance (ESG) Training system 'PeopleLink' as at 30 June, measured by headcount. The ESG learning modules are ESG Risk Fundamentals, ESG Risk Tool and Responsible Investing and Equator Principles III eLearning. This metric excludes the training completion rates of the employees of Bankwest and ASB. Female Directors on Board Represents the percentage of female Directors in relation to the total Commonwealth Bank of Australia Board as at 30 June. Foregone revenue Foregone revenue consists of the aggregate value of fee-free or discounted CBA customers' banking accounts (relating to Monthly Account Fee and Transaction Fees only, not including discounts in interest rates) for customers who have been assessed as low income earners, underprivileged or not-for-profit organisations. Full-time equivalent employees This metric represents the full-time equivalent (FTE) employees of the Group (including AHL) by geographical work (FTE) locations. New Zealand FTE includes ASB employees. FTE captures full-time, part-time, job share employees, employees on extended leave and contractors. One full-time role is equal to 38 working hours per week. Gender pay equity – female to Gender pay equity is defined as the pay gap between the weighted average base salary of males and females for male base salary comparison Australian-based employees of the Group, excluding Bankwest. The data reflects roles in similar functions, role size and responsibilities. The data refers to permanent full-time and part-time employees, and excludes the CEO, Board members, contractors, casual employees and employees who have not defined a gender, as at 31 March 2019. Greenhouse Gas Emissions per Greenhouse Gas Emissions relate to Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the Group as detailed above. FTE – Scope (1 & 2) (Group) FTE relates to the Group’s full-time equivalent employees. Greenhouse Gas Emissions per Greenhouse Gas Emissions relate to Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Australia. FTE relates to FTE (Scope 1 & 2) (Australia) domestic full-time equivalent employees in Australia. Headcount Total number of employees, including permanent headcount (full-time, part-time, job share, on extended leave), and contractors (fixed term arrangements) paid directly by the Group. 311 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Glossary of terms Metric Description Health, Safety and Wellbeing Number of employees who completed the Health, Safety and Wellbeing training, as recorded in CBA's learning Training management system ‘PeopleLink’ as at 30 June, measured by headcount. This metric excludes the training completion rates of the employees of Bankwest and ASB. Indigenous Customer Assistance Number of calls received via the dedicated Indigenous Customer Assistance Line (ICAL) of CBA during the period Line (calls received) from 1 July to 30 June. The metric does not take into account calls that were abandoned by customers. This assistance line is dedicated to assisting the Australian Indigenous community. Indigenous workforce Represents the proportion of employees that nominate that they most strongly identify with Australian Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander ancestry in the Group’s annual people and culture survey. The surveyed population is the same as the ‘Employee Engagement Index – CBA’ metric, excluding PTBC. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander representation in the population of Australia is based on the 2016 Australia Census. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR is the reported number of occurrences of lost time arising from injury or disease that have resulted in an (LTIFR) accepted workers compensation claim, for each million hours worked by Australia and New Zealand employees. The metric captures claims relating to permanent, casual and contractors paid directly by the Group. Data is presented using the information available as at 30 June for each financial year. New Zealand employees included from FY18 and AHL's employees are excluded from FY19. Misconduct breaches resulting in Represents closed substantiated misconduct cases which resulted in termination and were managed in Australia termination by the Workplace Relations team and Group Investigations team. The metric excludes incidents reported by local associates and joint ventures. There are various internal policies within the Group that govern staff conduct obligations, such as the ‘Code of Conduct’ which is the guiding framework at CBA. Net Promoter Score (NPS) – This metric measures the likelihood of Australian Bankwest business customers rating their likelihood to Bankwest – Business Banking recommend Bankwest to others on a scale of 0-10 (where 0 is Extremely unlikely and 10 is Extremely likely ). NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of Detractors (scores 0-6) from the percentage of Promoters (scores 9-10). The metric is measured by DBM Consultants as part of their Business Financial Services Monitor and is reported as a 6 month rolling average as at 30 June. Businesses with lending under $500,000 nationally or lending over $500,000 in West Australia are included in the metric. ®Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a trademark of Bain & Co Inc., Satmetrix Systems, Inc., and Mr Frederick Reichheld. Net Promoter Score (NPS) – This metric measures the likelihood of retail Bankwest customers to recommend Bankwest to others on a scale of Bankwest – Retail Banking 0-10 (where 0 is Not at all likely and 10 is Extremely likely ). NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of Detractors (scores 0-6) from the percentage of Promoters (scores 9-10). The metric is based on two of Bankwest's Priority Segments Home Owner and Property Investors (HOPI) and those intending to purchase property within the next 12 months (Pre-HOPI). NPS is measured by DBM Consultants in their Consumer Atlas Syndicated Tracker and is reported as a 6 month rolling average. ®Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a trademark of Bain & Co Inc., Satmetrix Systems, Inc., and Mr Frederick Reichheld. Net Promoter Score (NPS) – DBM Business MFI *Net Promoter Score: Based on Australian businesses rating their Main Financial Institution for CBA – Business Business Banking. Net Promoter Score refers to customer likelihood to recommend their MFI using a scale from 0-10 where (where 0 is ‘Extremely unlikely’ and 10 is ‘Extremely likely’) and NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of Detractors (scores 0-6) from the percentage of Promoters (scores 9-10). NPS results are shown as a six-month rolling average. For the major banks, NPS is reported for main brand only. ®Net Promoter Score is a trademark of Bain & Co Inc., Satmetrix Systems, Inc., and Mr Frederick Reichheld. DBM Consultants via its Product Business Financial Service Monitor interview approximately 19,000 businesses annually, covering Whole of Market for business, including all geographies within Australia of any amount of turnover. Net Promoter Score (NPS) – This metric measures the likelihood of an individual to recommend a financial institution they have dealings with CBA – Online based on their experience using Internet Banking services via Website or Mobile App at the institution. NPS is measured on a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 being ‘very unlikely’ to recommend and 10 being ‘very likely’ to recommend and is calculated by subtracting the percentage of ‘Detractors’ (score 1-6) from the percentage of ‘Promoters’ (score 9-10). ®Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a trademark of Bain and Company, Inc., Satmetrix Systems, Inc., and Mr Frederick Reichheld. NPS scores are filtered to Main Financial Institution (MFI) retail customers as identified in the Roy Morgan Single Source survey. Peers include ANZ, NAB and Westpac at a brand level. Net Promoter Score (NPS) – DBM Consumer MFI *Net Promoter Score. Based on Australian population aged 14+ years old rating their Main CBA – Retail Financial Institution (MFI). Net Promoter Score refers to customer likelihood to recommend their MFI using a scale from 0-10 (where 0 is ‘Not at all likely’ and 10 is ‘Extremely likely) and NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of Detractors (scores 0-6) from the percentage of Promoters (scores 9-10). NPS results are shown as a six-month rolling average. *Net Promoter Score is a trademark of Bain & Co Inc., Satmetrix Systems, Inc., and Mr Frederick Reichheld. This metric was previously surveyed by Roy Morgan (June 2018). The ranking refers to CBA’s position relative to the other main banks (ANZ,NAB and Westpac). For the major banks, NPS is reported for main brand only. Number of graduates The number of graduates who accepted and commenced in a graduate position with CBA or Bankwest under the Talent Acquisition program during the year ended 30 June. Office paper Tonnes of office paper (A3 and A4 paper) used in CBA commercial operations and retail branches under CBA's operational control. Based on invoiced numbers of reams of paper used and calculations to estimate usage as a weight. Excludes operations outside Australia. 312 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Metric Description Program implementation costs Total costs incurred by the Group to implement community investment programs, operating costs of managing the Indigenous Customer Assistance Line call centre, operating costs of managing the Group Corporate Affairs team and Women in Focus as well as other not-for-profit activities and school programs. These costs include salary and wages, occupancy, IT and other administration costs. PT Bank Commonwealth – The metric represents the results of the Bank Service Excellence Monitor (BSEM) survey conducted by Marketing Banking Service Excellence Research Indonesia (MRI) independently every year using mystery shopping methodology. In 2019, BSEM Performance measured service excellence performance of the top 19 banks in Indonesia (including private-owned banks, government banks and foreign banks). School banking students (active) The number of active students who participated in the CBA School Banking program from the period 1 July to 30 June. Active students are those who banked at least once during the last 12 month period through the School Banking Portal under the School Banking program. Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to the consumption of natural gas and stationary fuel used Emissions (Australia) in retail, commercial and data centre properties under our operational control as defined under National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER). It also includes the business use of our tool-of-trade vehicle fleet. Source of emissions factors: National Greenhouse Accounts (NGA) Factors (2018). Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Comprises the sum of Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Australia, New Zealand and other overseas Emissions (Group) locations. Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) relate to the consumption of natural gas and stationary fuel Emissions (New Zealand) used in commercial properties. It also includes the business use of our tool-of-trade vehicle fleet. Source of emissions factors Measuring Emissions: A Guide for Organisations (2019). Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Other overseas) is an estimate of multiplying the Scope 1 Emissions per Emissions (Other overseas) FTE as at 30 June 2019 in Australia by the number of FTEs of all the Group’s other overseas offices. Scope 1 Stationary Greenhouse Scope 1 Stationary Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to the consumption of diesel and natural gas Gas Emissions (Australia used in retail, commercial and data centre properties in Australia under our operational control as defined under operations) NGER. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2018). Scope 1 Transport Greenhouse Scope 1 Transport Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to the consumption of diesel, ethanol E10 and Gas Emissions (Australia petrol from our business use of our domestic tool-of-trade vehicle fleet in Australia. Source of emissions factors: operations) NGA (2018). Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to the electricity used by ATMs, retail, commercial, Emissions (Australia) residential and data centre properties under our operational control as defined under NGER. FY19 data now includes data centres considered under operational control. Source of emissions factors: NGA Factors (2018). Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Comprises the sum of Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Australia, New Zealand and other overseas Emissions (Group) locations. Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) relate to the electricity use by ATMs and retail and commercial Emissions (New Zealand) properties. Source of emissions factors Measuring Emissions: A Guide for Organisations (2019). Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Other overseas) is an estimate of multiplying the Scope 2 Emissions per Emissions (Other overseas) FTE as at 30 June 2019 in Australia by the number of FTEs of all the Group’s other overseas offices. The 2018 approach differs from prior year data, which included invoiced electricity consumption data for Asia locations. Scope 2 Purchased Electricity Scope 2 Purchased Electricity Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to the electricity used by ATMs, retail, Greenhouse Gas Emissions commercial, residential and data centre properties under our operational control in Australia as defined under (Australia operations) NGER. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2018). Scope 3 Base Building Scope 3 Base Building Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia operations) relate to emissions generated from Greenhouse Gas Emissions CBA's proportion (by net lettable area) of base building electricity and natural gas usage for our Australian (Australia operations) Commercial offices. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2018). Scope 3 Data Centres Scope 3 Data Centres Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia operations) relate to the electricity and diesel Greenhouse Gas Emissions consumption in our Australian data centres not under our operational control as defined under NGER. CBA has (Australia operations) not had operational control of any data centres since FY18. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2018). Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to indirect emissions associated with Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions (Australia) emission sources, rental car and taxi use, business use of private vehicles, dedicated bus services, business flights, waste to landfill, emissions associated with electricity and diesel consumption at data centres not under CBA’s operational control, and base building emissions. Source of emissions factors: NGA Factors (2018) and UK Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) guidance (2017) for flights. Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Comprises the sum of Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions for Australia, New Zealand and other overseas Emissions (Group) locations. Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) relate to indirect emissions associated with Scope 1 and Emissions (New Zealand) Scope 2 emission sources, waste to landfill, business air travel, taxi use and hire cars, fuel consumed by operating lease fleet vehicles and personal vehicles used by staff for business purposes, postal and courier services and paper. Source of emissions factors Measuring Emissions: A Guide for Organisations (2019) and DEFRA (2017). 313 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Glossary of terms Metric Description Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Other overseas) is an estimate of multiplying the Scope 3 Emissions per Emissions (Other overseas) FTE in Australia by the number of FTEs as at 30 June 2019 of all the Group’s other overseas offices. Scope 3 Purchased Electricity Scope 3 Purchased Electricity Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia operations) relate to indirect emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions associated with the electricity used by ATMs, retail, commercial and residential properties under our operational (Australia operations) control in Australia. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2018). Scope 3 Office Paper Scope 3 Office Paper Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia operations) relate to emissions generated from our Greenhouse Gas Emissions office paper used in our commercial operations and retail branches under our operational control in Australia. (Australia operations) Source of emissions factors: DEFRA (2017). Scope 3 Stationary Greenhouse Scope 3 Stationary Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to indirect emissions associated with diesel and Gas Emissions (Australia natural gas used in retail, commercial and data centre properties in Australia under our operational control as operations) defined under NGER. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2018). Scope 3 Transport Greenhouse Scope 3 Transport Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) relate to rental car and taxi use, business use of private Gas Emissions (Australia vehicles, dedicated bus service, business flights, and indirect emissions from business use of our tool-of-trade operations) vehicle fleet. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2018) and DEFRA (2017) for flights. Scope 3 Waste to Landfill Scope 3 Waste to Landfill Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia operations) relate to emissions generated from Greenhouse Gas Emissions our waste to landfill from our commercial properties under our operational control in Australia. Refer to Total waste (Australia operations) to landfill definition for more details. Source of emissions factors: NGA (2018). SpeakUP Program cases Number of SpeakUP cases recorded in the Group’s SpeakUP Program records as at 30 June. The cases include disclosure types such as anonymous, confidential and whistleblower. Start Smart students (booked) The number of students booked to attend the CBA’s Start Smart programs from the period 1 July to 30 June. Start Smart sessions cover different topics and the same student may be booked to attend a number of sessions. Substantiated misconduct cases Represents closed substantiated misconduct cases managed in Australia by the Workplace Relations team and Group Investigations team. The metric excludes incidents reported by local associates and joint ventures. There are various internal policies within the Group that govern staff conduct obligations, such as the ‘Code of Conduct’ which is the guiding framework at CBA. Time volunteering Total estimated cost of pro bono and volunteering hours contributed by CBA and Bankwest Australia-based employees through volunteering activities as captured in CBA’s volunteering database. Average hourly rates are calculated using Australia-based permanent employees' salaries as at 30 June, excluding the salary of the executive leadership and management teams. Total community investments Total voluntary investments contributed to communities in the form of cash contributions, time volunteering, foregone revenue and program implementation costs as defined under each metric below. Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 Total of Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Australia) are the sum of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions emissions (Australia). This comprises CBA, Bankwest and Aussie Home Loans (AHL). (Australia) Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 Total of Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group) is the sum of Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group), Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group) and Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Group). (Group) Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 Total of Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (New Zealand) are the sum of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 3 emissions (New Zealand). This comprises ASB. (New Zealand) Total of Scope 1, 2 & 3 Total of Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Other overseas) are the sum of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 3 emissions (Other overseas). This comprises the Group’s offices in Asia, Africa, Europe and North America. (Other overseas) Total Secured Waste Tonnes of secured waste collected from CBA commercial buildings under CBA's operational control, and destroyed in a secure process to protect privacy. Based on invoiced volumes which are estimated based on an average weight per bin collected. Total Waste Total waste comprises the sum of waste to landfill, waste recycled and secured waste. For all waste metrics, we have reported on all commercial buildings from FY18 onwards (for context, CBA occupies 50 commercial buildings as at 30 June 2019). FY17 and FY16 we reported for nine commercial buildings and FY15 for eight buildings. Total Waste Recycled Tonnes of recycled waste generated per annum from CBA, Bankwest and AHL’s commercial buildings under our operational control in Australia. 68% of waste recycled data is based on invoiced amounts, the remainder is estimated based on an average tonnes per m2 of NLA. Invoiced amounts are estimated by the total number of bin lifts using density conversion factors or actual weighed amounts where available. From 2018, organic waste stream is diverted from waste to landfill to waste recycled for properties where data can be reported separately. 314 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Metric Description Total waste to landfill Tonnes of waste to landfill generated per annum from CBA, Bankwest and AHL’s commercial buildings under our operational control in Australia. As at 30 June 2019, 58% of waste to landfill data is based on invoiced amounts, the remainder is estimated based on an average tonnes per m2 of net lettable area (NLA). Invoiced amounts are estimated by the total number of bin lifts using density conversion factors or actual weighed amounts where available. From 2018, organic waste stream is diverted from waste to landfill to waste recycled for properties where data can be reported separately. Training completion rates on Percentage of employees who have been assigned and completed the ‘Code of Conduct’ learning module recorded Code of Conduct’ in CBA’s learning management system ‘PeopleLink’ as at 30 June. This metric excludes the training completion rates of the employees of Bankwest and ASB. Previous year numbers are for completion of Our Commitments training. Training completion rates on Percentage of employees who have been assigned and completed the Group’s mandatory learning modules mandatory learning recorded in CBA’s learning management system ‘PeopleLink’ as at 30 June. This metric excludes the training completion rates of the employees of ASB. The Group’s mandatory learning modules are Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing, Conflicts of Interest, Fraud, Security and Privacy, Resolving Customer Complaints, Workplace Conduct and Health and Safety. Training hours This represents the total completed training hours recorded in CBA’s learning management system 'PeopleLink' as at 30 June. Training hours are allocated to each training item such as face-to-face or online training. Executive Managers, General Managers, Executive General Managers and the Chief Executive Officer are included in 'Executive Managers and above' and 'Others' includes team managers and team members. This metric excludes the training completion rates of the employees of Bankwest and ASB. Training hours per employee This metric represents the average completed training hours per employee that is recorded in CBA’s learning management system ‘PeopleLink’ as at 30 June, measured by headcount. This metric excludes the training completion rates of the employees of Bankwest and ASB. Whistleblower cases Number of whistleblower cases recorded in the Group’s Speak UP Program records as at 30 June. Women in Executive Manager The percentage of roles at the level of Executive Manager and above filled by women, in relation to the total and above roles headcount at these levels as at 30 June. Headcount captures permanent headcount (full-time, part-time, job share, on extended leave), and contractors (fixed term arrangements) paid directly by the Group, including AHL and excluding ASB. Women in Manager and above The percentage of roles that are filled by women at the level of Manager and above (including Branch Managers), roles in relation to the total headcount at this level as at 30 June. Headcount captures permanent headcount (full-time, part-time, job share, on extended leave), and contractors (fixed term arrangements) paid directly by the Group, including AHL and excluding ASB. Women in Senior Leadership The percentage of roles that are filled by women who are current executives as at 30 June. These roles are direct (Group Executives) reports of the CEO with authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling CBA’s activities. This excludes ASB. For the list of current executives, please refer to the 2019 Annual Report pages 74 to 75. Women in workforce The percentage of roles filled by women, in relation to the total headcount as at 30 June for the Group. Headcount captures permanent headcount (full-time, part-time, job share, on extended leave), and contractors (fixed term arrangements) paid directly by the Group, including AHL and excluding ASB. 315 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information International representation Australia Americas Hong Kong Head Office United States CBA Hong Kong Branch, Commonwealth Bank of Australia CBA Branch Office Level 13, One Exchange Square, Ground Floor, Tower 1 Level 30, 599 Lexington Avenue 8 Connaught Place, 201 Sussex Street New York NY 10022 Central, Hong Kong Sydney NSW 2000 Telephone: +1 212 848 9200 Telephone: +852 2844 7500 Telephone: +61 2 9378 2000 First State Investments New Zealand CBA International Financial Services 10 East 53rd Street, Floor 21 Limited ASB Bank Limited New York NY 10022 Level 14, One Exchange Square Level 2 Telephone: +1 212 497 9980 8 Connaught Place, ASB North Wharf Asia Central, Hong Kong 12 Jellicoe Street China Telephone: +852 2293 7888 Auckland Central Auckland 1010 CMG, Beijing Representative Office First State Investments Telephone: +64 9 306 3000 Unit 2908, Level 29 Level 25, One Exchange Square China World Tower 1, 8 Connaught Place, CBA NZ Branch 1 Jianguomenwai Avenue, Central, Hong Kong Level 2 Beijing 100004 Telephone: +852 2846 7566 ASB North Wharf Telephone: +86 10 6505 5023 Facsimile: +852 2868 4742 12 Jellicoe Street Auckland Central CBA Beijing Branch Office Auckland 1010 Level 46, China World Tower, Telephone: +64 9 337 4748 1 Jianguomenwai Avenue, Beijing 100004 Telephone: +86 10 5680 3000 CBA Shanghai Branch Office Level 11 Azia Centre 1233 Lujiazui Ring Road Pudong Shanghai 200120 Telephone: +86 21 6123 8900 316 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Indonesia Singapore Malta PT Bank Commonwealth CBA Branch Office CommBank Europe Limited World Trade Centre 6, 3A Floor 38 Beach Road Level 3 Strand Towers Jl. Jenderal Sudirman Kay. 29-31, 06-11 South Beach Tower 36 The Strand Jakarta 12920 Singapore 189767 Sliema SLM07 Telephone: +62 21 5296 1222 Telephone: +65 6349 7000 Telephone: +356 2132 0812 PT Commonwealth Life First State Investments United Kingdom World Trade Centre 6, 3A Floor 38 Beach Road England Jl. Jenderal Sudirman Kay. 29-31, 06-11 South Beach Tower CBA Branch Office Jakarta 12920 Singapore 189767 1 New Ludgate Telephone: +62 21 570 5000 Telephone: +65 6580 1390 60 Ludgate Hill London EC4M 7AW First State Investments Vietnam Telephone: +44 20 7710 3999 29th Floor, Gedung Artha Graha CBA Representative Office Sudirman Central Business District Suite 603-604 First State Investments Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 52-53 Central Building Finsbury Circus House Jakarta 12190 31 Hai Ba Trung, Hanoi 15 Finsbury Circus Telephone: +62 21 2935 3300 Telephone: +84 24 3824 3213 London EC2M 7EB Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7332 6500 Japan Europe CBA Branch Office France Scotland 8th Floor, Toranomon Waiko Building First State Investments First State Investments 12-1 Toranomon 5-chome George V 23 St Andrew Square Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-0001 27-29, Rue de Bassano Edinburgh EH2 1BB Telephone: +81 3 5400 7280 75008 Paris Telephone: +44 (0) 131 473 2200 Telephone: +33 (0) 1 7225 6636 First State Investments (Japan) Limited 12F Yurakucho ITOCIA, Germany 2-7-1 Yurakucho, Chiyaoda-ku First State Investments Tokyo 100-0006 Westhafen Tower Telephone: +81 3 6860 4693 Westhafenplatz 1 60327 Frankfurt a.M. Telephone: +49 (0) 69 710456-302 317 Strategic Financial Risk Corporate Directors’ Financial Other report performance management governance report report information Corporate directory Available from 8am to 7pm (Sydney Time), Monday to Friday, for 132 221 General Enquiries share trading and stock market enquiries, and 8am to 7pm 7 days a For your everyday banking including paying bills using BPAY® our week for CommSec Cash Management. A 24 hour lost and stolen automated service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. card line is available 24 hours, 7 days a week. 132 221 Lost, Stolen or Damaged Cards 131 709 CommSec Margin Lending To report a lost or stolen card 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Enables you to expand your portfolio by borrowing against your From overseas call +61 2 9999 3283. Operator assistance is existing shares and managed funds. To find out more simply call available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 131 709 8am to 6pm (Sydney Time) Monday to Friday or visit ® Registered to BPAY Pty Ltd ABN 69 079 137 518 www.commsec.com.au. 132 224 Home Loans and Investment Home Loans 1800 019 910 Corporate Financial Services To apply for a new home loan or investment home loan or to For a full range of financial solutions for medium-size and larger maintain an existing loan. Available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a companies. week. Available from 8am to 6pm (Sydney Time), Monday to Friday. 131 431 Personal Loan Sales 131 998 Local Business Banking To apply for a new personal loan. A dedicated team of Business Banking Specialists, supporting a Available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. network of branch business bankers, will help you with your financial needs. 1800 805 605 Customer Relations Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or visit If you would like to pay us a compliment or are dissatisfied with any www.commbank.com.au/lbb. aspect of the service you have received. 1300 772 968 (1300 AGLINE) AgriLine Internet Banking A dedicated team of Agribusiness Specialists will help you with your You can apply for a home loan, credit card, personal loan, term financial needs. With our Business Banking team living in regional deposit or a savings account on the internet by visiting our website and rural Australia, they understand the challenges you face. at www.commbank.com.au available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Do your everyday banking on our internet banking service NetBank at www.commbank.com.au/netbank available 24 hours a day, 7 Colonial First State days a week. Existing investors can call 131 336 from 8am to 7pm (Sydney Time) To apply for access to NetBank, call 132 221. Monday to Friday. Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. New investors without a financial adviser can call 1300 360 645. Do your business banking on our Business Internet Banking Service Financial advisers can call 131 836. CommBiz at www.commbank.com.au/CommBiz available 24 hours Alternatively, visit www.colonialfirststate.com.au. a day, 7 days a week. To apply for access to CommBiz, call 132 339. 1300 362 081 Commonwealth Private Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Commonwealth Private offers clients with significant financial resources a comprehensive range of services, advice and Special Telephony Services opportunities to meet their specific needs. For a confidential Customers who are hearing or speech impaired can contact us via discussion about how Commonwealth Private can help you, call the National Relay Service (www.relayservice.com.au) available 1300 362 081 between 8am to 5:30pm (Sydney time), Monday to 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Friday or visit www.commbank.com.au/commonwealthprivate. Telephone Typewriter (TTY) service users can be connected to any of our telephone numbers via 133 677. 132 015 Commonwealth Financial Services Speak and Listen (speech-to-speech relay) users can also connect For enquiries on retirement and superannuation products, or to any of our telephone numbers by calling 1300 555 727. managed investments. Available from 8.30am to 6pm (Sydney Internet relay users can be connected to our telephone numbers via Time), Monday to Friday. National Relay Service. Unit prices are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 131 519 CommSec (Commonwealth Securities) CommInsure For enquiries about CommSec products and services visit For all your general insurance needs call 132 423 8am to 8pm www.commsec.com.au. (Sydney Time), Monday to Friday and 8am to 5pm (Sydney Time) on Saturday. For all your life insurance needs call 131 056 8am to 8pm (Sydney Time), Monday to Friday. Alternatively, visit www.comminsure.com.au. 318 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Annual Report 2019 Registered Office Ground Floor, Tower 1 201 Sussex Street Sydney NSW 2000 Telephone: +61 2 9378 2000 Facsimile: +61 2 9118 7192 Company Secretary Kara Nicholls Kristy Huxtable Shareholder Information www.commbank.com.au/shareholder Share Registrar Link Market Services Limited Level 12 680 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 Telephone: +61 1800 022 440 Internet: www.linkmarketservices.com.au Email: cba@linkmarketservices.com.au Telephone numbers for overseas shareholders New Zealand 0800 442 845 United Kingdom 0845 640 6130 Fiji 008 002 054 Australian Securities Exchange Listing CBA Annual Report To request a copy of the Annual Report, please call Link Market Services Limited on +61 1800 022 440 or by email at cba@linkmarketservices.com.au. Electronic versions of Commonwealth Bank’s past and current Annual Reports are available on www.commbank.com.au/investors. 319 CBA 1421 270819
