2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 Table of Contents Table of Contents Letter From Our CEO. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Communication on Progress. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Progress Highlights by the Numbers . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Human Rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Labor Standards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Environmental. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Anti-Corruption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 PARTNER COMMUNITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 Letter from our CEO It is truly a pleasure to submit our Fifth Communication on Progress Annual Student Profile, which assists the school in its marketing (COP) Report to the United Nations. We welcomed the 2019 COP efforts to collegiate recruiters and admissions departments across Year with both high energy and reflections of celebrations from a the nation. year robust in support to our community, with many meaningful In support of our Veteran community and with appreciation to all events in alignment with our organizational values and with the of those who served or who are currently serving our great nation, values of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact we hosted our signature Flag Raising Ceremony and festivities, (UNGP). Throughout this period, we initiated numerous programs to celebrating Military Appreciation Month. Bringing together inspire our youth, honor our Veteran community, and did our part members of our regional Veteran community, the families of former to make a difference within the region through our commitment and present service men and women, and hosting a ceremony to to numerous nonprofit organizations. The past year was dynamic, illuminate our American Flag, which we display with tremendous engaging, and filled with an abundance of positive momentum, pride at our historic property. Over 100 people joined the creative strategy, and steadfast focus. ceremony. We are always proud to bring together our bipartisan We present this COP as proud members of the UNGP as a United regional legislative delegation. Participating in our program during States based professional service firm. Over the past year, we have this COP year were Senator Michael Moore (D), Senator Jamie witnessed a world where leaders were challenged by globally Eldridge (D), Representative Hannah Kane (R), Representative charged and domestic issues where people allowed political Carolyn Dykema (D), Representative Danielle Gregoire (D), and differences to divide and erode the root of their core values. The Francisco A. Ureña, Secretary of the Department of Veterans’ global landscape is ever-changing and diplomacy is becoming more Services of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. In an effort to important than ever as leaders need to have more patience and foster good will to support the psychological wellbeing of those understanding for the differences that make our world so strong. who care for our veterans, we were delighted to make a charitable As corporate and community leaders, we have a responsibility contribution to a nonprofit organization. to uphold the highest level of integrity at all times, and to ensure Another highlight from this year was our significant commitment that our decisions are meaningful and driven by a strong moral to the Westborough Economic Development Committee with and ethical compass. We must continue to be fair and open to our marketing and public relations support to further regional different ideas, approaches, and to individual leadership styles. economic development growth, the creation of new jobs, and the Every leader across every nation and of every sized organization development of commercial properties. We planned and produced must responsibly do their part to create positivity in the workforce the Committee’s Fifth Annual Review and Celebratory Event, which to allow their employees the opportunity to love their work and gathered nearly 200 leaders together and where the Lt. Governor their environment. As the world continues to evolve, we recognize of Massachusetts delivered a powerful keynote address. Handling the necessity for the business community to be highly aligned and every facet of this event since its inception, we were encouraged supportive of the mission of the United Nations to help strengthen to see attendance nearly double in size and to see so many all of humanity by doing its part to create a positive and supportive organizations honored. It was a pleasure to provide this assistance. approach to assisting Human Rights initiatives and ensuring As the Chairman of this Committee for five consecutive years, environmental sustainability through our regional efforts and our CEO is fully committed to helping local government improve contributions to society. Now, more than ever, businesses should strategy, outreach, and communications efforts as it relates to rise to the occasion and set a positive example for others to follow. improved economic development activity and results. Highlights from our past year include our commitment to workforce During the most recent COP period, we continued our support development and economic development initiatives. We are proud of human rights through collaborations and assistance with that our education program welcomed its fourth class of PENTA human service organizations. We supported the YWCA of Central Marketing Mentor Scholars™, a highly acclaimed program, helping Massachusetts by contributing to its Katharine Forbes Erskine extraordinary high school seniors connect with C-level executives as Awards Luncheon, and our CEO had the pleasure of serving in a they participate on numerous outreach visits to companies that are leadership role as its Chairman for the fifth consecutive year. In helping to shape innovation and marketing trends. We continued addition, we are working with the organization to help brand and our collaboration with the Westborough Public School System on evangelize its Capital Campaign, LIVE, which will raise enough its mission to brand The Boro Program, which offers assistance funding to significantly improve its flagship facility, providing a and life/workforce readiness to young adults. This Program was better experience and enhanced environment for the women, launched in December 2019, and we were proud to be part of the children, and families it serves. Our CEO is proud to serve as one of marketing and packaging of this forward-thinking program helping the Major Gift Chairs for this initiative. young adults gain the experience of what it is like to enter the workforce, live more independently, and enjoy happy lives. We Developing a brand for this significant milestone initiative and also had the pleasure of developing the Westborough High School helping the organization execute a marketing initiative to raise over Continued on page 5 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 Letter from our CEO Continued $7 million towards its exciting and historic renovation project, we used our core competencies for the betterment of our community. In addition, we created collateral materials, produced a series of testimonial videos, and hosted an informational reception for the organization at our historic corporate headquarters. With regards to other organizations that support women and children in need, our firm also donated countless hours of paid employee/staff time to design and facilitate the launch of a new website for Abby’s House in Worcester. Abby’s House was founded in 1976 as the Abby Kelley Foster House, Inc. (Abby’s House), and the organization has provided more than 11,500 homeless women and children with a safe place to stay, regroup, and rebuild. It was one of the first shelters for women, with or without children, in the United States. When called upon by the local nonprofit organization, In Your Shoes, which provides assistance on numerous levels to people in need, we stepped up with a charitable donation during the Holiday Season. We were also delighted to contribute to the United Way, the Worcester Regional Research Bureau, and numerous other organizations. The PENTA Legacy Fund also contributed to other community based organizations in alignment with our mission. There were so many additional highlights from the past year. We would like to express our sincerest gratitude to our clients that place their trust and confidence in our firm to help improve their marketing. We are blessed to have the opportunity to do what we love every single day in a bright, beautiful, and creative environment that is positive and uplifting. As we look forward to the year ahead, we will be celebrating our 30th Anniversary in business, to doing our part to help every one of our clients achieve more success, to focus on our good work in the communities we serve, and to live our mission and values of fostering a great place to work for our team and helping to inspire a better region. It is truly an honor and privilege to support the UNGP principles. Deborah Penta Founder & CEO PENTA Communications, Inc. 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 How PENTA Implemented the Ten Global Principles in 2018 Principle Highlights on Progress Human 1. Businesses •• PENTA continued its commitment to regional nonprofit organizations that support and Rights should support respect human rights by helping individuals and families work towards economic selfand respect the sufficiency through education and assistance programs. These organizations included Abby’s protection of House, Big Brothers Big Sisters, Boy Scouts of America, Veterans Inc., Worcester Community internationally Action Council, and the YWCA; proclaimed human •• PENTA’s leadership continued its volunteer board service to a myriad of community rights; organizations that support the UN Human Rights Principle, including the Central Massachusetts Workforce Investment Board; 2. And make sure they are not complicit •• PENTA’s leadership served as Corporators for the human rights nonprofit organizations Seven in human rights Hills Foundation, Big Brothers Big Sisters, and the Greater Worcester Community Foundation; abuses. •• PENTA was a presenting sponsor of the YWCA Tribute to Women Event in 2018 for the Katharine Forbes Erskine Awards, recognizing extraordinary female leaders who have exhibited exemplary achievements in Business and Law, Art and Culture, Science, Medicine, Education, Government, and Youth Leadership – also honoring and triumphing equality for all women and girls who support racial justice and equality. In addition, our CEO served a leadership role as the Chairman of the 2018 Tribute to Erskine Committee for the fourth consecutive year; •• In May 2018, PENTA hosted its Fourth Annual Flag Raising Ceremony in Celebration of National Military Appreciation Month and in honor of our distinguished Veterans. The Company also made a donation to benefit a nonprofit organization that helps provide joy to those who support the veterans in their lives through positive supportive experiences. The Company was recognized by State Senators Michael Moore (D) and Jamie Eldridge (D) and Senate Majority Leader Harriette Chandler (D), and Representatives Carolyn Dykema (D), Hannah Kane (R), and Danielle Gregorie (D). Our Firm was also recognized by the Office of the Governor through the Department of Veterans’ Services; •• PENTA provided needed assistance through a donation to In Your Shoes, a nonprofit organization that helps provide assistance to community members in need; and •• In November of 2018, PENTA made a significant contribution for the Boy Scouts of America in both pro-bono services and in a charitable donation, helping to increase the success of its annual fundraiser helping it to net the most in its event history. Labor 3. Businesses •• PENTA celebrated the Birthdays of all of its team members and created special events such Standards should uphold as “Muffin Mondays,” Catered Luncheons, provided “Anniversary Gift Cards,” and other the freedom of celebratory and spontaneous treats for its team; association and •• PENTA’s Football Friday Luncheon Series continued and was well received, providing our the effective team with free lunches from the area’s best restaurants. We also had a special off-site Holiday recognition of the Luncheon, which was fun for all, and hosted other events throughout the year for the team. right to collective bargaining; •• The PENTA Team continued to enjoy its Team Clubhouse and furnished its Game Room with a pool table, table tennis, and air hockey. Another big hit is the availability of peanut butter 4. the elimination pretzels and the spontaneous snacks, and ice cream treats found in the staff kitchen; of all forms of •• PENTA’s CEO continued to serve on the Board of the Central Massachusetts Workforce compulsory labor; Investment Board and also served as Chairman of the Westborough Economic Development Committee, which works to bring and grow job opportunities in the region. She also served 5. the effective on Personnel Committees for two Boards during the COP year helping organizations uphold abolition of child best practices for reviewing and hiring; labor; •• In the most recent COP period alone, PENTA hosted 55 catered meal events to benefit its 6. and the elimination employees; of discrimination •• PENTA offers its team free parking, free Wi-Fi, coffee, tea, beverages, and onsite snacks; and in respect of employment and •• PENTA continued its Marketing Mentorship Scholar Program™ fostering high-level marketing occupation. knowledge and experience to high school students and encouraging stronger job placement opportunities. 7 ENVIRONMENT HUMAN ANTI RIGHTS CORRUPTION LABOR PENTA STANDARDS COMMUNICATIONS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 How PENTA Implemented the Ten Global Principles in 2018 Continued Principle Highlights on Progress Environment 7. Businesses •• PENTA continued its recycling efforts of paper, plastic products, and printer should support cartridges. Our full service networked printer, server and equipment, streamlines a precautionary production of printed paper to conserve on ink and paper usage. In 2018, our approach to printing was reduced by 30% in comparison to 2017, with more of our efforts environmental becoming more digital based; challenges; •• PENTA continued to offer its clients a green line of services and made recommendations with respect to how its clients could execute green marketing 8. undertake initiatives strategies within their businesses; to promote greater environmental •• PENTA sourced 98% of its products and services locally; responsibility; •• PENTA employed 100% of its building contractors from within a 20-mile radius; 9. and encourage •• PENTA made every effort to conserve energy through the effective monitoring of the development electricity usage and other utilities at its corporate office; and and diffusion of •• PENTA encouraged and hosted an event showcasing the benefits of the cycling environmentally and walking trails to be constructed behind the building to promote health and friendly wellbeing through trail use. technologies. Anti10. Businesses should •• PENTA maintains the highest ethical standards in all of its business operations and Corruption work against relationships. The firm seeks vendors that are in alignment with our core values corruption in all of ensuring high integrity. In addition, we maintain high levels of transparency in our its forms, including client relationships and will not tolerate any level of unethical behavior on any level. extortion and In this COP period, our CEO received the 2018 Good Scout Award from the Boy bribery. Scouts of America. This honor is bestowed upon an individual who demonstrates the highest integrity in all facets of his/her business and professional life. It is awarded to an individual who lives and acts in alignment with the Laws of Scouting. 9 98% Use of 100% 820 Local Use of Suppliers Local 29 Contractors Years Hours of Service to Nonprofit 55 Employee Organizations Events COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 Progress by the Numbers 29 Years PENTA celebrated 29 years of providing the highest caliber integrated marketing services to its clients. 98% Percentage of PENTA suppliers that are local to the region. 820 Hours of time provided to 16 noteworthy nonprofit organizations in services during the COP Period including those that support human rights, economic development, arts and culture. 100% Percentage of building contractors within a 20-mile radius that PENTA utilizes to support its corporate office/facility. 55 Employee/Team events over the course of the COP period providing free meals to our staff. 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle Highlights on Progress Human Rights 1. Businesses should •• PENTA continued its commitment to regional nonprofit organizations that support support and respect and respect human rights by helping individuals and families work towards the protection economic self-sufficiency through education and assistance programs. These of internationally organizations included Abby’s House, Big Brothers Big Sisters, Boy Scouts of proclaimed human America, Veterans Inc., Worcester Community Action Council, and the YWCA; rights; •• PENTA’s leadership continued its volunteer board service to a myriad of community organizations that support the UN Human Rights Principle, including the Central 2. And make sure they are Massachusetts Workforce Investment Board; not complicit in human rights abuses. •• PENTA’s leadership served as Corporators for the human rights nonprofit organizations Seven Hills Foundation, Big Brothers Big Sisters, and the Greater Worcester Community Foundation; •• PENTA was a presenting sponsor of the YWCA Tribute to Women Event in 2018 for the Katharine Forbes Erskine Awards, recognizing extraordinary female leaders who have exhibited exemplary achievements in Business and Law, Art and Culture, Science, Medicine, Education, Government, and Youth Leadership – also honoring and triumphing equality for all women and girls who support racial justice and equality. In addition, our CEO served a leadership role as the Chairman of the 2018 Tribute to Erskine Committee for the fourth consecutive year; •• In May 2018, PENTA hosted its Fourth Annual Flag Raising Ceremony in Celebration of National Military Appreciation Month and in honor of our distinguished Veterans. The Company also made a donation to benefit a nonprofit organization that helps provide joy to those who support the veterans in their lives through positive supportive experiences. The Company was recognized by State Senators Michael Moore (D) and Jamie Eldridge (D) and Senate Majority Leader Harriette Chandler (D), and Representatives Carolyn Dykema (D), Hannah Kane (R), and Danielle Gregorie (D). Our Firm was also recognized by the Office of the Governor through the Department of Veterans’ Services; •• PENTA provided needed assistance through a donation to In Your Shoes, a nonprofit organization that helps provide assistance to community members in need; and •• In November of 2018, PENTA made a significant contribution for the Boy Scouts of America in both pro-bono services and in a charitable donation, helping to increase the success of its annual fundraiser helping it to net the most in its event history. 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 United Nations Global Compact Labor Standard Principles Principle Highlights on Progress Labor 3. Businesses should •• PENTA celebrated the Birthdays of all of its team members and created special Standards uphold the freedom events such as “Muffin Mondays,” Catered Luncheons, provided “Anniversary Gift of association and the Cards,” and other celebratory and spontaneous treats for its team; effective recognition •• PENTA’s Football Friday Luncheon Series continued and was well received, of the right to providing our team with free lunches from the area’s best restaurants. We also had collective bargaining; a special off-site Holiday Luncheon, which was fun for all, and hosted other events throughout the year for the team. 4. the elimination of all forms of compulsory •• The PENTA Team continued to enjoy its Team Clubhouse and furnished its labor; Game Room with a pool table, table tennis, and air hockey. Another big hit is the availability of peanut butter pretzels and the spontaneous snacks, and ice cream 5. the effective abolition treats found in the staff kitchen; of child labor; •• PENTA’s CEO continued to serve on the Board of the Central Massachusetts Workforce Investment Board and also served as Chairman of the Westborough 6. and the elimination Economic Development Committee, which works to bring and grow job of discrimination opportunities in the region. She also served on Personnel Committees for two in respect of Boards during the COP year helping organizations uphold best practices for employment and reviewing and hiring; occupation. •• In the most recent COP period alone, PENTA hosted 55 catered meal events to benefit its employees; •• PENTA offers its team free parking, free Wi-Fi, coffee, tea, beverages, and onsite snacks; and •• PENTA continued its Marketing Mentorship Scholar Program™ fostering high-level marketing knowledge and experience to high school students and encouraging stronger job placement opportunities. 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 United Nations Global Compact Environmental Principles Principle Highlights on Progress Environment 7. Businesses •• PENTA continued its recycling efforts of paper, plastic products, and printer should support cartridges. Our full service networked printer, server and equipment, streamlines a precautionary production of printed paper to conserve on ink and paper usage. In 2018, our approach to printing was reduced by 30% in comparison to 2017, with more of our efforts environmental becoming more digital based; challenges; •• PENTA continued to offer its clients a green line of services and made recommendations with respect to how its clients could execute green marketing 8. undertake initiatives strategies within their businesses; to promote greater environmental •• PENTA sourced 98% of its products and services locally; responsibility; •• PENTA employed 100% of its building contractors from within a 20-mile radius; 9. and encourage •• PENTA made every effort to conserve energy through the effective monitoring of the development electricity usage and other utilities at its corporate office; and and diffusion of •• PENTA encouraged and hosted an event showcasing the benefits of the cycling environmentally and walking trails to be constructed behind the building to promote health and friendly technologies. wellbeing through trail use. 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 United Nations Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principle Highlights on Progress Anti10. Businesses should •• PENTA maintains the highest ethical standards in all of its business operations and Corruption work against relationships. The firm seeks vendors that are in alignment with our core values corruption in all of ensuring high integrity. In addition, we maintain high levels of transparency in our its forms, including client relationships and will not tolerate any level of unethical behavior on any level. extortion and bribery. In this COP period, our CEO received the 2018 Good Scout Award from the Boy Scouts of America. This honor is bestowed upon an individual who demonstrates the highest integrity in all facets of his/her business and professional life. It is awarded to an individual who lives and acts in alignment with the Laws of Scouting. 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 United States of America Dear Mr. Secretary-General: On behalf of PENTA Communications, Inc., I am delighted to reconfirm our company’s commitment to support the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. During our sixth year as a Global Company signatory, we made great progress in moving several initiatives forward and in both building and planting seeds for the future. As we look forward to our next COP period, we are both excited and energized to raise the bar with our efforts in marrying our community engagement to the ten principles, and, in addition, to strategically develop and implement ways that our organization can emerge to the next level in all areas for a stronger future. Every day, we seek to make a difference in our work and to the betterment of the world around us. We believe that by doing our part locally and regionally that we are indeed part of a movement that inspires a better global economy and a more positive global outlook for the future of our industry and the communities that we touch by our work. PENTA looks forward to making its mark by consciously making an effort to continue acts of kindness, support, and engagement to foster lasting and meaningful progress for a better tomorrow. We look forward to presenting our sixth Communication on Progress in the spring of 2020 and wish you the best of success for creating a culture of building more awareness throughout the globe for businesses like ours to navigate through their work in alignment with the UN Principles. We are looking forward to your continued positive leadership of the United Nations. All the best, Deborah Penta Chief Executive Officer
