MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 ANNUAL CORPORATE SOCIAL 2018 RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 PREFACE MediaMonks is one of the biggest and fastest growing OUR WAY FORWARD creative production companies in the world. Over the last few years, we’ve not only opened new offices around the In the upcoming years, we want to continue deploying globe, but each of our international offices are steadily our expertise and services to support projects and growing. Today, our recently opened offices in Buenos processes that better the world by offering modern Aires, São Paulo, Mexico City, Stockholm, San Francisco solutions to modern problems. This includes encouraging and Bangalore already reach 200+ employees combined. (gender) diversity in the digital sector; boosting energyWe are highly aware of the fact our leading position efficiency; stimulating e-learning; and advancing comes with great responsibility and an opportunity to other important social, environmental and educational contribute to a better world. undertakings that strive to improve the establishments that mark modern society. The digitalization of the We strongly believe in the power of combining our economy is an ongoing development, and as a leading strengths with others and creating shared value in an party within the industry, it’s our job to make sure this effort to contribute to society. As a creative production development happens as responsibly as possible. company, we dedicate ourselves to producing digital innovations and working on projects that contribute to a In the following report, you will find the results of our better world and society. Therefore, we can provide the 2018 daily operational practices and more information most value when we allow other parties to benefit from on how our efforts and projects contribute to a better our digital expertise. world. The projects we delivered in 2018 contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in a variety of As part of the global digital advertising industry, we ways, addressing the global challenges that we face from realize that our business and growth puts great pressure poverty, inequality and climate change to social peace on the environment. The emissions created by the and justice. Later in this report, we will showcase how industry as a whole should not be ignored. Therefore, our projects enabled us to specifically make impactful we focus on creating the best methods that allow us contributions by supporting the SDGs, raising awareness, to continue innovating in a conscious way. We strive and putting important issues on the map. to optimize not only our own organizational processes and make them more energy efficient, but also look for 2018 was a significant year for us in being able to ways to innovate and combine technologies to inspire showcase the value of our range of work and the benefits the market, and in turn, change it for the better. Having of technology in general — which we elaborate on under merged with S4Capital in the last year, we are joining a ‘Projects for Good’. Beyond our projects and productions, company who considers sustainability as a top priority. this report reflects on the various choices we’ve made in With our joint efforts, we’re hoping to make a significant an effort to become a more responsible global company, change. both from a social and environmental angle. We strive to continue increasing these efforts in the years to come. In the coming year, there are many steps we’re planning to take to improve our energy efficiency. For one, we hope to decrease the number of physical servers we use by optimizing the employment of virtual ones. Additionally, we will continue to increase the amount of solar energy we already generate. Although our practices will have a positive effect, we know that in order to make a real impact, we have to get others on board as well. That’s why we involve our stakeholders and employees every step of the way and actively encourage them to keep reducing their energy footprint — together with us. VICTOR KNAAP Main Monk MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 This report reviews MediaMonks’ Corporate Social Responsibility performance of 2018. Complying with United Nations Global Compact, the report follows the GRI guidelines. MediaMonks is a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2012. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) The Global Reporting Initiative is a non-profit organization that promotes economic, environmental and social sustainability. GRI provides all companies and organizations with a comprehensive sustainability reporting framework that is widely used around the world. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Corporate Social Responsibility is a form of corporate selfregulation integrated into a business model. CSR is titled to aid an organization’s mission as well as a guide to what the company stands for and will uphold to its consumers. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 CONTENT 01 MANAGEMENT SUMMARY 03 2018 IN NUMBERS 06 GIVING TALENT THE OPPORTUNITY TO GROW I PEOPLE II EDUCATION & INNOVATION 11 OFFERING OUR TALENTS AND EXPERTISE I CHARITIES & PARTNERS II PROJECTS FOR GOOD 16 A FAIR, SUSTAINABLE AND EFFECTIVE WAY OF WORKING I ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY II SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT 21 APPENDIX MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 1 MANAGEMENT SUMMARY MEDIAMONKS 2018 MediaMonks is a creative production company that Many of our employees start their working careers at works for and with advertising agencies to craft a variety our company and consider MediaMonks to be a home of digital work for global brands. As well as its online base. As these employees enter MediaMonks at a young channels, MediaMonks can be found in Hilversum, age, it’s also the place where they develop themselves. Amsterdam, London, Stockholm, Dubai, New York, LA, We take this responsibility seriously and provide our San Francisco, Mexico City, Buenos Aires, São Paulo, employees with a work environment that is dedicated to Singapore, Shanghai and Bangalore. As of December 31, creating a unified culture, to appeal to everyone and allow 2018, the MediaMonks in-house team consists of 950+ them to feel comfortable to grow on both a personal and Monks well-versed in a wide range of digital disciplines, professional level. allowing them to collectively produce digital projects from A to Z. We’re very proud that MediaMonks in 2018 were A fair number of our employees can be considered as part awarded the most FWAs worldwide, alongside 18 Cannes of Generation Y, a demographic also known as Millennials. Lions awards and 8 Webby awards. This generation is shown to have an increased use and understanding of media, communications and digital CREATING SHARED VALUE technologies. We not only want to learn from their ideas and know-how, but are very keen to provide them with MediaMonks strives to be the best creative production time and resources to allow them to explore and advance company in the world. This requires us to take in their fields of interests. initiative, responsibility and add long-term value to our stakeholders and the world around us. Over the past few As the growth of our people and the evolution of years, we have been actively addressing the creation of our industry are very important to us, we aren’t shared value and aim to go beyond a regular Corporate just concerned with developments inside our own Social Responsibility (CSR) program. company, but we also focus on external initiatives we can help develop. To give a few examples: we are We can be most effective creating shared value when furthering our “Women in Tech” initiative to actively we tap into and apply our core business and expertise. diversify the workforce and make the tech industry Evaluating our sources, abilities and expertise has led more accessible and appealing among different social us to formulate the following three pillars which we’ve groups. MediaMonks is also part of the “Get it Done” incorporated into our business strategy: initiative which stimulates cross-learning between young professionals and foundations, offering great advantages 1. Giving our talents the opportunity to grow to both parties. We do this with the Future NL foundation At the heart of our business are the people who work which is an initiative that teaches primary school kids here; their talents are the engine that keeps our business how to code. In the future, we want to expand the abovegoing. MediaMonks aims to be the best employer named initiatives with even more projects and dedication possible by taking care of its people on both a personal to create a bigger impact in today’s tech era. and professional level. The physical and mental wellbeing of our employees are a top priority to us, so we have a company doctor available at our offices. In addition, as an international company, we often attract people who have to emigrate abroad to kick-start or advance their career at MediaMonks. We help new hires have an easy and pleasant move by providing housing at the start of their employment. We’re also keen to introduce students to a great learning environment and therefore offer housing to local interns who would face an unfeasible commute. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 2 2. Sharing our expertise Over the coming year, we aim to continue increasing the We believe that digital design and production can amount of renewable energy we generate via our solar contribute to a better world as it offers innovative panels, allowing us the means to significantly reduce solutions to contemporary challenges. In 2018, we offered our physical servers and replace them with virtual ones. our talents and expertise to a variety of projects and In addition to this, we have replaced the plastic water social initiatives for the greater good. coolers at our headquarters with (tap)water installations, effectively reducing our plastic waste. When it comes For example, together with SpaceFoundation and to our offices, we always look for ways to increase Dutch astronaut André Kuipers, we’re working to launch sustainability. In the near future, we’ll be moving to a new the global Spacebuzz project in the coming year: an office that will be completely renovated with sustainable educational VR experience for school children. The solutions in mind. This will enable us to maintain an experience shows them Earth from orbit in virtual reality, energy label of A. allowing them to see the beauty and vulnerability of our tiny planet. With this VR experience, Spacebuzz hopes to With these collective efforts, we aim to achieve our inspire school children to take climate action and protect energy efficiency goals and environmental objectives. our planet as the ambassadors of our future. PERFORMANCE 2018 We also actualized Bancolombia: the School of Sustainability, an online web model that allows people MediaMonks started measuring its performance on CSR to explore the entire island of Santa Cruz del Islote. The indicators in the year 2012. We have and will continue this digital experience encourages people to learn about the type of yearly assessment as it forms the foundation of spectacular Santa Cruz community and how it effectively our improvement policy. sustains itself, and in doing so, learn more about sustainability as a wider practice. This report contains the 2018 performance overviews of our Hilversum, Amsterdam, London, New York, LA, You can read more about these projects and others in Stockholm, São Paulo and Buenos Aires offices. The detail after page 10. overviews of the smaller offices in Shanghai, Singapore, San Francisco, Mexico City, Dubai and Bangalore are not 3. A fair, sustainable and effective way of working included as they operate according to their own conduct MediaMonks puts a great effort into fair, sustainable of business. and effective work as this benefits not just the company, but also the world. Being the best can only be achieved when a sustainable way of working is applied and maintained throughout the entire company. We have deliberately chosen not to create a separate department for sustainability, but integrate it into our general procurement and facility management. As a result of our efforts, we have successfully optimized energy efficiency at our headquarters. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 3 2018 IN NUMBERS 14 OFFICES (HILVERSUM, AMSTERDAM, LONDON, STOCKHOLM, DUBAI, NEW YORK, LA, SAN FRANCISCO, MEXICO CITY, BUENOS AIRES, SÃO PAULO, SINGAPORE, SHANGHAI AND BANGHALORE) 950+ EMPLOYEES 2150 PRODUCTIONS DELIVERED 115,4m TURNOVER IN EUROS 2145 tonnes CO2 EMISSIONS 8 CHARITIES SUPPORTED *Figures at 31.12.2018 MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 4 MOST IMPORTANT FIGURES PEOPLE PEOPLE Employee / Employer ratio 0.09 lowest gross income / highest gross income [ratio] Health & Safety Absenteeism 3.46 % absent hours / yearly worked hours [%] Accidents 3 number / year [#] Training & Education 453 € / FTE [€] Nationalities 49 number [#] Diversity 0.26 female / male [ratio] Diversity without tech 0.33 female / male [ratio] ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY CO2 emission [tonne] CO2 emission [kg] / FTE Mobility Car 209 329 Public Transport 38 60 Flights 1382 2172 Energy 494 775 Water 1918 3.01 MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 5 BUSINESS BUSINESS Innovation 24,750 hours / yearly worked hours [#] Suppliers CSR policy 55% number of top 20 suppliers [%] Publically disclosing CSR policy 50% number of top 20 suppliers [%] COMMUNITY Donations Charities supported 8 charities per year [#] Projects for Good 11 projects per year [#] MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 6 GIVING TALENT THE OPPORTUNITY TO GROW MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 7 I PEOPLE PERFORMANCE PEOPLE 2018 Employee / Employer ratio 0.09 lowest gross income / highest gross income [ratio] Health & Safety Absenteeism 3.46% absent hours / yearly worked hours [%] Accidents 3 number / year [#] Training & Education 453 € / FTE [€] Nationalities 49 number [#] Diversity 0.26 female / male [ratio] Diversity without tech 0.33 female / male [ratio] TAKING CARE OF OUR MONKS The health and well-being of our employees is an This allows more people around the world to work at important and serious matter to us. Our Monks work MediaMonks, and makes their relocation a far less hard and we want to ensure that they are provided stressful experience. with a safe and healthy work environment. Besides having a company doctor, we have all the important According to the CBS (Centraal Bureau voor de safety procedures and standards in place, such as Statistiek), there was an average of 4.30% absenteeism emergency response qualified staff (in Dutch: BHV) and in the Netherlands in 2018. At MediaMonks, we score all necessary health and safety regulations enacted (in below that average, with 3.46% absenteeism last year. Dutch: ARBO). We are proud to see our company fall below average every year. Our entire company and individual Monks alike We also make sure we provide healthy catering. are conscious about their personal health and well-being, We make it a priority to offer nutritious meals that reflected in these numbers year after year. also contribute towards a sustainable outlook. To specifically accomplish the latter, we’ve introduced Offering a great place to work also includes having ‘Vegetarian Tuesday’ and work with local food suppliers a transparent and fair management policy. The CBS as much as possible. We aim to increase the amount of states that the “income gap” in the Netherlands is local and organic products we consume, and boost the growing. Their numbers show that the information level of fairtrade catering. and communication sector has an employer/employee income ratio that increased from 10,7 in 2016 to 12,7 in Moreover, to promote a healthy lifestyle, we encourage 2017. With an employer/employee income ratio of 9, we our employees to take part in sporting events such as score better than the average company in our sector — a the annual ski trip, Kika Run and bootcamp sessions. performance we are quite proud of, as we believe lower income gaps contribute to a healthier and more pleasant As well as having health and safety measures that work environment. concern our employees’ professional lives, MediaMonks also offers support when it comes to their personal lives. If needed, we will provide loans and assistance with debts, general advice, and administrational support. As many of our employees come from all over the world, we concern ourselves with aiding them with matters such as accommodation. We not only offer assistance in helping them find a house, but each MediaMonks office has one or more MediaMonks houses where employees are offered a room at low cost and interns a room at no cost. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 8 A DIVERSE FAMILY WITH EQUAL FAMILY VALUES Diversity in cultures, nationalities and backgrounds is The current female/male ratio in our industry is due, for a both unique and valued at MediaMonks. Currently, we large part, to the reality that the vast majority of people have 49 different nationalities working at MediaMonks graduating from studies related to digital technology that make up our full-time and part-time staff across (digital design, software development, etc.) are male. the globe. Our management encourages this diversity This automatically results in the majority of applicants as it really benefits our organization and stimulates responding to vacancies in digital technology to be male. cross-cultural learning. In an effort to attract the most To combat this alongside our “Women in Tech” initiative, talented people in our field and create a positive work we work to create an equal female/male ratio by tapping environment, we pay a lot of attention to maintaining into the opportunities available outside of the digital values and work ethics that can create a pleasant, safe tech departments such as sales, PR, HR, finance, facility, and fair atmosphere for all Monks. We are careful to legal, creatives, producers, and project managers. In our preserve MediaMonks’ cultural values for the entire company, the gender balance including tech-heavy roles family across the globe – and dedicate ourselves to is 0,26. When we exclude these tech-heavy roles, the creating one culture throughout the company. gender ratio rises to 0,33. Diversity in tech As part of our hiring policy, we ask applicants for many Over the years, we’ve acknowledged that many positions to fill out an online test as part of the first companies specialized in digital services and tech have round of assessment. By implementing this procedure, more male employees than female employees. At we feel confident that we invite the people most MediaMonks, we put great effort in doing what we can qualified people for the job based on their professional to create both a highly diverse company and changing abilities and background. the status quo of the industry as a whole. To pave our way in both these areas, we created the “Women in Tech” initiative. This initiative intends to inspire, advise, and sponsor women hoping to enter or find success in the tech industry. In lieu of the success of this initiative, the Women in Tech group is now furthering its activities with an external-facing content series of videos and podcasts, which profile the expertised and experienced women working at our company. This series is both a great resource for people within MediaMonks and potential (future) employees. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 9 II EDUCATION & INNOVATION PERFORMANCE 2018 Innovation 24,750 hours / yearly worked hours [#] It’s our ambition to be at the top of digital design, and inspire young talent as we work to achieve our goal. We want to offer talented people a platform where they can develop themselves, providing them with an environment that allows them to be enthusiastic about our field. We also continuously strive for innovation within our sector and are always searching for the latest technologies that will contribute to improving the world of digital design. Not only do we aim to transfer our in-house (digital) knowledge to the rest of the world, but we also aim to optimize our own in-house knowledge further. Therefore, there is a relatively big budget in place to spend on the training and education of our employees. At MediaMonks, we care about the development of our employees and invest in their talent to give them the opportunity to grow. As a whole, MediaMonks drives innovation in a proactive (internally driven), reactive (driven by clients and projects) and creative way. This is our method to be at the top of renewment and come up with new solutions that will drive our business and sector forward. LEARNING THROUGH AUGMENTED REALITY Being at the forefront of our industry, MediaMonks Google: Plan Your Planet aspires to strengthen the relationship between digital On the Plan Your Planet platform, people can find out how innovation and education. Over the past few years, making small changes to their lifestyles can have a large we’ve immersed ourselves in creating new forms of positive impact. We gamified and curated an overview (digital) learning and using gamification for education. of easy lifestyle adjustments, like changing light bulbs New technologies, such as augmented reality, can be and taking shorter showers, that can be greatly beneficial interesting and effective tools to help gain insights and for the environment. This showed many people how tiny knowledge in a different way. In line with this, we have actions can mount up to major milestones for our planet worked on several interesting educational projects over — all in a simple and easy-to-digest way. the last period: Santander: In Someone Else’s Shoes In Someone Else’s Shoes is an augmented reality app that shows the arresting day-to-day life of a homeless woman. It tells the story of her struggle and perseverance as she goes about her normal working life. The app was part of a 3-day experiential event, enabling passersby to see (and experience) what modern homelessness is really like. A microsite supported the experience with additional facts and figures to allow people to truly be able to walk around in someone else’s shoes. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 10 DIGITAL LEADERSHIP & INNOVATION Through researching upcoming tech and applications As a result, MediaMonks is involved in improving and of tech, we want to educate ourselves adequately to optimizing its organizational processes, as well as sharing inform clients about the current and future opportunities our findings, learnings and integrated improvements with technology offers us. In the light of this, we’ve set other parties both within and outside the sector along up a R&D department in Stockholm, purely focused the way. The research we conduct, and developments on innovation. This is part of our goal to continuously that come from it, are openly publicized on a monthly strengthen our position as an innovative tech company basis. This makes MediaMonks an appealing company for while also enabling us to explore the boundaries of tech future clients and employees, and offers inspiration at itself. Below are a few examples of how MediaMonks has the same time. explored cutting-edge innovation: Collaborating instead of competing with one another is As part of our collaboration with Google, we work on also part of our shared values and vision. By sharing our innovative projects involving Google’s voice assistant. In latest innovations and findings with our clients, suppliers these projects, we look at both what is said and how it’s and partners, we enable them to grow alongside us. said: recognizing how tone and sentiment can help us Openly sharing the latest software developments and generate answers on a whole new level of a human-like updates via an online platform is an example of how we conversation. employ our shared value-vision. Another area our R&D department works on is exploring MediaMonks’ innovation and development work is the ways we can use emerging tech. For instance, in one eligible for the fiscal stimulus of WBSO (Wet Bevordering case we researched a way to accurately measure the size Speur en Ontwikkelingswerk). In 2018, 24,750 hours of of your feet with a smartphone camera to decrease the WBSO grant have been assigned to MediaMonks, which number of returns of home-delivered shoes. amounts to 2,02% of the total amount of hours worked. This gave us the time and capacity to perform research All the while, we’re still involved with the Digital Design & development activities and search for innovations Master by offering students from different educational regarding new software and creative products. backgrounds an opportunity to follow a traineeship or internship. MediaMonks is certified to offer internships for two relevant schools: ECABO and GOC, focused on the creative industry, communication and management assistance. The above fits our general intention of playing a leading role in advancing digital design and digital communication. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 11 OFFERING OUR TALENTS AND EXPERTISE MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 12 I CHARITIES & PARTNERS PERFORMANCE 2018 Donations Charities supported 8 charities per year [#] Projects for Good 11 projects per year [#] OFFERING OUR EXPERTISE WHERE NEEDED NEW PARTNERSHIPS Another way we employ our ambition to contribute to In 2018, we have continued our valuable relationship society is by actively sharing our expertise and offering with our partners, to get even more out of the projects it to social initiatives and charity projects. As indicated we have set up with them. Our current partners before, we believe that our expertise in digital design are JustDiggit, NL2025, FutureNL, Global Compact, and communication is able to provide modern-time SpaceBuzz and Get It Done. We detail a few of them solutions to modern-time problems From our point of further below: view, digital design and communication can be strong drivers to enhance positive social change. JustDiggit JustDiggit is a dedicated environmental organization By making our knowledge and resources available to that aims to cool down the planet. Their approach is social initiatives and charity projects, we are able to straightforward: vegetation acts as the natural ‘airsatisfy our sustainability goals. This means we provide conditioning’ of our planet, and therefore, they want to voluntary hours to help build digital communication re-green the world. JustDiggit makes dry areas of land platforms, educational applications, tools or productions green again by collecting rainwater and introducing to help achieve or relay an initiative’s objectives. It’s sustainable agriculture to create healthy ecosystems. a positive asset and contribution that MediaMonks are able to help an increasing number of charitable Get it Done organizations over the past few years, through Get it Done is an initiative that enables young, talented supporting some of them on certain projects. professionals to work on impactful projects from various foundations. Connecting well-known brands, When working on charity projects, we make sure to young professionals and foundations together, Get it always coordinate with our clients: for many years Done allows the exchange of knowledge to help reach a now we’ve supported our largest clients in developing foundation’s goals. This approach closely aligns with our the best and most innovative charitable campaigns own ideas, as we believe that there is endless value in by contributing our talents and skills in digital mutual learning. communication. FutureNL We are also investing a substantial amount of resources Besides being involved with the overarching Get it into great charitable projects. In 2018, we donated Done project, MediaMonks also works with one of the approximately 50k to eight different charities and foundations it supports, FutureNL. FutureNL strives to foundations for public good from our headquarters, make education in digital skills part of the curriculum São Paulo and New York. Our aid goes to a wide variety for elementary and secondary schools across the of charities, with a main focus on healthcare related Netherlands, a cause we can help bring forward using our projects (like Kika or GAJEC) and educational projects, expertise. Together with McKinsey and the Rabobank, we such as boosting technological knowledge exchange work to help FutureNL grow and gain influence. (e.g. Get It Done or the Step Up women’s network). MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 13 II PROJECTS FOR GOOD MEDIAMONKS X SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPEMENT GOALS Besides contributing to charitable projects, we aim to GOAL 5: GENDER EQUALITY contribute to society and the needs of the planet with Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. our projects. By relating our Projects for Good to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we’re able to gain Vodafone: Shine a Light Campaign insight into the broader social and sustainable impact In our first-ever production in South Africa, we helped of our projects. The SDGs are 17 global goals that are celebrate Vodafone Foundation’s partnership with Girl established by the UN as a shared blueprint for prosperity Effect by producing an empowering, global campaign. and peace for both people and the planet. Most of our The campaign comprises four striking cinemagraphs projects target specific SDGs, allowing us to be able to that highlight their mission to connect young girls across increase the positive impact we make through our work. Asia and Africa to online services. Each cinemagraph was custom-designed for both social media and large-scale Below we will showcase how our projects throughout billboards, aiming to embrace the personal and public 2018 have related and contributed to these Global Goals: impact of the initiative. We also produced an in-store phone donation station at Vodafone headquarters to GOAL 1: NO POVERTY raise further support. Launching on International Day of End poverty in all its forms everywhere. the Girl, the campaign shines a light on the importance of open online access: an important issue as 184 million Santander: In Someone Else’s Shoes fewer women than men own a mobile phone in low and This Augmented Reality app showcases the reality of middle income countries. modern-day homelessness. We produced an experiential event where passersby could experience what it’s like to GOAL 10: REDUCED INEQUALITIES be homeless through one woman’s story of struggle and Reduce inequality within and among countries. perseverance. In addition to the 3-day event featuring a physical installation, we built a microsite with facts and UNICEF: Longest Goal figures about homelessness, creating awareness around Turning a lens into a challenge, we helped raise the issue. With over 100 million people experiencing awareness for UNICEF’s World Cup campaign, ‘What homelessness globally, this is an important topic to Excites Us Unites Us’. With this campaign, UNICEF target, especially because it’s estimated that this figure wanted to show how similar we all really are by will double in the next 15 years. celebrating how we all cheer in the same way and support the same 7 flag colours. We captured this message See also: Nest: The Power Project under goal 11. in a Snapchat lens challenging users to share their #LongestGoal. The longer you shout gooooaaaallll!!!, the GOAL 4: QUALITY EDUCATION longer the lens and its 7-colour animations last. People Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and could share their #LongestGoal online to spread the word promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. and the message. This project was part of UNICEF’s larger campaign fighting discrimination in Syria and helping UNICEF: Generation Unlimited Hologram displaced Syrian children through sports and community. To seize the attention of decision-makers and raise awareness for UNICEF’s Generation Unlimited initiative, we created a holographic animation telling the story of a young person struggling to build a brighter future. Set up as an installation inside UNICEF’s HQ during the 73rd UN General Assembly, the vivid animation was projected in mid-air as a 3D floating visual with a captivating voiceover. The hologram and installation were designed to draw attention to this topic in an unmissable and unforgettable way. We were honored to work with the General Unlimited initiative, who work to ensure access to quality education for all young people around the globe. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 14 GOAL 11: SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Nest: The Power Project Bancolombia: School of Sustainability We supported Nest’s endeavour to educate people about We built a WebGL 3D model that lets people explore energy poverty and help lift the energy-bill burden that the entire island of Santa Cruz del Islote to learn more affects millions of Americans with The Power Project. The about their community, which is known for being highly Power Project is a fundraising platform allowing people sustainable and self-reliant. The digitally-reconstructed to search ZIP codes to learn about energy poverty in their island allows you drop down to any location and explore communities and make a direct donation. People in need it by foot in a Street View-like experience. Combining can also use the site to find aid programs that already high-end photospheres with a real-time 3D sky, the exist in their area. By showing the close-to-home energy model takes people on a tour where you learn how the struggles through personal stories and hard numbers, community sustains itself through a rich collection of The Power Project puts the overlooked issue of energy content and classes, collectively telling the story of 500 poverty on the map with the aim of erasing it. The money people living on 3 acres. As one of the most sustainable raised through the platform will help give energy-saving banks around, Bancolombia encourages the practice of thermostats to 1 million families in need by 2023. learning from communities like this to improve our own approaches to a sustainable lifestyle. The experience is GOAL 13: CLIMATE ACTION part of the School of Sustainability, where people can Take urgent action to combat climate change and its watch video lessons and learn more about sustainability impacts. topics, which all derive from data collected during this project. Spacebuzz: VR Education Programme To encourage children to change their perspective on Google: Your Plan Your Planet Earth and protect the planet, we created SpaceBuzz, Helping save the planet can seem big and daunting, so that will be launched in 2019. SpaceBuzz is one of the we created a platform showing you how making small most innovative and ambitious education concepts changes in your life can have a surprisingly big impact. to have been made, consisting of a 15-minute virtual Using scientific facts and insights from the California reality experience that launches a classroom into orbit Academy of Sciences, we curated an overview of easy for a trip around the Earth. Through the VR spaceflight, lifestyle adjustments. Using gamification techniques children are able to see Earth from space and experience such as charming animations and compelling interactions, the Overview Effect that changes your perspective of we engaged users with beneficial environmental actions Earth forever. The spaceflight happens inside a 12-metre like changing light bulbs and taking shorter showers. We long spacecraft, complete with moving seats that are helped Google in their mission to draw more attention to synchronized with the VR visuals for a heightened, our carbon footprint and the many simple and accessible powerfully immersive experience. The VR spacecraft ways we can reduce it. Your Plan, Your Planet shows and will travel around the Netherlands, with plans to take it proves how tiny actions can amount to major milestones worldwide, so that children all across the globe can be for our planet’s future and help us live more sustainably. inspired to take climate action and support our future. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 15 GOAL 14: LIFE BELOW WATER GOAL 16: PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable marine resources for sustainable development. development, provide access to justice for all, and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all Adidas x Parley: Run for the Oceans levels. To raise awareness for the increasing threats facing our oceans, adidas partnered with the Parley movement Reporters Without Borders: Uncensored Playlist to launch Run for the Oceans: a fundraiser inspiring Using music as a loophole, The Uncensored Playlist is an people across the world to protect our most important initiative for sharing news stories in censored countries ecosystem. With 8 million metric tonnes of plastic through platforms like Spotify, Apple Music and Deezer. currently ending up in our oceans, Run for the Oceans Targeting the fact approximately two-thirds of the helps combat marine pollution. We helped Run for the world’s population lives under regimes of government Oceans by producing a website where people could censorship, The Uncensored Playlist transforms stories register for the fundraiser and find out more about the into songs using unsuspicious titles and artwork, getting sponsors in a beautiful WebGL data visualisation. Over 12 the work of censored journalists across the border and million kilometers of kindness and financial aid were run, into people’s playlists. Just like other pop songs, the supported by a platform as strong as the initiative itself. music spreads through word of mouth, turning breaking stories into hits. We developed the online platform to GOAL 15: LIFE ON LAND help promote the initiative on the open Web, raising Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of awareness not just for the individual stories, but also for terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, the bigger story of Cyber Censorship. combat deforestation, halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. Metsä Group: Innovation Center Installations To showcase Metsä’s answer to sustainable tree farming, we produced two multi-sensory installations. One installation uses five interactive touchscreens to showcase Metsä’s impressive Bioproduct mill through pulsing hotspots and synchronising animations that exhibit how the mill runs entirely on its own byproducts. In another space, we replicated a Metsä farming forest with real trees, ambient sounds and scents, and wallto-wall displays. Embedded touch points within the forest let visitors activate data visualisations illustrating Metsä’s smart forest-management systems. Made to immerse and inform, both installations managed to convey Metsä’s philosophies in a way that’s as innovative as the company itself. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 16 A FAIR, SUSTAINABLE AND EFFECTIVE WAY OF WORKING MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 17 I ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY PERFORMANCE 2018 Amount CO2 emission [tonne] C02 emission [kg] / FTE Mobility Commuting Car 837,441 km 184 289 Public Transport 6,387,965 km 38 60 Business Car 115,778 km 25 40 Flights 8,981,550 km 1382 2172 Energy Gas 26,113 m3 49 77 Electricity 684,956 kWh 445 698 Water 6,436 m3 1918 3.01 TOTAL CO 2 TONNE PER FTE 0 1.25 2.5 3.75 5 AVERAGE MEDIAMONKS TOP SCORE MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 18 MediaMonks strives to be the best in everything we do. We’re also always looking for ways to improve our energy Therefore, we pay a lot of attention to the way we organize efficiency in collaboration with our strategic partners. For our business processes and how we handle the impact it example, we strive to constantly apply the latest innovations has on the world. Our belief is that the IT industry can play to our data center. We’ve deliberately chosen a data center a major role in contributing to a low-carbon society and can that features Cold Corridors, smart meters and the extensive be a great influence when it comes to pushing the world in virtualization of its servers. The adjustments we made have this direction. Digital communication and its tools provide a paid off: we’ve experienced decreases in electricity and gas low-carbon alternative to the print industry, and the digital use — just as we have in previous years. interfaces we build can offer people who are concerned with sustainability an innovative and low-carbon option. Because we’re an international company that experiences continual growth, we have a relatively large carbon footprint, We are highly aware of the fact that companies in the IT sector are big consumers of electricity as the intensive use mainly due to mobility and international transportation. of computers, displays and servers require a considerable Because the amount of kilometers traveled by air is amount of energy. To tackle issues like this, we feel it’s increasing over time, we have been encouraging our Monks of the utmost importance to have an understanding of to use public transport when commuting to work. We the impact caused by our sector as a whole. All the data offer every employee a yearly subscription for free public centers in the world combined consume 2% of the global transport to and from work. Furthermore, we made the electricity supply, which is similar to the carbon footprint of careful decision of situating our headquarters next to the the airline industry. train station. As the years before, these aspects have helped the number of Monks choosing public transport to grow. MediaMonks has the ambition to bring down this amount This year, 87% of our HQ personnel travel to work by public of consumption considerably. We are constantly looking transport. for ways we can decrease the environmental impact of our operations. To this end, we’ve implemented the As for combating our increasing number of flights abroad, necessary means to improve our business processes and we’ve opened offices in the cities we were visiting regularly, reduce emissions over the last few years. Over this time, such as Singapore, New York, London, Stockholm, LA, São we’ve distinguished three key areas: energy, waste, and Paulo, Buenos Aires, Dubai, and recently San Francisco, sustainable procurement. Mexico City, Shanghai, Mumbai and Bangalore. We also pair the now reduced need to go abroad to visit our partners by ENERGY EFFICIENCY MEASURES promoting video conference calls, all in an effort to actively To lower our carbon footprint, we can be most effective when reduce our carbon footprint. conserving energy. One way we do this is by applying some OUR WASTE HANDLING basic efficiency measures to our electricity and energy usage which, as a company working in the IT sector, is one of our Working in the digital field has the advantage of producing largest emissions. In addition to purchasing green-certified very little physical waste. Due to the use of digital electricity and energy-saving lights, we’ve been working administrative processes in addition to our efforts to use as to implement additional measures. We’re in the process little paper as necessary, we produce hardly any paper waste. of reducing our number of physical servers from 20 to just 3. Replacing our physical servers with virtual ones helps us For what we do use, MediaMonks recycles paper and glass, become more energy-efficient through using less energy and and also collects plastic waste. Moreover, the majority of using hardware more efficiently. waste produced at MediaMonks is organic, and therefore biodegradable. As MediaMonks grows, we see it as our With the shift from television to social media, we are also responsibility to have all our employees cooperate in keeping developing creative solutions for integrated productions. physical waste production to a minimum. This means we work on productions that are suitable for different social media formats. The efficiency-gain that Furthermore, we also apply a sustainable end-of-life policy comes from this development enables us to improve our regarding old hardware. This policy refers to three scenarios: productions while spending less time, consuming less energy and travelling less to create them. The realization of 1. In case of malfunctioning hardware, we first try integrated production goes hand-in-hand with continuous to repair it. If this turns out to be impossible, the research and innovation to explore how we can best deploy hardware will be recycled appropriately. the possibilities of modern tech to improve our productions 2. Workable parts of old hardware will be re-used. and make decisions that are better for the planet. 3. Hardware (or parts of old hardware) that we cannot use anymore will be sold. To improve our energy label, we’ve placed solar panels on the rooftops of our headquarters. Our solar panels generate 29,376 kWh, enough to power 10 households for a whole year. For the last 3 years, we’ve had an energy label A and we plan to maintain and further this important development in the future. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 19 II SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT PERFORMANCE 2018 Suppliers CSR policy 55% number of top 20 suppliers [%] Publically disclosing CSR policy 50% number of top 20 suppliers [%] We put a lot of effort into making our supply chain more sustainable, which can be seen in the strong performance of our supply chain management. In 2018, more than half of the top 20 suppliers used by our headquarters have a CSR policy in place, and half of them are publicly disclosing this policy. Our policy is to make a conscious decision when choosing suppliers. For all business partners and suppliers, we apply basic sustainable procurement principles. By taking the size of potential orders and the influence it has on our operational excellence into consideration, we’re able to make the best decision when it comes to sustainability. Moreover, we encourage our suppliers and business partners to pay attention to CSR by underlining its importance. We make sure to carefully look at energy, office supplies and other facility requirements when assessing procurements. This approach helps us to maintain a fair and transparent relationship with all parties involved. Following our headquarters in the Netherlands, our offices in London, New York, LA, Stockholm, São Paulo and Buenos Aires are increasingly aware of the importance of sustainable procurement. In line with this development, these offices now also work with a growing number of partners that are working with or on a CRS policy. SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT We are aware of the fact that our choice of supplier has a (‘GDPR’). Our policies and procedures enable our clients and significant impact on our total environmental footprint. By end-users to practice their privacy rights in accordance with annually tracking the CSR policies and publications of the 20 the GDPR and provide guidance for controlling and processing largest suppliers in the countries where we have an office, data. The policies in place regulate the handling of data and we are able to assess the sustainability levels of our current uphold a high level of security. The renewed policies apply to suppliers. This ensures transparency in our sourcing. As all MediaMonks offices and include procedures for all phases indicated above, 50% of our suppliers are transparent about of a project. their CSR policy and activities and present them openly on their website or in online publications. Examples of our top 5 When desired, customers can also require individual suppliers who are transparent and serious about CSR efforts MediaMonks project team members to sign a special nonare Schiphol Travel, NS, Aces Direct, Sligro and Incentro. disclosure agreement. CLIENTS Additionally, our data and our office in 2018 have been secured by following the highest industry standards. This Our business exists by virtue of our clients. Therefore, we take is a result from the measurements we take to optimally our relationship with them, their data security and their privacy secure our own and our customers’ data and information. very seriously. Our approach in this is twofold: All our NDA work is processed on in-house servers, managed by certified data center managers and secured by hardware 1. Confidentiality firewalls. And our in-house servers are protected by an alarm Both customer data and information about productions are and secured electric gates. treated completely confidentially. We don’t accept any form of breaking this confidentiality. All MediaMonks employees have 2. Integrity signed a confidentiality agreement/nondisclosure agreement, To maintain fair relationships with our customers, our acknowledging that they cannot disclose data or information employees are prohibited from purchasing goods or services from MediaMonks, our customers or other business partners. from a client, unless the purchase is made at the same price All our external creative, production and business partners and and if it is subject to the same conditions as in place for the individuals working with our customers on our behalf sign a public. Furthermore, MediaMonks doesn’t allow employees confidentiality agreement as well. to accept money, gifts or goods or oblige oneself in any way to the client. As we have in previous years, we made sure this MediaMonks has updated its internal policies to ensure regulation was carried out in 2018. compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20182017 20 MEDIAMONKS ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2018 The results below indicate MediaMonks’ performance relative to the ‘average’ office and best practices in the Netherlands. The scores are based on a benchmark set by the Dutch government. ELECTRICITY 2018 kWh PER FTE 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 GAS 2018 M3 PER FTE 0 75 150 225 300 WATER 2018 M3 PER FTE 0 3.5 7 10.5 14 COMMUTING BY CAR 2018 KM PER FTE 0 1750 3500 5250 7000 TOTAL CO2 AVERAGE 2018 MEDIAMONKS TOP SCORE TONNE PER FTE 0 1.25 2.5 3.75 5 MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 21 APPENDIX TEN UNIVERSALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: PRINCIPLES UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE Principle 1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 7, 8, 19  MediaMonks takes a clear position and global responsibility against violations of basic human rights, such as the right to privacy and integrity. Principle 2 Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses 7, 8, 19 We contribute to this by promoting fair labour conditions in all our offices, and have integrated this in our human resource policy and procurement policy. Principle 3 Uphold freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 7, 8 MediaMonks respects the freedom of association and employees’ rights to organize or join employee organizations. Principle 4 Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 7, 8 Diversity is a prerequisite for success and all discrimination is prohibited. For example, in total 28 different nationalities are working for MediaMonks. Principle 5 Support effective abolition of child labor 7, 8 We do not tolerate bullying or other physical or verbal acts of an abusive character. Decisions that concern employment, promotions, development and compensation are based on the employees’ job knowledge and competence. Principle 6​ Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation 19 Active responsible supply chain management helps us track possible human rights violation such as child, forced or compulsory labor. Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 17, 18 MediaMonks works actively with minimizing our environmental impact it is part of our everyday business. Focus areas within our environmental policy are energy, mobility and waste. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 17, 18,19 Active sustainable supply chain management helps us raise awareness on energy efficiency amongst our suppliers, and work with them on innovations. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 10, 17, 18, 19 technologies Knowledge is an important factor to our environment and energy management. We work together with our strategic partners on innovative energy measurements. For example with our datacenter supplier. Principle 10 Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 19 MediaMonks has zero tolerance with regard to all forms of bribes and corruption. We neither offer nor accept gifts and hospitality that are improper. This is integrated in our contracts with our employees. Also, they have signed a non-confidentiality agreement to prevent data breaches.  Our undertaking is to conduct ourselves in an ethically correct manner in everything we do, in compliance with applicable legislation and our company values, industry standards and international guidelines. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 22 OUR CSR PROGRAM For questions, recommendations or ideas about the MediaMonks policy, please contact us: facility@mediamonks.com www.mediamonks.com
