United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress, 2018-19 Welcome to our Universe Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa 11th June 2019 Dear Stakeholders, On behalf of the Directors, shareholders and employees of Stratostaff, I would like to reaffirm the commitment of Stratostaff on the 10 Principles of United Nations Global Compact. This is our 2nd Communication On Progress report. The information pack gives a background of who we are, what we do and what steps we have taken in ensuring that we are promoting the Principles. We would like to assure all stakeholders and participants that we as Stratostaff are committed to aligning our policies and practices that advance societal goals. Regards Sam Watene Managing Director Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa About: Stratostaff Stratostaff is a provider of Flexible Staffing Solutions to organizations in the East Africa region. By offering full Human Resources Lifecycle Solutions, Stratostaff is able to contribute to better talent selection and retention, improved staff productivity and employment Risk Management for its clients. Vision We will be the preferred supplier of decent work to quality stakeholders in Africa by developing innovative and effective solutions for the benefit of all. www.stratostaff.co.ke Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Brand Values Empathy and Trust => Decent work Ethics => Transparency in compliance and pricing Sustainability => Technology key of service delivery Freedom => Flexibility Excellence => Efficiency and indemnity Patience => Network of Professional Experts Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Our Offering Temporary and Casual Staffing Permanent Placements Managed Services e.g. Payroll, HR Outsourced services Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Some of the companies that entrusted us with their staffing needs Kenya Among others... Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Our Service Delivery Approach We follow a systematic workflow process from staff provision, staff management, and account management that ensures we meet the needs of the clients and the outsourced staff (Associates) as well. Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Project Implementation Pillars Pre-Project Resource Take on & OnContract Account Staff Selection meeting Mobilization boarding Management Management QUALITY ASSURANCE Maintaining quality and service standards throughout the process PROJECT MANAGEMENT Seamless coordination of tasks, resources and delivery of assignment requirements. COMMUNICATION Facilitation of free flow of information between Stratostaff team and yourselves. Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Communication on Progress Human Rights Enshrined in our Vision Statement & Brand Values Decent Work – Better Life Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Human Rights Only willing candidates are engaged through a transparent recruitment process Work should be one that one is proud of and the wages to improve one’s well being Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Human Rights Ensuring personal data protection, clear process and access to government services such as health care Ensuring that parting is not a fight but an opportunity and client and employee decency is maintained – friends for life Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Human Rights No employee under our contract is allowed to work without proper gear & trained on equipment use and safety We work with both employees and clients to ensure that staff seconded to them get enough rest Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Human Rights Ensure all staff have access to health care Ensure all staff are registered with NHIF Persistent communication to all staff on the need to pay & utilize NHIF e.g. in weekly staff meeting Create partnership with hospitals to ensure quick medical care Access to emergency care in case of work related accidents Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Human Rights Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Environmental Protection Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Environmental Protection Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Anti-Corruption Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Anti-Corruption Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Outcome Improved work efficiency Reduced operational costs Passed all our Statutory Audits NSSF NHIF Reduced complaints from outsourced staff Better cashflow management Improved legal compliance Copyright © 2017 STRATOSTAFF EA Ltd. All Rights Reserved The Power of Staffing in Africa Contact Us Stratostaff EA Stratostaff EA 3rd Floor, Room 12, Mombasa Branch NextGen Mall First Floor, Imaara Building Mombasa Rd. Opp Pandya Memorial Hosp P.O. Box 68182 – 00200 Nairobi, Kenya www.stratostaff.co.ke antony.lunalo@stratostaff.co.ke
