MURABAHA CAPITAL LTD COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS _COP_ 2018-2019 Mission and Strategy Of Murabaha Capital Ltd Mission: To provide the highest level of specialized advisory, financial and investment services. To focus on sustainable projects that support environment, governance and transparency, and that are characterized by quality and accuracy. To exceed the expectations of our customers in Syria and the Middle East. Strategy: Murabaha Capital's strategy is to build long-term relationships with its customers and society by adhering to its 20-year CSR program through its policies of service commitment and community protection. Page_2 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Achievements of Murabaha Capital Group Companies Murabaha Capital Ltd is managed by a group of experts at the highest level of experience in the field of advisory and financial investments. Murabaha adopts Business Environment Sustainability Policy in accordance with the principles of UN Global Compact and international sustainability standards. Murabaha’s investment structure is a group of companies distributed in four regional centers (Syria, Lebanon, Sudan and Dubai). Murabaha expands locally through the opening of branches in some Syrian governorates, and considers the possibility of opening more branches in other provinces to achieve its sustainable development goals in Syrian territory. Page_3 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Page_4 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD MURABAHA CAPITAL MEMBERSHIP IN THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT SINCE 2011 Page_5 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATIONS OF MURABAHA CAPITAL Page_6 SOME CUSTOMERS IN VARIOUS ECONOMIC SECTORS Oil , Gas & Power Real Estate Governmental Projects Fund Raising Merger Create Investment Opportunities Page_7 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD GLOBAL COMPACT WE COMMITTED OUR SELVES The strategy of MURABAHA CAPITAL is driven by a commitment to do the right thing in our own business and to be a catalyst for change in the world around us. Doing the right thing means playing our part in responsible business issues that are central to our businesses – from the quality of services and the diversity of our people, to our engagement with communities and our environmental footprint. Being a catalyst for change means that we use our skills, voice, and relationships to work with others and influence activities that make a difference, create change and have a lasting impact on the world around us. Page_8 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD GLOBAL COMPACT WE COMMITTED OUR SELVES We have four focus areas to bring this strategic intent to life locally: Responsible business, Diversity and inclusion, Community engagement, and Environmental management. We describe our work in each of these areas within this report. The overlaps and intersections of these four areas with the UNGC four areas of Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption, should become apparent throughout. Page_9 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Chairman's Statement about Corporate Support for Social Responsibility and Global Compact We believe that Corporate Social Responsibility is about living the values and principles that govern the way we operate as corporate finance organization and behave as individuals. We sustain safe operations, have a positive and supportive impact on our employees, partners, the communities we work in and the wider environment. We continually strive to build the trust and respect of our clients. We recognize the impacts that we make on society, the economy and the planet, and we seek to make a positive difference in the places where we operate. Being committed to GC principles, we set out a framework for the development and implementation of Corporate Responsibility activities and support all other Policy Standards, which address the regulatory aspects in support of Murabaha ’s Management Systems and values as an organization. For us, corporate social responsibility covers a broad spectrum of activities, the management of our relations with our employees, clients, suppliers and the community as well as the management of our performance in respect of the environment, human rights and diversity – all underpinned by adherence to good business ethics. Hassan Hamwi Chairman Page_10 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD The Importance of Joining the Global Network •MURABAHA tries to fulfill our social responsibilities in the most favorable conscious manner. •MURABAHA aims to achieve a more powerful organizational structure. •MURABAHA intends to be a part of a freshly blooming culture in the international business platform. •MURABAHA seeks to become a business partner preferred by multinational business platform. •MURABAHA undertakes risk management by means of being proactive against risks. Page_11 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Page_12 ACTIVITIES AND PROGRAMS IN SERVICE COMMUNITY DURING 2018-2019 Training more than 560 Syrian university students who have been affected by war, especially in the subjects related to quality standards. Launching free e-learning programmes to help Syrian students who have been displaced by war around the world. In continuation of the Murabaha Capital project to sponsor the families of martyrs of the Syrian Arab Army launched in 2014, financial and material support was provided to 43 martyrs’ families. Murabaha seeks to expand its financial, material and moral support to 45 families. Providing material assistance to those affected by war through charities to reduce harmful effects. Supporting some Syrian emigrants to Sweden to integrate in Swedish society and to get suitable employment opportunities. Page_13 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Murabaha Capital's Social Achievements during 2018-2019 Page_14 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Mr. Hassan Hamwi, the first IRCA Principal Auditor in the Arab World, gets the gold standard in management systems auditing. Accordingly he is the first Arab expert to be honoured by International Register of Certified Auditors. Page_15 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Smart Business Academy, a member in Murabaha, has been honoured by the Swedish King Page_16 The scholarship and Colleagueship of “Quality of Medical Services and Patients’ Safety” Hassan’s Award Hassan’s Award has been launched in 2018. it was announced in Medical Services Conference in Smart Business Academy ABStockholm. Its purpose is to provide financial support to doctors and top managements of Medical Institutions in Syria to improve their expertise in the field of health care and patients’ safety, and to finance their scientific activities in their local communities. The scholarship is granted to four individuals every year. It consists of 250.000 SP, a training course for three months, and a British colleagueship certificate from QIC. The course includes: defining, analyzing and managing potential risks according to ISO 45001:2018. establishing procedures and precautions to handle these risks at clinics, hospitals, and other medical centers. Page_17 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD The Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research in KurdistanIraq consults Mr. Hassan Hamwi to implement ISO 21001:2018, Educational Quality Management Standard. Page_18 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD The international IRCA/CQI delegates Mr. Hassan Hamwi, General Manager of Arab Quality Makers to manage the activities of World Quality Day 2018 in Syria. Page_19 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Murabaha Capital's Social Activities during 2018-2019 Workshops, conferences, and activities about Quality in several Syrian cities: a workshop held in cooperation with Chamber of Industry in Homs about “The Role of Quality Management Systems in Rebuilding Industry and Enhancing Industrial Work”. a workshop in Tartous about ISO 39001, Road Traffic Safety System. Page_20 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Arab Quality Makers held a conference titled “Quality and Safety of Food Industry to support Export and to enhance the quality of Tourist Feeding according to International Standards” in Swida, a city in the South of Syria. Page_21 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD AQM coordinated with Qualitas International Certification Ltd UK as a scientific sponsor to perform a specialized workshop in Homs for pharmicists about “British PAS99 for Integrated Systems and its Implementation in Medical Industries”. Page_22 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD A free specialized workshop for engineers in Homs about “ International Quality Engineering Systems, ISO 31000 for Risk management and ISO 21500 for Project Management” Page_23 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD A workshop accredited by Smart Business AcademySweden: “Back to Job”. It was held in Tartous to encourage the youth to study ISO/MSS Quality Management Systems to compete and get better opportunities in business. Page_24 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD -A conference held in Daraa about “Quality and Food Safety in food factories and restaurant according to HACCP & ISO 22000. “ Page_25 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD An online training programme sponsored by Arab Quality Makers about “Risk Based Thinking according to ISO Standards”. This programme was delivered for Syrian youth. Page_26 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD A training course in cooperation with Chamber of Tourism in Aleppo about “Food Quality and Safety according to international standards”. A course for Food Inspectors. Page_27 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Arab Quality Makerd held a conference in cooperation with Syrian Ministry of Interiors “improving the competence of Medical personnel at Medical Services in compliance with Quality Assurance and Medical Accreditation according to ISQua. Page_28 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD ✅ An initiative to measure the performance of public organisations This initiative was launched by Murabaha Capital community service program to enhance performance improvement in Syrian public sector. Measuring government performance will be done by citizens via a web questionnaire according to the International Standard of Customer Satisfaction and Complaint Handling ISO 10002. This initiative will measure the citizen's satisfaction about the services of public organizations, companies and directorates. The first attempt to implement this initiative was on the website of Syrian Ministry of Industry. Page_29 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Page_30 Principle 1: Support and Respect for the Protection of Internationally Recognized Human Rights. Murabaha provides a suitable working environment for its employees based on its belief in the importance of human resources as one of its main resources. It seeks to attract and develop the qualified workforce through focusing its attention on the following aspects: Page_31 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Scientific and intellectual: Murabaha has a yearly plan to train its team members according to their specializations, qualifications, the nature of their work and tasks. It also encourages technical and professional training; helps its team to acquire management skills; and provides several types of courses such as: archiving and record control. Its team attends its free courses and workshops. Murabaha has achieved 85% of its plan this year. In addition, Murabaha is interested in the involvement of all its team in training programs (internships) organized by other institutions and academies. Murabaha believes in the importance of internal education (self development), so it enhances knowledge exchange and experience transfer among its team members. Murabha enrolls its team members in programmes about Sustainable Development Goals. Murabaha's library contains 1200 books of various disciplines (administrative, computer and internet, economy and trade, quality, occupational health and Page_32 safety ...). MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Health:  Provides health care to employees through health insurance and sick leave grants.  Has published and communicated instructions and warning signs for environment, occupational health and safety. Social:  Provides social services to its employees, such as subsidies and incentives.  Encourages employees to innovate.  Enables working women to obtain their rights: female workers constitute 90% of the total employees in Murabaha. Page_33 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Administrative and Legal:  Murabaha developed a record of conduct labor laws.  sought equality in salaries and bonuses to employees, and paid fair wages.  Murabaha has provided a healthy environment for employees such as allowing an hour break per work day.  Murabaha has implemented a flexible work policy by enabling employees to work part-time or to choose their work days, giving this advantage to 50% of their employees. Page_34 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Principle 2: Murabaha is not involved in violations of human rights: Murabaha is committed to ethical conduct in terms of honesty and justice in the dealings either towards its employees or interested parties (customers or suppliers). Murabaha respects the rights of its team members regarding their occupational safety, and it offers them rewards and incentives according to their performance. . -Murabaha evaluates its team members to measure their performance and to recognize the necessary training needs. Consequently, it trains them continually and provides equal opportunities for all of them to develop their work. It performed more than 60% of its training plan during 2018-2019. Murabaha achieves gender equality for its employees. Page_35 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD LABOUR Page_36 Principle 3: respect for freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective participation Murabaha follows Syrian labour laws. It respects the right of negotiation, including guild admission. Murabaha encourages team members to participate in decision making because of its belief in their effective role in development and improvement. It is convinced that development starts at the bottom of work hierarchy. Therefore, it holds consecutive meetings to discuss difficulties, obstacles and problems in order to find suitable solutions. It motivates its team members to communicate with their directors about all work issues especially social responsibility. Page_37 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced labor: Murabaha has an administrative system that defines the relationship between it and its team members. Both parties sign a contract that identifies items of agreement including: type of work, office-hours, workdays, and vacations according to the members’ own circumstances. Murabaha gives fair salaries to its team members to grant them the minimum level to their living. It asks them if their salaries are not adequate. It provides them with necessary facilities (work-hours, leaving permissions, vacations…). Page_38 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Principle 5: actual abolition of child labor Murabaha complies with the labor laws relating to the non-employment of children under the age of 18 years. Page_39 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in the field of employment and occupation: Murabaha follows the policy of indiscrimination with its team members by: Enhancing workforce in selecting team members according to their specializations and scientific capabilities without discrimination in any of: race, gender, religion, nationality, or handicapping. Providing equal opportunities to all team members in occupational training and developing, paying the fee suitable to effort, and granting rewards, incentives, vacations, and health care. Enabling women to work and to obtain their right in having high positions. Providing all facilities to enable employees to perform their work in the best conditions. Page_40 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD ENVIRONMENT Page_41 Principle 7: promote a precautionary approach to all environmental challenges: Murabaha enhances environment protection in its activities and services, through enhancing team awareness about the significance of environment protection from all types of pollution (noise, visual pollution…). It acknowledges its team about energy, water resources and renewable energy. It automatizes all its works, mails and correspondences to decrease paperwork to minimize paper work. About 70% of Murabaha’s archive has been saved on hardware and electronic applications. Also, it does not employ smokers. Page_42 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Principle 8: initiatives to expand responsibility for the environment Promoting a culture of environmental protection for its team, customers and all interested parties by delivering free awareness seminars. Taking the necessary procedures to conserve and optimize the energy sources. Joining the Syrian environmental society in 2002 and participating in its activities. Managing the Arab Center for Environmental Management Systems. Implementing ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems in many companies. Conducting training courses in the field of environmental management in cooperation with the Arab Organization For Industrial Development, in addition to many courses in this field. Page_43 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD PRINCIPLE 9: PROMOTE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES. Murabaha protects environment from pollution as it provides a suitable context without noise or smoke. Murabaha has contributed in supporting Syrian Inventors’ Association to invent new technologies to protect environment and to participate in training courses and seminars about protecting environment. Page_44 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Page_45 Principle 10 combating corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery: Murabaha is committed to ethical conduct, especially in combating corruption in all its forms both inside and outside Murabaha, especially with regard to the parties that deal with them, realizing that these parties are partners in the work of Murabaha. Murabaha capital and its companies are proud that they are a group of businesses that have not been involved or accepted business for paying bribes and have repeatedly abandoned tenders and private and government contracts because of their demands for amounts and privileges. Murabaha is committed to international efforts to strive all kinds of curption in order to achieve sustainable development goals. We proudly announce that we are a clean business group of any practices in accepting bribes or extortion Page_46 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Page_47 TAKING ACTIONS TO SUPPORT THE SUSTAIABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDG 1 NO POVERTY: • Cares about its poor employees and always provides them with financial aids. • Helps the families of Syrian Arab Army Martyrs to achieve its faith on sustainable development seeking better life for them. • Contributes to the provision of employment opportunities for young people in Murabaha Capital and its partners. Page_48 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD TAKING ACTIONS TO SUPPORT THE SUSTAIABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDG 2 ZERO HUNGER • Murabaha tries to end hunger by providing some free meals for poor families in Ramadan Page_49 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD TAKING ACTIONS TO SUPPORT THE SUSTAIABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDG 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING • Murabaha cares about its employees’ health by providing health insurance and health awareness programmes, and sick leave. • Murabaha puts hygiene & health care criteria, improves its services continually, and distributes it to all health institutions & programmes in accordance with the international associations requirements of health care quality to help them understand that and to be implemented. Page_50 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD TAKING ACTIONS TO SUPPORT THE SUSTAIABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDG 4 QUALITY EDUCATION: • Murabaha is interested in Quality Education, it ensures quality education for all and promotes lifelong learning. • Murabaha participates in a lot of conferences to achieve high level in education through its activities in 2018-2019. • Murabaha cooperates with Center of Curriculum Developing and provides training internships to the Center of Measurement and Evaluation in the Ministry of Education in Syria. Page_51 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD TAKING ACTIONS TO SUPPORT THE SUSTAIABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDG 5 GENDER EQUALITY • Murabaha increases the number of women at the Board and at senior management levels. The proportion of working women at Murabaha reaches 90% of employees. • Murabaha never differentiates between women and man in terms of treatment, remuneration, salaries and facilities. Page_52 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD TAKING ACTIONS TO SUPPORT THE SUSTAIABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDG 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANTATION Murabaha cooperates with some water companies to help them provide pure water for their customers, and helps them provide free clean water for people in most needy areas. Page_53 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD TAKING ACTIONS TO SUPPORT THE SUSTAIABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDG 8 DECENT WORK & ECONOMIC GROWTH Murabaha achieves that when it helps companies to implement ISO. Page_54 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD TAKING ACTIONS TO SUPPORT THE SUSTAIABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDG 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES Murabaha achieves this goal by applying business etiquette conduct, allowing women to accomplish the right of working, and protecting children's’ rights. Page_55 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD TAKING ACTIONS TO SUPPORT THE SUSTAIABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDG 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION & PRODUCTION Murabaha cooperates with a lot of ministries and companies to help them reduce energy consumption and to produce good products. Page_56 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD TAKING ACTIONS TO SUPPORT THE SUSTAIABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SDG 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Murabaha makes partnership in local, Arabic and international regions with governmental, private, social and public sectors in Syria in order to strengthen the UN principles. Murabaha has partnership with local communities to enhance GCUN goals especially those related to sustainable development in regions and providence's. Page_57 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD We are committed to go on in our social responsibility Results of Commitment and our Next Plan The impact of our commitment to the Global Compact has been very positive: First, increasing communication with community and its organizations; second, team satisfaction; third, more recognition of our transparency and environmental protection programs by 22% compared to the last year. We affirm that we will keep our commitments, increase our activities, provide financial and moral support to our local community according to the principles of social responsibility in Global Compact. We will also launch educational programmes and campaigns to increase social development to achieve the inclusion of all social classes in all geographical areas. Page_58 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Murabaha ADDRESSES • Murabaha Capital Group BVI-LTD • Damascus: +963 953680368 • Beirut: +961 7145029 Mob, Viber &WhatsApp • Dubai: +971 5583550 • Stockholm: +46 729415488 • Email: hamwi55@gmail.com hassan@Murabahacapital.com • Website: www.Murabahacapital.com • Skype: Hassan Hamwi Page_59
