Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2018 We’re WE ARE BRENNTAG ABOUT BRENNTAG Brenntag is the global market leader in chemical distribution. Connecting chemical manufacturers (our suppliers) and chemical users (our customers), we provide both complete distribution solutions as well as individual chemical products. Brenntag distributes industrial and specialty chemicals for thousands of suppliers. We maintain a global network with more than 580 locations in 73 countries in the regions North America, Latin America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East & Africa) and Asia Pacific. We serve around 195,000 customers worldwide in various end-market industries. With its corporate strategy1), Brenntag pursues the goal of being the preferred distributor for both specialty and industrial chemicals for our customers and suppliers and, at the same time, the industry leader in safety, growth and profitability. A positive work environment and responsibility towards our more than 16,600 employees worldwide are fundamental aspects of our corporate strategy and therefore also of Brenntag’s sustainability strategy. several more than 1,000 suppliers 580 locations in 73 countries around 195,000 End-market industries customers Adhesives Coatings Cosmetics Food & Nutrition Pharma Polymers more than Oil & Gas Water Treatment 10,000 different products 1) For information on Brenntag’s vision, objectives and strategy, please see from page 32 onwards of Brenntag’s 2018 Annual Report. BACK 1 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG “ConnectingChemistry” – this is the brand promise of Brenntag and of each of its employees to our business partners. As the global market leader in chemical distribution, Brenntag connects chemical manufacturers and users in a value-creating partnership. Brenntag’s key role in the value chain offers huge potential – but also entails an obligation to contribute towards greater sustainability in the industry. RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE BEHAVIOUR is part of Brenntag’s brand promise and self-image. For us, sustainability entails more than just commercial success. We also aim to achieve sustainable value creation. For this reason, Brenntag also considers the effects of its business activities on the environment and factors in social issues when making strategic decisions. In our day-to-day work, we always make sure that we use natural resources and other materials as efficiently as possible. In this report, we will illustrate our commitment to increasing efficiency in the use of resources with a selection of examples – both within our company and in cooperation with our partners in the industry. ­EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES Here we like to be frugal From page 14 CONTENTS 2 CEO Letter 4 Sustainability at Brenntag 20 Safety 29 Environmental Protection 36 Supply Chain Responsibility 40 Employees 48 Community 51 Report Profile 54 Practitioner’s Report 56 GRI Content Index 60 Imprint More information More information online NFB Denoted Non-financial Report (NFB) NORTH AMERICA BRENNTAG WORLDWIDE FACTS EUR 4.6 BN AND EXTERNAL SALES FIGURES 5,100 ESSEN > GERMANY EMPLOYEES READING PENNSYLVANIA HOUSTON TEXAS 100 NATIONS REPRESENTED LATIN AMERICA EUR 0.8 BN IN THE WORKFORCE See page 45 EXTERNAL SALES 1,600 68 > EMPLOYEES POINTS AND GOLD STATUS IN ECOVADIS SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT See page 38 1.5 GROUP ACCIDENT RATE LTIR See page 26 245,668.72 TONNES CO 2 EMISSIONS See page 30 Regional headquarters EMEA More than 580 locations worldwide FACT S AN D FI GU RE S EUR 5.3 BN EXTERNAL SALES ASIA PACIFIC > 7,100 EMPLOYEES EUR 1.4 BN EXTERNAL SALES > 2,400 EMPLOYEES SINGAPORE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE KEY FIGURES IN EUR M 2018 2017 2016 Sales 12,550.0 11,743.3 10,498.4 Operating gross profit 2,660.9 2,554.1 2,428.7 Operating EBITDA 875.5 836.0 810.0 Profit after tax 462.3 362.0 361.0 Free cash flow 525.2 440.3 641.4 Employees  at Dec. 31 16,616 15,416 15,072 Personnel expenses 1,004.7 990.8 913.0 including social insurance contributions Accident rate (LTIR)1) 1.5 1.7 1.5 Employee fluctuation in % 8.5 7.7 5.9 ISO 9001 certifications % of operating sites 91 86 90 1) Number of accidents resulting in at least 1 day’s absence/1 million working hours 2 LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, Resource efficiency, circular economy, waste avoidance – these environmentally friendly products such issues have prompted numerous discussions at all levels of as recycled plastics. It may surprise you society and business for some time now. And rightly so, as to read about how much of our standthey are among the major global challenges of our time. To ard packaging is reusable and about the ensure that subsequent generations have a future, sustainable efficient circuits we have established in solutions must be developed and implemented. And all parthis area by working with our suppliers ties – policy-makers, companies, institutions, organizations and customers. and private households – have to play their part. Sustainably managing a globally opAs the global market leader in chemical distribution and erating, decentralized company like ­central part of the chemical industry’s supply chain, Brenntag Brenntag is a daily challenge. Our susalso bears a responsibility here. Environmental protection and tainability targets serve as a strategic the responsible use of natural resources are values that are compass that helps us to initiate suitfirmly embedded in our company. We want to continuously able projects aimed at improving our improve our performance in these areas by setting ­specific sustainability performance, to prioritize ­targets. At the same time, we are engaging closely and working measures and to quantify our progress with our business partners to develop more efficient processes (from page 7). for our industry and to launch sustainable products and solutions on the market. On the issue of “Sustainable procurement”, our goal is to monitor our own We have therefore dedicated a special section of this sussupply chain more closely with regard tainability report to the topic of resource efficiency (from to various sustainability aspects. To do page 14). Using a number of examples, we would like to this, we revised our target upwards in provide you with an insight into our activities in and committhe year under review: By end of 2020, ment to the areas of energy saving, packaging circularity and we are now aiming to check 80 per cent BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO LETTER 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND THE RESPONSIBLE USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES ARE VALUES THAT ARE FIRMLY EMBEDDED IN OUR COMPANY. STEVEN HOLLAND, CEO rather than 50 per cent of our total chemical spend by conprotection and fighting corruption. ducting sustainability assessments and audits of our relevant These principles are among the key suppliers. Our membership of the industry initiative “Together standards by which we evaluate all of for Sustainability” serves as the framework for this. In addiour business activities. tion, we now want to focus more on seeing continuous improvements in the sustainability performance of our suppliers. Thank you for your interest in learning We have set a new target in relation to this: By 2020, we want about our activities in the area of sus70 per cent of our suppliers undergoing reassessment to have tainability. Please feel free to send us improved their score by at least one point compared to their any questions or suggestions by email previous assessment. to sustainability@brenntag.de or via our website at www.brenntag.com/ I was very pleased about one positive development in particusustainability. lar in the year under review: The Group accident rate of 1.5 was lower than in the previous year (2017: 1.7). This means Best wishes, that we are back on the path of continuous improvement for this indicator which is so fundamentally important to Brenntag. Occupational safety is a top priority at our company. Along with suitable infrastructure and equipment, the behaviour and safety awareness of employees play a crucial role here. At the end of 2018, we conducted a voluntary emSteven Holland ployee survey on this issue for the second time. The partici­ Chief Executive Officer Brenntag AG pation level was exceptionally high at 82 per cent, and the Essen, Germany, April 2019 results have sparked new momentum for us to enhance our safety culture. I would like take this opportunity to express my gratitude to our more than 16,600 employees worldwide. With their expertise, commitment and willingness to help shape our future, they form the basis for Brenntag’s long-term success. Especially in considering the issues of resource efficiency and occupational safety, it is clear that we can only achieve our targets if we all play our part and are open to change and to new solutions. Our sustainability report was prepared using the Global ­Reporting Initiative Standards. It also serves as a progress ­report for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Brenntag ­affirms its commitment to the UNGC’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 4 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG WE WANT TO MAKE VALUE ­CREATION SUSTAINABLE NFB As the number one in chemical distribution, Brenntag has a SEPARATE NON-FINANCIAL responsibility towards the environment and society. We aim to GROUP REPORT achieve successful long-term value creation as well as occupy a leading position in the area of sustainability. Sustainability Selected content in this sustain­ability issues such as safety, health and environmental protection, report serves as the separate non-­ efficient use of resources and compliance with laws and regufinancial Group report (NFB) purlations are deeply rooted in our company. They determine our suant to § 315b ff. and § 289c ff. of behaviour towards our employees, suppliers and customers the German Commercial Code (HGB) as well as society in general and they have a direct influence to ensure compliance with the legal on the success of our company. ­requirements of the HGB. The NFB has been audited by PricewaterhouseWe aim to factor in the effects of our business practices on the Coopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsenvironment and society in both our day-to-day activities and gesellschaft ­p ursuant to ISAE 3000 strategic decision making. To this end, we have established (­Revised) to obtain limited assurance. corresponding standards and processes in our international The NFB is denoted with a blue line NFB corporate structures. We raise our employees’ awareness of and the a ­ cronym NFB in the sustainthese issues and provide them with corresponding training. ability report. Detailed information on In addition, we support sustainable development through the NFB can be found in the ­Report our membership of various organizations and initiatives and Profile on page 51f. Information on ­discuss sustainability issues with other players in our industry. the business model can be found in the Combined Group Management ­Report and the Management Report of Brenntag AG of Brenntag’s 2018 Annual Report on page 32. CREATING VALUE – CHEMICAL PURCHASING TRANSPORT STORAGE BRENNTAG’S ROLE IN MANUFACTURERS WORLDWIDE THE SUPPLY CHAIN Brenntag’s slogan ConnectingChemistry / Several thousand / > 580 locations in 73 countries stands for our self-image as well as our suppliers ­objective and the promise that we make to / Local purchasing teams and global sourcing organization with / > 10,000 industrial more than 1,000 experts all of our partners in the supply chain. As a and specialty chemical provider of a full-line product portfolio and / Cost of materials in 2018: EUR 9.9 billion products as a “one-stop shop”, Brenntag plays a key role in the chemical industry’s value chain and, as a strategic partner, contributes to greater efficiency. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 5 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT: At NFB SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES AND MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT: In NFB Group level, there are numerous straorder to identify the sustainability issues that are of material tegic guidelines, policies and projects importance to Brenntag and the relevant stakeholder groups, in the area of sustainability that have a we conducted a materiality assessment in September/Octoglobal focus. Standards and processes Information on the method used for the ber 2015. The assessment was based on the principles forare implemented, established and optiMATERIALITY ASSESSmulated by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The results mized and responsibilities are allocated MENT can be found in the Sustainability are detailed in the materiality matrix on page 6. They were at the various levels of the Group. MoreManagement section presented to the Management Board of Brenntag AG and disover, in accordance with the Group’s of our website at ­ www.brenntag.com/ cussed by its members. Since then, the assessment has been guidelines and objectives, Brenntag’s sustainability and in reviewed annually and the results confirmed. In 2019, we will individual companies and sites pursue the About this report chapter on page 51. carry out a new materiality assessment in order to determine a large number of activities of their the main impact that our actions have, address the concerns own accord and in line with local and of our stakeholders and hone our strategic focus on sustainregional requirements and commitability issues. ments. We raise our employees’ awareness accordingly and provide them with Based on these material issues and our sustainability strategy, further training. In this way, we intend we set sustainability targets for Brenntag in 2016 (see table to shape our sustainability strategy at on page 7). As a guideline, they help to initiate suitable proa global level and to develop it further. jects aimed at improving our sustainability performance, to prioritize measures and to make our progress quantifiable. Our sustainability approach incorporates the guidelines of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). With regard to the ongoing For information on the UN GLOBAL COMPACT, development of our sustainability strategy, we also take the see page 9f. effects of our business activities on our natural and societal environment into account. 1,000 More than experts are working in our local and global sourcing teams FILLING MIXING AND EXTENSIVE WAREHOUSE PACKAGING PACKAGING BLENDING TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT TRANSPORT CHEMICAL USERS LABELLING SUPPORT WORLDWIDE Around 195,000 customers in various end-market / Repackaging / Just-in-time delivery and inventory industries, e. g.: management / Filling, labelling, barcoding and palletizing / Adhesives / Return of packaging drums / Local distribution and marketing teams comprising / Coatings more than 5,000 experts / Efficient logistics and transport / Cosmetics management / Product mixing in line with specific customer requirements / Food & Nutrition / Blending and technical service in our own application / Pharma laboratories / Polymers / Oil & Gas / Water Treatment BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 6 BRENNTAG MATERIALITY MATRIX Very important 12 8 13 10 9 11 2 14 3 36 31 28 6 15 30 32 5 29 1 27 19 4 7 17 24 22 33 16 21 18 23 Stakeholder surveys 20 37 35 25 34 26 40 38 39 Important Important Very important Brenntag expert surveys Corporate Governance Environment Employees 1 Compliance 14 Protection of soil, air, water 28 Personnel development 2  Ethical/moral principles 15 Water management 29 Training 3  Anti-corruption 16 Emissions reduction/climate 30 Compensation and benefits 4 Code of conduct protection 31 Working conditions 5 Risk management 17 Resource efficiency 32 Work-life balance 6 Human rights 18 Energy efficiency 33 Talent management 7  Anti-trust & competition laws 19 Environmental management 34 Diversity 20 Recycling 35 Labour and social policy rights Safety 21 Waste management 36 Employee satisfaction and 8 Occupational safety and 22 Transport engagement health protection 37 Recruiting 9 Product safety Supply chain 10 Product quality 23 Sustainable procurement Social Responsibility 11 Process safety 24 Supplier management 38 Social/charitable commitments 12 Safe handling of chemicals 25 Supplier qualification/training 39 Local community engagement 13 Risk prevention 26 Sub-contractor management 40 Participation in industry 27 Sustainable customer solutions associations (products/services) BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 7 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG: OUR TARGETS NFB TARGETS BY STATUS SAFETY LTIR1 day/1 million < 1.0 for the 2020 The Group accident rate LTIR1 day/1 million ­Brenntag Group was 1.5 in 2018. (2017: 1.7) (page 26) SUSTAINABLE Check 80% of our total chemical 2020 The supplier assessments carried PROCUREMENT spend (in EUR) through sustain­ out by the end of 2018 cover around ability assessments and audits 70% total chemical spend (in EUR). as part of the membership of (2017: around 64%) (pages 36–37) “­Together for Sustainability” We were able to achieve our previous goal of covering 50% by the end of 2017, which is why we are now aiming for 80%. 70% of our suppliers undergoing 2020 The target applies from Jan. 1, 2019 reassessment should be able to and for all reassessments taking place improve their score by at least one from then on. (pages 36–37) point ENVIRONMENTAL To reduce Scope 1 and 2 CO2 2020 2018 Brenntag Group (per 1,000 warePROTECTION emissions (per warehouse tonne house tonnes of goods sold): of goods sold) by 6% (compared Scope 1: 18.08 tonnes (2017: 16.56) to 2016) Scope 2: 6.69 tonnes (2017: 7.03) Change compared to base year 20161): +3.11% (page 30) COMPLIANCE To achieve and sustain full cover2019 The coverage rate for global e-learning age in compliance training for the training on the Brenntag Code of relevant employees Business Conduct and Ethics was ­approx. 88% at the end of 2018. (2017: approx. 89%) We have extended the period for achieving the target to the end of 2019. (page 11) EMPLOYEES To provide a working environment Ongoing Various measures were initiated and where the best people want to implemented in the year under review work related to the issues of HR development, identification and development of potential, and succession planning before being honed and rolled out more broadly as required. (page 40ff.) SUSTAINABLE To become the preferred distri­ 2020 BASF project: concluded SOLUTIONS butor for sustainable solutions by Grüner Punkt: started (page 19) setting up pilot projects with ten Schütz IBCs: started (page 17) selected key suppliers Gas Engine Service Program: started (page 35) RATING To achieve and sustain an ­EcoVadis Ongoing Scoring in November 2018: 68 points, score of at least 62 points and gold status (October 2016: 66 points) gold status (page 38) 1) The values given for base year 2016 have not been audited by PwC. Brenntag has two working groups in the area of sustain­ability: NFB Development department. He initiates NFB an international project team, which consists of representand coordinates global projects and atives of the areas HSE (Health, Safety and Environment), ­initiatives in cooperation with these two ­Compliance, Human Resources, Operations, Purchasing and working groups, promotes the ongoing Communications, is responsible for the systematic developdevelopment of the company’s sustainment of sustainability at Group level. The group meets on ability strategy worldwide and maina regular basis as well as on a project-related basis. There tains a dialogue with those colleagues is also a steering committee comprising individual repreresponsible for sustainability issues at sentatives of the top management from Brenntag’s various Group level and in Brenntag’s regions. regions. This is also included on a case-by-case basis for The Sustainability Manager reports on strategic discussions in particular and primarily serves as an a regular basis as well as on a case-byinterface to the operating units and is intended to reinforce case and project-related basis to the integration relating to the issue of sustainability at an opBoard of Management, which supports erational level. Brenntag also has a Sustainability Manager the working groups and the coordinator Brenntag Group who is based in Brenntag AG’s Corporate with their tasks. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 8 In 2018, the Sustainability Manager and the working groups RISK MANAGEMENT AND focused on the following issues and projects: COMPLIANCE Brenntag has always attached great im// Sustainable  procurement: Initiating sustainability assessportance to responsible, prudent and ments and audits for suppliers sustainable corporate governance. Our // Continuation of global energy reporting and the impletop priority is to comply with statutory mentation of the global energy-saving campaign “Fight requirements as well as voluntary interthe Energy Monsters” (pages 14ff.) nal policies on conduct. To ensure that // Ongoing development of Brenntag’s sustainability strategy: this happens, management uses various Brenntag’s INTERNAL Tracking of Brenntag’s sustainability targets for 2020 and internal control and risk management CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT development of new targets systems and has established a compliSYSTEMS as well as its ance organization within the company. report on opportunities and risks are described QUALITY MANAGEMENT Every Brenntag employee is personally in detail on pages 68ff. Brenntag is a chemical distributor which differentiates itself responsible for complying with all apof Brenntag’s 2018 Annual Report. from its competitors through the high level of quality of its plicable laws, directives, policies and products and services as well as its strong customer focus regulations. and the excellent level of service provided by its employees. Our Group’s sustainability performance has now also become NFB COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT AND ORGA­ a competitive advantage. We increasingly receive enquiries NIZATION: At the head of Brenntag’s from our customers who are themselves evaluating their compliance organization is the Board suppliers according to sustainability criteria (for example, in of Management and, within this the form of a “Sustainability Balanced Score Card”) and who body, its chairman. The Governance, factor this in to their purchasing decisions. For example, we Risk & ­Compliance (GRC) manager in are asked for information about our carbon footprint or how Brenntag AG’s Corporate Internal ­Audit we deal with the topics of recycling and waste. As a result of department regularly reports to the our sustainability monitoring and our participation in external Board of Management on compliance For information on ratings such as the EcoVadis assessment or the CDP climate issues. The regular meetings of the Brenntag’s ECOVADIS RATING, see page 38. rating, Brenntag is able to respond to these enquiries and Supervisory Board’s A ­ udit Committee meet the standards to which we are held. also include reporting on compliance and whistle-blowing as well as on the Using management systems, certificates and audits, we conongoing development of the Groupstantly ensure compliance with the quality standards required wide compliance management system. of us and which we ourselves define. Procedures are in place The GRC manager is supported by the For further information at our company which ensure that products are procured from Compliance Committee as an internal on MANAGEMENT ­SYSTEMS AND CERTIFI­ reliable sources and meet quality standards. Through various advisory body. This committee includes CATIONS, please see mechanisms, we obtain customer feedback for the continuous representatives from the areas of ­Legal, the Safety chapter on page 23. monitoring and improvement of our service quality. Audit, Accounting & Tax, Controlling, Finance & ­Investor Relations, CommuniThe basis for quality management within the Brenntag Group cations, Risk Management, Information is the internationally applicable ISO 9001 standard. We aim for Security, HSE as well as Human ­Resources. a global coverage rate of at least 90% at the relevant Brenntag Issues and measures aimed at observing locations. human rights and fighting corruption are also on its agenda. Year Relevant Brenntag Locations with ISO 9001 certifications locations worldwide abs. abs. in % 2014 390 352 90 2015 398 356 89 2016 395 354 90 2017 422 363 86 2018 387 353 91 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 9 At a regional level, the Regional Executive Management is reNFB The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics NFB sponsible for the issue of compliance. Regional compliance contains requirements for the following managers have been appointed here. They receive, assess areas: and report any compliance issues and/or questions referred to them, coordinate the compliance management system at a // Health, safety and the environment regional level and regularly pass on information and experi// Human rights and working ence through dialogue with Brenntag AG’s GRC manager. This conditions ensures that our compliance management is closely interlinked // Relationships with business partwith our business activities at regional level. ners and public institutions // Bribery and corruption RISK REPORTING: The risk inventories performed every six // Competition and antitrust law months by our Group companies are an important instrument // Avoidance of conflicts of interest for global risk management within the risk management sys// Data privacy and information tem. They involve enquiring about existing risks and assessing security these in terms of their probability of occurrence and their potential damage. First, the gross risk is examined. This is the The Code of Business Conduct and E ­ thics maximum damage if no counteraction is taken. If a risk can applies to all employees at all levels of be reliably counteracted by effective action, these measures the company and is intended to give are shown in risk profiles and assessed with regard to their them guidance in the legal and ethical effectiveness. The residual risk (net risk) is the gross risk less challenges of their daily work and to the effect of measures taken to reduce the risk. The risk asencourage proper conduct. It has been sessment includes risks and opportunities with a sustainability translated into various languages and For information on the TRAINING COURSES, dimension, such as environmental risks, employee fluctuation has been distributed throughout the ensee page 11 of this or risks in the area of law/compliance. In the year under retire Brenntag Group and made available chapter. view, we added further sustainability-related aspects to the to all of our employees. Its observance Group risk management system concerning environmental is monitored by the management teams and employee matters, human rights, and anti-corruption and of Brenntag’s various companies. Every bribery matters and the associated risks. infringement of this code of conduct may lead to disciplinary action and is punWith regard to the non-financial aspects of the German CSR ished in line with the common company Directive Implementation Act (CSR-RUG), a net assessment of policies. Since 2016, there has been global the risks did not identify any material risks which are associonline training for all employees on the ated with our business activities or our business relationships, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. products and services and which are very likely to have serious negative effects now or in the future. As well as the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, there are further Group CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS: As a global comguidelines which stipulate compliance pany, Brenntag is subject to a large number of laws, directives, requirements, including an anti-corrupregulations and ordinances. In addition to compliance with regtion guideline, an insider compliance ulatory frameworks, honesty and integrity are our top priority. guideline and an internal control guideAll of our fundamental company values, ethical principles, comline. The code and all guidelines that are pliance with laws, rules and regulations as well as the r­ elevant applicable Group-wide can be accessed guidelines and procedures which are of key significance for by all the Group’s employees on the Brenntag and its reputation are summarized in a comprehenintranet. sive Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The Brenntag CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT UN GLOBAL COMPACT: As a signatory AND ETHICS is freely of the United Nations Global Compact available in German and English on the (UNGC), Brenntag is required to make the company’s website at UNGC’s principles in the areas of human www.brenntag.com/ compliance. rights, labour standards, environmental protection and fighting corruption an integral element of its corporate strategy. They supplement our own corporate values and BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 10 principles which guide our activities. This Sustainability Report is NFB lend further weight to its position here. also a progress report which must be published annually withThe Brenntag Code of Business Conduct in the scope of our UNGC membership (“Communication on and Ethics stipulates that our company Progress”). and employees must avoid violations of human rights in any form. We oppose all NFB PREVENTING CORRUPTION: Preventing corruption is an forms of forced labour or child labour, adessential element of Brenntag’s compliance management vocate equal opportunities and fair work system. Group-wide requirements relating to anti-corrupconditions, and reject discrimination of tion are specified in codes and guidelines. They apply to all any kind. employees equally and compliance with them is monitored. If our employees fail to comply with these requirements, Violations of human rights can be re­ this could have reputational and financial risks for Brenntag. por­ted internally via our compliance Employee misconduct is not tolerated by Brenntag (zero-­ organization and anonymously via our tolerance policy) and can lead to corresponding disciplinary whistle-­blowing system. If any suspected measures or have consequences under labour law. violations of human rights are confirmed, they are strenuously pursued and sancIn addition to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, there tions are incurred. In the reporting year, The ANTI-CORRUPTION is a worldwide anti-corruption guideline for the Brenntag no violations of human rights ­within the GUIDELINE is available on our website at Group which specifies what type of conduct is expected of corporate group were reported. www.brenntag.com/ all employees in relation to anti-corruption and which prosustainability under Service & Contacts. vides guidance on how employees should behave in critical For several years, Brenntag has volunsituations so that their conduct is compliant and risks are tarily undergone a regular sustainability avoided. assessment by the international rating agency EcoVadis. In November 2018, For information on The anti-corruption guideline contains and specifies requirethe Brenntag Group achieved a score of the SUSTAINABILITY ments for the following areas: 68 points, thereby confirming its gold ASSESSMENTS and the supplier code of status that it achieved in 2016. EcoVadis conduct, see the Supply // Prohibition of corruption and bribery evaluates the sustainability performance chain responsibility chapter from page 36. // Gifts, hospitality and other benefits of companies in terms of four categories: // Donations and sponsorship, including prohibition environment, labour practices, fair busiof political donations on behalf of the company ness practices and sustainable procure// Prohibition of facilitation payments ment. The review of aspects in the area The results of THE // Relationship with third parties of human rights is an essential element ­ECOVADIS RATING (sales brokers, agents, etc.) of this external assessment of Brenntag. are available on our website at www.brenntag.com/ The internal control guideline contains further requirements Brenntag believes that the biggest risk sustainability under Service & Contacts. and measures to counteract corruption and bribery, such as of potential violations of human rights ensuring the separation of functions, complying with the is in our supply chain. Within the framedouble-check principle and adhering to the requirement work of our membership of the industry’s to obtain comparative bids from suppliers and service “Together for Sustainability” initiative, we providers. request that our suppliers undergo EcoVadis sustainability assessments which Internal audits are regularly conducted at our Group comalso include a review of compliance The SUPPLIER CODE OF panies to ensure compliance with these guidelines. Further with human rights. Brenntag’s Supplier CONDUCT is available on our website at elements of the compliance management system relating code of conduct explicitly requests that www.brenntag.com/ to the prevention of corruption at Brenntag are targetour suppliers support the observance of sustainability under Service & Contacts. group-­o riented training courses for employees, which international human rights and that they are essentially rolled out via our e-learning systems, and avoid violations of human rights. Further­ a whistle-blowing system, which can be used to provide more, there are additional supplier assess­ anonymous information. In the reporting year, no cases of ments and audits based on standardized corruption at Brenntag were reported. questionnaires that also deal with the observance of human rights. HUMAN RIGHTS: Observing human rights is one of Brenntag’s top principles and is regarded as an essential element of its general compliance management system. Through its voluntary commitment to the principles of the UNGC, Brenntag seeks to BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS 11 A working group was formed in 2017 to concentrate on NFB the issue of human rights in our company and our supply UN GLOBAL COMPACT: chain. In the year under review, the ­focus was on pinpointing THE TEN PRINCIPLES where human rights issues affect our company and identifying approaches for a detailed analysis of potential dangers. 1 TRAINING: Our compliance programme focuses particularly on observing our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, anti­ trust law requirements, anti-corruption and environmental HUMAN RIGHTS and health protection, since it is here that Brenntag sees the Businesses should support and respect the 2 greatest risks. We hold regular employee training sessions ­protection of internationally proclaimed ­human rights and ... covering these issues – through regional and global events which employees attend either in person or via e-learning systems. The aim is to keep all of Brenntag’s employees’ knowl3 ... ensure that they are not edge up to date and to avoid any illegal actions as well as to complicit in human rights abuses. protect the environment from being damaged and employees from being injured. LABOUR STANDARDS The mandatory global training module on Brenntag’s Code of Businesses should uphold the freedom of 4 Business Conduct and Ethics was continued in the reporting association and the effective recognition of the year. Employees can complete the one-hour training module COMPLIANCE right to collective bargaining, ... on the internet via the e-learning platform at any time and from any location. A total of twelve topics are covered – in5 cluding anti-corruption and the observance of human rights ... commit themselves to eliminating – using practical examples and exercise questions. The emall forms of forced labour, ... ployees then take a test to ensure that the knowledge has been transferred. Between its launch date in 2016 and the end of 2018, approximately 11,800 Brenntag ­employees worldwide completed this training module, representing around 88% of ... commit themselves to 6 the relevant employees1). abolishing child labour and ... There are also in-depth compliance training modules at a regional and global level on the topics of bribery and corrup... commit themselves to eliminating 7 ­discrimination in respect of tion and on antitrust law. The training modules on European employment and occupation. antitrust law and on bribery and corruption are mandatory for all commercially active employees and managers. In the 2018 reporting year, around 2,000 employees of the EMEA ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION region completed the training module on European anti8 Businesses should take a precautionary trust law and approximately 4,200 employees completed approach to dealing with environmental the training module on bribery and corruption by the end challenges, ... of 2018. This corresponds to 87% of the relevant employees and managers for the antitrust law training module and ... undertake initiatives to promote 9 76% for the global corruption training module. With the greater environmental awareness and ... EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) coming into force in the year under review, a new multi-level training concept was ­developed and launched for the issue of data ... encourage the development and distribution protection. Employees were informed of and trained on this of environmentally friendly ­technologies. 10 issue through various ­channels, including email, a mandatory e-learning course, FAQs on the intranet and personal training modules for ­individual departments. The focus of the data protection training modules was on the EMEA region. FIGHTING CORRUPTION Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, 1) In general, this excludes employees who do not have access to the e-learning platform including extortion and bribery. (primarily warehouse employees). These employees shall receive training on the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics using alternative methods. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 12 Around 3,000 employees received training via our e-learning Year Number of confirmed platform in the year under review. There were additional class­compliance incidents1) room trainings on this topic in some countries. 2016 11 2017 13 NFB WHISTLE-BLOWING SYSTEM: Tried-and-tested processes are 2018 11 in place at Brenntag for the orderly acceptance and processing of Group-wide internal and external complaints 1) These are cases notified to the GRC manager and for which sufficient evidence has been established. Comas well as compliance reports. Our employees can report pliance incidents may also occur which are notified, relevant information either to their direct line manager or assessed and processed at a local or regional level but which are not reported centrally on grounds of insufto the regional compliance manager, or alternatively via a ficient relevance. central email address or a whistle-blowing system on the intranet or internet. The whistle-blowing system also proSTAKEHOLDERS vides the option of making anonymous reports, e. g. on vio­ Brenntag engages in regular, transparent lations of human rights or suspected cases of corruption. and target-group-specific dialogue with Third parties can submit complaints and report violations by its stakeholders. These include the intergetting in touch with the compliance contact indicated on est groups that are significantly affected Brenntag AG’s website. The information received will always by the economic, ecological or social imbe dealt with on a strictly confidential basis. The reports pact of our business or who may be so received are examined and appropriate action is taken if a in future. They also include groups that compliance infringement has taken place. Email addresses may influence the economic, ecological and other whistle-blowing systems have also been set up or social impact of Brenntag now and in at a regional level. the future. Incoming reports mainly concern cases of suspected fraud and theft. Violations of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (such as conflicts of interest and discrimination in the workplace) and reports concerning other compliance issues (such as violations of regulations) are also reported. Compliance managers also receive general inquiries, for instance concerning possible conflicts of interest, and inquiries regarding the acceptance of gifts or invitations. If a suspected case is confirmed, this will incur the sanctions permitted under employment law. KEY STAKEHOLDERS BRENNTAG SUPPLIERS CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES VALUE CREATION INVESTORS AND GOVERNMENTS AND JOURNALISTS ANALYSTS AUTHORITIES BRENNTAG ENVIRONMENT NEIGHBOURS AND LOCAL ASSOCIATIONS AND RESIDENTS, LOCAL ORGANIZATIONS COMMUNITIES TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 13 IN CLOSE CONTACT: Brenntag also regularly consults its business partners on sustainability issues and shares its experiences with them. In one such example, Brenntag representatives spoke at the China Chemical Parks Green Development Conference in November 2018 before an audience of over 700 participants and representatives from more than 80 chemical parks and 150 chemical companies, highlighting Brenntag’s HSE management in Europe and the contribution that chemical distributors can make to the sustainable development of Chinese chemical parks. We aim to notify our various target groups promptly and During the reporting year, Brenntag appropriately regarding developments at Brenntag and its ­hosted a meeting for the Responsible objectives, thus enabling our stakeholders to obtain a comCare (RC) committee of the FECC, the prehensive picture of our company and its business activiEuropean umbrella o ­ rganization for the ties. In return, this dialogue enables Brenntag to identify the chemical distributor ­industry. As one of needs and expectations of its stakeholders, to evaluate them the biggest FECC member companies, and to appropriately reflect them in our business decisions. Brenntag plays an active role in the comAs well as specific business-related issues, sustainability mittee, which promotes the implemenissues such as safety, the environment, the supply chain and tation and development of the RC procompliance also regularly feature in the discussions. gramme at a European level. The Brenntag Group pursues dialogue with its stakeholders Brenntag’s Investor Relations and Corin various ways. Due to the nature of the business model, our porate Communications departments ­employees maintain close contact with suppliers and customregularly and promptly notify investors, ers on a day-to-day basis. Systematic customer and supplier analysts and journalists of developments surveys are also regularly carried out. For example, Brenntag within the company, e. g. by presenting EMEA surveyed thousands of its customers in various sub-­ the company at road shows, in analyst regions about their customer experiences and suggestions conference calls, press conferences and for improvements as part of a customer service campaign and events as well as via the company’s web360-degree study. Safety issues were frequently brought up in site and social media channels. At its varfeedback. We pursue dialogue with business partners worldious locations, Brenntag pursues lively wide at the many trade fairs where Brenntag presents itself dialogue with local residents and local and its portfolio of services. As a member of relevant technical authorities. For example, open days proYou will find a list of Brenntag’s KEY and industry associations at a local, regional and international vide the opportunity to inform the genMEMBERSHIPS in the level, Brenntag maintains an active dialogue concerning induseral public about Brenntag and to get to Service and Contacts section of pour website, try-specific issues, including sustainability. As an example: As a know one another. at www.brenntag.com/ member in the Spanish Chemicals Industry Association AECQ, sustainability. Brenntag was invited to an event in late 2018 that was primarily aimed at small and medium-sized companies in the industry so that we could present our recognised practices and experiences in terms of filling flammable substances to metal containers. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 14 HERE WE LIKE TO BE FRUGAL – OUR COMMITMENT TO THE ­EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES Every day, we move thousands of tonnes of chemicals while maintaining the highest standards in terms of safety, health and environmental protection. In doing so, we always make sure that we use ­natural resources and other materials as efficiently as possible. On the next few pages, we will illustrate our commitment to increasing efficiency in the use of resources by way of examples – both within our ­company and in cooperation with our partners in the industry. The aim is to reduce our energy ­consumption throughout the Group, establish an efficient circular economy for packaging, and position more ­sustainable product solutions on the market. GLOBAL ENERGY CAMPAIGN All hands on deck Initiating change with humour Energy guzzlers often lurk in secret. We have highThe aim is to raise every employee’s awareness of lighted them – with a Group-wide employee camenergy consumption. This is why the campaign is paign. The focus of the campaign is on the little focused in a “local” way – via posters in the work­energy monsters Wasty, Trixi, Petro, Carby, Zino, place, for example. In a humorous way, they show Heaty and Chilly. They wreak havoc throughout the how we are all able to make small changes to our Group and waste energy wherever they can. With this behaviour to achieve something great – and, at the fun a ­ pproach, we want to highlight where and how same time, show the scale of energy consumption ­energy is used in our company – as well as the ways within the Group. In this way, we want to combine we can spoil the monsters’ fun and reduce consumpmotivation with education. The campaign ran from tion and CO2 emissions. May to December 2018 at our sites worldwide with some of the communication media appearing in over Seven monsters, one challenge 15 languages. It is inevitable that we will use energy during our day-to-day work. However, it is worth asking ourA campaign that leads to dialogue selves whether we always use resources in the most Of course, the end of the campaign did not mean efficient way possible. We are sure that there is room that the monsters had been “vanquished”. We confor improvement in reducing our consumption. The tinue to promote energy efficiency at Brenntag – for reduction of our CO2 emissions is one of our key susexample, by creating a virtual space for sustainability tainability targets. on our internal communication platform. Here, our sustainability team uses concrete examples from the The energy campaign, therefore, focuses on informadifferent regions to show how we can save even more tion and increasing awareness. We have identified six energy – such as with the use of solar panels, as our areas for action, illustrated by our little monsters: colleagues in Hungary do, or with the help of wind turbines, such as those used by Brenntag in the UK. // Fuel consumption of our vehicle fleet // Operation of electronic devices // Fuel consumption of forklifts // Indoor lighting // Heating and cooling // Hidden sources of CO2 emissions BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS ﻿ 15 RESOURCES IN FIGURES – KEY FACTS ABOUT OUR CONSUMPTION GOOD TO KNOW, THAT: Brenntag’s annual CO2 emissions are roughly equal to those of a small American town with 13,000 residents. 13,000 RESIDENTS It is possible to save 300 kg CO2 per year by s­ etting the room heating just 1 degree cooler. –1° By switching off the engine of a forklift when it is idle, annual CO2 emissions can be reduced by a good 63 kg. – 63 kg CO2 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 16 DON’T LET DRIVE RIGHT AND PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT! ZINO DRIVE! Trucks are powerhouses, and they’re pretty dieselhungry. With a few tricks you can save fuel and protect the environment. Use the available tools to plan your trip sensibly and avoid unnecessary travel and detours. Don’t accelerate or brake unnecessarily, and drive at a moderate speed. Check tire pressure regularly, as this saves fuel and reduces wear. And always turn off the engine whenever possible. STICK IT TO THE ENERGY MONSTERS! By driving right you can reduce your CO2 emissions BY 5–15 % and still get to your destination safe and sound! CARBY, THE BLIND PASSENGER ON EVERY FLIGHT. BRENNTAG IN THE PACKAGING CYCLE Tearing into packaging – our commitment to an FLY LESS AND PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT! efficient circular economy Chemicals have to be properly packaged. Standard conAirplanes emit a lot of CO2 – and they do it high in the atmosphere, where it’s particularly damaging for the environment. tainer formats have become established in the industry in order to ensure safe transportation and storage. In So please plan journeys to avoid unnecessary air miles and consider beforehand whether a video conference could achieve the same objective as a face-to-face meeting. our industry, for example, we use metal or plastic barrels, portable canisters or intermediate bulk containers STICK IT TO THE ENERGY MONSTERS! (IBCs) – large plastic or steel tanks with a metal frame. If you fly from Berlin to New York, you produce around 2,000KG OF CO2. The fact is that the majority of these containers are reTo remove this gas from the atmosphere, a tree would have to photosynthesize for usable. In cooperation with our suppliers and custom160 YEARS. ers, we are making every effort to establish a circular ON LOCATION: The energy-saving campaign started Do we really have that much time left to protect the climate? with numerous posters right where the energy is economy so that we can keep using and reusing our used – in the workplace. packaging materials. Less is more – reduce, reuse, recycle, rethink This so-called 4R principle encapsulates our goal: We want to reduce the amount of packaging material, reuse materials, draw on better recycling options and use new technologies and methods in terms of packaging. After all, a functioning circular economy is not just good for the environment – it is also good for our business partners and our company, which both stand to benefit from efficient processes and lower costs. One container – multiple uses At Brenntag, we have established suitable processes for the handling of waste and also take-back and recycling systems for various types of packaging and ­containers. With our expertise and logistics infrastructure, we are able to reuse IBCs without having to clean them first – provided that they are always refilled with the same SELFIE WITH MONSTER: Brenntag employees from all over the world participated in the photo campaign and took a photo of themselves and the energy monsters. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS chemical (“product-dedicated container”). For example, at our Zwijndrecht site in the Netherlands, we have set up a closed cycle with several control SUSTAINABLE points for IBCs that are dedicated to only contain the SOLUTIONS same acids or alkalis. The result: these IBCs can be reused over a period of several years. Not only does this significantly reduce the amount of packaging material but also decreases the amount of cleaning required, thereby lowering water consumption and the volume of wastewater. Furthermore, we use recycled packaging: In our EMEA region, we target to reach 28,500 “RECO­ BULK” IBCs made by Schütz to be put in circulation each year. Since summer 2018, we have introduced approximately 8,000 units in the market. They are characterised by a lower carbon footprint because they feature a reused, reconditioned steel cage. By using the target volume, Brenntag will save over 2,400 tonnes of CO2 per year compared to standard IBCs, which are equipped with a new steel cage. OPTIMIZED PACKAGING CIRCULARITY – BRENNTAG EMEA AS AN EXAMPLE Packaging manufacturer Brenntag EMEA Our customers Supplies empty IBCs R  eceive filled IBCs R  eturn empty IBCs to Brenntag New IBCs (= 75% of IBCs) Recycled/reconditioned IBCs -d edicated ref duct illin (e. g. “RECOBULK“ IBC, Schütz) Pro g Chemical manufacturer INTERMEDIATE Supplies filled IBCs Circulates several BULK CONTAINER (IBC) 100,000 IBCs Period of use: ø 2 years // S tandard packaging in the chemical Reconditioner Turnover: ø 3 times per year industry // Suitable for storing and transporting S  upplies empty, reconditioned IBCs liquid and pourable substances to Brenntag B renntag returns damaged IBCs for // Most common variations: reconditioning or disposal Cle • Plastic IBC (plastic tank) aning g and refillin • Combination IBC (plastic tank + metal cage) • Metal IBC (steel tank) // Capacity of between 500 and 3,000 litres, depending on model 18 STEVEN HOLLAND, CEO THREE QUESTIONS FOR STEVEN HOLLAND HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE BRENNTAG’S and customers, are cleaned, reconditioned SENSE OF RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS and used for many years. At the end of ­PROTECTING RESOURCES? their useful lives, they are also often The fact that we want to keep the environrecycled in the form of plastic Euro-pallets, mental impact of our business activities as for example. Reusing and recycling are low as possible is part of our philosophy part of our day-to-day operations, and we and also part of our global HSE strategy. continue to work on developing this. This includes the efficient and responsible use of natural resources. Efficiency is one HOW MIGHT THIS DEVELOPMENT LOOK of our company’s core areas of expertise – AT BRENNTAG? and that also goes for the use of materials, We see particular potential in closer such as in packaging. networks with our business partners. The topic of the circular economy is becoming WHAT DOES THAT MEAN IN more and more important in the industry. CONCRETE TERMS? Brenntag has already accumulated a lot of We want to reduce the amount of experience and expertise here, which we ­materials used, reuse packaging materials want to be able to draw on and market wherever possible and recycle substances. more effectively within the industry. We This principle shapes operations at our already have a few ideas of how we could sites, where we have established a wide take care of more services in terms of range of circular systems for our standard packaging on behalf of our suppliers, for containers, such as barrels and IBCs. Globinstance – to the benefit of both parties ally, tens of thousands of them are in circuand the environment. lation, reused by our suppliers, Brenntag TABLE OF CONTENTS ﻿ 19 COOPERATING FOR MORE SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Working together for more sustainable products Go with the (material) flow As the world’s leading chemicals distributor, we have Since 2018, we have been working with the company acquired a great level of trust on the market. We want “Der Grüne Punkt” (Green Dot) in order to ­develop to draw on our positive ties to our suppliers and cus­application possibilities for the recycled plastic SUSTAINABLE tomers in order to leverage sustainable solutions and ­Systalen for our customers. Systalen is made from SOLUTIONS products. plastics obtained from the German domestic recycling system known as the “Gelber Sack” or “Gelbe Tonne” – “ConnectingChemistry” for more sustainability one great example of a functioning circular economy. In this way we are able to use our market position ­Systalen is a high-quality plastic granulate, which is to be able to bring together suppliers and consumable to replace new plastic in the manufacturing of ers of environmentally friendly solutions – reflecting various types of packaging and products used in the our corporate philosophy of “ConnectingChemistry”. fields of building and construction and landscaping, In Chile, for example, we organized a workshop tologistics, transport and packaging technology. In this gether with a manufacturer of chemical products at way, it is able to lower CO2 emissions and the process which we discussed technological developments in energy required as compared to newly manufactured the packaging sector with our clients from the plastics plastic. This makes it a sustainable alternative and useprocessing industry. We presented new materials such ful innovation – which is why Brenntag is involved as special resins that offer all the usual benefits in with a pilot project that has been launched in sevterms of safety, transparency and resistance but with eral European countries looking at the marketing of low weight and high recyclability – characteristics Systalen, contributing our application expertise and that can significantly reduce the carbon footprint of advising our customers. a ­finished product. IN COMPARISON: RECYCLED PLASTIC VS. NEW PLASTIC –79% Nutrient input –60% Process energy –59% Acidification –50% Greenhouse effect Recycled plastic produced on the basis of Systalen is significantly eco-friendlier than plastics made from primary raw materials like oil. Depending on the type of plastic involved, CO2 emissions alone are reduced by half compared to the production of “new merchandise”. (Source: Der Grüne Punkt) 20 SAFETY WE WANT TO BE THE SAFEST CHEMICAL DISTRIBUTOR NFB Safety is of paramount importance at Brenntag and is part of our corporate strategy. “We are the safest chemical distributor” – this is the primary objective of our corporate vision. Worldwide, we operate in accordance with the “Safety First” principle as our most important company value. This applies both to the safety and health of our employees, as well as to product safety For the development of and environmental protection. We are bound by the highest the GROUP ACCIDENT RATE, see page 26. standards in the industry and adopt policies which often exceed statutory requirements. We are working continuously to further improve safety within our company. We invest in our infrastructure and train our employees with this goal in mind. Our goal is to achieve a Group accident rate LTIR1 day of below 1.0 by 2020. SAFETY HSE STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Brenntag has implemented a global health, safety and environ­ment (HSE) strategy. This encapsulates our principles in the areas of safety, product stewardship, the environment, adherence to laws (compliance) and quality. The global ­strategy is implemented in the regions as part of their own HSE programmes. Brenntag’s global business operations and highly diversified customer and supplier structure subject the company to a diverse range of operating conditions (legislation, cultures, industry standards and other demands). In order to fulfil the resulting requirements as effectively as possible, Brenntag adopts a predominantly decentralized approach to its HSE management. The operations and HSE managers responsible at regional level, together with the central Corporate Health, Safety & Environment department, form Brenntag’s Global HSE Team. The team develops and coordinates globally applicable policies, programmes and other activities and regularly shares its experiences. The chairman of the team regularly reports to the Board of Management of Brenntag AG. In order to further deepen their working relationship, every Board of Management member takes part at least once a year in the Global HSE Team’s regular phone conferences and its meetings. TABLE OF CONTENTS ﻿ TOP PRIORITY: Worldwide, we operate in accordance with the “Safety First” principle as our most important company value. Our corresponding principles are included in our global HSE strategy. HSE AT BRENNTAG: OUR APPROACH COMMITMENT TO THE PRINCIPLES OF OUR RESPONSIBLE CARE/RESPONSIBLE DISTRIBUTION PROGRAMME Product stewardship Occupational health Comprehensive protection of and product safety and safety, including the environment (air, water, transportation soil, raw materials and waste) THE BRENNTAG APPROACH SAFETY AND A SAFETY HSE PROGRAMMES CLEAR GUIDELINES APPROPRIATE REGULAR INTERNAL CULTURE AROUND AND REGULAR AND PROCEDURES TECHNOLOGY AND EXTERNAL THE WORLD TRAINING REPORTING BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 22 HSE ORGANIZATION AT BRENNTAG BOARD OF MANAGEMENT Chairman Operations and HSE managers of the regions Corporate Health, Safety & (North America, Latin America, Environment department GLOBAL HSE TEAM EMEA, Asia Pacific) GLOBAL HSE TEAM Regular exchange Formation of NFB There are HSE organizations with similar structures within the NFB things. This information is collated in an regions, countries and down to the individual locations. All of environmental database and serves as a For information on this has created a global network of HSE managers and teams basis for the environmental provisions the ENVIRONMENTAL ­PROVISIONS, see page at the various levels within Brenntag. These experts regularly which are determined annually. 126 of Brenntag’s 2018 share their experiences in their teams, develop measures to Annual Report. remedy identified deficits and work together on further imBrenntag has implemented various proving the company’s safety culture. management systems in order to ensure its compliance with applicable Decisions taken by the teams are then incorporated into the HSE standards (see page 23). Our perregulations and programmes within the respective organiformance is also regularly assessed and zation in a suitable format. The local management in the certified by independent third parties. respective company unit or country is responsible for defining processes, procedures and measures in accordance with local NFB To ensure effective chemicals manageregulations and taking account of local requirements. ment, data that are necessary for the safe handling of our products during storCompliance with the HSE programme is reviewed through age, transport and within the ­delivery regular internal and external audits. The decision on the chain are stored in central data­bases at frequency of these audits depends on various factors, such Brenntag. In Europe, for example, a cenas the risk potential being assessed, legal regulations and tral SAP-based system is used for this purcustomer requirements. pose, making it possible to implement relevant changes to European legislation Brenntag manages HSE data in various databases at r­ egional in all countries at the same time and prolevel that are forwarded to the company’s central HSE vide employees with access to them. All ­department. Working together with external experts, the European companies are connected to environ­mental risks including historical data are continuously this database. ­examined and evaluated at each site. This allows conclusions to be drawn about potential contamination, among other BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS SAFETY﻿ 23 Certified and assessed operating ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 SQAS-ESAD2)  ollowing the successful completion F locations1) (Europe) of an extensive plant and warehouse abs. in %1) abs. in %1) abs. in % expansion project, the Santiago site of Brenntag Chile was granted an a ­ pproval 2014 102 26 61 17 73 69 by the country’s health d ­ epartment in 2015 105 26 59 17 78 73 2018 in accordance with the new safety 2016 108 27 67 19 80 77 resolution 43. Under this resolution, the 2017 109 26 65 17 72 71 requirements for storing and handling 2018 108 28 64 19 72 73 ­hazardous substances are much stricter. 1) The percentage figures for ISO 14001 include purely sales-based locations as well Brenntag Chile was one of the firsts comas warehouse locations. The OHSAS 18001 figures exclusively refer to warehouse locations. panies in the chemical industry to obtain 2) SQAS-ESAD (Safety and Quality Assessment System, European Single Assessment Docthis permit. ument) is a catalogue featuring more than 500 detailed questions on the handling of chemicals. It is intended to provide a uniform assessment of the HSE and quality management system of chemical distributors and is associated with the Responsible Internal audits in North America and Care/Responsible Distribution industry initiative. ­Europe in 2017 uncovered issues with the fittings and condition of the pallet racks. As a result, guidelines on safe storage PROCESS SAFETY racks were drawn up in both regions. The Process safety measures depend on the particular type of racks have been retrofitted since then as process and the risks associated with it. Many requirements part of a multi-stage plan. The retrofitting are regulated by local legislation and industry standards, should be complete by the end of 2019. ­although regulations often vary widely from country to ­country. If Brenntag considers these regulations to be in­ B  renntag is increasingly taking advantage sufficient, we establish our own more stringent measures, of the benefits of ­digital work methods. which are defined in our HSE manuals. For ­example, Brenntag North America and Brenntag UK & Ireland have each The following aspects and levels of process safety are covered: introduced their own integrated IT system for stock management, product tracking // U  se of suitable equipment and transport management. The pur// Work instructions on how to use the equipment pose of these systems includes tracking ­correctly and safely and how to perform the process goods on a paperless and real-time basis // Suitable technical and organizational safety measures as they are moved from our suppliers to that help to control process risks and prevent errors our plants and to the c­ ustomer, thereby // Regular reviews (inspections, audits) minimizing the risk of product mix-ups // Regular checks of whether the specified inspections, and ­incorrect deliveries. Since our drivers audits and reviews have been conducted as scheduled are equipped with corresponding tablets, and corrective measures have been implemented required safety checks for vehicles and customer installations can be recorded with a time stamp. Any problems at the PRACTICAL EXAMPLES customer’s site can be documented im renntag EMEA has specified four of its procedural instrucB mediately and forwarded to the relevant tions as “Critical Procedures”. Failure to adhere to the measunits at Brenntag. For ­example, if a driver ures described could lead to significant risks. These include the is unsure w­ hether a product he has on handling of flammable liquids. An additional special complithe tanker is correct for that customer’s ance audit programme was developed for these instructions in storage tank, he can send a photo of it the year under review. An audit catalogue was created based and obtain permission to unload. on several pilot audits at selected sites. An audit team of 18 Brenntag experts from several countries was then trained ­accordingly to this catalogue. Starting in the first quarter of 2019, these experts will audit Brenntag locations extensively, first in teams and then later as individual auditors. 31 audits are initially planned for 2019. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 24 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AND SAFETY NFB Year1) Proportion of Brenntag legal Brenntag takes appropriate measures to ensure the proper hanentities2) participating in the­ RC/RD programme2) dling of our products. These measures mainly include procurement, packaging, classification and labelling, handling, storage abs. in % and transportation. We produce product dossiers and safety 2014 92 76 instructions and see to disposal. We act in accordance with the 2015 108 76 applicable standards and regulations and also cooperate closely 2016 113 76 with the industry’s national and regional umbrella associations 2017 114 76 which our national organizations belong to. 2018 106 81 NFB RESPONSIBLE CARE/RESPONSIBLE DISTRIBUTION: For many 1) The values given for 2014 to 2016 have not been audited by PwC. years now, Brenntag has taken part in the Responsible Care/­ 2) These data do not include pure sales and service Responsible Distribution (RC/RD) programme of the Internaentities with a revenue of under 100,000 EUR as well tional Chemical Trade Association (ICTA). As such, we impleas acquired entities which, as at December 31, 2018, have been part of the Brenntag Group for less than ment the eight guiding principles laid down in this global a year. programme covering the following areas: REACH: Since June 1, 2007, Regulation // Legal requirements (EU) No. 1907/2006 concerning the Since 2002 Brenntag // Management of risk Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation has been participating in // Policies and documentation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) the chemical industry’s “Responsible Care” // Provision of information has formed the legal framework across programme. // Training ­Europe for the safe handling of chemicals // Emergency response in order to protect the environment and // Ongoing improvements human health. The regulation includes // Community interaction mandatory provisions for the production, import, handling and use of pure and The policies of the RC/RD programme have been incorporated mixed chemical substances. One of the into our HSE strategy and programmes and therefore play a cornerstones of REACH is the mandatory key part in the safe handling of chemical products and, as registration on the part of manufacturers a result, in the protection of soil, air and water as well as and importers. Brenntag complied with occupational safety within our company. Adherence to these this mandatory registration in good time, policies is verified and documented by external assessors. with the result that all of the planned registrations had been successfully made Brenntag has also specified that all operating companies before the final registration deadline at join the RC/RD programme. Due to the fact that an RC/RD the end of May 2018. programme is not offered by national organizations in every country in which Brenntag operates, programmes have been Supported by our experts on regulatory developed and existing processes optimized in the individual matters, our REACH-trained product and regions to verify internally that the guidelines in force in sales managers are able to proficiently the relevant countries are adhered to. In this way, Brenntag address the wishes of our suppliers and companies play their part in the global obligation towards customers: Responsible Care. // E nsuring a REACH-compliant Brenntag’s high standards in process safety and product ­supply and usage system ­responsibility continuously earn the company external recog// Safeguarding optimal nition. In 2018, several sites in North America were rewarded ­communication within the for their exemplary safety performance in the supply chain supply chain for chlor-alkali products. The Chlorine Institute, a national // Support in relation to many industry association, grants its Diamond Level award to sites REACH-related issues which have recorded zero accidents or incidents and zero // Helping to ensure that imported environmental releases over a period of five years. substances are REACH-compliant // Identifying alternative substances BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS SAFETY﻿ 25 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY NFB ACCIDENT REPORTING: Accidents at work, NFB Our top priority is to ensure the safety of our employees and near misses and similar o ­ ccurrences to protect their health. We continually work towards improving are r­ecorded and evaluated ­centrally the company’s safety culture and take necessary and appropri­according to a standardized system. Any ate measures to prevent accidents and incidents. important conclusions are communi­ cated throughout our organization. TRAINING AND EQUIPMENT: Regular training for our e ­ mployees Further­more, the findings and measures is important in order to raise their awareness of potential ­derived from these are incorporated into hazards and to enable them to work safely. This training the ­global HSE guidelines, regional HSE goes above and beyond the statutory requirements and ­manuals and prevention and training ranges from safety instruction for new employees to commeasures. prehensive training measures that are specially tailored for the work ­situation and the risk potential of specific occupaA new guideline for selecting and training tional groups or individual employees. Training is given by temporary employees was introduced for HSE managers and also by external experts, both in the form Brenntag EMEA at the start of 2017. In of face-to-face events as well as digitally. At Brenntag North both 2017 and 2018, the number of acciAmerica, a specific training programme for managers and dents resulting in lost work days among line managers has been run by an external provider for many temporary employees was only half the years. The programme provides them with the techniques and level recorded in the preceding years. skills they need to make lasting improvements to the safety At the same time, the total number of culture within their area of responsibility. 76 participants com­incidents reported in the third quarter of pleted the programme in the year under review. both years was significantly lower compared to previous years. A relatively high Brenntag continuously invests in its equipment and infrastrucNFB number of temporary employees work ture in order to optimize plant safety and work processes at for the company in the third quarter, its sites and thus further minimize safety risks and hazards. At as the holiday period in Europe occurs its Belgian site in Deerlijk, for example, the old installation ­during this time. for filling IBCs with acids and lyes was replaced with new equipment in the year under review. Brenntag’s experience from past accidents was incorporated into the design planning process. The result was a new filling line that has made significant ergonomic and safety improvements to the work done by employees on site. SPECIALISED: The training modules and measures are specially tailored to our employees’ work ­situation and occupational group and the ­potential dangers they face. 26 IN CASE OF EMERGENCY A closer analysis of the accidents shows In the event of an emergency, they are there ­immediately that slips/trips/falls, chemical burns, – the responders from the emergency team. There are ­accidents involving vehicles and acciemergency teams at every Brenntag site. The team memdents involving equipment/tools are bers receive special training and equipment and respond to the most common causes of injuries events like fires and chemical spills. They perform a diverse and absences from work at Brenntag. range of tasks which are adapted to the individual circumOur measures are therefore focused on stances at each site and coordinated with local authorities: making improvements in these areas. organizing and carrying out evacuations, providing first aid With regard to chemical burns in paror fire-fighting are just some examples. ticular, which are an industry-specific injury, a wide range of measures has During an incident on May 25, 2018, the emergency team enabled us to reduce the number of at the Zgierz site in Poland demonstrated its reliability incidents Group-wide by 79% between and professionalism. A fire broke out that evening on the 2010 and 2018. The number of accipremises of a plastic waste storage company located didents involving equipment and tools, rectly next to the site. This fire quickly developed into a which ­increased significantly in 2017, major blaze that took several days to extinguish. When decreased to a normal level again. Howthe flames threatened to spread to Brenntag’s warehouses, ever, there was a sharp increase in the the Brenntag team worked with the fire brigade to cool number of injuries caused by slips/trips/ down the buildings from the outside, which preventing the falls. They were responsible for almost situation from deteriorating. After the incident, representahalf of accidents resulting in work abtives of the fire brigade repeatedly praised the professional sences in 2018. The high number of acactions of our employees, the effective cooperation and cidents in warehouses was particularly the Brenntag equipment on hand. notable here. In almost all cases, the accidents were caused by a lack of attention and incorrect behaviour. Brenntag has e ­ stablished a working group to analyse the underlying causes. Its findNFB GROUP ACCIDENT RATE1) ings will be used to develop a global LTIR1 DAY2) campaign aimed at avoiding these acci1.9 dents. Brenntag is also focusing on acci1.7 dents involving vehicles (forklift trucks, 1.6 trucks, cars, motorbikes). Although 1.5 1.5 the number of incidents has remained relatively constant over the years, they are now also proportionally among the SAFETY most frequent causes of injuries. Since accidents involving vehicles can also have severe consequences, extensive preventative programmes have been established in the Brenntag regions. The focus ranges from driving safety training, including for sales employees, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 to the use of d­ evices to analyse driving in trucks, to improved road signage for 1) The values given for 2014 to 2016 have not been audited audited by PwC. works transport and for pedestrians at 2) LTIR1 Day (Lost Time Injury Rate): number of industrial accidents resulting in at least our sites. More than 1,300 e ­ mployees one day’s absence from work per one million working hours in 20 countries within the EMEA region perform online ­training each quarter on This ongoing process of improvement has enabled us to a topic related to safe driving. Brenntag ­steadily reduce the number of reportable industrial acciNorth America has had particularly posdents ­within the Group over many years. Following a one-off itive ­experiences ­using a system that ­increase in 2017, Brenntag is now back on the path of con­records driving behaviour and traffic tinuous improvement. Between 2010 and 2018, we were able situations with a video camera. If necto reduce the Group accident rate by 66% to a value of 1.5. essary, truck d ­ rivers can then analyse BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS SAFETY﻿ 27 CAUSES FOR LOST TIME INJURIES 2018 survey, participation was very high: In ge (IN %) total, 82% of Brenntag employees took 4 part in the survey either online or at one 14 of the 495 workshops held worldwide. The findings will be incorporated into the action plans for the coming years 4 after they are evaluated. In order to expand the BEST ideas ­beyond occupational safety and into the personal sphere of Brenntag employees, 18 Brenntag developed the BEST – Personal Safety Action Plan (PSAP). At the start of 2018, all Brenntag employees world48 wide were asked to create a PSAP and list the risks that they encounter daily 12 while at work as well as in their personal lives. Together with their respective line S  lips, trips, falls Manual handling managers – who had been given special C  hemical burns V  ehicles, forklifts F  acilities, equipment, tools Others training in this area – they developed individual plans consisting of measures to prevent accidents and incidents. Board critical situations and unsafe behaviour with their direct of Management members and senior managers using video clips. Since the programme was intromanagers created catchy v­ ideos preduced, the number of accidents per million miles travelled has senting their own personal plans so decreased by 72%. Brenntag EMEA conducts special hazard that all employees could learn about analyses for internal on-site transport at its sites. Any neceshow they can contribute to Brenntag’s sary measures identified on the basis of these analyses are safety culture. In the year under review, being implemented for 2018. These vary considerably in terms many employees worldwide accepted of complexity and costs, ranging from the simple installation the invitation to present their own PSAP of mirrors to the clear separation of pedestrian paths and in a video. vehicle roadways, right up to investment in vehicles and construction activities. In Deerlijk, for example, the old loading PRACTICAL EXAMPLES ramps were replaced in the year under review with new ones that enable safer loading. A number of practical examples and FURTHER EXAMPLES are presented on highlights from our regions are provided our website at Brenntag’s primary objective is to prevent all types of accibelow, giving an insight into our diverse www.brenntag.com/ sustainability under dents and incidents. That is why rather than resting on our range of practices and safety culture at Projects worldwide. laurels, we continually endeavour to further improve our Brenntag. safety culture. T  hanks to its high profile within the inBEST PROGRAMME: A key element of our efforts to increase dustry, Brenntag UK & Ireland was inThe SAFETY VIDEO from the UK can be safety is the global Brenntag Enhanced Safety Thinking (BEST) vited to present its comprehensive safety found here: programme. It focuses on the safety behaviour of Brenntag approach as part of the “Solutions for our www.youtube.com/ watch?v=4PhggmuhQyA employees at all levels within the company, which is a key Future” campaign of the UK’s Chemical cause of accidents in more than 75% of cases. Between ­Industries Association (CIA). As part of ­October and December 2018, all Brenntag employees worldthis, a film about Brenntag’s “Safety First” wide were asked to take part in our BEST employee survey ­culture was made at their Lutterworth site, for the second time since 2015. The aim was to find out how Leicestershire. The processes and activithe safety culture at Brenntag has changed in the last three ties conducted on site are presented in years from the perspective of employees. It also provided the film, as are the BEST initiatives. everyone with an opportunity to suggest ways in which the safety culture could be further improved. As with the first BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 28 HEIGHTEN AWARENESS: The CASA Day in Latin America involves a whole day of joint exercises, games and activities focused on health and safety. B  renntag Asia Pacific is continuously working to improve its Chemical Distributors (NACD) to honour safety performance, with a focus not just on reportable accihis many years of work in the areas of dents, but also on near misses. Analysing these is essential for occupational safety, health and environidentifying risks as part of efforts to prevent accidents. In order mental protection and his strong comto increase employees’ awareness of this particular issue and mitment to the principles of the Responprompt them to report incidents that almost led to an accident, sible Distribution programme. Brenntag Asia Pacific recognizes one person every month in each country who has reported a near miss. The most suitable In April 2018, employees at the Esteio example is then chosen every six months and communicated site of Brenntag Brazil ­celebrated an to the entire region. important milestone in the area of ­safety: 5,000 days without any accidents and I ndividual Brenntag sites and companies frequently dedicate accident-­related work absences. an entire day to the issue of safety. For example, the CASA1) Day took place once again at all Brenntag Latin America locations 34 of the 53 Brenntag sites in ­Europe in April 2018 and included a diverse range of activities, workwith more than 40 ­employees recorded shops, games and exercises. ­Customers, suppliers and service zero lost time injuries (LTI) in the year providers are also often involved, in addition to the families ­under review. Four of these sites have of employees. The CASA Day focused on the health and safety gone ten years without an accident-­ of young employees in the year under review. related work absence, and a further eleven sites have gone five years without In November 2018, Shawn Wiram, Director Safety, Health and one. Environment at Brenntag North America, was awarded the ­title of “Distributor of the Year” by the USA’s National Association of 1) CASA is the name of the HSE programme at Brenntag Latin America and stands for quality (CALIDAD), safety and health (SEGURIDAD & SALUD) and the environment (MEDIO AMBIENTE). BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 29 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION WE USE RESOURCES EFFICIENTLY Protecting the environment has always been of importance its own energy consumption and assoNFB to Brenntag. As part of our business activities, we consume ciated CO2 emissions more transparent. water, electricity and different types of fuel, while producing Sites’ energy consumption data are colwaste, waste water and various emissions. Moreover, as a lected quarterly and are compiled and chemical distributor we deal with products that could damevaluated centrally by Brenntag’s susage the environment if not handled with the necessary care. tainability manager. This data enables us to identify energy-saving potential. All around the world we aim to protect resources and use Our target is to reduce the Scope 1 and 2 them optimally, and to minimize the impact that our business CO2 emissions (per warehouse tonne of activities have on the soil, water and air. At the same time, goods sold) by 6% by 2020 compared to Brenntag supports its customers with sustainable solutions base year 2016. and helps to preserve the environment with ecologically ­efficient products, processes and services. During the reporting year, the global ­activities of the Brenntag Group r­ esulted in When it comes to protecting the environment and climate, NFB a total of 245,668.72 tonnes of CO2 emisBrenntag also acts in accordance with the “Safety First” prinsions (Scope 1 and 2). Indoor ­energy ciple and has incorporated the fundamental aspects of its consumption (offices and ware­houses) ­activities into its global HSE strategy. Brenntag’s sites around accounted for around 44% of this, while For Brenntag’s HSE STRATEGY AND the world implement numerous environmental protection the vehicle fleet (trucks, company cars ORGANIZATION, please and efficiency measures in the context of local and ­regional and other vehicles) accounted for around see the Safety chapter on page 20ff. outline conditions and legislative requirements, tailored 56%. This means we must record an into their individual activities. These internal measures focus crease in total energy consumption and on energy and water consumption, the protection of soil, total CO2 emissions, due primarily to the water and air, waste reduction, and transport and fleet first-time inclusion of data from major management. ENERGY NFB We calculate our consumption of resources on the basis of the data which we collect through our HSE programmes. Brenntag implemented Groupwide energy reporting in order to make SOLAR ENERGY: Brenntag in Budapest is cutting its CO2 emissions thanks to a solar array installed in summer 2018. 30 NFB company acquisitions in North America. The Scope 1 and 2 CO2 NFB analysis of the data also shows that eneremissions per tonne of goods sold also rose by 3.11% compared gy consumption at the Brenntag sites may to the 2016 base year2). A main reason for this was the expansion be subject to business-related variations, of the company’s own truck fleet in the USA, which resulted in a which are influenced by the nature and lower proportion of transport through external companies. This scope of the products traded there and led to a transfer of Scope 3 emissions to Scope 1 emissions. The the services provided. ENERGY CONSUMPTION BRENNTAG GROUP1) 2018 20173) 20162), 3) Total Per 1,000 Total Per 1,000 Total Per 1,000 warehouse warehouse warehouse tonnes of tonnes of tonnes of goods sold goods sold goods sold Electricity (in MWh) 150,613 15.2 152,669 16.4 146,904 16.5 Gas (in MWh) 200,933 20.3 171,781 18.5 178,702 20.1 ENVIRONMENTAL Diesel PROTECTION (in 1,000 litres) 44,971 4.5 38,059 4.1 36,290 4.1 Petrol (in 1,000 litres) 6,585 0.7 6,143 0.7 6,141 0.7 Other4) (in 1,000 litres) 3,991 0.4 3,719 0.4 3,870 0.4 CO2 EMISSIONS5) BRENNTAG GROUP1) 2018 20173) 20162), 3) Total Per 1,000 Total Per 1,000 Total Per 1,000 warehouse warehouse warehouse tonnes of tonnes of tonnes of goods sold goods sold goods sold Scope 2 Electricity (in tonnes) 66,353 6.7 65,416 7.0 62,712 7.0 Scope 1 Gas (in tonnes) 36,900 3.7 31,547 3.4 32,818 3.7 Diesel (in tonnes) 119,381 12.0 101,032 10.9 96,336 10.8 Petrol (in tonnes) 15,091 1.5 14,078 1.5 14,072 1.6 Other4) (in tonnes) 7,943 0.8 7,439 0.8 7,933 0.9 Scope 1+2 (in tonnes) 245,669 24.8 219,512 23.6 213,871 24.0 Changes compared to basis year 20162) (in %) – 3.1 – –1.8 – – 1) This data does not include the following operating units: Brenntag International Chemicals, Raj Petro Specialities Pvt. Ltd., Alphamin Group, Comércio e Indústria Química S.A., Cofarcas Productos Quimicos y Servicios, S.A., Whanee Corporation (included since Q3/2018) and all units in Africa and the Middle East. 2) The values given for basis year 2016 have not been audited by PwC. 3) Due to improved technical analysis possibilities, the energy consumption reported for 2016 and 2017 was again reviewed and adjusted. 4) Gas oil, kerosene, propane gas 5) CO2 emissions are calculated for electricity on the basis of the respective country-specific factors, in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Factors (2012), and for all other energy types on the basis of the energy-specific factors defined in the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (2016). BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 31 In 2018, Brenntag took part in the climate rating initiative At Brenntag’s Deerlijk site in Belgium, of the international organization CDP for the first time and an energy efficiency project was inDISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION was given a rating of C (“Awareness”). CDP compares around troduced in stages between 2016 and 7,000 companies worldwide every year with regard to their 2018. Based on a review of the various strategic approach to the challenges of climate change and consumers of energy at the site, a total assesses their climate management system based on a comof ten packages of measures were specwww.cdp.net prehensive catalogue of criteria. By participating in the initiaified. These included ­optimizing the oftive, Brenntag is aiming to enhance its energy reporting using fice building’s heating ­system, repairing recognized standards. At the same time, it also allows us to leaks in the compressed air production address our customers’ and investors’ requirement for greater system, replacing the oil heating system transparency and comparability in our energy consumption with an efficient electrical heating sysreporting and to demonstrate our progress in the areas of tem comprised of heat pumps and s­ olar energy efficiency and energy management. thermal panels, and installing ­motion sensors and economical LED lighting in the warehouses. By the end of 2018, the PRACTICAL EXAMPLES average quarterly ­energy consumption We launched the internal campaign “Fight the Energy was almost 10% lower, which will reduce For information on the ENERGY-SAVING ­Monsters” in the year under review and rolled it out globally annual ­electricity consumption by up to CAMPAIGN, please see in order to raise awareness among all Brenntag employees 130 MWh. page 14ff. of “energy monsters” within the company in a fun and memorable way. The aim is to ensure that every employee knows TRANSPORT/FLEET MANAGEMENT where and in what way we consume energy and how energy As a distributor, Brenntag maintains its can be saved. own fleet of vehicles. To keep fuel consumption and harmful emissions to a A wind turbine was installed at the new North East site of minimum, structured transport logistics Brenntag UK and Ireland which was completed at the end are used at our sites to avoid unnecesof 2018 and commenced operations at the start of 2019. The sary trips and to make the trips taken turbine has a maximum output of 6kW and should be able by our vehicles as efficient as possible. to produce 13,000 kWh of electricity per year dependant on In regular training courses, Brenntag wind speed. Around 90% of the renewable electricity will be ­drivers receive instruction on matters used by the location, with the remaining 10% fed into the such as fuel-conscious driving. national grid. This will cut the site’s CO2 emissions by around 5.6 tonnes per year compared to conventional electricity Many Brenntag companies use tele­ production. The turbine is not just an investment in sustainmatics systems in order to optimize the able energy production. It will also be appreciated by those use of their vehicle fleets. They record customers and suppliers that give regard to environmental vehicle and trip-related data such as awareness and sustainability programmes when choosing fuel consumption, speed and driving their business partners. In addition to the wind turbine, other duration. These on-board units directly measures were implemented at the North East site that will facilitate safe and eco-efficient driving, increase energy efficiency and therefore reduce energy confor example by providing visual and sumption, these including motion sensors and energy-saving acoustic warning signals for the driver LED lighting. The roof of the warehouse was constructed in or by displaying vehicle speed, braking such a way that allows more natural light to pass through of behaviour and engine idling. the surface than conventional warehouse roofs. In summer 2018, Brenntag Hungária in Budapest installed solar cells with a peak output of 13.5 kW (dependant on solar radiation). It produced around 5,200 kWh of electricity in the year under review, reducing CO2 emissions by approximately 1.7 tonnes. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 32 MORE SUSTAINABLE FUEL: As part of a test project, vehicles at ­Brenntag in Heilbronn and Frankfurt are using the innovative, ­particularly environmentally friendly diesel known as “R33 BlueDiesel”. PRACTICAL EXAMPLE the German locations mentioned above Since September 2018, the 21-vehicle truck fleet at the is part of a test project in partnership Heilbronn and Frankfurt sites of the Brenntag Group ­Germany with the manufacturer Shell Global Soluhave been using the innovative, particularly environmentally tions, as well as Tecosol and Neste, which ­friendly diesel known as “R33 BlueDiesel”. Wasserverbrauch Its renewable totalfuel provide the fuels certified in accordance (in Mio. Liter) content is exceptionally high at up to 33%: 26% of the diesel with European standards. This may be is high-­purity, renewable paraffin (e. g. from used ­cooking oil expanded to other Brenntag locations. from the gastronomy) and 7% is biodiesel from used rapeseed Suppliers and customers may also be oil, for instance. The use of these high-­quality fuel components permitted to refuel their cars with R33 help to reduce CO2 emissions by at least 20% in comparison to BlueDiesel in future. ­conventional diesel fuels, taking into account the manufacturing phase (“well-to-wheel” method). In addition, the fuel can WATER be used without having to convert the engines of diesel vehiBrenntag uses water in its business cles because it fulfils all of the criteria for diesel fuel standard ­operations, for example to produce EN 590. By the end of the year under review, around 80,000 solutions, to clean pipe systems and to litres of R33 BlueDiesel had been used to refuel Brenntag vehicool or heat chemicals and tank facilcles, reducing CO2 emissions by more than 50 tonnes in comities. Water consumption varies widely parison to fossil-based diesel fuels. The use of R33 BlueDiesel at at Brenntag’s sites and is subject to BRENNTAG LATIN AMERICA: WATER CONSUMPTION TOTAL PER WAREHOUSE TONNE OF GOODS SOLD Wasserverbrauch pro verkaufte Tonne Lagerware Wasserverbrauch total (IN MILLIONS OF LITRES) (in Liter) (IN LITRES) (in Mio. Liter) 86.0 80.0 81.0 73.2 70.1 69.3 67.6 61.4 57.4 56.9 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Wasserverbrauch pro verkaufte Tonne Lagerware (in Liter) BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 33 fluctuations, as it is largely dependent on the nature and issues are considered and reflected both NFB scope of the products handled and services provided. In in terms of the construction approach ­addition, water is needed to operate the buildings and plants, and plant engineering. for example in the sanitary facilities or to clean surfaces. All of Brenntag’s sites implement suitBrenntag obtains around 90% of its water from the public able environmental protection measwater supply network. Water consumption is c­ urrently not ures that vary in their form and extent, recorded or consolidated on a Group-wide basis. ­depending on the work performed at the site, the legal requirements in the country and the site’s construction hisPRACTICAL EXAMPLE tory. Basic measures include multilayer Brenntag Latin America regularly measures water consumpsoil protection in warehousing areas, tion at all of its sites as part of its extensive CASA programme double-walled tanks and collection (see graphic page 32). There are several reasons for contanks, closed water cycles, multistage sumption fluctuating over time: Company acquisitions and water purification and treatment prochanges in the number of employees increase or reduce water cesses, and modern air and exhaust air needs. Water-intensive processes, such as hydrostatic testing purification systems. of new tanks or test operations on fire protection systems, also occur at irregular intervals. Total water consumption in In the rare event that chemicals are rethe reporting period decreased by almost 19% compared leased during processing, when being to the pre­vious year. A key reason for this was maintenance placed in or moved between containers work carried out in the year under review to fix leaks in the or during transportation, Brenntag has Dominican Republic and Chile, which had led to increased strict and effective measures in place to consumption in 2017. quickly rectify the problem and clean up and dispose of the chemicals. Spillages PROTECTION OF SOIL, WATER AND AIR NFB are recorded, categorized and evaluated We work continuously on minimizing the environmental using a standardized system. ­impacts of our business activities on the soil, water and air. Our HSE strategy and various measures such as investments in See the HSE STRATEGY PRACTICAL EXAMPLES AND MANAGEMENT the infrastructure, optimized work procedures and ­employee SECTION of the Safety qualifications are implemented with a view to identifying In July 2018, Brenntag Honduras was chapter (pages 20 und 24). environmental risks early on and to avoid environmentally commended by the Puerto Cortés ­related incidents. Brenntag’s sites in all of its regions comply ­municipality for its exemplary implewith the applicable rules and regulations relating to the promentation of local environmental regtection of the environment as well as our Group’s stringent ulations. More than 80 companies in internal environmental and safety standards. the municipality underwent an environmental assessment and site inspections. With many of Brenntag’s sites having been used industrially These included an examination of the for decades, including those purchased through acquisitions, condition of facilities, warehouse conthere is historical soil and groundwater contamination at the ditions, the hygiene situation, waste sites, which we are combatting with appropriate remediation management, emergency measures and measures. The soil and groundwater situation at all of the safety equipment, and employee training. sites are reviewed and recorded annually in cooperation with Brenntag Honduras was one of four external partners, and the necessary remediation measures companies to be 100% compliant with will be derived and implemented. Whenever new buildings all of the requirements. or plants are constructed or necessary modernization and renovation work is undertaken, environmental protection BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 34 subsequently released. Although this resulted in the formation of foam on a river and in a bay, it was not classified as environmental contamination. After under­taking measures to clean the water, Brenntag Caribe replaced the affected transfer line as well as another one and implemented an improved ­inspection and maintenance programme. Brenntag communicated closely with the local authorities and residents during the entire incident. WASTE/RECYCLING At the start of 2019, the new Filago site in Italy commenced The Brenntag sites have implemented operations. Brenntag invested extensively in environmental processes for the ­handling of waste and protection for the development. Since the location had pre­ also take-back and recycling systems for viously been used for industrial purposes, a comprehensive soil various types of packaging and containand groundwater inspection was first conducted. The low level ers, each in line with the site’s type and of contamination identified as part of this was sub­sequently volume of business. As part of this, we remedied. We removed all the existing underground installamaintain a close dialogue with mantions and replaced them with a contemporary, new design. ufacturers and with the national umAs a result, there are two completely separate wastewater brella associations of chemical dealers, systems for rainwater and industrial wastewater. All of the with the common goal of reducing the areas where operations occur have been made watertight volume of waste in the industry and inand fitted with new retention systems. The retention basins creasing recycling rates. have been built to withstand earthquakes, as have the shelf systems. The same applies to existing buildings on the premBrenntag also ensures that unnecessary ises which remain in use and have therefore been ­enhanced waste is avoided right from the outset accordingly. The tank facilities are monitored during operaand that the volume of waste is reduced tions by a multi-stage control system. For example, the storby giving its employees intensive and age tanks are fitted with fill level displays for continuous and regular training in the handling, storredundant measurement. These have integrated automatic age and transportation of chemical shutdown functions to prevent inadvertent overfilling. All products. these measures are in place to prevent product releases or to intercept them immediately on site. However, if an unconPRACTICAL EXAMPLE Further information trolled release does occur, it is fed into an emergency storage and practical examples on RECYCLING can be basin via the wastewater system. The exhaust air from the The Esteio site of Brenntag Brazil was found on page 16ff. tank facilities and filling lines is extracted and fed through given the city’s “Ecological Seal Award” suitable purification facilities (scrubbers) to ensure that the in July 2018 for its waste separation air meets the required quality standards when it is released. and recycling programme, which it imEnergy efficiency was also taken into consideration when the plemented together with the local munew site was fitted out: all of the interior and exterior ­lighting nicipality. To begin with, Brenntag HSE is LED-based. Compared to similar neon tube technology, managers trained the employees on ­energy consumption is 50% less, and annual CO2 emissions how to separate waste correctly, and a are at least 42 tonnes lower. corresponding disposal system was put in place at the site. The waste collected Despite all the preventative measures and investment in and separated is sent to a local recycling ­environmental protection and process safety at Brenntag’s cooperative which works to increase locations, significant product releases can occur on rare environmental awareness among the ­occasions. In the year under review, at the Haina site in the population and generates funding for Dominican Republic, a transfer line was punctured while a social projects by reusing the waste. ship was being unloaded. Around 30 m3 of a surfactant was BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION﻿ 35 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS to deal less frequently with hot machinBrenntag’s employees have in-depth ­expertise in the fields of ery in an industrial environ­ment. As part chemicals, components, procedures, processes and a ­ pplication of a pilot project in the year under retechnologies. They are experts on the industries of ­individual view, one customer was able to decrease customers, cooperate closely with the manufacturers and are its consumption of lubricants by around familiar with a ­ pplicable safety and quality regulations. Our 328,000 litres, as it only had to perform technicians who work in numerous application industries one oil change instead of four on many assist our ­customers in developing tailored formulations and of its more than 180 machines. advise them on ways to optimize the use and handling of the products. Brenntag is one of the world’s leading distributors of AdBlue®. This is a high-puBrenntag also endeavours to continuously add new products rity, 32.5 % aqueous urea solution which to its portfolio which increase efficiency, reduce consumpis directly injected into the exhaust gas tion or decrease environmental impact when applied, thereby stream of diesel engines to reduce nitroproviding sustainable alternatives to conventional products. gen oxide emissions. Since we created In this regard, our target is to set up pilot projects with ten the AdBlue® business in 2005, we have selected key suppliers by 2020 and in doing so become the gained great experience in ­handling this preferred distributor for sustainable solutions. product. Our ­services related to the filling and delivery of ­AdBlue® in large and SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Brenntag’s expertise and portfolio thus help improve the small quantities are tailored to our cuslevel of efficiency within the supply chain and support tomers’ individual needs. COSSU (Conits c­ ustomers’ optimized use of resources and improved sumer Operated Self Service Unit), which productivity. was developed for AdBlue® by Brenntag UK and Ireland, received an environmental award in the year under review. PRACTICAL EXAMPLES The “APEA Environ­mental Protection & Further ­practical ­examples of With the “Fluid Management & Engineering Services Team”, Improvement Award” is granted by The ­SUSTAINABLE Brenntag Lubricants in the USA offers its customers a feeSandu Foundation, a British non-profit ­SOLUTIONS can be found on page 19. based programme and on-site service to significantly increase organization. COSSU is an environmen­efficiency when using oil, lubricants and other fluids. A team tally friendly alter­native to selling the of chemical, mechanical and manufacturing engineers ­advises product in plastic canisters and makes it customers in the manufacturing industry on the selection, easier for fuel station operators as well ­usage and handling of suitable products, and perform checks as car and van drivers to avail themselves and analyses. By working closely together with customers of this sustainable product. at their facilities, processes can be optimized and adapted, thereby reducing consumption, waste volumes and costs. For example, one customer in the mechanical engineering industry reduced its liquid and solid waste volumes by around 295,000 litres over a period of three years. A similar aim is pursued by the “Gas Engine Service Program”, which was developed in the USA by the Brenntag subsidiary Coastal Chemicals – a specialist in the oil and gas industry – together with a major supplier of mineral oil products. As part of a multi-stage process (planning, execution, documentation and review), the customer’s use of lubricants is optimized. For example, the frequency of oil changes can be significantly ­reduced, as the oil is not changed after a pre-specified number PRACTICAL: The COSSU of operating hours, but rather only when it is actually nec(­Customer Operated Self Service essary. Reducing the number of oil changes also lowers the Unit) developed by Brenntag for the AdBlue® urea solution volume of used and residual oil that has to be disposed of. The received an environmental service also has a positive impact on occupational safety, since award in the UK. the reduced maintenance intensity means that employees have BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 36 RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN WE FOCUS ON TRANSPARENCY As the global market leader in chemical distribution, Brenntag levels throughout the Group, there are serves as an important link between the manufacturers of standardized processes in place for relachemical products and the companies that process these tionship management with suppliers. In products. We maintain a close and ongoing dialogue with our company, supplier relationships are our suppliers and customers through our regional and global a management issue and a key element procurement and distribution organizations as well as our of strategic decision-making. HSE structures. The majority of these business relationships and partnerships go back many years. In selecting new suppliers and evaluating existing supplier relationships, both NFB Brenntag has set itself the goal of monitoring its own supply economic and quality criteria and issues chain more closely with regard to the various sustainability of environmental protection and safety, aspects and gradually making it more sustainable. Among labour and social standards as well as our sustainability targets for 2020, we aim to analyse a specompliance and governance are relecific percentage of our total chemical spend (in EUR) through vant for Brenntag. ­sustainability assessments or audits as part of our membership SUSTAINABLE of the “Together for Sustainability” initiative. In 2016, we set a NFB A project team has taken charge of PROCUREMENT target of 50% for our coverage rate, which we achieved by the advancing the issue of sustainable end of 2017 with a rate of around 64%. We adjusted the target procurement within our international accordingly and are now aiming for a coverage rate of 80% corporate structures. The team consists For the SUSTAIN­ by 2020. The rate was approximately 70% at the end of 2018. of representatives from the purchasing ABILITY ASSESSMENTS, please also see the units of the four Brenntag regions, the corresponding sections In addition to achieving greater transparency in relation to its Brenntag Global Sourcing Organization in this chapter on page 37. suppliers’ sustainability performance through a higher coverand Brenntag’s sustainability manager. age rate, Brenntag now wants to focus more on improvements The sustainability manager regularly in their sustainability performance. We have therefore specified reports on this issue to Brenntag AG’s another target in the area of sustainable procurement: By 2020, Board of Management. we want 70% of our suppliers undergoing reassessment to have improved their score by at least one point compared to SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT: Brenntag The SUPPLIER CODE OF their previous assessment. has drawn up a code of conduct speciCONDUCT is a ­ vailable on our website at fying what we expect of our suppliers in www.brenntag.com/ SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT the areas mentioned. The code is based sustainability under Service & Contacts. Brenntag’s purchasing organizations have over 1,000 emon the principles of the United Nations ployees globally, including local and regional purchasing Global Compact, the chemical industry’s teams, specialists in sourcing chemical products from Asia, global Responsible Care programme and and product managers for specific chemicals and customer Brenntag’s Code of Business Conduct and industries. These employees are in contact with several thouEthics. It can be found on the company’s sand suppliers worldwide. As a trading company, business website and is therefore available to all relationships with suppliers have a direct influence on the suppliers. In order to verify compliance product portfolio and are therefore a key differentiation point with the code of conduct, we invite for distributors. These relationships are often more accurateselected suppliers to undergo a sustainly described as sales partnerships rather than conventional ability assessment or audit. purchasing relationships. For this reason, Brenntag maintains regular, close communication with its suppliers. At various BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN 37 SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENTS FOR SUPPLIERS: Within the NFB Around 1,000 of our suppliers ­completed NFB scope of its membership of the “Together for Sustainability” the assessment programme between (TfS) industry initiative, Brenntag requires a certain number of its launch in 2015 and the end of 2018. its suppliers to undergo sustainability assessments every year. In total, 64% of our suppliers which We thereby achieve greater transparency in relation to our under­went reassessment were able to suppliers’ sustainability performance and are able to ­better improve their score compared to the consider sustainability issues in our purchasing decisions. last survey. We work together here with EcoVadis, which is a leading proThe sustainability manager and the purvider of sustainability assessments and well established in the chasing units at Brenntag maintain regchemical industry. EcoVadis evaluates companies in terms of ular contact to discuss the issue of susfour categories: environmental protection, labour practices, tainable procurement and to ­develop fair business practices and sustainable procurement. On the our objectives. We regularly train our basis of the responses provided in a comprehensive online purchasing staff on the assessment proquestionnaire and on the accompanying d ­ ocumentation, cedure and therefore also on sustain­EcoVadis awards scoring points and produces a detailed proability issues, enabling them to assist file of strengths and weaknesses. and to advise their suppliers during the review process. ECOVADIS SCORING OF BRENNTAG’S SUPPLIERS SHARE OF TOTAL CHEMICAL SPEND IN EUR (IN %) SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS OF SUPPLIERS: NFB As a supplement to the assessments, 62.41 29.91 Brenntag arranged an evaluation of a supplier in China by external, independent auditors on site for the first time in the year under review. More audits are planned in 2019. The audits are based on a catalogue of requirements developed by TfS and cover the areas of sustainability management, the environment, health and safety, ­labour and human rights, and corporate gover­nance. The results of all audits are 7.68 shared within TfS. Brenntag reviews its suppliers’ audit results. If necessary, it agrees on corrective measures with the company and the auditor and follows no score s core: 1–44 score: 45–100 up on the implementation of these. Brenntag evaluates its suppliers’ assessment results. It found Brenntag’s membership of TfS provides it with that suppliers which represent some 62% of our total chemical access to the results of spend scored 45 points or higher. According to the EcoVadis all the ASSESSMENTS which TfS member assessment system, these companies have, as a minimum, companies conducts of a structured and proactive sustainability approach, policies their suppliers. and tangible actions in relation to the areas evaluated and a basic reporting system or set of performance indicators. Depending on their performance, Brenntag requests that its suppliers take corrective measures (corrective action plan) or it arranges a supplementary audit. Starting in 2019, the focus will be on the suppliers which score less than 45 points and/ or have an outdated scorecard (older than three years). The targeted improvements will then be evaluated as part of a reassessment. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 38 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT AT BRENNTAG SUPPLIERS Suppliers are asked for a Suppliers are asked for Results of conducted Results of conducted sustainability assessment of rating on-site audit by using external EcoVadis assessment sustainability audits company EcoVadis audit companies Results of Brenntag‘s supplier Brenntag: EcoVadis assessment assessments and audits Rating of Brenntag‘s Results of supplier assessments and sustainability performance audits conducted by other TfS members Result of Brenntag‘s EcoVadis assessments CUSTOMERS Activities within the scope of TfS membership Voluntary activities BRENNTAG AS A SUPPLIER ECOVADIS SCORE: In its most recent For a number of years now, Brenntag has registered an EcoVadis assessment in November 2018, RATING increasing demand for information on how we deal with the Brenntag Group achieved a score of sustainability issues – particularly on the part of its custom68 points, thereby confirming the gold ers. We are regularly asked to document our sustainability status (Gold Recognition Level) that it performance. We are pleased to respond to these needs achieved in October 2016. This result by making our principles and activities transparent and puts us among the top 1% of compameasurable in various ways. As well as our annual sustainnies assessed in our industry cate­gory. ability report, this also includes our own regular EcoVadis As specified in our sustainability objecassessment, issue-­specific audits at our locations as well as tives (see page 7), we will endeavour to The results of the our participation in the climate rating initiative of the inter­ maintain our gold status and our score ­ECOVADIS RATING are available on our national organization CDP. over the long term. website at www.brenntag.com/ sustainability under Service & Contacts. For CDP, see the Environ­mental ­Protection chapter on page 31. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN﻿ 39 SAFETY DATA SHEETS: As a distributor, Brenntag plays a major process. This information is shared role in safeguarding the seamless flow of information along the confidentially and used jointly within supply chain and must ensure complete product documentation. the network, which provides efficiency ­Together with every product sold, Brenntag therefore sends its benefits for every participant. customers safety data sheets that contain specific and detailed information on the appropriate and safe handling of the chemAs a full member, Brenntag has a seat ical in question. We thereby make a very concrete contribution and voting rights at the general assemto greater transparency and safety in the supply chain. In 2018, bly, the top decision-making body of in the EMEA region and the USA, Brenntag sent a good 600,000 TfS. In addition, Brenntag employees in safety data sheets to customers. Europe, Asia and the USA are involved in working groups. Together with representatives of the other TfS members, they are working, for example, to further develop the audit programme, to increase awareness of the initiative and its objectives at events in the industry and to convince other suppliers of the added value created by the voluntary 600,000 sustainability assessments and ­audits. Our involvement with TfS provides us with an ­o pportunity not just to advance the ­issue of sustainability within safety data sheets for the safe the chemical industry’s supply chain ­handling of chemicals have been but also to learn from the best-practice sent to our customers in North experiences of the other members and America and Europe to further professionalize our sustain­ ability approach in the area of supplier management. TOGETHER FOR SUSTAINABILITY NFB Brenntag has been involved in the chemical industry’s “­Together for Sustainability” initiative (TfS) since October Top 2014 and became a full member in October 2016 when it achieved an EcoVadis score of over 60 points – the first and, to date, only chemical distributor to do so. TfS was established in 2011 and now has 23 members. Its 1% goal is to establish a uniform global programme for the responsible procurement of goods and services in the chemical industry, to achieve transparency in relation to sustainability performance throughout the supply chain and to make further improvements to its suppliers’ ecological and social standards. For this purpose, all TfS members regularly evalIn the EcoVadis sustainability uate and review their suppliers by means of a standardized assessment, we are among the top 1% of all companies assessed in our industry category. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 40 EMPLOYEES WE WANT TO RECRUIT THE BEST PEOPLE FOR OUR TEAM More than 16,600 people work at Brenntag worldwide. With NFB The Chief Human Resources Officer their expertise and their dedication, they play a key role in is respon­sible for Brenntag’s Global the company’s success and our long-term competitiveness. ­Human Resources area. Together with For information on our Embedded in our corporate strategy as well as Brenntag’s the Global HR Leadership Team, which CORPORATE VISION, vision, the primary goal of our human resources strategy is for includes the HR officers for Global please see page 33 of Brenntag’s 2018 Annual us to be regarded globally as the preferred employer in the ­Development & ­Talent Management, Report. field of chemical distribution – both for current and ­potential Global ­Compensation & Benefits and ­employees. We see it as our responsibility to offer fair working the Brenntag’s regions, the Chief H­ uman conditions and an attractive, safe and inspirational working Resources Officer aims to ensure comenvironment while encouraging our employees’ personal and pliance with our global HR strategy and EMPLOYEES professional development in a targeted manner. to put in place and centrally manage measures to ensure the implementation NFB HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT of this strategy in the Group’s various A globally uniform HR strategy has been developed and the ­regions. The Chief Human Resources priorities for the coming years have been determined on the ­Officer reports directly to the CEO and basis of our corporate strategy and our corporate values. A key regularly pursues discussions and diaaspect of our HR strategy is to promote employee retention logues with the entire Board of Manage­ and HR development at every level. ment of Brenntag AG, through Board of Management ­meetings and ­executive committees such as the Executive Staffing & Development Committee. AWARD-WINNING HR MANAGEMENT AT BRENNTAG INDIA The HR management and HR activities of Brenntag India r­ eceived more than one accolade in the year under review. At the start of 2018, the company was awarded the “Great Place to Work” certification by the Great Place to Work ­organization. In September, Brenntag India also received the “Award for Excellence in Human Resource Management in the Chemical Industry” from the Indian Chemical Council (ICC), which represents all sectors of the chemical industry in India. The award was granted because the principles and practices at Brenntag India – such as the training ­opportunities provided by the Brenntag Academy, family ­involvement and shared CSR activities – “are employee-­ focused and have a human touch”. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS EMPLOYEES﻿ 41 BRENNTAG HR PORTAL: We are currently introducing a global NFB implementing and enhancing measNFB HR management system in order to implement and manage ures in relation to feedback dialogues, our globally uniform HR processes in the areas of e­ mployee identi­fication of potential, succession recruitment, onboarding, learning, people performance planning and HR development, all of manage­ment, remuneration and succession planning. The which are ­described in the following new system is gradually replacing the wide range of applicasections. tions in our heterogeneous HR system landscape, while also offering our employees an opportunity to work together and FEEDBACK DIALOGUES: Annual feedshare knowledge and ideas. In the year under review, 96% of back dialogues are an instrument our employees’ master data was migrated from the ­existing which is used to ensure long-term local HR systems, while the feedback dialogues as well as the employee retention at our ­company. target-setting agreements and annual salary reviews were In all Brenntag companies, the diaconducted via the Brenntag HR Portal for a third of our staff. logue between employees and their The target is to incorporate all of Brenntag’s global HR proline managers promotes a feedback cesses across the board into the Brenntag HR Portal by the culture while also encouraging a end of 2020. change and performance culture. These m ­ eetings consider employees’ EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND TALENT MANAGEMENT performance and discuss their goals The Global HR Development & Talent Management Team reand ­personal expectations as well as ports directly to the Chief Human Resources Officer. Its objecindividual development measures. The tive is to develop and implement suitable human resources aim is to incorporate our globally unidevelopment concepts based on our global HR strategy and in form “People Performance Dialogue” line with our corporate strategy. Brenntag’s HR development for all employees into the Brenntag HR strategy includes measures for all groups of employees to Portal. This will enable us to implement ensure that our employees receive appropriate training and and track the process more efficiently that crucial positions are filled at Brenntag in good time and in the future. in line with requirements. Monitoring the level of employee fluctuation on the basis Additional ­EMPLOYEE ­FLUCTUATION of employee termination provides an indicator which can be ­indicators can be used to identify a specific need for action. This key ­figure is found on page 47. centrally determined every quarter for each Brenntag company and reported to the Group’s HR management. Due to regional and country-specific variations, the figures are ­analysed at local level. In the event of atypical deviations, the causes are identified, and suitable measures are considered as needed. In 2018, we launched and provided information on a global job architecture for all employees. This is a framework that covers and organizes all of the job positions at Brenntag worldwide. The global job architecture offers greater transparency so that it will be possible in the future to identify ­career opportunities ­within a job ­family and across several job families, for ­example. Needs-based training and development measures can also be identified and sub­sequently provided. At the same time, the global job architecture serves as a basis and resource for BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 42 NFB IDENTIFICATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF POTENTIAL: In ­order NFB autonomous learning. We also reach all to foster internal careers and to ensure the emergence of a of our employees with access to a PC via new generation of Brenntag managers and experts, there is our online platform, making it easier for a global concept for identifying high-potential employees them to take part in mandatory global For information on who fulfil our global criteria and are distinguished by their and regional compliance training, such the COMPLIANCE TRAINING, please see particularly strong performance. This approach enables us to as on the Brenntag Code of Business the Sustain­ability at identify employees with strong development potential at an Conduct and Ethics, anti­corruption, Brenntag chapter on page 11. early stage so that we can enhance their skills and provide competition law, antitrust law, fraud the structure to prepare them for the next potential step in prevention and the EU’s General Data their career. Protection Regulation. For the CONNECTING The global development programme “Connecting Potential” At Group level and in Brenntag’s r­ egions, POTENTIAL programme, please also see the Prowas initially launched for high-potential employees who are programmes are in place to meet the grammes and training at the start of their career. In the year under review, we also specific needs of our managers and section in this chapter. began developing additional global development programmes ­junior staff, in order to prepare them for experienced high-potential employees at higher managefor their responsibility as managers or ment levels. We plan to start implementing these new pro­experts and to support them in their grammes in 2019 with around 90 participants annually. role. As well as providing and ­enhancing management skills, in these developSUCCESSION PLANNING: Succession planning and structured, ment programmes Brenntag aims to proactive HR development are closely associated with the encourage the systematic sharing and identification of potential what puts these topics on the list transfer of knowledge. of priorities for our HR strategy. For this purpose, management and HR officers regularly hold meetings which have a PRACTICAL EXAMPLES globally uniform structure (what we call “People Reviews”) to discuss possible succession scenarios and concepts in order In the year under review, the new g ­ lobal to prepare candidates for their possible future roles. development programme “­Connecting Potential” was conducted for all Brenntag Due to its importance, the Chief Human Resources Officer regions for the first time. It is aimed at regularly discusses succession planning for global executive selected junior staff at the company management with the Board of Management. In the year who are at the start of their career. The under review, “People Reviews” were introduced for further three-part programme brings ­together organizational levels in the Group’s various regions. They may talented and ­motivated high-potential be expanded in 2019 on a regional needs basis. employees from a wide range of areas in the region and helps them to grow PROGRAMMES AND TRAINING: At Brenntag, we want to as individual top p ­ erformers and to create a working environment where each individual can expand their network. In 2018, almost identify and take advantage of the development opportunities 60 junior staff completed the “Connectthat exist at our company. In line with the Group’s global ing ­Potential” programme. concept, Brenntag-specific skills and expertise are taught through a globally uniform approach. Under the umbrella of Brenntag Benelux has a special develop­ the “Brenntag Academy”, target group-specific and individual ment programme “Learn2Lead” for programmes and training are offered at a global, regional and junior managers who are leading or local level and, depending on the nature of this programme will soon lead a team for the first time. or training, are provided either in conventional events attended Over a period of several months, the in person or through online training events. ten participants in each class are trained on what it means to lead employees, Our global e-learning management system provides our how to motivate their team and how employees with a flexible and digital-based opportunity to give feedback. The programme to enhance their knowledge and skills independently and ­encompasses both e-learning sessions ­efficiently. By offering a comprehensive range of specific and and workshops. professional training with presentations, videos and additional reference materials for self-learning, we foster a culture of BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS EMPLOYEES 43 The regional training programme “Catalyst Leadership Course” APPRENTICESHIP: Via the dual educaNFB is also aimed at earlier career leaders. It has been operating tion and training system in Germany, successfully at Brenntag North America since 2017 and was Austria and Switzerland (DACH region), completed by a total of 201 participants in nine courses in Brenntag is currently training almost 2018. The focus is on providing employees with practical 70 young people to become man­personal and specialist training and teaching them manageagement assistants in wholesale and ment skills. foreign trade, logistics management assistants, office managers, ­laboratory In many countries, trainee programmes enable university gradNFB technicians and warehouse staff. Alonguates to combine their theoretical knowledge with practical side comprehensive apprenticeship experience while gaining an insight into our company’s many and the acquirement of specific skills different areas. The specific trainee programmes for manageand expertise, priority is given to the ment or specialist careers which are offered in ­Germany were transfer of our corporate culture and expanded to Austria and Switzerland in the year under review company-specific working processes as and have since been providing an additional international well as the personal develop­ment of the incentive to gain experience. To date, more than 30 career apprentices. entrants have completed these trainee programmes. Brenntag trains junior managers and Due to the various regional and local requirements of the experts in a targeted manner, thanks working environment as well as cultural differences, Brenntag to the wide array of apprenticeships on largely takes charge of and manages individual further ­training offer in various commercial and indusand development measures on a decentralized basis. Our trial occupational areas. Once they have ­employees receive training in accordance with their duties success­fully completed their apprenticein the company and their personal development needs. The ships, Brenntag offers young key players training measures, which take the form of face-to-face events, attractive prospects and challenges. courses and workshops as well as online seminars, cover technical topics – including sales, logistics, chemistry, environIn the year under review, Brenntag mental protection and quality management – as well as per­received the “Germany’s best trainers” sonal development measures such as intercultural t­ raining, award from the business magazine negotiating skills, presentation techniques and conflict manCapital and the HR marketing company agement. In every Brenntag region, occupational safety is a Ausbildung.de and Territory Embrace. For information on TRAINING COURSES IN core issue for training, since protecting our employees’ health Brenntag Germany responded to a THE AREA OF OCCUPAand safety is a top priority for us. catalogue of 60 questions in the five TIONAL SAFETY, please also see the Safety chapter on page 25. INSIGHTS: Our employees provide young people with information on training and career opportunities at Brenntag at events worldwide. COMMON UNDERSTANDING: Our six corporate values determine how Brenntag imteracts with its business partners and employees. categories of support, learning on the job, commitment of the Brenntag also has idea management company, opportunities for success and innovative ­learning systems and platforms at many levels, methods. Having achieved the highest-possible rating of which employees can use to become 5 stars, we are among the 500 best apprenticing companies actively involved and submit their in Germany. suggestions and ideas for improving organizational aspects, processes and EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION AND INVOLVEMENT operations. In addition to development prospects, open communication and an opportunity to play a part in shaping the company Moreover, every year the global and are important aspects which help to promote employee regional “Brenntag Outstanding Per­motivation and loyalty. formance Awards” are presented to employees who have achieved outstanding Brenntag’s employees are regularly kept informed of current success in the areas of sales, safety or issues and company matters through their line managers and professional performance. In addition, also through our internal print and online media. Conversely, employees receive regional or local our employees are able to discuss issues directly with their recognition for their performance and line managers or with the personnel managers responsible input. Brenntag UK & Ireland, for examat any time. ple, awards the “Driver of the Year”. Depending on the country-specific legislation, employees can HEALTH AND WORK-LIFE BALANCE also contact the persons representing their interests on elected Brenntag’s identity as an attractive and co-determination bodies. Brenntag respects its employees’ responsible employer includes promotright to freedom of association and collective bargaining and ing the health of our employees and will not pursue or tolerate any measures which are intended their work-life balance. In all regions, we to restrict these rights. therefore offer measures which are in line with local social systems, while freThe internal online portal “LINK” supports and promotes the quently going beyond national practices flow of information, communication and cooperation beand statutory requirements. In countries tween Brenntag employees across different locations. This with inadequate social security arrangeplatform brings together our employees and facilitates the ments, for example, supplementary pritransfer of knowledge while offering an opportunity to share vate health insurance and life assurance information, experiences and best-practice methods from difpolicies are offered. In many countries, ferent areas. Brenntag also covers part of the cost of BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS EMPLOYEES﻿ 45 preventative measures or medical examinations and pays for three components: a fixed annual base vaccinations for its employees and their families, for exam­salary, a short-term variable annual ­bonus ple. Brenntag also promotes its employees’ physical fitness. and long-term variable remuneration. For instance, individual companies contribute towards gym The ­ratio of fixed to variable remunermemberships or initiate campaigns and events which provide ation ­depends on a specific manager’s tips on healthy eating and lifestyles. Joint participation in ­influence on the company’s success. company runs and other sporting competitions are also very Variable remuneration is closely linked popular. Many Brenntag companies help their employees to to personal performance and the comreconcile work and family life by offering flexible working pany’s results, and is also dependent time models and holiday arrangements as well as other supon whether targets for key performance portive services such as childcare or care for relatives. Regular indicators (KPIs) are met. In addition to initiatives also take place at many Brenntag locations, when the aforementioned remuneration comemployees can show their relatives where they work or when ponents, managers receive contractually families are invited on group excursions. agreed non-cash remuneration and other benefits. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES At its more than 580 sites in 73 countries, Brenntag employs There are both defined benefit and people from almost 100 different countries. The result of this ­defined contribution pension plans for is a social and cultural diversity which we use constructively. the employees of the Brenntag Group. Worldwide, we work in teams which are mixed in line with The pension commitments vary devarious criteria, while considering the needs of various generpending on the legal, tax and economations. The versatility of our employees’ heterogeneous skills ic ­circumstances in the individual counand experience is a cornerstone of our success. tries and the employee’s years of service with the company and pay grade. In Guaranteeing equal opportunities is a matter of course for addition to employer-financed ­company Brenntag, as is counteracting and eliminating any form of pension schemes, Brenntag also supdiscrimination and harassment. The recruitment, remunerports private pension schemes through ation and development of employees solely reflect their various options and pension plans. For qualifications and abilities in relation to their respective instance, through a deferred compenduties. For Brenntag, it is a matter of course and of the utsation scheme employees are able to most importance that employees, business partners or third forgo payment of specific pay compoparties do not suffer any discrimination on grounds of their nents in favour of an employee-funded ethnic origin, gender, marital status, age, religion or belief, company pension commitment. skin ­colour, disability or sexual orientation. This is stipulated in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Violations of this code are investigated by our compliance organization See COMPLIANCE ­INCIDENTS on page 12. with the ­necessary rigour and, if a violation is found to have ­occurred, corresponding action is taken. 580 REMUNERATION AND PENSION SCHEMES Brenntag’s remuneration policy is defined by factors such as e ­ mployer attractiveness, fairness and competitiveness. ­Employees’ qualifi­cations, experience and level of ­responsibility are the main criteria. We offer a competitive remuneration and ­benefits package. Remuneration may vary in line with ­local ­market conditions, regulations and legislation. The value-­ locations in based ­remuneration system for management level consists of 73 countries – this creates great cultural diversity at Brenntag. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 46 EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE The number of employees indicated are shown on the basis of the Group’s headcounts as at the end of the year (Dec. 31). EMPLOYEES BY REGION AND GENDER EMPLOYEE IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS1) BY GENDER 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % EMEA 7,162 43.1 7,023 45.6 6,888 45.7 Women 78 20.1 58 15.3 67 16.9 Women 2,677 37.4 2,634 37.5 2,545 36.9 Men 310 79.9 320 84.7 330 83.1 Men 4,485 62.6 4,389 62.5 4,343 63.1 Brenntag North America 5,174 31.1 4,747 30.8 4,631 30.7 Group 388 100.0 378 100.0 397 100.0 Women 1,162 22.5 1,034 21.8 1,003 21.7 Men 4,012 77.5 3,713 78.2 3,628 78.3 Latin America 1,610 9.7 1,453 9.4 1,491 9.9 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT AND GENDER Women 654 40.6 545 37.5 542 36.4 2018 2017 2016 Men 956 59.4 908 62.5 949 63.6 Asia Pacific 2,486 15.0 2,043 13.2 1,923 12.8 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % Women 987 39.7 958 46.9 904 47.0 Full-time 15,978 96.2 14,805 96.0 14,477 96.1 Men 1,499 60.3 1,085 53.1 1,019 53.0 Women 5,093 31.9 4,812 32.5 4,626 32.0 Other Men 10,885 68.1 9,993 67.5 9,851 68.0 segments 184 1.1 150 1.0 139 0.9 Part-time 550 3.3 519 3.4 498 3.3 Women 87 47.3 73 48.7 75 54.0 Women 441 80.2 394 75.9 406 81.5 Men 97 52.7 77 51.3 64 46.0 Men 109 19.8 125 24.1 92 18.5 Brenntag Apprentices 88 0.5 92 0.6 97 0.6 Group 16,616 100.0 15,416 100.0 15,072 100.0 Women 33 37.5 38 41.3 37 38.1 Women 5,567 33.5 5,244 34.0 5,069 33.6 Men 55 62.5 54 58.7 60 61.9 Men 11,049 66.5 10,172 66.0 10,003 66.4 Brenntag Group 16,616 100.0 15,416 100.0 15,072 100.0 EMPLOYEES BY AREA OF WORK AND GENDER 2018 2017 2016 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF CONTRACT AND GENDER abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % 2018 2017 2016 Sales 6,348 38.2 5,859 38.0 5,748 38.1 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % Women 3,079 48.5 2,897 49.4 2,798 48.7 Permanent Men 3,269 51.5 2,962 50.6 2,950 51.3 contracts 15,881 95.6 14,367 93.2 13,946 92.5 Distribution 2,305 13.9 2,160 14.0 2,152 14.3 Women 5,253 33.1 4,794 33.4 4,641 33.3 Women 250 10.8 210 9.7 208 9.7 Men 10,628 66.9 9,573 66.6 9,305 66.7 Men 2,055 89.2 1,950 90.3 1,944 90.3 Fixed-term Warehouses 4,977 29.9 4,647 30.2 4,537 30.1 contracts 647 3.9 957 6.2 1,029 6.9 Women 535 10.7 516 11.1 501 11.0 Women 281 43.4 412 43.1 391 38.0 Men 4,442 89.3 4,131 88.9 4,036 89.0 Men 366 56.6 545 56.9 638 62.0 Administration 2,986 18.0 2,750 17.8 2,635 17.5 Apprentices 88 0.5 92 0.6 97 0.6 Women 1,703 57.0 1,621 58.9 1,562 59.3 Women 33 37.5 38 41.3 37 38.1 Men 1,283 43.0 1,129 41.1 1,073 40.7 Men 55 62.5 54 58.7 60 61.9 Brenntag Brenntag Group 16,616 100.0 15,416 100.0 15,072 100.0 Group 16,616 100.0 15,416 100.0 15,072 100.0 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS EMPLOYEES 47 NEW EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF ENTRY EMPLOYEES BY AGE4) 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % New hires 2,824 72.2 2,346 94.0 1,811 79.7 < 20 33 0.3 26 0.2 36 0.4 Company 20 – 29 1,562 13.7 1,453 13.6 1,496 14.3 acquisitions 1,090 27.8 149 6.0 462 20.3 30 – 39 3,580 31.3 3,216 30.1 3,183 30.5 Brenntag 40 – 49 3,297 28.8 3,124 29.3 3,027 29.0 Group 3,914 100.0 2,495 100.0 2,273 100.0 50 – 59 2,461 21.5 2,322 21.8 2,186 20.9 > 59 509 4.4 528 5.0 513 4.9 NEW EMPLOYEES BY REGION Brenntag Group4) 11,442 100.0 10,669 100.0 10,441 100.0 2018 2017 2016 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % EMEA 1,212 31.0 855 34.3 787 34.6 AVERAGE AGE AND LENGTH OF SERVICE BY REGION4) North America 1,321 33.8 908 36.4 806 35.5 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 Latin America 412 10.5 198 7.9 242 10.6 Asia Pacific 938 23.9 516 20.7 422 18.6 Ø age in years Ø length of service in years Other EMEA 43 44 43 11 11 11 segments 31 0.8 18 0.7 16 0.7 Latin Brenntag America 40 40 39 7 7 7 Group 3,914 100.0 2,495 100.0 2,273 100.0 Asia Pacific 38 38 38 6 6 6 Other segments 43 45 45 10 11 10 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER2) BY REGION Brenntag NFB Group 42 42 42 9 10 10 2018 2017 20163) abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % 1) Comprises the global executive management and local management groups. EMEA 501 6.1 446 5.6 268 3.7 2) Termination by employees on the basis of the Schlüter formula North America 620 10.2 488 8.9 341 6.7 3) The values given for 2016 have not been audited by PwC. Latin America 122 6.5 131 7.4 117 6.5 4) E  xcluding employees in the North America region; due to the legal situation in Asia Pacific 385 13.0 326 12.7 255 11.2 North America, the data in the region are not recorded in full for all employees and therefore cannot be evaluated on a valid basis. Other ­segments 16 7.8 6 3.7 4 2.6 Brenntag Group 1,644 8.5 1,397 7.7 985 5.9 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 48 COMMUNITY WE HELP OTHERS Brenntag is present at more than 580 sites in 73 countries At various locations, such as in Mexico worldwide, where it is an employer, a business partner and a and Spain, Brenntag provides financial neighbour in local communities in many different countries support to its employees so that they and cities. We see ourselves as part of these communities, can purchase school materials for their as a “corporate citizen”, and we maintain a lively dialogue children. with them and aim to contribute to a positive environment. We provide information about training Brenntag’s social commitment is underpinned primarily by and career opportunities in our c­ ompany our employees. They collect money and donations in kind at events worldwide. Through open and invest their expertise, their time and their manpower in days and internships as well as trainee support of charitable causes. In many cases, Brenntag supprogrammes and scholarships, we give ports their contribution either financially and organizationpupils and students the opportunity to ally or else by releasing them from their work duties. develop an understanding of the work of a chemical distributor, to acquire PROMOTION OF EDUCATION practical experience and start a career The promotion of education is a focus of Brenntag’s activities in our industry. In this way, Brenntag inand the projects it supports in all of its regions. A large number vited young students of chemistry and of our sites have been cooperating with schools, universities chemistry for business from all around and institutions for many years now with the common aim Germany to the company head­quarters of encouraging young people’s interest in chemistry and our in Essen as part of the ­“JuWiChem industry, sensitizing them regarding the handling of chemicals Meets Industry” event in June 2018 so and supporting their education. that the young scientists could engage in ­in-depth conversations with ­company representatives about their career PRACTICAL EXAMPLES prospects and industry requirements. FURTHER EXAMPLES For 13 years, Brenntag North America has sponsored local, In Thailand, Brenntag holds regular are presented on state and the national “You Be The Chemist Challenge®” comopen days for food science students our website at www.brenntag.com/ petition – involving great personal commitment from many from the universities of K ­ asetsart and sustainability under of our employees. Organized by the Chemical Educational ­Srinakarinwirot in Bangkok. Through Projects worldwide. Foundation, it encourages 5th–8th grade students to take an workshops, talks and a visit to our interest in chemistry and its applications in everyday life. develop­ment and application centre, the young people are given an insight In Germany, Brenntag GmbH presents the “Brenntag Award”, into the day-to-day ­routine and work at which includes prize money, twice a year to the top graduate Brenntag. of the “Business Chemistry” course at Heinrich Heine University in Düsseldorf. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 COMMUNITY﻿ 49 50 LOCAL COMMITMENT Durán, with a financial contribution as Brenntag aims to provide assistance ­exactly where it is needed. well as hands-on involvement. Because l­ocal needs vary from country to c­ ountry due to national, cultural and structural differences, the Brenntag sites deIn the year under review, Brenntag UK & cide ­autonomously where and to what ­extent they get involved Ireland successfully continued “Brenntag in ­social initiatives. The company pursues so many different Giving”, a programme that was launched activities that only a few ­examples are listed here: and is organized entirely by its employees. As part of this award-winning proPRACTICAL EXAMPLES gramme, employees at a selected site Our employees in the Asia Pacific region support their local can decide every month which good communities and institutions in a variety of ways through cash cause or registered charity should reand in-kind donations, in addition to providing concrete local ceive the funding provided by Brenntag. assistance through team events. In Yangon in M ­ yanmar, the Brenntag also allows its employees to Brenntag Food & Nutrition team spent a day with orphans from take a day off work so that they can supthe Andrew Youth Development Center in April 2018: After port a charitable organization of their playing games together, they repainted the classroom and the choice. team presented the children with several dozen sets of tables and chairs, mosquito nets, books, towels and bags. In India, Both Brenntag North America and the Brenntag staff took part in a collection by local NGO Goonj Brenntag Latin America have supportand donated items for a local orphanage. ed the charitable organization Water For People since the beginning of 2018. This In Latin America, a large number of Brenntag sites and NGO promotes access to high-quality ­employees are dedicated to protecting the environment drinking water and sanitation worldwide and increasing environmental awareness in local communiby drawing on the support of local comties. Brenntag E ­ cuador was particularly active in this regard munities, companies and governments. during the reporting year: In February 2018, many Brenntag ­employees took part in a beach-cleaning initiative organized A close dialogue with local emergency by the Ministry for the Environment in the provinces of Guayas forces and mutual assistance agreements and Santa Elena. To coincide with World Environment Day in are also characteristic of many Brenntag June, the company attended an event held by the pharmasites around the world. In North America ceutical distributor DIFARE with an information stand on “Preand Latin America, for instance, we proventing plastic pollution”, and also supported a reforestation vide local fire brigades as well as police project organized by the environmental foundation Proyecto and emergency services with financial Verde along a railway line in a residential district of the city of support and equipment, or we make our expertise and our sites available to them for seminars and joint rescue exercises. In October 2018, the Brenntag site in Dos Hermanas, Spain, was one of the main participants in a major emergency drill initiated by the Andalusian regional government in Seville. With over 100 operatives from various organizations involved, the drill practised the implementation of an external emergency plan for industrial parks, which will come into force in the event of serious accidents involving hazardous substances. WELL PREPARED: To ensure that we can respond appropriately and quickly in an emergency, Brenntag regularly performs emergency simulations – often with emergency forces of the local communities. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS REPORT PROFILE 51 REPORT PROFILE ABOUT THIS REPORT REPORTING PRINCIPLES IDENTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CONNFB Brenntag’s Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2018 TENT: The issues presented in the mais its sixth sustainability report. Brenntag reports on its susteriality matrix on page 6 form the tainability activities every year. Its next report will therefore basis for determining the NFB content. be published in 2020. This report complies with international The matrix is the result of a materiality standards for sustainability reporting – the Global Reporting assessment which is based on the prinInitiative (GRI) and the principles of the United Nations Global ciples defined by the Global Reporting Compact (UNGC). Initiative (GRI): sustainability context, materiality, completeness and stake// T his report has been prepared in accordance with the holder inclusiveness. In order to deterGRI Standards (2016): Core Option. The GRI Content mine the material issues for the NFB, Index can be found on page 56ff. Brenntag has adhered to the definition // This Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2018 of Section 289c, para. 3, sentence 1 of is also an annual progress report (Communication on the German Commercial Code (HGB). Progress – COP) for the UNGC, which Brenntag joined These issues were assessed for the NFB in October 2014. This report has therefore also been by using the following criteria: www.unglobalcompact.org published on the organization’s website. // T opics which are needed to underSEPARATE NON-FINANCIAL GROUP REPORT NFB stand the business performance, the The content in this report marked with a blue line and the business results, the company’s posi­acronym forms the separate non-financial Group report (NFB) NFB tion and the impact of Brenntag’s pursuant to § 315b ff. and § 289c ff. of the German Commercial activities on the non-financial Code (HGB) to ensure compliance with the legal requirements aspects (environmental, social of the HGB. The NFB is based on the international Global Reand employee matters, respect for porting Initiative (GRI) Standards as a framework. The NFB has human rights, anti-corruption and been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschafts­ bribery matters, and supply chain prüfungsgesellschaft (PwC) pursuant to ISAE 3000 (Revised) responsibility) to obtain limited assurance. The Practitioner’s Report can be // Topics which appear in the “very found on pages 54 to 55. important” section of the materiality matrix; applicable to both axes References to information not contained in the Combined // Topics which form part of Brenntag’s Group Management Report or the Management Report of Group strategy and/or sustainability Brenntag AG are not part of the NFB. targets BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 52 NFB This materiality process identified the following topics as NFB The contents and data provided in ­being material to Brenntag within the meaning of the law: this report have been determined by way of internal processes. They derive BRENNTAG: MATERIAL TOPICS PURSUANT TO SECTION 289C, PARA. 3, from Brenntag’s existing management SENTENCE 1 OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE (HGB) and data-recording systems and from ASPECTS TOPIC AND company documents and have been PAGE REFERENCE obtained from the operational units Environmental matters // P  rotection of soil, air and waof Brenntag’s regions as well as the reter (pages 20, 22, 24, 33) sponsible corporate departments. The // Energy efficiency (pages 29–30) contents of this report have been reEmployee matters // O ccupational health and safety viewed by employees with the relevant (pages 20, 22, 25–26) specialist expertise. The content of the // Employee development (pages 40–43, 47) NFB has also been audited by PwC purRespect for human rights // H  uman rights suant to ISAE 3000 (Revised) to obtain (pages 9–12) limited assurance. Anti-corruption and bribery // P  reventing corruption matters (pages 9–12) The data published in this sustainability Social matters // Identified as being immaterial report have been compiled and proto the non-financial report within the meaning of the law cessed with the greatest care. However, we are unable to completely rule out Supply chain responsibility // S ustainable procurement (pages 36–37, 39) the possibility of transcription errors. To provide better readability, we conSocial matters were identified as being immaterial to Brenntag sistently use the term “employee” in the within the meaning of the law and were therefore not includsustainability report. This refers to all our ed in the NFB. We have reported on the social activities and employees of any gender. wide-ranging involvement of our employees in the Community chapter on page 48ff. In addition to the aspects covered by BOUNDARIES OF KEY TOPICS PURSUANT the law, Brenntag has identified “Supply chain responsibility” as TO GRI (103-1) being material within the meaning of the law. As the market The diagram on page 53 shows the leader in chemical distribution, we believe we have a responsiboundaries of the key topics pursuant to bility to promote the non-financial aspects within the chemical the GRI (103-1). The relevant GRI standindustry’s supply chain. ards covered by each topic are also DATA BASIS indicated. For key topics that are not This sustainability report covers Brenntag AG, which is included covered by the GRI guidelines, we have in the consolidated financial statements, as well as the fully referred directly to the corresponding consolidated subsidiaries which are also included, along with management approaches in the report structured companies. For information on the group of conand, if necessary, to our website as solidated companies and consolidation method, see page 97 an additional source of information. and page 101 as well as the list of companies included in the We have combined the management consolidated financial statements on page 155ff. of Brenntag’s ­approaches for the GRI-relevant stand2018 Annual Report. Any deviations from these parameters are ards and presented them for the areas indicated in the relevant section of this sustainability report. of economical, environmental and social The reporting period for this sustainability report covers topics. the 2018 financial year (Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018) of the Brenntag Group and follows on from the Sustainability Report There were no changes to the key ­topics for the Financial Year 2017, which was published in April 2018. or the boundaries compared to the preAny deviations regarding the reporting periods for individual vious year. data and contents are noted separately. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS REPORT PROFILE﻿ 53 RELEVANT TOPIC RELEVANT RELEVANT RELATED GRI STANDARD 2016 OR MANAGEMENT APPROACH WITHIN THE OUTSIDE THE FOR ADDITIONAL RELEVANT TOPICS ORGANIZAORGANIZATION TION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance // GRI 307: Environmental Compliance // GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling // GRI 418: Customer Privacy // GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Ethical/Moral Principles // p. 8–11 // https://www.brenntag.com/corporate/en/about-brenntag/strategy-and-­organisation/ vision-and-values/index.jsp Anti-corruption // GRI 205: Anti-corruption Code of Conduct // p. 9–10 Risk Management // Brenntag 2017 Annual Report, p. 68–69 Human Rights // GRI 406: Non-discrimination // GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining // GRI 408: Child Labour // GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labour // GRI 410: Security Practices // GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples // GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment // GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Antitrust and Competition Laws // GRI 206: Anticompetitive behaviour SAFETY Occupational Safety and Health Protection // GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety Product Safety // GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety Product Quality // p. 8 Process Safety // p. 23 Safe Handling of Chemicals // GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety // GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Risk Prevention // p. 8-9, 20–24 // Brenntag 2018 Annual Report p. 68–69 ENVIRONMENT Protection (Soil, Air, Water) // GRI 303: Water // GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Water Management // GRI 303: Water Emissions Reductions/Climate Protection // GRI 305: Emissions Resource Efficiency // p. 14–19, 29–35 Energy Efficiency // GRI 302: Energy Environmental Management // p. 20–24, 29–31 Recycling // p. 16–17, 34 Waste Management // GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Transportation // p. 31 SUPPLY CHAIN Sustainable Procurement, Supplier Man// GRI 204: Procurement Practices agement, Supplier Qualification/Training, // GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment Sub-contractor Management // GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Sustainable Customer Solutions // GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling (Products/Services) EMPLOYEES Personnel Development/Training/Talent // GRI 404: Training and Education Management Compensation and Benefits // GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Working Conditions // GRI 402: Labour-Management Relations Work-Life Balance // p. 44–45 Diversity // GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity // GRI 406: Anti-discrimination Labour and Social Policy Rights // GRI 402: Labour-Management Relations // GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Employee Satisfaction/ Engagement // (GRI 401: Employment) Recruiting // (GRI 401: Employment) PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY Social/Charitable Commitments // GRI 413: Local Communities Local Community Engagement // GRI 413: Local Communities Participation in Industry Associations // p  . 24, 39 https://www.brenntag.com/media/documents/sustainability_reports/­brenntag_list_ of_memberships_20150630.pdf BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 54 PRACTITIONER’S REPORT INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S REPORT ON A LIMITED ASSURANCE ­ENGAGEMENT ON NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING1) TO BRENNTAG AG, ESSEN PRACTITIONER´S RESPONSIBILITY We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the Our responsibility is to express a ­limited ­separate non-financial group report pursuant to § (­Article) 315b assurance conclusion on the Non-­ Abs. (paragraph) 3 HGB (Handelsgesetzbuch: G ­ erman C ­ ommercial financial Report based on the assurance Code) of Brenntag AG, Essen, (­hereinafter the “Company”) for ­engagement we have performed. the period from January 1 to December 31, 2018 (hereinafter the “Non-financial Report”). Within the scope of our engagement, we did not perform an audit on ­external RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS sources of in-formation or expert The executive directors of the Company are responsible for ­opinions, referred to in the Non-­financial the preparation of the Non-financial Report in accordance with Report. §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. We conducted our assurance engageThis responsibility of Company’s executive directors includes ment in accordance with the ­International the selection and application of appropriate methods of non-­ Standard on Assurance Engagements financial reporting as well as making assumptions and esti(ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagemates related to individual non-financial disclosures which are ments other than Audits or Reviews of reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the executive Historical Financial Information, issued directors are responsible for such internal control as they have by the IAASB. This Standard requires considered necessary to enable the preparation of a Non-finanthat we plan and perform the assurance cial Report that is free from material misstatement whether engage­ment to allow us to conclude with due to fraud or error. limited assurance that nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL OF THE AUDIT FIRM that the Company’s Non-financial Report We have complied with the German professional provifor the period from January 1 to Decemsions regarding independence as well as other ethical ber 31, 2018 has not been prepared, in requirements. all material aspects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and 289c to 289e HGB. professional standards – in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors In a limited assurance engagement the (Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchassurance procedures are less in extent prüfer: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality C ­ ontrol than for a reasonable assurance engage1 published by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of ment, and therefore a substantially lower Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality level of assurance is obtained. The assurcontrol for audit firms (IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: ance procedures selected depend on the Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftspractitioner’s judgment. prüferpraxis – IDW QS 1) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical ­requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 1) PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the separate non-financial group report and ­issued an independent assurance report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent assurance report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS PRACTITIONER’S REPORT﻿ 55 Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we perINTENDED USE OF THE ASSURANCE formed amongst others the following assurance procedures REPORT and further activities: We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the Company. // O btaining an understanding of the structure of the The assurance engagement has been sustainability organization and of the stakeholder performed for purposes of the C­ ompany engagement and the report is solely intended to in// Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the form the Company about the results Non-financial Report regarding the preparation process, of the limited assurance engagement. the internal control system relating to this process and The report is not intended for any third selected disclosures in the Non-financial Report parties to base any (financial) decision // Identification of the likely risks of material misstatement thereon. Our responsibility lies only of the Non-financial Report with the Company. We do not assume // Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the any responsibility towards third parties. Non-financial Report // Comparison of selected disclosures with corresponding Frankfurt am Main, April 18, 2019 data in the consolidated financial statements and in the group management report PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH // Evaluation of the presentation of the non-financial Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft information ASSURANCE CONCLUSION ppa. Nicolette Behncke Based on the assurance procedures performed and assurance Wirtschaftsprüfer evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that (German public auditor) causes us to believe that the Company’s Non-financial Report for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2018 has not ppa. Juliane von Clausbruch been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 56 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI STANDARD AND DISCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC GRI 101: Foundation 2016 SR: p. 5–8, 51–53 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational profile 102-01 Name of the organization Brenntag AG 102-02 Activities, brands, products and services SR: p. 4–5 www.brenntag.com AR: p. 32 102-03 Location of headquarters Messeallee 11, 45131 Essen, Germany 102-04 Location of operations SR: Inner fold-out page AR: p. 157–165 102-05 Ownership and legal form AR: p. 9, 32 102-06 Markets served AR: p. 40–43 102-07 Scale of the organization SR: Inner fold-out page AR: fold-out page, p. 86–87 102-08 Information on employees and SR: p. 46–47 6 other workers 102-09 Supply chain SR: p. 4–5, 36–39 102-10 Significant changes to the organization SR: p. 36–39 In the reporting period there were no significant changes to the supply chain. and its supply chain AR: p. 32, 37 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach AR: p. 34, 68–70 102-12 External initiatives SR: p. 9, 11, 21, 24, 39 102-13 Membership of associations https://www.brenntag.com/media/documents/sustainability_reports/­brenntag_ list_of_memberships_20150630.pdf Strategy 102-14 Statement from the CEO SR: p. 2–3 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and SR: p. 4–5, 8–11 https://www.brenntag.com/corporate/en/about-brenntag/strategy-and-­ 10 norms of behaviour organisation/vision-and-values/index.jsp Governance 102-18 Governance structure AR: p. 12–15, 16–17, 22–29 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR: p. 12 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Due to its large number of international locations and the broad range of labour 3 regulations applicable to these locations, Brenntag does not record these data in a consolidated format. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR: p. 12–13 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR: p. 12–13, 14, 36–39, 48–50 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR: p. 5–7, 12–13, 16–19 Reporting practice 102-45 List of consolidated entities AR: p. 97, 157–165 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries SR: p. 5–7, 51–53 102-47 List of material topics SR: p. 6, 53 102-48 Restatements of information SR: p. 30, 52 AR: p. 93–97 102-49 Changes in reporting SR: p. 51–52 AR: p. 93–95, 97–99 102-50 Reporting period SR: p. 51 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding SR: p. 60 the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with Core the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index SR: p. 56–59 102-56 External assurance SR: p. 54–55 SR: Brenntag Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2018 AR: Brenntag 2018 Annual Report BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI CONTENT INDEX﻿ 57 GRI STANDARD AND DISCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC ECONOMIC 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its SR: p. 53 boundary AR: p. 33–34 103-2 Management approach SR: p. 4–8 AR: p. 33–34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: p. 5–8, 8–12 AR: p. 38–43 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and AR: fold-out page, p. 84, distributed 114 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and AR: p. 114, 128–136 other retirement plans GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers SR: p. 36–39 Local and regional purchasing is only of minor significance for the business model of a chemical distributor. GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to SR: p. 9–10 Within the scope of internal audits, a total of 28 Brenntag companies were 10 corruption reviewed in relation to corruption risks etc. in the reporting year. 205-2 Communication and training about SR: p. 9–10, 11 10 ­anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and SR: p. 10 10 actions taken GRI 206: Anticompetitive behaviour 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, AR: p. 76 antitrust and monopoly practices ENVIRONMENTAL 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its SR: p. 53 boundary 103-2 Management approach SR: p. 4–8, 20–24, 29–35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: p. 7, 12–13, 20–24, 29–35 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization SR: p. 30 7, 8 302-3 Energy intensity SR: p. 30 8 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SR: p. 14, 29–31 8, 9 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source SR: p. 32–33 7, 8 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by SR: p. 32–33 8 withdrawal of water GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SR: p. 30 7, 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions SR: p. 30 7, 8 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SR: p. 30 8 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste SR: p. 34 Waste volumes are not recorded or consolidated on a Group-wide basis at 8 Brenntag. 306-3 Significant spills SR: p. 24, 33–34 In the reporting period, there was one additional significant spill through which 8 liquid chemicals were discharged into the environment. The chemicals were immediately rectified and there was no damage to the environment. GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws The Brenntag Group paid fines of approx. EUR 185,000 in the reporting period 8 and regulations due to non-compliance with environmental regulations. GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using SR: p. 36–39 8 environmental criteria SR: Brenntag Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2018 AR: Brenntag 2018 Annual Report BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 58 GRI STANDARD AND DISCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC SOCIAL 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its SR: p. 53 boundary 103-2 Management approach SR: p. 4–13, 25–27, 40–41 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: p. 7, 40–42 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 Employee turnover SR: p. 41, 47 Brenntag only reports the level of employee fluctuation by region. A breakdown 6 by age is not possible, since age data for the North America region have not been fully recorded for all employees due to North American legislation. Valid evaluation of these data is therefore not possible. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees SR: p. 44–45 Due to our company’s decentralized and international structure, it is not possible 6 to provide a complete list of the benefits which our employees receive. For this reason, only a few examples are provided in this report. GRI 402: Labour/Management Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding Brenntag informs its employees of impending operational changes at an early 3 ­operational changes stage and comprehensively, while complying with applicable national and ­international notification periods. GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-2 Injuries, occupational diseases and SR: p. 25–28 ­work-related fatalities GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills SR: p. 40–44 and transition assistance programs GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and SR: p. 45–47 6 ­employees AR: p. 22–29 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of SR: p. 45 6 women to men GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective SR: p. 10, 12 Brenntag reports on the total number of confirmed compliance incidents. More 6 actions taken detailed information cannot be disclosed for confidentiality reasons. Accordingly, we do not explicitly report the number of complaints relating to discrimination. GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right SR: p. 10–11, 36–39, 44 Within the framework of our TfS membership, we request our suppliers to 3 to freedom of association and collective undergo sustainability assessments, which also include a review of protection of bargaining may be at risk the right of association and the right to collective bargaining. Brenntag’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics as well as our Supplier Code of Conduct also require the protection of human rights, equal treatment and fair working conditions. GRI 407: Child labour 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk SR: p. 8–12, 36–39 5 for incidents of child labour GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labour 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk SR: p. 8–12, 36–39 4 for incidents of forced or compulsory labour GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights Brenntag will review the relevance of this aspect. 1 policies or procedures GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of We have not received any reports on incidents for the reporting period. 1 indigenous peoples GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations subject to human rights reviews SR: p. 8–12 1 or impact assessments 412-3 Investment agreements that include For every company acquisition, aspects such as compliance and employment 2 human rights clauses agreements are examined in addition to commercial factors as part of due diligence. We disclose information about these transactions in the annual report (p. 37). For information on the Due Diligence process on acquisitions, please see our website at https://www.brenntag.com/corporate/en/nachhaltigkeit/management-nachhaltigkeit/compliance/index.jsp SR: Brenntag Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2018 AR: Brenntag 2018 Annual Report BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI CONTENT INDEX﻿ 59 GRI STANDARD AND DISCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community SR: p. 48–50 Brenntag does not systematically assess the impact of its community and social 1 ­engagement, impact assessments and activities. ­development programmes GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using SR: p. 36–39 Within the framework of its HSE guidelines, Brenntag Group has also detersocial criteria mined processes and criteria for dealing with subcontractors, which carry out construction and maintenance work at Brenntag locations. They aim at ­preventing accidents and incidents, allowing safe execution of work and ­protecting the subcontractors’ health. GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the There were no incidents during the reporting period. health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service SR: p. 24 ­information and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning There were no incidents during the reporting period. ­product and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning There were no incidents during the reporting period. marketing communications GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning SR: p. 8–10, 11–12 Brenntag reports on the total number of confirmed compliance incidents. More ­breaches of customer privacy detailed information cannot be disclosed for confidentiality reasons. Accordingly, we do not explicitly report the number of complaints relating to customer privacy. GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations AR: p. 76 in the social and economic area SR: Brenntag Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2018 AR: Brenntag 2018 Annual Report BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 60 IMPRINT Issuer Concept and text Brenntag AG Verena Blaschke Messeallee 11 Corporate Communications, Brenntag AG 45131 Essen, Germany Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany T +49 (0) 201 6496 0 F +49 (0) 201 6496 1010 Design and layout info@brenntag.de Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany www.brenntag.com Print Contact WOESTE DRUCK + VERLAG GmbH & Co KG, Brenntag AG Essen, Germany Corporate Development Dr. Dirk Eckert Productionsmanagement T +49 (0) 201 6496 1317 Labude. corporate products, Essen, Germany sustainability@brenntag.de Picture credits Project Management/Editor-in-chief Page 1: © Brenntag/DerGrünePunkt; Dr. Dirk Eckert Page 13: © China Petroleum and Chemical Corporate Development, Brenntag AG Industry Federation (CPCIF); Page 19: © DerVerena Blaschke GrünePunkt; Page 32: © Shell Global SoluCorporate Communications, Brenntag AG tions/Tecosol/Neste; Page 35: © Brenntag/ Commercial Fuel Solutions; Page 40: © Indian Chemical Council (ICC); Page 50: © Public Health Emergencies Company – 061 – Health & Family C­ ounselling – Regional Government of ­Andalusia; other pictures: Brenntag This Sustainability Report is a translation of the original German version. In case of any differences only the German version is binding. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 BRENNTAG AG Messeallee 11 45131 Essen Germany www.brenntag.com
