SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 1 102-1, 102-3, 102-45, 102-46, 102-50, 102-52, 102-54 About This Report It has been the sixth Communication of Progress and fifth Sustainability Report by Ak-Kim since the company became a party to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on December 13th, 2007. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The Report states Ak-Kim’s approach to the global principles besides the company’s goals determined within this frame. Report Content This report is developed mainly in light of the opinions and expectations of our company’s senior management in addition to key stakeholders employees, customers and business partners. The social, economic and environmental performances of Ak-Kim within the scope of whole operational activities are described. Boundaries and Limitations Unless stated as otherwise, this report covers, without any limitations and boundaries, all services and operations of Ak-Kim Kimya Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. performed between January 1st, 2016 and December 31st, 2017, at the production facilities located in Yalova and at company’s headquarters in Istanbul. This report excludes sub-contractors for logistics and subemployers from which we receive support services at production sites. Our Next Report Reporting frequency is biennial. Our next report will be issued in 2020, covering the sustainability performance in 2018 & 2019. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 2 4 Message To Stakeholders 6 About Ak-Kim About Ak-Kim Brief History Mission, Vision, Values and Key Qualifications Products and Services Significant Developments in the Reporting Period 13 Ak-Kim and Sustainability Corporate Governance Dialogue with Stakeholders Memberships Sustainability Cooperations Prioritized Sustainaiblity Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals Goals and Compliance with Sustainable Development Goals Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Policy 25 Economic Performance 30 Environmental Performance 40 Social Performance 58 GRI Content Index 62 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 3 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-14 Message To Stakeholders We aim to make major contributions for both Turkey’s economy and chemical industry thanks to our ability to evaluate the right opportunities at the right time. Dear Stakeholders, As Ak-Kim, we are glad to present our fifth sustainability report, which we evaluate our activities in terms of economic, environmental and social activities, by adding value to our society and our sector and presenting our sixth Progress Report to you, our esteemed stakeholders, in which we talk about our efforts undertaken by us in the context of the United Nations Global Compact. Now, we proud to see that our potential reaches 800,000 tons of capacity and 1,500 products in total together with our subsidiaries in the chemical industry in which we entered by producing thousand tons of sulphur dioxide per year in 1977. We have conducted strategic investments by assessing organic and inorganic growth opportunities rationally and expanding our product portfolio in these 41 years. We became one of Turkey’s leading chemical company thanks to our experience in know-how processes, entrepreneurial spirit and ability to make a right choice. As the first and only producer of many products in our production items, we continue contributing to national economy and being a model company which is a pioneer the sector. We achieved the capability to establish turnkey plants thanks to our conducted engineering works, the facilities we have established and our ever-expanding product range by following the technology closely since our establishment. We aim to continue to create added value for each sector we get in touch with raw materials and semi-finished products we manufactured. We have added inorganic growth to our organic growth activities since 2013. In particular, we incorporated Akferal Company by getting into an equal partnership with Feralco. We grew more by acquiring full ownership of Gizem Frit in 2015, one of the world's largest enamel and ceramic frit producer. We started the production of equipment by entering advanced water treatment technologies thanks to our ultrafiltration process project Onur Kipri General Manager Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 4 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-14 Message To Stakeholders in 2015. At the beginning of 2017 we continued our inorganic growth by acquiring full As a necessity for a decent work approach, we realize all our business processes in ownership of Dinox, a German Chemical Company. In addition, we acquired shares of accordance with occupational health and safety principles. With our effective Occupational Feralco in the Akferal Company; therefore Akferal Company became a wholly-owned Health and Safety practices such as performance monitoring, occupational health and subsidiary of Ak-Kim. The fact that Gizem Frit, incorporated by us in 2017, acquired safety trainings, drills and field inspections, Behaviour-Oriented Occupational Safety Megacolor, one of the most important ceramic chemicals companies, contributed us to Project (ROTA), we strive to provide a safe working environment for our employees. grow more. We aim to make significant contributions for both Turkey’s economy and chemical industry thanks to our ability to evaluate the right opportunities at the right time. We colloborate manner and try to obtain maximum efficiency from the projects by taking positions according to the needs and expectations of our employees in the projects we The concept of sustainability is considered an integral part of business life on a global carry out related to our employees’ development. scale. As Ak-Kim, we continued our sustainability efforts increasingly which we started thanks to our strategies and the roadmap designed in 2014. We updated our sustainability In 2017, we included our customers’ related processes into the digital transformation priorities with helding workshops by taking into consideration the views of our key studies which were added to the R&D processes in 2016. The fact that we are already stakeholders in line with the current situation and expectations of the industry. We aim to taking steps in the field of digitalization which is developing rapidly and will have a more develop projects within the framework of our priority issues in the five-year medium term important value in the future makes us stand out in our industry. We conduct studies period, which covers the years 2019-2023, by setting targets in line with these strategies. in parallel with the market and customer needs in our R & D Centre established in 2013 In addition, we aligned our sustainability strategies and goals with the Global Development thanks to our qualified engineers and years of experience in the sector. With the Ak-Kim Goals declared by the United Nations, based on common grounds such as human, welfare, Innovation Culture Project, launched in 2016, we aim to transform innovation studies we planet, peace and partnerships. Thus, we made our practices traceable on a national carry out in line with the global standards into a more highly-adapted and supported area and international scale. In this way, we can analyse the changes in our domains and take within the organization. We aim to provide an appropriate and encouraging environment actions according to these analyses by proceeding with meaningful and measurable steps. in order for our employees to discover new products and processes. “Great Place to Work” predicates a trusted work environment where our employees, our We will continue our works adding value to Turkey and the World for sustainable future most important stakeholders, can reliably be engaged and get attached to, be proud of in the light of science and technology in order to maintain our position in the chemical their workplace and the job they perform and work in perfect harmony and cooperation industry in the national and international platforms we have today. with their colleagues. As Ak-Kim, we will continue to strive to provide a working environment in which we observe the dimensions of “Reliability”, “Respect”, “Justice”, Kind regards... “Pride” and “Team Spirit” for our employees. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 5 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-4, 102-5, 102-6 About Ak-Kim Ak-Kim, incorporated within the structure directing its activities to the right targets The company emphasizes on inorganic of Akkök Holding and being the leader in R &D Center established in 2013, turned growth opportunities in its growth strategy. chemicals producer of Turkey, established into an organization capable of making Ak-Kim entered new markets by acquiring in Yalova in 1977, has gradually broadened innovation at global standards. The usage full ownership of Gizem Frit in 2015, one of About Akkök its production activities for 41 years. Today of resources is reorganized and aligned the world's largest enamel and ceramic frit Holding Ak-Kim is a global chemical company in parallel with the requirements of the producer. Acquiring companies continued serving customers in six continents with market and customers. in 2017. Providing services in 70 countries its broad product portfolio including chlorabroad, Ak-Kim acquired Dinox, a chemical Founded in 1952 by dear departed alkali and derivatives, peroxides, bisulfites, Using its presence and synergy in the sales and marketing company in Germany, Raif Dinçkök, Akkök Holding is one of textile auxiliaries, paper and water water treatment sector, Ak-Kim entered in order to be close to its customers in the the deep-rooted institutions of Turkey treatment chemicals, cement and concrete the advanced technology treatment sector European market and to expand its export with its 66 years of experience. There additives. with the ultrafiltration membrane module activities. are 19 commercial and industrial investment at Yalova Plant. Ak-Kim is the companies, one of them is abroad and The company is a market leader in many first and only manufacturer of this product Gizem Frit, a subsidiary of Ak-Kim, has 19 production plants in the holding products such as basic and performance in Turkey thanks to the modern factory recently performed a significant integration structure operating in chemical, chemicals, provides services sectors established in 2016. investment by acquiring Megacolor, which energy and real-estate industries. including cleaning, chemistry, textile, produces ceramic printing inks in Spain. Closely monitoring overseas paper and water treatment, food, metal, Ak-Kim has been exporting its know-how markets in the sectors participated agricultural pesticide, energy, building, processes and technologies to foreign Together with its subsidiaries, Ak-Kim has a in, Akkök Holding aims to achieve mining, leather, plastic and construction. companies since 2002 and rendering all special place in the chemical industry with global competition conditions and services, from engineering to turnkey its more than 850 employees, producing reach world standards with all of its Ak-Kim, which aims to enrich its products contracting. in 6 different locations and its structure companies. and produce innovative solutions by offering various products for different sectors. 800 400 70 1500+ thousand countries 509 11 tons production capacity thousand Export products turnkey projects m production site 2 Employees abroad Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 6 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Milestones 1980 1990 2000 2010 1977-1985 1985 1995 1995 2005 2005 2010 2010 2015 2015 2017 • Foundation: 1,000 • DMAC • ISO 14001 • OHSAS 18001 • 40,000 ton/year new SMBS • Acquiring full ownership of ton/year SO2 • DMF • Hydrogen • UN Global Compact facility Gizem Frit • Chlorine Alkali Peroxide • SPC • Akferal (JV) • Investment of • 1,100 ton/year Facility • Pulp and Paper • Logistic Center Ultrafiltration Facility SMBS • Concrete admixtures • Methylamine Chemicals • R&D Center registration • Sodiumpersulphate Facility • Hydrogen Peroxide • Persulfates Facility • Abroad • Acquiring of Dostel in Facility in Pakistan • Hydrochloric Acid Plant in • Responsible Care engineering (Sitara) Greece(Kapachim) structure of Akferal • Textile softener services: • ISO 9001 • Installation of two • Chlorine Alkali Plant in • Ammoniumpersulphate • STIOS & FeCl3 • Expansion of a turnkey Chlorine Algeria (Adwan) Facility Chlorine Alkali Alkali Plants in Saudi • New Products: ESBO • Ferrous 3 Chloride Plant in Plant in Jordan Arabia (Cristal ve Peracetic Acid Algeria (Adwan) (NCI) Jana) • Akualys (UF): International • Installation of a NSF certificate for using Turnkey Chlorine fresh water Alkaline Plant in • Membership of Turquality Jordan(JBC) Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 7 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-16 Mission, Vision, Values and Key Qualifications We add value to life with chemistry Becoming the global and pioneering chemical company of Turkey with minimum 1 billion USD turnover by 2023. • Inovation • Code of Ethics • Team Spirit • Respect for People • Sustainability • Strong engineering, R&D and Innovation Capabilites • Our Competent and Committed Employees, Our Intellectual Capital • Our Entrepreneurial Spirit • Our Sectoral Diversity • Our Customer Proximity Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 8 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-2, 102-6 Products and Services Basic Paper & Water Construction Textile Water Chemicals Treatment Chemicals Chemicals Chemicals Solutions Sectors Served 1. Cleaning 2. Chemical 3. Textile 4. Paper 5. Water Treatment 6. Food Sulfur Compounds • Wet Strength Chemicals • Asphalt Additives • Spinning and Conning Oils • A type of membrane • Sodium Bisulphite • Dry Strength Chemicals • Concrete Admixtures • Pretreatment Auxiliaries filtration (Ultrafiltration) 7. Metal • Sodium Metabisulphite • Internal Sizing Chemicals • Concrete Admixtures • Dyeing & Printing Auxiliaries 8. Agricultural Organic Chemicals Polymers • Acetic Acid • Yankee Coating Chemicals • Washing Agents Pesticide • Dimethylamine • Softeners • Cement Grinding Aids • Softeners 9. Energy • Dimethylacetamide • Bleaching Chemicals • Shotcrete Admixtures • Finishing Agents • Dimethylformamide 10. Building • Coagulants • Monomethylamine • Trimethylamine • Flocculants 11. Mining Per Chemicals • Active Carbon 12. Leather • Ammonium Persulphate • Antiscalants • Hydrogen Peroxide 13. Plastic • Emulsion Breakers • Potassium Persulphate 14. Construction • Sodium Percarbonate • Defoamers • Sodium Persulphate • Odor Control • Epoxidized Soybean Oil Chlorinated Compounds • Hydrochloric Acid • Chlorine Completed • Chlorine Alkali Plant in Jordan (JBC) • Hydroxide (Liquid) • Chlorine Alkali Plant in Jordan (NCI) • Sodium Hypochlorite Abroad Projects • Turnkey Chlorine Alkaline Plant in Jordan(JBC) • Trimethylamine Hydrochloride • Hydrogen Peroxide Facility in Pakistan (Sitara) • Dimethylamine Hydrochloride • Two turnkey Chlorine Alkali Plants in Saudi Arabia (Cristal ve Jana) Inorganic Coagulants • Hydrochloric Acid Plant in Greece(Kapachim) • Ferric III Chloride • Chlorine Alkali Plant in Algeria (Adwan) • Polyaluminium Chloride • Ferrous 3 Chloride Plant in Algeria (Adwan) • Aluminium Sulphate Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 9 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Significant Developments in the Reporting Period • Ak-Kim incorporated Dinox, a chemical sales • Ak-Kim built and and marketing company commissioned established in Soest ammonium persulfate province of Germany and has 20 Million Euro • In addition the shares of & potassium Feralco in Akferal Company persulphate plant in turnover. It was aimed to • The company started be close to the customers in were acquired. Therefore it Çerkezköy with the became a subsidiary of Aknew technology and to produce ESBO the European market and to product for the PVC expand export activities. Kim. Dilovası and Osmaniye capacity of 10,200 facilities started to be tons / year in Southern sector and Peracetic Acid product for the operated under the name of Ak-Kim (Yalova). Ak-Kim. cleaning sector. • Ak-Kim was • Ak-Kim was accepted • Gizem Frit, a subsidiary • It rebuilt the persulphates granted the NSF into Turquality, which of Ak-Kim and a producer plant with new technology (National Sanitary is the most prestigous of enamel coating, and 10.000 tons capacity Foundation) and extensive incorporated Megacolor, per year in Yalova which certificate incentive program, as manufacturing inkjet ink was previously operated in for the use of of June 2, 2016. for ceramic industry in Çerkezköy. 40% capacity Akualys branded Spain. This investment increase was carried out. ultrafiltration enables Gizem Frit to start module, which is production of inkjet ink and approved for use pigment for the ceramic in drinking water. industry. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 10 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Significant Developments in the Reporting Period • Ak-Kim established KABAM together with Koç University • Ak-Kim, Turkey’s (Koç University Ak-Kim leader chemicals • In December 2017, Boron Based Materials producer, founded ISO 9001 and ISO and Advanced Technology Science-Chemistry 14001: 2015 standard • Ak-Kim conducted • Both plant capacity version transitions Chemicals Application a series of laboratory for children who are curious about and product cost were were completed. In and Research Center) as a communication improved thanks to research center for boron science in cooperation December 2017, ISO activities within the innovation project 9001 and ISO 14001: technologies . the scope of its with KidZania, the world’s first city made implemented at the 2015 standard version 40th anniversary on SMBS facility at the transitions were October 5. for children. end of 2017. completed. • In 2017 June, the Oracle ERP R11 • At the end of the • In 2017, the DMAHCL • Under the guidance of an advisor workshops were version, which has been in use year 2017, the Plant with a capacity held on “Sustainability”, “Sustainable Development since 2007, was upgraded to R12 new Hydrochloric of 5,000 tons / year Goals”, and “Compliance of Business Goals at the end of the year. In parallel Acid plant was was commissioned with Sustainable Development Goals” with the with Industry 4.0, it was aimed to commissioned with after the new participation of employees from the departments create both corporate memory the capacity of 40,000 investment made to including Ak-Kim Executives, Health-Safetyand to serve customers faster by tons/year by having a the pharmaceutical Environment, Human Resources and Organizational developing work and business new investment about industry. The Development, Management Systems, Planning and model. chlorine alkali. appropriate product Logistics, Production, Investment and R&D. was manufactured in the first production. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 11 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Significant Developments in the Reporting Period Awards 2016 Ak-Kim’s 2014-2015 Sustainability Report prepared in accordance with the United Nations Global Compact and internationally recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) was awarded the Gold Award by LACP, one of the world’s most reputable communication platforms. 2017 In the process of “Star Akkök Employees Reward System” which is held to determine the most successfull practices within the Akkök Group of Companies; it was rewarded First Prize with the project a Chemical Finish Development and Applications for Carbon Fiber Process ’developed in cooperation development category with DowAksa. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 12 Ak-Kim and Sustainability Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 13 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-11, 102-18 Corporate Governance Akkök Holding is aware of the importance Board of Directors related to environmental practices is also occupational health & safety and labour of joint and participatory approaches in within the responsibility of the Board of rights. shaping the future of societies. Therefore, Directors. the Group signed the United Nations Global Ak-Kim Kimya Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. is a Additionally, Akkök Ethics Board was Compact in late 2007 and thus assured non-public joint stock company. Ak-Kim Regarding economic scope, the Board’s established and commissioned in 2014. that it will protect rights of its employees, Board of Directors is comprised of nine responsibility includes approving the The Board members are Directors of contribute to the society and act in an members with a gender distribution of budgets of sustainability practices and Audit, Human Resources and Legal Affairs environmental-friendly manner in all of its seven male and two female members. The encouraging such practices in other Departments of Akkök Holding. Human operations. Chairman of the Board is not a member of companies of the Akkök Holding. The Resources Directors of each company the Executive Board. The General Manager Board equally adopts all strategic issues within the Group are also represented at Having reinforced its reliable and strong represents the Board of Directors and has within the framework of sustainability. the Board. image with this initiative, Ak-Kim Group executive responsibility. continues its commitment to fulfil voluntary The Ethics Board guides the Akkök Holding responsibilities in global and sustainable Within the social scope of the triple Committees in thorough adoption and implementation development. A Board Member of Ak-Kim sustainable performance, the Board gives of Akkök Business Ethics Principles as represents Akkök Holding in the Global the final approval for corporate social Akkök Holding has a special committee fundamental and indispensable corporate Compact Local Network. responsibility projects. Approval and focused solely on sustainability. Ak-Kim has values. Akkök Holding companies issue authorization of all projects and budgets committees for sustainability, environment, monthly bulletins and run employee surveys to raise awareness in this regard. The management systems are indispensable parts of Sustainability Management in Ak-Kim. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 14 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 Dialogue with Stakeholders We reviewed the existing stakeholder portfolio and prepared a stakeholder map during the sustainability workshop we held in this reporting period with the participation of our senior management team. During prioritization, we gave special importance to those Key Stakeholders that have a high influence on managing our impact on sustainability and those that might be most affected by our operations. In addition to these platforms, during the reporting period, we held a sustainability awareness survey with the participation of senior Ak-Kim defines its Employees Local Authorities management and the selected focus group. With such practices stakeholders as “all people we ensured the involvement of our employees in the reporting process. The two main purposes of the survey were to improve and institutions that are sustainability awareness in our employees and to receive their affected by our products, Public Institutions Customers and opinions on this issue. During the reporting period, we run similar Dealers awareness survey to learn about the opinions of our dealers on our services and operations strategic issues. and that might affect our Feedback from the dealers revealed that Ak-Kim’s idea of sustainability has the positive influence on the subjects of company in reaching its Shareholders Local Communities occupational health and safety (92%), improving quality and strategic targets”. durability of products (75%) and preventing water pollution (75%). These subjects coincide entirely with the material sustainability Non-Profit Media issues we identified in the strategy workshop. Organizations Students and Group Companies Potential Employees Financial Institutions Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 15 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 Stakeholders Communication Method Frequency Employees Local Public Customers Authorities Institutions GPTW (Great Place to Work) Surveys, Visits Visits Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSS), conversation meetings with CEO, Ak-Kim fairs, product launches, customer Social Activities Club (ASEK), internal visits department meetings Regularly Regularly GPTW: Biannually; Conversation Meetings CSS: domestic and international, biennially with CEO: Biennially Once per 3 months Shareholders Suppliers Local Communities Board Meetings Supplier visits and audits Open Door, Akkök Children’s Festival, Social Responsibility Projects Quarterly Regularly Open Door: Upon request; Akkök Children’s Festival: Annually Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 16 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-12, 102-13 Memberships Ak-Kim stays in International Memberships Associations On Environment communication • CEFIC (The European Chemical Industry Council) – ESA Association • Environmental Working Group of İstanbul Chamber of Industry with institutions • Environmental Working Group of the Turkish Industry and Business Association and organizations Associations On Economy • Environmental Working Group of the Turkish Chemical through being Manufacturers Association a member of • Sectoral Assembly of the Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey • Turkish Association of Chemical Tanker Cleaning associations • Sectoral Assembly of İstanbul Chamber of Industry • Quality Association of Turkey on economy, • Turkish Chemical Manufacturers Association • Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association (Deniztemiz Turmepa) environment and • Yalova Association of Industrialists • TUSIAD Environment and Climate Change Working Group social. Thus, it can • İstanbul Chamber of Commerce • TUSIAD Energy Efficiency Working Group be up to date about • İstanbul Commodity Exchange social and sectoral • İstanbul Union of Mine and Metal Exporters Partnerships In Social Responsibility Projects • İstanbul Chemicals and Chemical Products Exporters’ Association topics and can learn • Central Anatolian Exporters Union • Global Compact Local Network their requirements. • Federation of Industrial Associations • Corporate Social Responsibility Association of Turkey • Supply Chain Management Association • Community Volunteers Foundation • YALKİM Organized Industrial Zone • Educational Volunteers Foundation of Turkey • Carbon Association • Turkish Association for People Management • Chemport • Women Entrepreneurs Council of Yalova Chamber of Industry and Commerce • Quality Association of Turkey • Yanindayiz Association Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 17 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-12, 102-13 Sustainability Cooperation Ak-Kim has voluntarily committed and approved sustainability initiatives in place. • Ak-Kim is one of the first Turkish companies to commit to Responsible Care and implement the program. [February 11th , 1993] • Ak-Kim is one of the pioneering Turkish companies to sign the UN Global Compact. [December 13th , 2007] • Ak-Kim is a member of the Executive Board of the Global Compact Local Network, on behalf of Akkök Holding. [2013 2016] Responsible Care is a program primarily considering the protection of human life, environment and natural resources in all stages of activities and giving particular importance to this consistently. The Canadian Chemical Producers’ Association initially suggested the idea in 1984; then it spread all over the world, and today it is implemented in more than 50 countries. Responsible Care Program is a voluntary initiative for the chemical industry. It is coordinated by the Turkish Chemical Manufacturers Association (TKSD) on behalf of CEFIC in our country. In accordance with the Responsible Care Program, Ak-Kim attaches importance to the protection of the environment and human health as well as industrial safety at every stage of feasibility, planning, project designing, assembly, production activities, transportation, maintenance, and other services. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 18 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-44, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 103-1 Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals While Ak-Kim is carries on the activities, it prioritizes some topics as economic performance, emission management, solid waste and waste water management, occupational health and safety, water management. High Economic Ak-Kim acts with the awareness of the Performance importance of identifying the primary Customer Health and Safety indicators of economic, social and environmental strategies and related Emission Management objectives. The priority areas, which are essential for the stakeholders and closely affecting the way Ak-Kim’ business, are determined through regular prioritization Solid Waste and Waste Water Management studies. The subjects that Ak-Kim will focus on in the next five years are determined Influence on Stakeholders Occupational Health and Ak-Kim Sustainability Issues Matrix was Assessments and Decisions and Safety Water Management established in the sustainability workshop held in 2017 with the participation of senior management. Energy Management Ak-Kim also considers contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals which aim to find solutions to the global problems in Human Rights line with the priority issues and targets set. Efficient use of raw materials Anti-competitive behavior Employment Anti-Corruption Low Low Significance of Impacts for Ak-Kim High Reputation, Regulatory, Financial, Operational Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 19 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-44, 102-48, 102-49 Goals and Compliance with Sustainable Development Goals Ak-Kim is aligned its econmic, environmental and social goals with “Sustainable Development Goals” which is global agenda in recent years. Ak-Kim aims to be developed and implemented within the framework of priority issues in the five-year mid-term period of 2019-2023 in the light of all the reviews and the issues determined by Ak-Kim Sustainability Matrix regarding sustainability. All functions were aligned with local and global targets, taking into consideration the priorities of internal and external stakeholders within the framework of corporate business objectives in the workshops held in the company to determine Ak-Kim’s strategic sustainability strategies. Ak-Kim’s focal sustainability issues were determined by analysing in detail in economic, environmental and social aspects technically. Following this strategic work, the focal plans were prioritized for the next five-year medium term and action plans were determined and road map studies were initiated with the participation of senior management and function leaders. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 20 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 103-2, 103-3 Goals and Compliance with Sustainable Development Goals Economic Goals : Economic Development and Innovativeness... Projects will be prepared for the continuation, development Active and pioneering participation in sectoral platforms will and dissemination of energy efficiency enhancing works in all be increased by following the activities to support sectoral processes. development. There are some structural problems which restrict the chemical The chemical industry has an important status in Turkey’s Ak-Kim is among the pioneer and industry in Turkey to achieve preferred progress. High input costs are development. The chemical industry is a field of operation leading actors of the chemical industry at the top of this list. The energy has a prominent place among the that provides competitive advantage and development in local in Turkey. Ak-Kim, which contributes to inputs of chemistry. development thanks to both its final goods and intermediates products the development of reducing the foreign which are supplied to other branches of industry. dependency of chemistry industry in Ak-Kim focuses on energy efficiency studies to reduce input costs significantly. Ak-Kim aims to use all its channels to share its good The most critical issue in the progression of the chemical industry in Turkey thanks to its R & D Activities, aims practices with its external stakeholders actively as well as continue to Turkey is that lack of activeness of the sectoral actors for developing to become a global producer of specialty work on energy efficiency increasingly. effective policies in the platforms in which they participate. As Ak-Kim, chemicals in the most critical position in our primary strategy is to intensify external stakeholders’ relations in Turkey in the near future. order to make the participation and guidance in the platforms where the chemical sector is together more active. Ak-Kim, which export one third of its production with strength and reliable position in the chemical industry, the third largest field of export in Turkish The effectiveness of the platforms such as the suggestion economy following automotive and textile, Joint projects with external stakeholders will be developed in system supporting innovative studies within the organization is increasing its influence day by day by will be increased. order to increase the knowledge and awareness of institutional exporting more than 70 countries in 6 and individual consumers about the chemical industry. continents. Ak-Kim progresses not only with its R & D centre but also with The chemical industry and its production have the most critical sectors the suggestions of its employees in every function. R & D and in ensuring the natural and sustainable harmony of humanity with innovativeness approach are the most critical zones of development the world. The chemical industry has an active role in ensuring the for the chemical industry. production of almost every industrial area and the compatibility of the production outputs and wastes with nature. In order to make Ak-Kim employees’ participation in innovative work more effective and efficient, studies will be made to disseminate the Increasing relevant factors about solutions of the chemical industry suggestion platform within the organization and to facilitate its access. against problems faced by active and potential organizational customers primarily in the field of industry, ensuring them to . understand the chemistry as a solution partner have an indispensable position among communication goals of Ak-Kim. It is also essential that individual users perceive chemistry as one of the most effective fields of knowledge in ensuring the harmony of humanity with nature. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 21 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 103-2 Goals and Compliance with Sustainable Development Goals Environmental Goals : Protection of Fresh Water and Energy Efficiency... Efforts related protecting water and energy in the production R & D and P & D approaches and projects will be extended stages will be continued and improved. By 2023, water reports to all employees. Again, efforts will be made to encourage will be prepared concerning the production facilities and suppliers about R & D activities. strategies will be developed in the light of this report. As Ak-Kim, we are aware of the importance of the development and In research conducted, Ak-Kim is defined Ak-Kim made significant progress especially in the areas of water use participation of our suppliers in the full alignment of all our activities as environmental friendly corporate by its and waste water and efficient use of energy. We are proud to mention and business objectives in accordance with the global targets. It was stakeholders. Ak-Kim carries out advanced that Ak-Kim’s performance is at an internationally recognized and determined that informative inspirer studies should be performed practices in the field of environment with appreciated level in all areas. which will enable our suppliers of goods and services to increase their the participation of employees as well as commitment on sustainable development targets and to perform R fulfilling all requirements of ISO 140001: However, in addition to these developments, As Ak-Kim, we aim to & D and P & D studies in order for them to be compatible with global 2015 Environmental Management System. carry out analysis regarding “water footprint, sustainability and supply targets within this framework in the next five years. risks”. Ak-Kim’s water policies will be examined by 2023, and revised The utmost care is shown to ensure if necessary in the light of the analyses presented in this report, and a that the products manufactured are strategic action plan will be prepared in the light of these policies. environmentally friendly while Ak-Kim performs advanced practices at the production stage in the fields of practices such as solid waste management, water management, wastewater management and water re-use, emission management in the context of climate change. For responsible consumption, Ak-Kim will participate in active projects. Studies will be conducted to develop responsible production approach in a way to include suppliers. Ak-Kim have prioritized the conservation of regional resources, adequate provision of consumer needs, and user health since starting from the day it was founded. Responsible production approach constitutes the basic production philosophy of Ak-Kim beyond international and local legal regulations in many fields of operation. In addition to this, it was determined that Ak-Kim should take a more active role in transferring the knowledge and experiences necessary for the corporate and individual stakeholders to discipline their consumption with the same sense of responsibility in the upcoming period. It was decided that Ak-Kim should support qualified projects oriented towards raising awareness of consumers by both public and sectoral platforms and projects should be produced. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 22 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Goals and Compliance with Sustainable Development Goals Social Goals: The position of Chemistry in the Life, Business Ethics... Future oriented innovative studies will be conducted thus improving the chemistry in life by increasing the contribution of chemical industry to the health of Ensuring the production of goods with individuals. high added value, working on product and technology development in areas We encounter a product of chemistry in that are likely to gain importance in the almost every point of our daily life. There future by monitoring the developments is chemistry at every point we touch for in the industry are deemed as prioritized example from the food we eat to the responsibilities of Ak-Kim. In this context, clothes we wear. As a human being, we multi-stakeholder projects are planned to benefit from the solutions of the chemical industry in almost every production, in conducted which enable the consumers to our zero waste works, in the disposal understand the importance of chemistry and recovery of our production waste. and to increase their right choice Chemistry is an indispensable field of capabilities. knowledge for us to live in harmony with nature as a human being and to have a sustainable common future. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 23 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 103-3 Ak-Kim Sustainability Policy Ak-Kim Kimya San. Ve Tic. A.S., whose mission is that “adding value to life with chemistry” we aim to manage all of our processes in line with this mission and to become an exemplary company in the field of sustainability management in our country and in our sector with our principles and priorities determined on the basis of our sustainability values. In line with our UN Global Compact and Responsible Care commitments and Our Sustainable Development Goals in all domestic and international operations; • SKH.08 Decent Work and Economic Growth • SKH.09 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure • SKH.06 Clean Water and Sanitation • SKH.07 Affordable and Clean Energy • SKH. 12 Responsible Consumption and Production Within the scope of essential and priority issues for our company and key stakeholders, we at this moment declare and undertake to manage our sustainability impacts and our economic, social and environmental responsibilities beyond the laws and expectations, to create sustainable value for our stakeholders with innovative ideas, investments and products, To use our all resources in order to perform activities determined for achieving our sustainable goals, To work together with all our personnel to achieve sustainability targets and to keep all communication channels open, To review, improve and develop our goals and performance periodically, Moreover to present our sustainability report to our stakeholders biennially. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 24 Economic Performance Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 25 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Operational and Financial Indicators Ak-Kim invests in the direction of its goals and extends its portfolio. Compared to the previous reporting period, it increased both its total sales and export share in these total sales. Number of Operational and Financial Indicators Employees 2015 2016 2017 2016 2017 Number of Employees 516 488 509 The share of exports in total sale volume 18% 19% 21% 488 509 Number of main product groups 30 29 30 Total Sales Realized (tons) 394,685 395,277 414,818 The share of exports in total sale volume 2017 176.567.284 $ 180.144.652 $ 2016 2017 160.334.048 $ 19% Economic Value Generated 21% 2016 171.867.234 $ Economic Value Distributed Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 26 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Efficient Use of Raw Materials Ak-Kim performs all production operations in its integrated production facilities. In other words, outputs of a facility are used as raw material in another facility. It brings to Ak-Kim a considerable advantage in costs and competition. For instance, Ak-Kim does not only produce and sell hydrogen peroxide in high tonnage sales, but also use it as the raw material in another facility (sodium percarbonate). Similarly, Ak-Kim produces and sells methylamines but it also produce dimethylformamide by using these methylamines. Thanks to its Ak-Kim facilities also monitor raw material consumption with process control devices and improve processes when necessary. strong engineer Among practices to involve employees in the resource use processes are including raw material efficiency into individual production goals, team and training the staff on raw material efficiency, and giving instructions to improve raw material efficiency. engineering skills, Ak-Kim has an ability of monitoring efficiency, if reqired, improvements are made in this way material efficiency is increased. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 27 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Ak-Kim Investments Ak-Kim makes use of Continuing the inorganic growth which would support the achievement of future out for biotechnology, nanotechnology, health products and food additives in There are some on-going projects an inorganic growth goals and taking the available acquisition opportunities, in 2017 Ak-Kim acquired addition to the studies conducted in the areas of textile, construction, paper, water related to the issues such as ESD processes within the scope of Seveso, opportunities in 100% ownership of Feralco in Akferal treatment, performance chemicals and developing DCS, fulfilling Atex directives, developing firefighting systems, Company. process development and basic chemicals addition it cares R&D in the Ak-Kim R & D Centre, following the developing issues related to monitoring Allocating at least 2% of its total and instrumentation, works related to studies, carries works turnover each year to R&D activities world trends. In 2016 and 2017, Ak-Kim R & D laboratories developed more than 40 grounding and equipotential and lightning and technology investments, Ak-Kim protection systems in 2016 and 2017. and runs projects on attached great importance to research new products each year. Ak-Kim continues to create the development of new research The projects are comprehensive and will innovation, scientific and development activities in 2016 and 2017 and conducted many innovative, areas and develop new products in R & D Centre and has focused on issues such continue in the upcoming years. and technical topics. scientific and technical projects and studies in many fields of operation. Research and as scientific paper, patent application, collaboration with university and industry development activities are also carried especially in recent years. The project, which was initiated to double the capacity of the Adwan Chlorine Alkaline Facility in Algeria established in The Performance Chemicals Plant was 2015, continued in 2016 and 2017 as well. rebuilt with the modernization project in 7,200 300 tons/day 2016 and 2017. tons/year In the first phase of the sodium persulfate facility with an annual capacity of 1,200 tons was commissioned at the end of The APS Factory, which was located in Çerkezköy until 2016, was moved to The HCI synthesis unit project was completed to increase the capacity in addition to the existing synthesis 5,000 tons/year DMAHCI (Dimethylaminehydrochloride), 2015. The second phase of the project Yalova Settlement. Facility modernization units. The use of the Chlorine Alkali a new product in Ak-Kim’s product will be completed in 2019, and the is completed with the replacement of old plant was thus increased from 75% to portfolio, consists of dimethylamine and third phase will be started in 2020. The technologies with new ones. The facility, approximately 90%. HCI production hydrocloric acid components. The first company targets to reach a total annual which also provides the production of PPS capacity of 220 tons / day was increased phase of the project Ak-Kim developed capacity of 7,200 tons by completing third at the same time, was commissioned in to 300 tons / day. The new cooling tower thanks to its own know-how and phase in 2018. Ak-Kim created value January 2017. Thus two factories were was built together with the HCI synthesis dominant engineer staff was completed addition by manufacturing a raw material integreated with each other in Yalova. unit, and the new cooling system was with a capacity of 5,000 tons / year. in Turkey which used to be entirely The project is costed approximately 14 started to be used which is modern and dependent on import in the past. Million USD. has high efficiency. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 28 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Ak-Kim Investment Ak-Kim Ultrafiltration Plant Ak-Kim entered on water treatment technologies at the 2015 year and started to the production of Ultrafiltration module in 2017. Ak-Kim water solutions produces Ultrafiltration Modules in Yalova Turkey. Water solutions production facility is build on 2.800 square meters covered area. We are the first and sole manufacturer in Turkey as well as in the region. 350 m2 of the total plant area is comprised of the laboratory and the pilot facility. Module production is performed in parallel with the sales volume in Ultrafiltration Module Production Plant. Also, product and process development activities continue in parallel with production. The product in the high technology class is in the upper segment in the world market regarding quality and performance. The support of pre-sales project and after-sales technical service as well as the production of water chemicals is one of the important services provided by Special, High Performance, Ak-Kim to its customers. The hollow fiber membrane, designed and produced Hollow Fiber by Ak-Kim with its own technology, ensure physical treatment process via absolute filtration model without changing the chemical properties of water. Through long term R&D activities, Ak-kim Water Solutions developed high performance hollow fiber membrane module specially designed for ultrafiltration process. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 29 Environmental Performance Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 30 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 103-3 Environmental Performance Taking every required Sustainable growth has become one of the most critical existing issues in today’s cooperation with suppliers and customers and works to reduce its environmental Industrial Accidents), Energy Management, ROTA Group, Behaviour Oriented measurement in every world where the natural environment is rapidly getting polluted and sources were impact not only in production phases, but also during the use of its products. Occupational Safety Committees, OHS Committees, Process Safety Committees as process and prioritizing getting scarce. Ak-Kim particularly values Environmental specialists conduct well as the Akçevre Board coordinated by environmental sustainability and aims Akkök facilities in Yalova. environmentally at producing environmentally friendly environmental activities within the Health Safety Environment (HSE) Department As Ak-Kim, we provide energy efficiency friendly technologies products allowing reduction of chemicals consumption. and Systems Management Department. trainings to all employees. Waste and All Ak-Kim employees are trained and energy training was provided to 408 in line with continuous Taking every necessary measure to prevent competent in performing environmental employees in 2016 and to 490 employees in improvement, Ak-Kim environmental pollution in every process and prioritizing environmentally friendly as well as occupational health and safety (OHS) activities. They assume responsibility 2017. Ak-Kim allocated 2,982,107 USD for environmental and waste water treatment carefully considers the technologies in line with the continuous improvement in all its operations, Ak-Kim and actively participate in improvement efforts. Several committees were set up practices in 2016 and TL 2,744,237 USD in 2017. utility of power and carefully considers the utility of power and for the regular and systematic progress natural resources both during the design of of environmental sustainability efforts. natural resources both its processes and during production stages. There are some committees to improve Ak-Kim intends to raise awareness on the these processes, including the Suggestion, during the design of its protection of the environment through Emission, SEVESO (Prevention of Major processes and during production stages. Total budget for environmental and treatment studies in 2016 and 2017 2016 2017 5,726,344 USD Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 31 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 103-3 Energy Efficiency Ak-Kim purchases a portion of the energy and steam it uses from its sister company, efficiency and savings are given priority in the selection of processes and equipment. Ak-Kim established Efficient use of energy resources, energy Aksa Akrilik, and thus achieves a cost For instance, while establishing the ICIthe ISO 50001: 2011 advantage. Energy consumption of the licensed Chlorine Alkali Facility in 1992, saving and recovery has become important facilities is monitored through process Ak-Kim selected membrane process which Energy Management in every aspect of life with technological and industrial advances. Energy control devices and improvements are is more environment-friendly compared to System in 2015 made by Production Department when other processes. Ak-Kim has been the first Management System is to be integrated necessary. Also, electricity and steam are company in Turkey to implement the highfor the efficient into existing management systems to maximize the benefits; the system is also directly purchased form auto producer and thus no additional emission is caused. investment membrane technology, which does not generate hazardous waste as it and systematic quite significant for cost reduction, easier legal compliance regarding GHG emissions, does not use mercury in the process. management of In the facilities that Ak-Kim built with increased business performance and its know-how and technology, energy energy use and application to Efficiency Increasing Projects. energy-related emissions. Steam (Gj/ton) Electricity (Gj/ton) Natural Gas (sm3/ton) 2016 2017 2016 2016 2017 2017 28.50 25.13 1.41 1.18 1.38 1.32 558.172 Gj 488.096 Gj 11.266.768 sm3 10.423.258 sm3 545.895 Gj 547.244 Gj Results of energy efficienct studies which were performed in 2016 and 2017: Natural gas consumption is decreased 11.8% per ton, Electricity consumption is decreased 4.3% per ton, Steam consumption is decreased 16.3% per ton. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 32 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Energy Efficiency Applications in Ak-Kim 7,400 tons / year steam as a result of the economizer application conducted in the methylamines plant, As a result of cooling tower revision in Chlorine Alkaline Plant, the electricity of 1,050,000 kWh / year; 486,000 kWh / year electricity as a result of Chiller System revision, As a result of improvements performed in the dryer and oven in SMBS Plant, 478,500 kWh / year of electricity and steam system improvements resulted in 2,175 tons / year of steam and 2,460 tons / year of steam savings as a result of waste heat exchanger replacement. It is aimed to increase energy sufficiency in terms of water consumption and energy waste by renewing cooling towers at inorganic plants within the scope of changing Cooling Tower and Pumps. This project continues and 300,000 kWh/year efficiency has been obtained so far. In the Drive Application and Fan Replacement Project in Sodium Percarbonate Plant Fans, the addition of drivers and replacement fan additions were made in order to save energy in the relevant facility. The project resulted in 642,000 kWh / year savings. All existing luminaries are planned to be replaced with LED luminaries within the scope of LED Technology Transformation Project in Lighting. 300,000 kWh / year efficiency was aimed to be achieved and 70,000 TL / year was saved as a result of the completed phases of the project. It is planned to establish a single system and improve the processes by monitoring the consumption of electricity, natural gas, water, conditioned water, steam, compressed air, process air within the scope of the Energy Monitoring System Project. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 33 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 103-3 Climate Change and With a variety of emission measurement devices, Ak-Kim makes internal measurements in emergencies or preEmission Management defined periods and thus prevents environmental pollution 17,756.16 through timely intervention in case of any problems. Ak-Kim performs the following activities for fighting against Besides, Ak-Kim actively participates in activities of related climate change and for reduction of emissions: non-governmental platforms, public institutions and the • Selection of suitable technological equipment and business world and contributes to such practices. Scope 1: process improvement • Assigning an odour team and making odour Ak-Kim conducts required operations regarding global warming and the reduction of gas emissions causing global Direct tCO2e measurements warming, the global issue which has gained even more • Calculating greenhouse gas emissions (carbon footprint) importance after the execution of the Kyoto Protocol. • Weather modelling Ak-Kim prepares greenhouse gas emission monitoring • Making internal monitoring measurements Within the scope of these practices, Ak-Kim pays utmost reports within this scope and delivered the internal greenhouse gas emission monitoring plan to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization in 2014 in accordance 99,583.91 attention to ensure that the state-of-theart equipment is purchased for existing or new production facilities and that with the Communiqué on Monitoring and Reporting Greenhouse Gases. The company was qualified in 2015 Scope 2: environmental impact of such equipment is minimal. for ‘‘ISO 14064 Greenhouse Gases Inventory’’ Certificate Direct tCO2e forming the basis of activities conducted to reduce carbon Emissions of facilities are stored in absorbers of process emissions. With this certificate, the company made funnels before reaching out to the atmosphere and are a significant progress towards reduction of its carbon re-fed into the system. This way, air quality is maintained, footprint through ensuring measurement of current resource use is reduced, and chemicals are reused. In addition, organic steams are burned in the incinerator system to avoid any environmental damage. 1,750 tons/ emissions and approval of such measurements by an independent body. Performing all operations and activities 117,340.07 with the consciousness of environmental protection, these year steam power is generated during the incineration and efforts of Ak-Kim to reduce carbon emissions is quite Total this energy is used for heating the facilities. significant particularly regarding sustainability and for the solution of environmental issues. This Certificate also Greenhouse Gas During air pollution distribution modelling, the distribution of air pollutants in the atmosphere are mathematically enabled Ak-Kim to achieve the company goal of “making sustainability a company culture” included in the list of tCO2e simulated by using parameters such as source data, meteorological data, landforms, etc. During air pollution company strategies. distribution modelling, the distribution of air pollutants Ak-Kim revised the foundation year as 2017 after the in the atmosphere are mathematically simulated by using company moved APS Plant from Çerkezköy to Yalova. tCO2e/ton scope 1 scope 2 Total parameters such as source data, meteorological data, landforms, etc. HSE Department Management conducts 2017 Emission 0.04 0.24 0.28 this study. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 34 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 103-3 Efficient use and saving of water, which is one of the Water Management most vital resources for sustainable development, has Efficient use and saving of water, which before usage, whereas in the Northern an important role in Ak-Kim’s environmental practices. is one of the most vital resources for Ak-Kim facilities water is received from sustainable development, has an important Aksa Akrilik. Approximately 60-65% of role in Ak-Kim’s environmental practices. water used in processes becomes product Ak-Kim procures the water used in its two component and the rest becomes waste factories in Yalova from the Dam and from water. Cooling water is taken from the Aksa Akrilik, which is a sister company. dam and Aksa and used in a closed circuit Utility water is received directly from system. Thus water is added only when the Gökçe Dam. Amount of utility water there is loss due to evaporation/leakage may differ in line with the increase in since the system is closed circuit system. operational activities. The water taken from the dam goes through a treatment system to be used as Water used in processes is procured from drinking water. The personnel are given two sources. In the Southern Ak-Kim periodical training on efficient use of water facilities, water from the dam is softened and water savings. Water Consumption Dam Water 2015 2016 2017 m3/year 554,068 648,591 767,712 m3/tons 1.40 1.64 1.85 Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 35 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 103-3 Reuse of Waste Water Each of the two factories in Yalova, which makes production, has its own waste water treatment facility. The wastewater collected in these pools is sent to the typical treatment facility within the boundaries of YALKİM OSB and the treated water is discharged according to the limits specified in the Regulation on Control of Water Pollution. The construction of the wastewater treatment plant initiated by Akkök in order for all companies of YALKIM OSB to collect and discharge in a conventional treatment plant was completed in 2015. As a result, all domestic and industrial wastewater within YALKİM OSB, including Aksa, Ak-Kim and DowAksa, companies incorporated of Akkök Holding, were started to be treated together. In addition, Ak-Kim carries out many projects in order to reduce waste water pollution loads. 40% of the the sludge drying unit will be completed by the end of 2018. Aim of this project that is implemented to simplify ammonia is recovered as a result of the recovery unit established in the ammonia-containing treatment processes by using the synergic effect of waste wastewater plant from the Persulfates plant. water with different characteristics, to allow reuse of water by using advanced treatment (ultrafiltration) technologies, Thanks to the additional exchanger installed DMAC Plant, amines, which may be mixed with to ensure smooth operation/maintenance, to optimize land and natural resource use in the production facility and to wastewater, are recovered into the system. As a result of the studies conducted, significant sustainably meet future increase in capacity. reductions in wastewater pollution loads were achieved. Sulphide-containing waste water forming the pollution load from SMBS plant and negatively affecting its activities in biological treatment is recovered as a result of process change in the plant. Therefore, 16,500 m3/year wastewater is recovered as well as sulphide. In addition, 14,500 m3/year wastewater generated in the Sodium Percarbonate Facility is recovered for reuse in the production system. In this way, not only water saving is achieved, but also loss of products within the waste water is prevented. Similarly, the water regained from cooling water is used in watering green areas, thus enabling approximately 6,000 m3/year water saving in the summer. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 36 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 103-3 Solid Waste Management Ak-Kim has a variety of projects to reduce wastes. In addition, Planning and is then recovered at Ak-Kim’s Ferric III Chloride personal scorecards of employees include targets for reducing facility, which is also licensed by the Ministry. After being wastes. processed, this waste is turned into Ferric III Chloride. Ferric III Chloride is one of the chemicals used in wastewater treatment. Another example is hydrochloric acid, one of the chemicals With this system, environmental damage to be caused by rotten produced by Ak-Kim and used in many areas, including metal Collecting the 52% of the cleaning. After being supplied to the galvanize industry, acid is prevented and the waste is recovered. The average amount of rotten acid or Ferric II Chloride solution recovered per year is paper and plastic packing hydrochloric acid is used in metal cleaning and then it becomes waste. This waste is called “Ferric II chloride solution” or “rotten approximately 6,000 tons. materials of its products acid”. The waste is transferred from customers’ facilities with In addition to performing waste management practices, Ak-Kim vehicles licensed by the Ministry of Environment and Urban also contributes to such processes of its customers. in 2016 and 54% in 2017, Ak-Kim contributed to recycling. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 37 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Recovered Waste (tons/year) Waste Management Practices Hazardous Wastes Non-Hazardous Wastes 9 tons of DMAC was recycled monthly by 2017 406 317 reducing 10 tons of DMAC leak to 1 ton per month 2016 399 219 At the DMAC production plant, there was a loss of product due to DMAC leaks during the process. 9 tons of DMAC was recycled monthly by reducing 2015 384 329 10 tons of DMAC leak to 1 ton per month as a result of studies to prevent product wastage by preventing DMAC leakage. Landfilled and Incinerated Waste (tons/year) The total nitrogen value was decreased from Hazardous Wastes Non-Hazardous Wastes 1130 mg/lt to 730 mg/lt The ammonia used in the production of APS/PPS was discharged with 2017 1,160 325 wastewater at the end of the process Thanks to the ammonia stripping system, both ammonia recovered and nitrogen-induced pollution loads are reduced. With this project, the total nitrogen value was decreased from 2016 1,090 300 1130 mg/lt to 730 mg/lt. 2015 842 250 Compared to 2016, the increase in the number of wastes, contaminated barrels, plastic drums and IBC tanks resulting from the process resulting from the process is due to the destruction of products whose shelf-life is ended. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 38 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Environment Friendly Products AKUA END 6133 and AKUA END 6140 Used as decolorant and for sedimentation in treatment of particularly textile waste water and also for paint, pulp and paper, printing ink and similar industrial waste waters. Ensures reuse of treated Investigation of environmental dimension water in appropriate processed and thus contributes to water saving and reduction of sludge and waste amounts. is among the acceptance criteria of a new chemical designed with an R&D process. AKUA SAN 1012 Prevents corrosion without inhibiting heat transfer by creating a barrier between the monomolecular Today, saving in resource usage especially film adsorbed on metal surfaces and water & metal. In this way the product ensures efficient functioning of steam and energy and water is a significant issue. In full awareness of our responsibility towards condensate systems and prevents energy losses. future generations, we, as Ak-Kim, do AKSOFT CSK Used as cationic and organic softener in palette form by textile plants this product can dissolve in cold not develop any products that could be harmful to the environment. In addition, water contrary to the other commercially available products which can only dissolve in hot water, and thus and helps we give priority to efficient use and saving save energy since it enables preparation of solutions with cold water, eliminating the heating and post process cooling of existing resources while developing R&D operations entirely. projects. AKSOFT CSK Used as nonionic and organic softener in palette form by textile plants. This product can dissolve in cold Ak-Kim adopted the vision of “offering water contrary to the other commercially available products which can only dissolve in hot water, and thus and helps tailor-made integrated solutions to its customers”. One of the critical aspects of save energy since it enables preparation of solutions with cold water, eliminating the heating and post process cooling its R&D practices is enabling customers operations entirely. to save resources by improving processes through environment-friendly chemicals. AKSHOT 250 AF Compared to the alkali-containing product used in shotcrete practices such as metro, tunnel, it Other environment-friendly chemicals provides an improved working environment thanks to its non-aggressive properties, minimizing environmental impacts developed at Ak-Kim R&D Center and and reducing operating costs. offered to customers during the reporting period are listed below. AKASF PE 280 – Anti-peel asphalt chemicals need special odors for cleaning and specific odors that disturb the working environment. Such conventional problems could be avoided thanks to this product. Any contaminated equipment can be washed easily with water and there is no unpleasant odor. AKBOND 130 – It provides physical properties for paper by increasing the dry strength values such as rupture and bursting of paper during the re-evaluation of waste paper. It increases the drainage during the paper production process and provides energy saving by ensuring easy drying of the paper during production. AK DİMER 120 – It gives showerproof feature to corrugated cardboard paper. It prevents the loss of strength of the paper by allowing the paper to be exposed to less moisture. This makes it possible for natural, environmentally friendly packaging papers to be preferred. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 39 Social Performance Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 40 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-9, 102-10 Social Performance Product Responsibility in Value Chain Supply Chain Management operation are preferred to work with provided that they are reliable and hold the required certificates to conduct Ak-Kim has been conducting its supply chain activities in their business. R & D Centre, established to ensure the production of high the scope of three major strategies and policies namely value-added products by following the developments in planning, purchasing and logistics. Planning, purchasing, Purchasing department supports the strategy regarding the sector, to make technology and product development production, logistics and quality departments are EBITDA directly by doing its best to procure the materials studies on the issues that are likely to gain importance safeguarding the strategies employed by Ak-Kim in the in need for the best prices possible, helps the planning in the future, to increase the quality in the existing execution of their strategies and policies and taking the department in order to enable them to make correct stock technologies and processes and to reduce the costs actions strictly in line with these strategies. planning during the supply chain management. and accredited by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology on October 25, 2013, continues its studies with Planning department is responsible for preparing efficient AK-Kim, for logistics as the last chain of the supply chain approximately 60 employees. Ak-Kim R&D Directorate and productive product planning in order to reach the management, has set up a way of doing its business performs with the vision of “becoming a leading R&D desired volume and delivery time requested by the with the principles of on time and error-free delivery, center that generates know-how” and the mission of customers taking the current performance capacity of cost-efficiency, sustainability, consistency and flexibility. “offering chemical and engineering solutions that create the facility into account. Moreover, it also plans the They are in charge of circulation of the goods, services value added products, processes and new implementation procurement of the raw materials and controls the state of and information efficiently, securely and in line with the areas by using advanced technologies in performance, stocks to satisfy the customers’ orders successfully legislation between production and consumption points in basic chemicals and by-products”. order to attain the customer satisfaction. Purchasing department is in charge of procurement of the essential materials and services at the desired quality, amount, time and specifications from both domestic and international markets required for the sustainability of Ak-Kim business activities. The procurement is achieved by taking changing market and competition conditions and qualityprice balance at an optimum level into consideration. During the procurement process, we work with the supplier who comply with the supplier selection criteria and quality, delivery date, performance, stability and price elasticity are further inspected in these criteria. AK-Kim who does not pay attention only to the education of its own personnel but also to the development of its suppliers. To this end, it also trains its suppliers. The suppliers who are experts in the fields of finance and Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 41 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Digitalization Ak-Kim gave acceleration In 2016; A digital solution was implemented which digitalization and provides the coordination of the activities innovation works in 2016 of the people involved in the studies starting from the idea stage and the and 2017. effective management of the resources used in the in the R & D and Digital Processes, R & D and Investment processes in which all relevant departments can enter data through a single platform. With the project, it is aimed to transform ideas into a fast and profitable product and to create institutional memory. In 2017; Ak-Kim with Ak-Kim Customer Relationships Management System, put into the practice by Ak-Kim in line with its 4th Generation Industrial Revolution Strategic Plans, Ak-Kim became more effective, more systematic, faster and easily led thanks to the digital channels starting from customers to R & D including Sales Processes and Functions, Customer & Customer Relationships Management, Order Management and Case Management. Another project is Ak-Kim E-Transformation in Settlement; thanks to this platform, settlement processes of customers/ suppliers which can not be traced via phones, e-mails and fax are transferred to digital platforms. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 42 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Innovation Innovation Index In achieving the mission and vision of the company, and in realizing The innovation week, in which voluntary Increase the strategic goals, the innovation was determined as a priority employees came together and formed the corporate value and competence for Ak-Kim. Innovation is an concept, was first realized in 2016. Ak-Kim, 2016 important element in Human Resources policies and strategies. which believes in the power of innovative 2017 thinking, celebrates the innovation week in 13.7% Ak-Kim aims to transform the corporate culture into a structure 13.9% activities held in each October by making it that adopts and supports innovation, and to create an environment a tradition. for the production of new products and processes with an innovation project initiated in 2016. Ak-Kim, aiming to create a common language for innovation through the innovation project, encourages its employees to believe, adopt, contribute and wait patiently for innovation in order to create value and achieve company goals. The Ak-Kim Innovation Culture Project encompasses efforts to raise Innovation Culture in Ak-Kim awareness concerning the values that constitute the basis for the culture of innovation, to encourage participation and to implement the relevant action plan for the creation of a climate that will stimulate innovation. With this project, new product revenues, earnings from incentives, the sum of revenues collected from Innovation Employee Innovation Technical and Innovation innovation projects and increasing the profitability of the company Strategies Engagement Awareness Administrative Collaboration are aimed. In order to increase the innovation competence Raising Infrastructure • Strategic Plan • Communication • KABAM of the employees and thus the innovation competence of the Meetings with • Mission Vision • Innovation • Innovation • Argemip organization, employees’ participation in the ideas, suggestions General Manager Rountable Training & Values and projects were ensured, and the communication between Workshop • Innovation • Idea Workshop • Innovation Week the company and the team increased, internal and external Studies communication were increased and finally the road which leads to Culture Survey • ASEK Activities • Idea Workshop • Scholarship • Innovation Board the added value products was opened. The relationship between • Innovation Committee & Innovation the Project activities and the Innovation Culture Model is shown in Award Council the diagram below. • Teamwork • Innovation Activities • Intellectual Journal Property Rights More revenue was achieved with fewer new products thanks to the • Innovation Period development of new value-added products in 2017. In addition, Training & there has been a continuous increase in the innovation index since Workshop • Innovation in Studies Organization 2014. • Innovation Team • InoRoom Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 43 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Compliance with International Certificate of Approved Economic Operator European Agreement concerning the implementation, which has facilitated International Carriage of Dangerous Goods and Local Regulations Ak-Kim’s import and export processes and by Road (known as ADR) as early as 1997, made the company a trusted international whereas many articles of the Directive REACH (Registration, Evaluation, merchant, shall cease in August 2017. started to be implemented in Turkey in Authorization and Restriction of We started the necessary procedures 2014. Chemicals) for obtaining the Certificate of Approved Economic Operator in 2016 which will be Ak-Kim has completed the studies on the With is subsidiary, Dinox Handels GmbH, the substitute for the above mentioned integration of processes in compliance with Ak-Kim completed registration and certificate. the regulation; and continues improvement authorisation procedures of all Ak-Kim studies. products exported to Europe according to European Agreement Concerning the REACH. International Carriage of Dangerous Goods Since 2016, Ak-Kim has contined its by Road research and development activities in Authorized Economic Operator order to make the transportation vehicles Certification Within the scope of this Directive effective and equipment transporting their products as of 2013, Ak-Kim: safer on the roads. Ak-Kim’s EU Distributor Dinox Handels GmbH has successfully obtained the • Obtained Hazardous Material Operation Ak-Kim follows national and international AEO (Authorized Economic Operator) Certification in 2014. Has provided standards for many years and completes Certification in “F” status. With this awareness trainings to employees on the all the necessary certifications and certification, Dinox possesses the Directive. documents for its facilities and products. conditions required for the safety of the • Two employees were trained as In this context, Ak-Kim has GMP-Good supply chain, starting from loading at the hazardous material consultants and Manufacturing Practice Certificate, productAk-Kim’s factory until delivery to the endwere certified as accordingly. based Halal and Kosher certificates, TSE, CE, user and the following rights: Biocidal permits. • Audits transporters to ensure that they • Reliability fulfil the requirements of the Directive. • Accountability and Traceability of (SRC5 inquiry, sign checks etc.) Commercial Records • Financial Competence • Continues efforts to systemize its existing practices for conformity with • Security and Safety Standards the Directive (integration software for • Material Safety Data Sheet alignment with the Directive, software • Technical Data Sheet for hazardous material transportation etc.). Ak-Kim has adopted and since then has been implementing the rules of the Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 44 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Customer Satisfaction Result of Ak-Kim Customer Satisfaction Surveys Always attaching great importance related channels and informing the related to customer satisfaction, Ak-Kim runs parties that the complaint is being assessed 2016 2014 domestic and international customer by Ak-Kim. All complaints and other satisfaction surveys biennially. With this feedback are kept in records. According survey, customers’ opinions on issues to the customer complaint evaluation 4.70 process, once the complaint is received, such as corporate image, products and Reliable Firm production, pricing and payment terms, the customer should be informed within 4.50 quality of logistics, quality and competence 24 hours that the complaint is in process. of technical support, and quality of sales Monthly written customer complaint and marketing are obtained. reports are shared with the management and related departments. On the other 4.60 Ak-Kim considers every complaint that hand, complaints and response times are Environment Friendly it handles in the Customer Relations evaluated at monthly quality meetings. In 4.22 Management process as an opportunity for addition potential problems are identified continuous development. In parallel with to take actions. 4.70 this principle, Ak-Kim is always committed Ak-Kim has not experienced any violation Provides sufficient to improving business processes in a way of customer confidentiality or loss of documents about products 4.03 that meets customers’ expectations to customer data, nor has it received any avoid recurring complaints and developing complaints regarding this issue. services to meet these expectations. Some customer assessments regarding 4.80 In Ak-Kim, Customer Services Department Informative labels on Ak-Kim’s stand on a scale of 0-5 as taken Management is responsible for receiving from 2016 customer satisfaction survey are product packaging 3.94 oral and written complaints through provided below. 4.70 Produces high quality products at international standards 3.97 Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 45 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-8 Business Life in Ak-Kim %82 %18 By Location Employees (Person) 2016 2017 418 person 91 person İstanbul 60 46 Yalova 425 441 Professional level Dilovası 14 Osmaniye 8 2016 84 118 Female Çerkezköy 3 Male 2017 83 124 Total 488 509 Operational level By Management Category 2016 7 279 10 2017 8 294 Senior Management 8 2017 2016 Female Employees in Management 56 Mid-level Management 51 2016 2017 Senior Management 2% 2% Non-executive 85 Mid-level Management 17% 16% Professional Level 76 Non-executive Professional Level 41% 41% Operational Level 40% 41% 358 Operational Level Total 100% 100% 353 Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 46 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-8 As of the end of 2017, the average Employee Satisfaction and Engagement age of employees in Ak-Kim was Great Place To Work 36.5; the average of company “Great Place to Work” predicates a trusted work seniority, which is an indicator of environment where our employees can reliably employee loyalty, was 8.33 years. be engaged and get attached to, be proud of their workplace and the job they perform and work in perfect harmony and cooperation with their colleagues. Providing us with opportunities which would carry our company forward, this survey is an independent and contemporary management tool, focusing on “Reliability”, “Respect”, “Justice”, “Pride”, “Team Spirit” dimensions of our current business life and taking the picture of our actual Age Distribution in Employee Profile status in these areas. In Ak-Kim, “Great Place to Work” was implemented at R&D Department as a tool for “Participative 2016 116 331 41 Management” in 2015 and applied as pilot scheme in R & D Directorate. It was run with all our employees in 2016. It has been planned to be 2017 139 332 38 applied biennially. 30 Age 30-50 Age + 50 Age While the participation ratio was measured as 84% in employee satisfaction survey conducted in 2016, company reputation and working conditions, environment, occupational health and safety and the meaning of the work performed were determined as the most 3 successful practises in which Ak-Kim operated. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 47 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-8, 102-41, 103-2, 103-3 Working Standards and Ethics Line” was established for employees employee is notified in writing and approval who do not prefer open communication is obtained. All practices such as changing Human Rights method. In addition, in order to increase roles and rotations are implemented by the awareness of ethics, the ethical mail is the Directorate of Human Resources and Ak-Kim bestows rights to its employees shared with the employees every month, Management Systems. There is no forcedbeyond the limits required by the laws and and for our computer user employees, labor practice at Ak-Kim and there are no international standards. We closely monitor some questions automatically remind and related risks. legal regulations and inform our employees adopt the ethical behaviour examples for on changes in laws practices concerning employees. Additionally, the Ethics Board Anayasa’nın 51. Article 51 Paragraph C of them. Ak-Kim adopts the fundamental was established and commissioned in order the Constitution provides all employees principle of creating a working environment to evaluate and conclude the complaints with the right to establish trade unions. that encourages cooperation, requires received. At Ak-Kim, there is full compliance with mutual respect, avoids harassment and related laws and regulations and employees non-professional behaviours, and offers Employees are notified of significant are fully involved in company practices and equal opportunities to employees. Each operational changes that might affect process and their opinions and suggestions employee is responsible against associates them by taking legal notification and are taken into consideration. and the company for preventing such notice periods into consideration before implementation. At Akkök Holding, In addition to monthly wages, Ak-Kim behaviors and incidents. operational decisions are implemented in offers benefits such as free transportation, At Ak-Kim, there are ethical policies in accordance with the Personnel Directives lunch, four bonuses per year, private order to ensure that employees can prepared on the basis of the Labor Code health insurance, advance payments work in a peaceful and environment and related regulations. The reasonable for health, housing and education, and with mutual respect free from nonnotice stated by the laws is performed social aids (marriage, children, birth/ professional behaviours in their work within the manner and time given in the death, fuel, food and clothing aids) as environment. Our employees, who cannot Personnel Directives. Significant changes well as vehicles and mobile phones for Parental Leave find a solution to their problems through such as salary change, workplace change, senior executives in order to improve open communication channels, have the secondment, substitution, additional employee loyalty and productivity. Limited chance to reach the company’s ethical duty, temporary business relationships time (temporary) employees also benefit Female (Number of Person) 2016 2017 representative at any time and to use are declared in writing by the Human from the wages, meals, shuttle bus and the search channels of the ethical line. Resources Department and employees workplace healthcare unit services but are Total number of employees 5 2 In addition, our employees can share accept the receipt of these notifications. not qualified for benefits paid in cash and granted parental leave their opinions, suggestions, complaints personal health insurance provided to full Total number of employees and thoughts without specifying their Responsibilities and job descriptions of new time employees. returning to work after the 5 2 names through the contact boxes placed employees are clearly defined. In case of end of parental leave in certain areas of the company. “Akkök changes in duties and responsibilities, the Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 48 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 102-41, 103-2, 103-3 We use contemporary Equal Opportunities We use contemporary assessment methods supporting objective decision making in the recruitment and hiring process and act assessment methods Ak-Kim does make any discrimination between candidates based in line with “Right Person for the Right Job” principle. Human resource planning is done by taking Ak-Kim’s strategic plans and supporting objective on their language, race, gender, political view, belief, religion, medium and long-term targets into consideration. decision making in the or sect and provide them equal opportunities in exercising the recruitment, career planning, training, development etc. processes. In addition, employees have private health insurance. Recruitment recruitment and hiring At recruitment and hiring stage, we try to engage with candidates and placement process is performed by the Directorate of Human Resources and Management Systems. Candidates below the age of process and act in line with possessing the education, knowledge, talents, competence, 18 are not invited for interviews. Ak-Kim’s contractors are required and experience required by the relevant job, compatible for our “Right Person for the Right corporate culture and values and capable of carrying us to the to avoid child labour as well. It is an essential ethical value for AkKim to work with suppliers and subcontractors that refrain from Job” principle. future. violating human rights such as forced or child labour. All vacancies are announced within the company and as a company policy, competent candidates recommended by employees are included in the recruitment process. Ak-Kim prefers candidates residing within the vicinity of the company’s location for filling the open job positions. Ak-Kim applies the Hay Group Wage Management System in order to maintain competitive wage levels of employees, to give the same wages for identical positions in the market, and to be fair in wages. The company pays attention to making payments on time and avoiding any unrecorded payments. None of the employees throughout the company is paid below the minimum wage. Ak-Kim has the salary average which is higher than the minimum wage determined by the state with cash and kind benefits. Wages do not vary depending on the gender of the employee. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 49 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Internship and Scholarship Opportunities in Ak-Kim We offer intern positions to university students during summer time and high school students during winter time. Ak-Kim serves various industry groups due to its extensive product portfolio, including textile, metal, food, cleaning, water treatment, pulp & paper, pharmaceutical and construction industries, which is an excellent opportunity for these students to gain experience on many different fields. Students are given a chance to be interns in departments they selected during their applications and can find many processes from production to quality control, engineering and sales under the same roof. Thus, they can personally observe the working environment and the tasks performed in the fields where they would like to have their career development. This opportunity offered in drawing their career lines is a significant advantage for them. Interns are mainly selected among students from departments of target universities including particularly Chemical Engineering and Chemistry as well as Mechanical, Electrical, Electronic, Industrial, Environmental Engineering departments; and also from Economic and Administrative Sciences Department. Human Resources and Management Systems Directorate participates in Career Fairs held by universities every year to prepare talented students for business life, to determine potential nominees who may work in Ak-Kim in the future and makes presentation to prepare students for business life. As of 2018, Ak-Kim plans to prepare new graduates, who may enter into business life with the incentive of Turkish Employment Agency, for the business life with its on-the-job training program. Thanks to this program, new graduates determined in collaboration with the Turkish Employment Agency will have the right to receive on-the-job training for 3 months at Ak-Kim. Ak-Kim Scholarship Program was established to contribute to the education of successful university students who had difficulty in living due to economic setbacks with the support of volunteers employees in 1996 within the scope of corporate citizenship approach. In 2016-2017, scholarship opportunity is provided to 38 students. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 50 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Career Planning and Talent Management Performance Management System With Career Planning and Talent Management, Ak-Kim aims at With the aim of improving efficiency and achieving continuous determining the need for human resources capable of carrying the development, Ak-Kim applies a Performance Management company to the future, determining at early stages the potential System that effectively and objectively evaluates individual and Group/Company employees which could meet these needs and team targets in a way that is integrated with the department, providing them with the required professional know-how, skills and directorate and company goals. Performance Management System development opportunities. To this end, integral and systematic was cascaded throughout the company in 2013 and employee implementations at Group level coordinated by Akkök Group are in performance is evaluated regarding: place, such as Assessment Centre, Leadership Potential Inventory, Personality Inventory, and 360 Degree Evaluation etc. Personal • Operational Level – Production Tonnage and Efficiency Target • Other Positions – Company Targets or Individual Targets Development Plans are created for the relevant employees at the end of the above mentioned implementations and realization of üzerinden değerlendirilmektedir. these plans is monitored. Results achieved through annual evaluation of individual targets As of 2018, Ak-Kim will implement Ak-Kim Campus Project to and quarterly evaluation of sales and team targets with the develop first level managers both professionally and behaviourally. Performance Management System form inputs for variable income With this project, it is aimed to increase the technical competencies system, bonus system, training and development, and career of the employees at the operational level. In addition, it is planned planning and talent management processes. to perform the necessary trainings by measuring the behavioural competencies of potential first level manager candidates and As of 2016, Ak-Kim launched the Target Based Super Sale Premium identifying the points open to development by working with Program to reward the performances of the employees in the Sales Formen Assessment Centre application. Team. Career Planning and Talent Management process helps us Ak-Kim attaches importance to rotation and promotion/assignment effectively provide back-ups for critical positions in Companies/ to various functions and employees are given priority in new Group and ensure a sustainable performance. positions/vacancies. In the reporting period, promotions and job rotations of 96 employees were carried out. While the individual target card was 84.4% in 2017, and this value reached 100% as of the end of 2017. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 51 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 103-2, 103-3 Occupational Health and Safety As Ak-Kim Kimya Sanayi A.S. Our fundamental priority Employees who are exemplary in terms of Occupational is to take necessary precautions in order to remove Health and Safety are rewarded every month in order to health and safety risks or to minimize these risks for our increase the sensitivity of the personnel on Occupational employees and our stakeholders. Ak-Kim is developing Health and Safety; 24 personnel were rewarded its OHS performance day by day thanks to the practices Cumhuriyet gold together with the thank-you note in such as performance measurement, training, drills, field 2016 and 2017. In addition, “Model OHS Team” is controls, ROTA (Behaviour Oriented Occupational Safety selected among the units every three months. Project) accordingly. With ROTA, it is aimed to improve behaviour oriented organizational culture, to increase In 2016 and 2017, a total of 26 emergency drills were safe behaviours, to reduce risky behaviours. The project performed mainly in cases such as fire, gas leakage covers all processes related to all activities and services and evacuation in Ak-Kim. In addition, “within an inch starting from the primary process of Ak-Kim. The of accident incidents” which are determined by all performance of the project is monitored regularly each employees are conveyed to the Occupational Health and month. Safety Unit and corrective and preventive activities are carried out annually by the related unit. Ak-Kim continually conducts improvement works in order to remove all kinds of risks such as illness, With the implementation of the Subcontractor wounding, the fire which threatens the safety of life Management System, which was developed in order and property and collaborates with all employees in to monitor subcontractors’ compliance with the this process. Also, Ak-Kim is conscious of that accidents company rules, legal regulations and the performance and losses may only be prevented by the management of the business, safer working environments were approach and direct and joint responsibility of the provided. Monthly meetings were organized to increase employees. Thanks to this awareness, production and awareness of health, safety and environmental issues to support departments carry out activities, design and ensure not only the safety of subcontractors but also the operations of all facilities and equipment within the employees. framework of policy. In addition, employees show the Automation systems and activities to reduce the risk utmost effort and diligence to comply with existing of exposure to chemicals are carried out by following occupational safety rules and processes. the international practices in the sector and by utilizing Within the scope of ROTA (Behaviour oriented technological developments, periodic inspections and occupational safety project) Action Planning meetings chemical exposure assessments carried out by the are held every three months, a dangerous behaviour workplace health unit for the protection of employee group is selected and various actions are taken in order health and preventive and protective services are to take precautions and raise awareness about the provided. selected behaviour. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 52 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index OHS Training Statistics OHS Accident and Lost Days Statistics All Employees Female Employees Male Employees All injuries except Accidents requiring OHS Training Unit 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 first aid level medical report (per year) (per year) Total Provided OHS Trainings Hours 4724 6286 928 774 3796 5512 Persons received OHS Trainings Persons 433 427 95 83 338 344 2016 2 2016 2 Average OHS training hours per person 2017 5 2017 5 All Employees Female Employees Male Employees 2016 10.91 2017 14.72 2016 9.76 2017 9.33 2016 11.23 2017 16.02 Accidents involving death (per year) 2016 2017 0 Hours/Person Hours/Person Hours/Person Hours/Person Hours/Person Hours/Person Accident frequency Accident Severity (rate) (rate) Yalova Workers Istanbul Workers OHS Training Unit 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 1.75 2016 35.14 Total Provided OHS Trainings Persons received OHS Trainings Hours Persons 4372 379 6075 389 352 54 211 38 2017 4.47 2017 55.47 Average OHS Yalova Workers Istanbul Workers Lost Days Unit 2016 2017 training hours Lost days due to workplace accidents Day/Year 40 62 per person 2016 2017 2016 2017 The frequency of occupational diseases Per year 0 0 11.54 15.62 6.52 5.55 Absenteeism/due to health issues Day/Year 3195 2062 Hours/Person Hours/Person Hours/Person Hours/Person Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 53 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Emergency Management Emergency means collapse, breakdown, explosion, cleavage, split, fire and chemical leakage that may cause loss of life and property and that may result from natural disasters (earthquake, flood, storm, etc.), actions such as sabotage and attack, system and/or human errors, or any incident outside Ak-Kim. Emergency actions are taken to return to normal operations by troubleshooting in case of collapse, breakdown, cleavage, split, explosion, storm, abnormal climate change, fire and chemical leakage. These actions may include emergency alarm-evacuation, firefighting, fighting dangerous gas leakages, combating flood, controlling chemical spills and leakages, measures taken before and after earthquakes, rescue and technical repair activities, first aid, social services, etc. Ak-Kim’s General Manager is also the Emergency Director of the Company. He is responsible for managing the emergency. In his absence, Production Director shall be responsible. In the absence of Production Director, Human Resources and Management Systems Director manages the emergency. Emergency Director assigned for Çerkezköy Plant is the Plant Manager and Financial Affairs Director for the Head Office. At the beginning of 2016 and 2017, a total of 22 emergency drills were performed primarly in cases such as fire, gas leakage and evacuation in Ak-Kim. Employees working in emergency response team were sent for training in Kocaeli Metropolitan Municipality Fire Station Training Centre (KOBITEM). Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 54 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index 103-2, 103-3 Trainings Ak-Kim aims to invest in people and encourage personal 2016 Trainings 2017 Trainings improvement by adopting practices based on continuous development in line with corporate strategies and targets. In 2017, a total of 21,658 hours of training was organized While preparing the annual training plan, training needs In 2016, a total of 20.024 hours of training was organized for employees, including internal and external trainings, by of employees are identified and these trainings are given for employees, including internal and external trainings, by taking into account the training plan. throughout the year in accordance with the plan. taking into account the training plan. In 2017, many trainings were organized to improve Professional and personal development of our employees In 2016, the Company organized 6 Sigma Trainings with 7 the behavioural, managerial and professional skills of is essential for us. Our directorates determine the training groups in order to define, measure, ensure perfection and employees, as in 2016. need each year to create a training plan according to increase efficiency in the processes of Ak-Kim operations. which we ensure technical and skills development of our In addition, 7 Splurge Training was organized in order Some of the career and personal development trainings employees. to eliminate the operations that do not add value to the provided to employees in 2017 are as: production area of Ak-Kim. • CIPS Purchasing Certificate Program (All Supply Chain Training needs of employees are taken into consideration A total of 114 employees received various trainings to Management Employees) while preparing training plans. When any training requests are received from employees or managers of the improve their behavioural and managerial skills within the • Market Orientation Training employees, they are evaluated and employees are offered scope of Executive Development Programs. an unscheduled training apart from the scheduled training • Entrepreneurship and Innovation Optimum Balance Model Training, initiated in 2013 for plan. Company Managers and aimed to enable the employees • Leadership in the Speed of Trust During preparation of this training plan, we mainly focus to comprehend their own job identities and the work environment they are in, to change their habits, and • Training of Trainers on the requests received from employees and we believe that this, together with our “Right Person for the Right Job” to understand other peers and colleagues they meet • Problem Solution Techniques approach, provides motivation and ensures job satisfaction. throughout their business lives, was continued in 2016. • Strategic Management In addition to these, a total of 4,800 hours of training was provided to increase the awareness of the employees • Leadership & Coaching for High Performance Teams about occupational health and safety except for • Multi Dimensional Leadership compulsory and legal training based on the value Ak-Kim 21,658 hours has given to occupational health and safety. Additionally, we support career and personal developments of our employees attending college for Master’s and/or Training Investments (hours) PhD degree by giving them paid leave for 1 day per week during their academic terms. While the total training period, 2016 2017 which was 20,024 hours in 2016, was Technical trainings 14,705 18,267 increased to 21,658 hours in 2017. Soft Skills Training 5,319 3,391 Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 55 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Employee Communication Aiming to create open and transparent communication with all stakeholders, Ak-Kim launched the Open Door Policy in 1999 to ensure that employees can easily reach their managers about every issue. Ak-Kim transformed this policy into a corporate social responsibility project and opened its facilities to official institutions and organizations as well as students -from primary school to collegethat would like to visit the company and get information. Numerous visitors were accepted to Ak-Kim facilities during 2016 and 2017 within the scope of our Open Door Policy. Furthermore, we organise “Dialog with General Manager” once every three months meetings where employees discuss working conditions with a high level of transparency and also various other events. In addition to the preceding, a cocktail was started to be arranged every 6 months for new hires with the participation of the General Manager and the new hires’ managers. Events gathering management and employees together and contributing to their amalgamation are organized by Ak-Kim Social Activities Club (ASEK). Such events include travels and trips, theater, meal organizations with the purpose of enhancing intradepartmental communication, picnics and New Year party and dinner for the retired organized each year for our retired employees. Ak-Kim Portal containing information on employee birthdays, weddings, having new-borns, new employees, resigns, announcements, and useful links, etc. not only allows employees to have easy access to information, but also contributes to a higher level of internal communication within the company. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 56 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Idea Factory The “Idea Factory” covering all creative ideas Ak-Kim Employee Rewards Success Award: This is for rewarding selects this Team in consideration of and opinions of employees on issues such as employees contributing to Ebitda, the following criteria: facilitating/accelerating work performance, increasing customer and/ or employee increasing capacity, improving efficiency Seniority Plate: Employees having served satisfaction, raising company reputation, • The team continuously and strictly (savings and cost reduction), reducing for 5 years and multiples of 5 years (5, 10, follows the group’s OHS rules contributing to organizational values, environmental impact, increasing customer 15 etc. years) are rewarded with a seniority within the worksite they are ethical values and corporate culture responsible for and sets an example satisfaction, and contributing to the vision, plate to show appreciation for their long and contributing to successes creating to other employees and groups mission and values of the company was carried service and work in Ak-Kim. difference at a level worth of rewarding. with their work, out in 2015. The system, which is based on Retirement Plate: Employees leaving gaining points from the suggestions realized Instant Rewarding: This is for rewarding • The team ensures other employees and and the choice of gifts with the points Ak-Kim by retirement after serving the and appreciation of any behaviour, working at the site in their accumulated, provides value to the business company for long years are awarded a practice, a task completed, activity, responsibility area continuously retirement plate to show appreciation for processes with the participation of the suggestion (not entered in Suggestion and strictly observe the OHS their long service and work. employees. System) etc. setting an example for other rules, no team member receives employees and not covered in other any warnings and/or have an In 2017, Idea Factory switched to electronic Idea Factory Award: Employees select gifts occupational accident within the from Ak-Kim Gift Catalogue by earning employee rewarding categories. flow concerningemployees’ access and year, points as a result of their suggestions. effective functioning of the process. The Ak-Kim Innovation Award: The company benefits of this improvement are; • Team members contribute to the Invention Award: This is for rewarding will create new markets and new reporting of unsafe situations, • Improvement of employee suggestions, employees developing ideas for a product technologies in line with its vision, mission conditions and acts, and values and strategic targets, it includes • Improvement in the evaluation of and/or method with specific technical suggestion, the realization of suggestions features for the solution of a specific all kinds of creative ideas that can be • The team makes improvements to create a safe working environment and suggestion feedbacks, technological problem. transformed into potential new products, with new features to be added to the at the site in their responsibility • Detailed monitoring of all recommendations existing products (new areas of use and area, by employees new markets), value to be created in the • Convenience concerning monitoring • Team observes the hygiene rules suggestions. system, products and processes, and to and ensures that the common provide profitability to the institution. areas within worksite in their Out of 158 suggestions received, 62 were put responsibility area are kept clean into practice in 2017. Model OHS Employee: Each month, and in good order. employee who meets the selection criteria Number of Suggestions Put into Practice in line with the opinion of workplace The group, meeting the selection by Years physician and approval of OHS Board are criteria within the site for which they rewarded. are responsible, are selected quarterly 2015 25 by Occupational Health & Safety 2016 36 Model OHS Team: Model OHS Team is Board. selected quarterly in case there is a group 2017 63 meeting the selection criteria. OHS Board Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 57 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index GRI Content Index Core Answers GRI Disclosures and Explanations & Page Standard Numbers GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of organization About Report 2 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Products and Services 9 102-3 Location of headquarters About Report 2 Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of 102-4 countries where it has significant operations and/or that are relevant to About Ak-Kim 6 the topics covered in the report 102-5 Ownership and legal form About Ak-Kim 6 102-6 Markets served About Ak-Kim, Products and Services 6, 9 102-7 Scale of the organization About Ak-Kim 6 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Business Life in Ak-Kim 46-48 102-9 Supply chain Social Performance 41 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Social Performance 41 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Corporate Governance 14 102-12 External initiatives Memberships, Sustainability Cooperation 17-18 102-13 Membership of associations Memberships, Sustainability Cooperation 17-18 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message To Stakeholders 4-5 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Mission, Vision And Corporate Principles 8 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance 14 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Dialogue with Stakeholders 15-16 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Social Performance 48 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Dialogue with Stakeholders 15-16 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Dialogue with Stakeholders 15-16 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals 19-20 Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 58 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index GRI Content Index Core Answers GRI Disclosures and Explanations & Page Standard Numbers Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements About Report 2 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About Report 2 102-47 List of material topics Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals 19 102-48 Restatements of information Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals 19-20 102-49 Changes in reporting Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals 19-20 102-50 Reporting period About Report 2 102-51 Date of most recent report October 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle About Report 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contact 63 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About Report 2 102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index 58 102-56 External assurance None TOPIC-SPECIFIC STANDARDS GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARDS 2016 GRI 201 Economic Performance 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals 19 GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Goals and Compliance with Sustainable Development Goals 21 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Goals and Compliance with Sustainable Development Goals 21, 24 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic Performance 26 GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals 19 GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Goals and Compliance with Sustainable Development Goals 21 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Goals and Compliance with Sustainable Development Goals 21, 24 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Economic Performance 27-29 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Economic Performance 27-29 Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 59 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index GRI Content Index Core Answers GRI Disclosures and Explanations & Page Standard Numbers GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS 2016 GRI 302 Energy 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals 19 GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Goals and Compliance with Sustainable Development Goals 22 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Ak-Kim Sustainability Policy, Environmental Performance 24, 31, 32 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental Performance 32 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental Performance 32 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental Performance 33 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Environmental Performance 33, 39 GRI 303 Water 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals 19 GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Goals and Compliance with Sustainable Development Goals 22 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Ak-Kim Sustainability Policy, Environmental Performance 24, 35 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Environmental Performance 35 303-3 Water recycled and reused Environmental Performance 36 GRI 305 Emissions 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals 19 GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Goals and Compliance with Sustainable Development Goals 22 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Ak-Kim Sustainability Policy, Environmental Performance 24, 31, 32 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental Performance 34 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental Performance 34 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental Performance 34 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environmental Performance 34 GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals 19 GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Goals and Compliance with Sustainable Development Goals 22 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Ak-Kim Sustainability Policy, Environmental Performance 24, 31, 36, 37 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental Performance 38 Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 60 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index GRI Content Index Core Answers GRI Disclosures and Explanations & Page Standard Numbers GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS 2016 GRI 401 Employment 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals 19 GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Social Performance 48 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social Performance 48 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 401-2 Social Performance 48 temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave Social Performance 48 GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals 19 GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Social Performance 52 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social Performance 52 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 403-2 Social Performance 53 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 404 Training and Education 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals 19 GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Social Performance 55 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social Performance 55 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Social Performance 55 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 404-2 Social Performance 51 programs GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Prioritized Sustainability Issues and Ak-Kim’s Sustainability Goals 19 GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Social Performance 49 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social Performance 49 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Social Performance 46 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Social Performance 49 Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 61 Message To About Ak-Kim and Economic Environmental Social GRI Content Stakeholders Ak-Kim Sustainability Performance Performance Performance Index Ak-Kim UN Global Compact Communication on Progress UNGC Principles Page Numbers HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 14, 24, 48-49 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 14, 24, 46-57 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 14, 18, 22, 24, 31-39 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 16, 24, 49 Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 62 Contact about the report: Tuğçe Arslanoğlu Corporate Communications Manager tugce.arslanoglu@akkim.com.tr Çiğdem Arpat Management Systems Division Manager cigdem.arpat@akkim.com.tr Ece Eriş Management Systems Specialist Ak-Kim Kimya Sanayi ve Tic. A.Ş. ece.eris@akkim.com.tr Head Office: Miralay Şefik Bey Sok. Akhan No: 15 34437 Gümüşsuyu/İSTANBUL Phone: +90 212 381 71 00 +90 212 258 31 22 Fax: +90 212 259 12 92 Reporting Consultant Factory: SU Sustainability and Corporate Merkez Mah. Ak-Kim Sok. No: 7 Taşköprü, Çiftlikköy /YALOVA Social Responsibility Consulting Phone: +90 226 815 33 00 www.sucsr.com Fax: +90 226 353 25 39 www.akkim.com.tr Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 is prepared exclusively for informing purposes. Sources and information believed to be true and reliable pertaining to the period covered by the report were used. The content appearing in the present report may not be interpreted as a statement, guarantee or commitment, and the completeness and unchange ableness of the relevant content is not guaranteed. All rights pertaining to the present report belong to Ak-Kim Kimya Sanayi ve Tic. A.S. Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 63 Ak-Kim Sustainability Report 2016-2017 64
