factbook Sustainability report 2018 2 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Editorial Dear Reader, You hold a new publication by Bosch in your hand – the sustainability factbook. Alongside the annual report and the annual spotlights magazine, the factbook offers extensive information on sustainability management at Bosch. In this context, the factbook – together with the magazine – will serve as the Bosch Group’s sustainability report in the future. In compiling the information, we referred to international standards such that the factbook adheres to the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), among others. By extending our reporting in this way, we want to establish a basis for continued trust-based dialogue with our stakeholders. And there is a lot to report. Over the past year, for instance, we elaborated an extensive target vision for sustainability at the Bosch Group and anchored it in the company: “New Dimensions – Sustainability 2025” defines clear targets in six important issues and serves as the basis for systematic sustainability management. In this way, we want to make Bosch that little bit better every day when it comes to sustainability. Each and every one of us can make a contribution in our daily work – and we are all individually called on to do our part. Because sustainability concerns us all. The spectrum of topics and activities is as diverse as the world we live in: from protecting the environment and the conscientious use of resources to trust-based relations with business partners and our activities as a corporate citizen right through to fair, attractive, and safe working conditions for the roughly 410,000 associates working at the Bosch Group worldwide. Many challenges and quite some effort lie ahead of us. Key to success are joint, concerted efforts and determined action – the longstanding hallmarks of Bosch. This report describes what we do specifically for more sustainability, the objectives we pursue, and what we have already achieved in recent months. I am pleased that we have attracted your interest, and I wish you a pleasant and inspiring read! Sincerely yours Christoph Kübel Member of the board of management and director of industrial relations 3 Contents Contents 02 Editorial 03 Contents 04 Foreword by the board of management 06 Company 08 Bosch Group profile 11 Sustainability strategy and organization 16 Corporate governance and compliance 20 Products 22 Management approach 24 Research and development 28 Quality policy, IT security, and data protection 31 Sustainable products 42 Supply chain 44 Management approach 45 Trust-based supplier relationships 47 Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers 50 Conflict minerals and substances of concern 52 Environment 54 Protecting the climate, conserving resources – our approach 55 Energy and climate protection 62 Materials and waste management 66 Water and wastewater 70 Associates 72 It’s people that matter 73 Attractive employer 88 Occupational health and safety 94 Society 96 Active at three levels – our social initiatives 97 Donations – a global commitment 101 Political lobbying – technology orientation rather than ideology 103 Sponsorship – based on clear rules 104 Annex 105 GRI index 111 About this report 111 Publishing details 4 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Foreword by the board of management Dear Reader, Some challenges concern people everywhere – but we cannot all I am particularly pleased to be able to report in this afford to sit back and wait for somebody else to deal with them. first edition of our factbook about an extremely imporEach one of us has to make their contribution. Protecting the envitant step in our sustainability management: by 2020, ronment, conserving resources, and mitigating climate change are Bosch is to be carbon-neutral worldwide. There is no such challenges, as is the sustainable development of our society, doubt about it: this is going to entail a major effort for particularly through education and equal opportunities. All of us, the entire company. But we do not want to make do including companies like Bosch, have to take responsibility for with the past success of climate protection measures current and future generations. so far: we want more, and we want to act now. That is why we have brought the paramount goal of climate Sustainable action in particular is called for – now. This becomes neutrality for Bosch within reach. Our calculations especially apparent for climate change. The longer we wait before show: we can achieve this goal quickly. How? We we take decisive countermeasures, the more difficult it will be to provide details of that in this factbook. mitigate the warming of the earth’s atmosphere. I am pleased about your interest and I hope that we As an innovative company, Bosch is actively contributing toward can continue to count on your trust in future! this common duty: we provide technological solutions to ecological challenges – and secure also our own success in the process. Sincerely yours Because only a company that acts responsibly will prove successful in the long run. For many years, we have been outlining how we actually live up to this responsibility in our sustainability report. We have shown what Dr. Volkmar Denner objectives we have set across different fields of action and how Chairman of the board of management we intend to meet them. And we disclose what we have already achieved – as well as what milestones lie ahead. With this factbook, we are going one step further: we are expanding our reporting and are offering even more detailed insights into our activities and goals – openly, transparently, and in line with international standards. In this way, we want to create trust, the basis for any constructive dialogue. 5 Foreword by the board of management 6 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Company Some 410,000 associates across the globe, 78.5 billion euros in sales revenue – Bosch is economically strong. For the Bosch Group, sustainability means securing the company’s success in the long term while at the same time protecting the natural resources on which present and future generations depend. The conviction held by our company founder Robert Bosch still guides our actions today: “In the long term, an honest and fair approach to doing business will be the most profitable.” Sustainable, ecological, and socially responsible action is hence the foundation for our success in business. 7 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society 4 business sectors around 460 subsidiaries and regional companies in over 60 countries 409,881 associates as of December 31, 2018 78.5 billion euros in sales revenue 8 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 1.0 Bosch Group profile The Bosch Group is a global supplier of technology and which performs the entrepreneurial ownership functions. services, and generates nearly half its sales outside The trust itself owns a capital share of 0.01 percent. Most Europe. It encompasses around 460 fully consolidated of the remaining shares and voting rights are held by the subsidiaries and regional companies in more than 60 founder’s descendants. This ownership structure guarancountries. The parent company is Robert Bosch GmbH, tees the Bosch Group’s entrepreneurial independence, which is headquartered in Stuttgart, Germany. It started allowing the company to plan for the long term and make out as “Workshop for Precision Mechanics and Electrisignificant upfront investments in its future. cal Engineering,” founded in Stuttgart in 1886 by Robert Bosch (1861–1942). Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH has been the majority shareA broad presence holder in Robert Bosch GmbH since 1964 and currently holds about 92 percent of the shares. As a not-for-profit for a successful future foundation, Robert Bosch Stiftung, however, has no influence on the strategic or business orientation of the Bosch The Bosch Group is highly diversified. Our operations are Group. The voting rights accruing to its share are held by structured in four business sectors: Robert Bosch Industrietreuhand KG, an industrial trust, } Mobility Solutions Bosch is already one of the world’s largest automotive 01 suppliers today. From engine to powertrain and steering systems, infotainment, and communication right Shareholders of Robert Bosch GmbH through to safety and driver assistance systems – Bosch technology already plays a great role in making the vision Share in % of emissions-free, accident-free, and stress-free driving Robert Bosch GmbH 1 come true. Our fields of business also include repairBosch family 7 shop concepts as well as technology and services for the automotive aftermarket. We want to use our strong Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH 92 02 Headcount Voting rights in % Bosch Group by region, as of Dec. 31, 2018 Bosch family 7 Total 409,881 Asia Pacific Europe (including other 249,964 Robert Bosch Industrietreucountries, also in hand KG 93 Africa) 114,825 Americas 45,092 9 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Bosch Group profile | Sustainability strategy and organization | Corporate governance and compliance 03 Bosch Group business sectors Industrial Consumer Energy and BuildMobility Solutions Technology Goods ing Technology Powertrain Solutions 1 Drive and Control TechPower Tools 4 Building Technologies 5 Chassis Systems Control nology 2 BSH Hausgeräte GmbH Thermotechnology Electrical Drives Packaging Technology 3 Bosch Global Service Car Multimedia Solutions Automotive Electronics Automotive Aftermarket 1 New division from January 1, 2018 Automotive Steering 2 Bosch Rexroth AG (100 % Bosch-owned) Connected Mobility Solutions 1 3 Robert Bosch Packaging Technology GmbH 4 Robert Bosch Power Tools GmbH 5 Until February 28, 2018, Security Systems competitive position to become one of the leading supBusiness developments pliers in the field of electric, automated, and connected driving, and in smart mobility services. in 2018 } Industrial Technology In the 2018 fiscal year, the Bosch Group generated sales Innovative solutions for drive, control, and packaging revenue of 78.5 billion euros (previous year: 78.1 billion technology are core for this business sector. Here, we euros, +0.5 percent, adjusted for exchange-rate effects are increasingly positioning ourselves as a provider of +3.2 percent). Adjusted to eliminate consolidation effects, Industry 4.0 solutions for the factory of the future based in particular from the sale of the former Starter Motors on software, automation, and connectivity. and Generators division, the Bosch Group’s sales revenue increased by 2.2 percent, or an exchange-rate-adjusted } Consumer Goods 5.0 percent. At 5.5 billion euros, EBIT from operations was This business sector comprises our wide range of tools also above the previous year (5.3 billion euros), and, as a and household appliances. The Power Tools division is a percentage of sales revenue, the EBIT margin of 7.0 persupplier of power tools, power-tool accessories, and meacent exceeded the high previous-year level (6.8 percent). suring technology, and BSH Hausgeräte GmbH offers the For further details on Bosch’s business situation, please entire range of modern and energy-efficient household refer to the 2018 annual report (page 44 et seq.). appliances, which are increasingly also connected. } Energy and Building Technology This business sector offers a broad range of products and solutions – from thermotechnology for private or commer­ 04 cial applications to security systems and right through to Sales revenue smart-home solutions. Bosch Group 2018 by region, in billions of euros Total 78.5 Asia Pacific Europe (including other 41.4 countries, also in Africa) 23.4 Americas 13.7 10 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Strategic approach and 5,000 of them on the topic of IoT. With around 1,000 artificial intelligence experts, we have extensive Many of the Bosch Group’s business fields are set to know-how in this area – and their number is set to change radically. We are responding to this. The Internet increase fourfold over the next few years. Even today, of Things (IoT) and its accompanying increases in conour product portfolio comprises innovative solutions for nectivity and automation are presenting a major opportusmart homes, smart cities, connected mobility, and nity for the company as a whole. This connectivity affects Industry 4.0 (see the “Products” section). all of Bosch’s areas of business, from mobility solutions through industrial technology and consumer goods such as household appliances and power tools to energy and building technology. Another major disruption will come Our mission – our values from increasing electrification, especially in automotive technology, but also in industrial technology and energy Our “We are Bosch” mission statement expresses our and building technology. strategy and how we see ourselves. The starting point is the mission handed down by Robert Bosch in his will: to The starting point for our strategy is the objective of secure our company’s future as he would have wanted securing the company’s future as enshrined in the will by ensuring its strong and meaningful development and of founder Robert Bosch – in other words, ensuring the preserving its financial independence. To achieve this company’s strong and meaningful development and mission, we have set ourselves strategic focal points to securing its financial independence. Our goal is to develop drive us forward: customer focus, change coupled with products that are “Invented for life,” that fascinate, that continuous further development, and a clear commitimprove quality of life, and that help conserve natural ment to excellence in everything that we do. Our mission resources. In this respect, “products” means not only reflects the culture at Bosch. physical products and services but also, to an increasing extent, the digitally connected, software-based solutions The mission is based on seven central values that shape that go with them. For this reason, we are driving forward our corporate culture – ranging from a focus on the future innovations in both products and business models, and earnings to cultural diversity. Responsibility and entering entirely new business fields, and developing our sustainability are part of this set of values and thus of our organization. As affirmed in our “We are Bosch” mission actions. That is why it is also our ambition to play a leadstatement, one of our strategic focal points is shaping ing role in sustainability management. We want to improve change, taking into account the aspects of connectivity, quality of life worldwide and conserve natural resources electrification, automation, energy efficiency, and emergwith our products, solutions, and services. Our innovative ing markets. strength forms the basis – and is the driving force – for our growth. Our “Invented for life” ethos expresses this We want to seize our opportunities to become one of the succinctly and is evident in all aspects of our product world’s leading IoT and mobility solutions companies. We development (see the “Products” section). regard our presence in diverse markets and industries as an advantage because of the many insights we gain as a result. We are consistently combining our competencies with our capabilities and expertise in software, sensor technology, and programming. More than 27,000 IT and software experts already work for Bosch worldwide today 11 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Bosch Group profile | Sustainability strategy and organization | Corporate governance and compliance 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization Sustainability concerns us all – and has therefore been important issues, each of which is underscored by two defined as a central task at Bosch on which the various major aspects with clearly defined, medium-term targets. business sectors work together. Ambitious targets and Derived from the megatrends that are significant for our systematic sustainability management form the basis. The company, the issues set the framework for our activities in content and tasks as well as related controlling are firmly the years ahead. General sustainability trends as well as anchored in our processes at Bosch. Clear responsibilities the targets and activities of companies that we consider and decision-making processes secure the efficiency of leaders in sustainability have also been incorporated into our actions. our vision. We have worked toward achieving our goals over the past The issues in our vision set out the way forward and are several years. We have achieved much of what we set out the cornerstones for our commitment to sustainability. to do – and most of our targets will end in the period 2018 They include our commitment to climate protection as through 2020. That is why, in 2018, we developed a new, well as our continuous striving toward energy efficiency even more ambitious target vision for Bosch: “New Dimenand the economical use of water. Even in an increasingly sions – Sustainability 2025.” It describes six globally urbanized world, we want to keep the ecological footprint of our operations and products as small as possible and gear our operations more and more toward the 05 principle of a closed-loop or circular Target vision En economy. As a globally operating 1 | erg 2 | Ene y +2 company, we also assume respone 1 Re rgy ate op 3 ne wa effic sibility for society and the environim sc pe Cl CO 2 sco ble ien ment worldwide. We make our 1| O2 en cy |C erg activities transparent and include 2 y our supply chain in our efforts to do business in a sustainable and responsible manner. We also 1 | Health + Safety endeavor to keep people and the 1 | Water scarcity environment from harm – occupaNew Dimensions tional health and safety, compliance with materials restrictions, and the 2 | Substances of concern 2 | Water quality Sustainability 2025 Water reduction of hazardous substances Health are key issues in this respect. Our plans regarding each of the issues are described in the following sections in this report. Gl 1| a ob e nts 2 | Res lizat sm on es te Su pon ion ati ass as pp ly sibil niz cle + W ch ity ba cy es ain Ur Life ourc | s 1 Re 2| 12 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Clear responsibility for sustainability Responsibility for worldwide implementation of the sustainability strategy and monitoring the achievement of targets rests with the specialists responsible in the At Bosch, we take a holistic approach to sustainability. divisions. The structure we apply in sustainability manageThe highest technical committee for sustainability is the ment is one that has already proved successful in other corporate social responsibility steering committee under areas: strategy and framework conditions are defined the aegis of the chairman of the board of management. centrally, and the divisions focus on compliance with the This committee brings together the board of managestandards and processes, right through to certification. ment member responsible for sustainability as well as Our associates in the regions and at the more than 400 the competent department heads – for example, for HR, Bosch sites worldwide then have the task of putting the real estate and facilities, environment, and communirespective requirements into practice locally and ensuring cations. The steering committee concerns itself with compliance with the legal framework conditions. Bosch’s strategic orientation in relation to sustainability, whereas goal agreements and management review for all sustainability-related issues are the responsibility of the chairman and the board of management member Core process 06 To reduce complexity in our sustainability management, we use a central core process. The core process is based How sustainability is organized at Bosch on the ISO standard process definitions, particularly ISO 31000. Chairman of the board of management Goal agreement and board of management member Management review The core process comprises four subprocesses: responsible for sustainability } The Management Responsibility subprocess reviews the strategy, processes and policies, and organization at least once a year to ascertain whether they are still up to Strategic approach Corporate social responsibility steering committee date and compatible with the corporate strategy. } The Planning subprocess analyzes internal and external trends and performs an opportunity and risk analysis Sustainability management and to assess these in terms of their contribution to value Head of EHS and Sustainability sustainability report added and their probability of realization (opportunities) Head of Communications and Sustainability communication and Governmental Affairs or potential loss and probability of occurrence (risks). stakeholder engagement Material opportunities and risks identified either give rise to new strategic projects or new performance indicators or, if necessary, additional policies. The outcomes are also Implementation and monitoring of the Specialists responsible incorporated in the central risk management. sustainability strategy and targets in the divisions We are confident that the topic of sustainability holds clear opportunities for a technology and services comresponsible for sustainability. The strategic orientation pany such as Bosch. That is why we have established an in sustainability is developed jointly by the Communicaideas lab as a key unit in the Planning subprocess since tions and Governmental Affairs corporate sector and the January 2018. Using various creative techniques, the EHS and Sustainability corporate sector. From a content ideas lab regularly develops new ideas for solutions, as point of view, the Communications and Governmental well as concepts or thematic areas in order to proactively Affairs corporate sector focuses on sustainability comaddress opportunities and examine their feasibility. This munications and stakeholder engagement. The EHS and way, we expressly want to rethink established procedures Sustainability corporate sector is responsible for sustainto open the door to innovation. ability management, which comprises above all preparing concepts for further development, setting and tracking goals, and designing and accompanying programs. 13 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Bosch Group profile | Sustainability strategy and organization | Corporate governance and compliance 07 Core process Core process of sustainability management Internal and external Management Responsibility requirements (incl. stake­ Requirements holders and legislation) are fulfilled Planning Operation Steering & CIP } Operation, the third subprocess, deals with the imple105 entries, the number of participants almost doubled mentation of strategic projects, the agreement of goals, in 2018 compared with the previous year. Almost half the and cascading them within the organization. Policy develentries in the past year were related to environmental or opment is also anchored here, along with good-practice climate protection. sharing to disseminate exemplary solutions. } The Steering & CIP subprocess comprises auditing, measure tracking, and evaluation as well as external Committed to more reporting based on selected performance indicators. All data sets of the reporting entities are reviewed by validasustainability tors with strict adherence to the principle of dual control to ensure data quality. In addition, a central review is perRobert Bosch GmbH has been a member of the United formed by the EHS and Sustainability corporate sector. Nations Global Compact since 2004 and of the German The data reported can be audited internally – for example, Global Compact Network since 2013. We are committed as part of local audits. to the ten Global Compact principles relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption measures. With this factbook, we also EHS Award in recognition satisfy the requirement of reporting on the progress we made in 2018 in terms of these principles. With our comof exemplary projects mitment, we also support the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in 2015, as we want to make our contribution to jointly overcome Commitment deserves recognition – that is why Bosch global social challenges. We therefore regularly benchpresents the annual EHS Award to honor outstanding mark our sustainability activities against the 17 goals. projects in the categories of CO2/energy efficiency, resource efficiency, and When developing our target sustainability vision in 2018, 08 occupational health and safety. Bosch sites from all around the we reviewed the priorities to date and confirmed most of them. At the same time, we added a separate issue to our Entries for the world can take part. A jury of target vision to reflect SDG 6 Clean Water and Sanitation EHS Award experts then chooses the three and make our contribution with regard to water scarcity 2017–2018 best projects in each category, and water quality. The following SDGs remain particularly 53 105 and the board of management relevant to our company: Good Health and Well-Being member responsible for sus(SDG 3), Quality Education (SDG 4), Gender Equality tainability presents the sought(SDG 5), Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8), after trophies at an internal Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG 9), Sustainaward ceremony. The rising able Cities and Communities (SDG 11), Responsible Pronumber of participants shows duction and Consumption (SDG 12), and Climate Action how well-received the award (SDG 13). Bosch’s diverse activities may also support is within the company – with aspects of other UN goals. 2017 2018 14 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Our reporting serves to make our commitment transpar} Suppliers ent. We support various reporting formats, such as the We are aware that our responsibility for the environment German Sustainability Code, CDP, formerly known as and society stretches beyond our company boundaries the Carbon Disclosure Project, and the Standards of the and into the supply chain. Accordingly, we include our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). suppliers in our commitment for more sustainability and perform regular environmental and social audits with As signatory of the WIN Charter developed by the Sustainthem, among other measures. The exchange includes able Business Practices initiative of the German federal extensive analyses as well as training on topics such as state of Baden-Württemberg, we have also committed resource efficiency and workplace safety. Please also refer to our economic, ecological, and social responsibility at to the “Supply chain” section of this report for details of the regional level. We are also active members in a large how we keep in touch with our suppliers. number of other initiatives of relevance for sustainability. For example, Bosch has been a corporate member of } Universities and research institutes Transparency International Deutschland e.V. since 1995 We maintain dialogue with research institutes, on the one and a member of Forum Compliance & Integrity since hand, by promoting research projects in areas of relevance 2007. Since 2018, Bosch has also had a representative for Bosch such as energy efficiency, renewable energies, on the board of European Business Ethics Network or electrification. On the other hand, we offer students Deutschland e.V. and graduates the opportunity to write their bachelor’s or master’s thesis and dissertations on sustainability topics of practical relevance. For more details, please refer to the Intensive dialogue with “Products | Research and development” section. internal and external } Policymakers As a supplier of technology and services with a multitude stakeholders of different products, we are bound by regulatory frameworks in our endeavors to demonstrate what is technoWe want to hear what our stakeholders have to say and logically possible. That is why we seek an exchange at a make their needs the yardstick against which to meapolitical level via dialogue and active work in associations sure our activities. That is why we engage in continuous and committees. Bosch is regarded as a reliable partner dialogue with them. Cooperative and intensive exchange for policymakers and is specifically requested to share its is essential for us to tailor our efforts so that they can knowledge. Rather than ideologically motivated lobbyachieve their maximum potential and meet the various ing, our dialogue with policymakers focuses on issues stakeholders’ expectations. As a company with global of technical feasibility while considering the interdepenoperations and a very extensive product portfolio, we face dence of costs and effects (also see the “Society | Political the challenge of addressing a very wide range of external lobbying” section). stakeholders with often widely diverging requirements: } Associates } Customers The legacy of our company founder Robert Bosch also We are in regular and intensive exchange with compafinds its expression in our corporate culture: the connies from various industries. In the automotive industry, tinuous dialogue with associates includes, for example, the focus is on new mobility concepts. In practically all regular feedback talks with their respective managers. industries and often in cooperation with other compaEvery two years, Bosch also conducts a company-wide nies, Bosch is also working on topics including energy associate survey. The questions covered include the efficiency and connecting the three pillars of mobility, working conditions of associates, their identification buildings, and industry. And, not least, our trade and retail with the corporate values, and work-life balance. In 2017, customers appreciate tools and household appliances the global participation rate was 86 percent (see the from Bosch. Further details of how we communicate with “Asso­ciates” section). our customers are provided in the “Products” section. 15 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Bosch Group profile | Sustainability strategy and organization | Corporate governance and compliance Further important stakeholders in our company include needed. By attending conferences and as a part of our the people living in the vicinity of Bosch sites around the work in associations and committees, we continuously world, as well as environmental and social nongovernreview our extensive activities. mental organizations, banks, insurance companies, the media, religious organizations, and representatives of public authorities. We also engage in talks with them as Focusing on what truly matters We use a materiality analysis to determine which aspects of sustainability to focus our activities on. The analysis is regularly compared against the outcome of our trends monitoring and adjusted if necessary, as was the case last year. The analysis is conducted in close consultation with the competent specialist departments, and the current status is evaluated together with the EHS and Sustainability corporate sector. The figure below highlights the aspects that Bosch and its stakeholders deem to be of material relevance within the defined fields of activity. The outcome of the materiality analysis also forms the basis for the choice of topics covered by this factbook. In order to consider potential new topics, we have also referred to the content that other companies report and reclassified some topics on that basis. Sections: Company 09 Products Environment Associates Materiality matrix Society Biodiversity Water Air quality High Environmental and social Climate protection and standards in the supply chain energy efficiency Sustainability reporting Mobility transformation Sustainable product development Digitalization (IoT) and artificial intelligence (AI) Data security and protection Compliance and integrity Relevance for stakeholders Donations Resources and waste Occupational safety Fire protection Sustainability awareness Occupational health Diversity Social commitment Associate development Employer attractiveness Land consumption Demographic change Entrepreneurial freedom Investor relations Low Low Relevance for Bosch High 16 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 1.2 Corporate governance and compliance Reliability, credibility, legality, and fairness are key compoRisk management nents of Bosch’s success in business. “We promise only what we can deliver, accept agreements as binding, and Managing risks in a forward-looking and responsible manrespect and observe the law in all our business transacner and identifying opportunities at an early stage and tions.” We have also anchored this philosophy in our seizing them sets important foundations for our success mission statement. in business. In the Bosch Group, risk management encompasses the entire company, including all operations, functional areas, hierarchical levels, and staff functions. Responsible corporate Risks are identified and managed where they arise – in other words, above all in the divisions and regional orgagovernance nizations. The latter are also responsible for introducing measures to reduce or control risks. In addition, corporate departments for areas such as compliance management, The board of management of Robert Bosch GmbH defines legal services, tax, and risk management (the latter having the strategy for the entire company and manages the been set up in early 2018) support, direct, and monitor company as a whole. Its responsibilities are set out in the the operating units’ control activities. As an independent board of management organization chart. The Robert authority, internal auditing assesses the appropriateness Bosch GmbH supervisory board appoints, monitors, and and effectiveness of the measures and, if necessary, initiadvises the board of management. In making appointates remedial measures. ments to the supervisory board, Robert Bosch GmbH is subject to the German Codetermination Act (MitbestimFor further details on our risk management system and a mungsgesetz). Owing to the company’s size, the supervidetailed description of significant risks, please refer to the sory board has 20 members. Ten members are appointed 2018 annual report (page 56 et seq.). The main antitrust by the shareholders with voting rights. The other ten memand legal risks are also described there. bers are elected by the employee representatives. Robert Bosch Industrietreuhand KG acts as managing partner. In line with the mission handed down in the will of the company founder, Robert Bosch, the trust is responsible Compliance – ethos for safeguarding the company’s long-term existence and, above all, its financial independence. The aim is to guaranand duty combined tee that the company remains independent and able to act at all times. For further information on the composition At Bosch, compliance (with laws, guidelines, and volunof the board of management and the supervisory board tary commitments) is a fixed element of our set of values. and on the remuneration of key management personnel, To underscore the significance of this principle, Bosch has please refer to the 2018 annual report (pages 6 and 141). clearly and unequivocally formulated its position on legal requirements and ethical issues in its Code of Business Conduct that applies worldwide. Together with the Bosch values, it provides a foundation that we believe is key to Bosch’s success in business. And because responsible and lawful conduct is important beyond company boundaries, we have formulated our expectations of our business partners in a corresponding code of conduct (see the “Supply chain” section). 17 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Bosch Group profile | Sustainability strategy and organization | Corporate governance and compliance Group-wide com­ Code of Business pliance management Conduct system The Code of Business Conduct provides guidance for all Bosch associates on values-based and legally irreproachBosch’s group-wide compliance management system able conduct. It outlines the basic rules of conduct in the (CMS) constitutes the organizational framework for company and takes a stance on ethical issues such as ensuring compliance with the law and regulations. This how to deal with insider information, whether to accept helps us to systematically adhere to our values and poligifts, and how to avoid conflicts of interest. Our aim is to cies worldwide. The Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) provide clear guidance and, at the same time, to protect heads the Compliance corporate sector and reports our associates, our company, and our business partners. directly to the board of management and the chairman of the supervisory board. In the regions and divisions, the The Code of Business Conduct also includes our commitCCO is assisted by the compliance offices. In addition, ment to social responsibility, in particular with regard to the corporate compliance committee, comprising reprerespecting human rights in our actions and the prohibition sentatives from legal, internal audit, and human resources of forced or child labor. Our code also extends to our (HR), supports the CCO in an advisory capacity. business partners. We aim to keep our policies and procedures up to date, When updating the Code of Business Conduct in 2017, even in a constantly evolving environment. Consequently, we attached great importance not only to content updates we monitor legal developments, review our CMS on an but also to increasing clarity and using simpler language. ongoing basis, and perform regular risk analyses. The At the same time, there is now a stronger focus on the findings are analyzed and help to continuously refine our values formulated as part of our mission. This approach CMS. will be followed by other communication activities, such as a company-wide poster campaign, which was trialed in The internal auditing corporate sector tests compliance 2018 and will be implemented worldwide throughout the with internal policies and processes in the course of its company in 2019. Our aim in all this is to move away from regular internal audits. It has unrestricted authority to a largely rules-based form of compliance to one primardemand information and perform audits, as do its local ily based on values. It is our ambition to be a pioneer for units. CMS design and effectiveness are also covered values-based conduct that extends beyond compliance by the internal audits. In addition, our system is put to with the law. the test in external audits, which have also repeatedly attested their effectiveness in recent years. On top of The Code of Business Conduct is available to all associthe measures implemented as a result of audits, Bosch ates in 33 languages and has been communicated by the has adopted a range of additional measures to further chairman of the board of management to all non-tariff strengthen the compliance organization and raise awareassociates worldwide. They have confirmed in writing ness for the topic of compliance. their acknowledgment of the Code of Business Conduct. In addition, a condensed and simplified version of the Code has been distributed to our associates; in Germany, for example, a corresponding letter was enclosed with the payroll slip sent to all associates. 18 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Product Development Compliance at business Code partners In product development as well, we observe clearly Bosch takes a holistic approach to corporate social formulated basic principles, which we summarized in responsibility. Therefore, clear policies and procedures our Product Development Code in 2017. At all times, our also apply with respect to our business partners. They actions are accordingly guided by the principle of legality are subject to a standardized and risk-based compliance and our “Invented for life” ethos. That means legality and check, for instance. The findings are assessed using a Bosch values take priority over customer requests in standard process and appropriate measures are defined the event of conflicts of interest. Specifically, in normal, and introduced, where necessary. These can range from everyday use, Bosch products should deliver the specified a further, more in-depth assessment right through to quality, safeguard human life, and conserve resources and withdrawal from the business relationship. protect the environment to the greatest possible extent. The development of functions to detect test cycles or In our code of conduct for business partners, we have other tests is not permitted. formulated what we expect from them in terms of compliance. It is not binding as such but can be agreed as Our ethical guiding principles, some of which go beyond the basis for the business relationship or made a fixed what is required by law, apply for the entire Bosch contractual component, if required. Moreover, there are Group as well as for all Bosch products and services. If a additional internal policies that provide clear guidance on customer does not observe the principles of our Product responsible conduct and define further processes. For Development Code, we do not take part in their invitaexample, the purchasing guidelines are binding for Bosch tions to tender. Since mid-2017, for example, Bosch has purchasing officers and set out clear guidance as well as renounced in customer projects in Europe for gasoline the regulatory framework in relation to the supply chain. engines that are not designed to be equipped with The “Supply chain” section of this report describes in particulate filters. In the event of noncompliance with detail how we discharge our responsibility in the supply the Product Development Code in the course of existchain and which framework conditions are in place to ing business relations, measures can extend to a stop in ensure compliance. delivery. The Product Development Code principles were also incorporated in the Code of Business Conduct when it was revised in 2017. Training and communication centering on Dual use compliance Bosch does not conduct basic research for military use. We employ extensive training and communication meaSome of our products feature technology that might sures to raise awareness among our associates of the conpermit dual use or be used to serve military purposes. tent of the Code of Business Conduct and other relevant Dual use means that the products leaving our plant are in policies. The compliance training program is available principle constructed to be used in a wide range of applito all associates in the form of Web-based training and cations. We adhere to export control regulations without classroom training courses, and participation is mandaexception. tory for specific associate groups. The Web-based training relating to the Code of Business Conduct also comprises a section on our basic principles of social responsibility, including human rights and other issues. In light of their 19 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Bosch Group profile | Sustainability strategy and organization | Corporate governance and compliance special responsibility as specialists or executives, nonComplaints mechanisms and whistleblower tariff associates are also regularly included in the target groups and required to take part in the compliance-related training described above. system As of the end of 2018, over 700,000 trainings were completed as part of the current mandatory compliance Violations of applicable law, the Bosch Code of Busitraining cycle. The training covers the Code of Business ness Conduct, or internal policies are investigated with Conduct as well as matters of product safety and product rigor. We do not tolerate misconduct on the part of liability, antitrust law, anti-corruption, export control, and our associates and take appropriate action in such an product development requirements. event. If, despite all efforts, any concerns should arise about a potential breach of the compliance rules, all By the end of 2018, for example, some 100,000 associates associates, but also business partners and other third received training in the Product Development Code over a parties, can report to Bosch. For this purpose, there is period of 18 months as part of the most extensive training a global whistleblower system available on the Internet program in the company’s more than 130-year history. The and intranet in 14 languages. The system offers various classroom-based events were aimed at associates from predefined reporting categories but also allows reporting development as well as quality management, technical on any other matters, such as potential human rights violasales, and marketing. A total of 400 internal trainers were tions. The reports can be made via the Web, anonymously trained for this purpose and continue to act as contacts if desired, or by phone. Bosch associates can also contact and multipliers within the company. The two-hour classtheir superior or the respective compliance officer in their room training courses took place in around 60 countries. division or region directly. The compliance organization They will be supplemented in 2019 by additional Webimmediately follows up on every report, involving the based trainings, which are intended to regularly bring up relevant specialists as required. Cases are dealt with in to date the contents of the classroom training. the local language, and progress and status are recorded in a central database. We also want to raise awareness for compliance matters among our associates beyond the training offered. To In 2018, a total of 588 reports (previous year: 452) were this end, we use the whole range of internal media – from recorded via the whistleblower system. Any events newsletters to the in-house newspaper and the intranet reported via the system that are not compliance-related pages. Our reporting is accompanied by further measures are forwarded to the respective specialist departments for at Bosch sites to provide additional visibility within the further processing. Cases of discrimination, for example, company for the topic of compliance and the related are addressed by HR. contact persons. Executives and associates hold the compliance dialogue to intensively discuss compliance matters. This compliance dialogue offers an opportunity in particular to discuss with colleagues and their supervisors any dilemmas they might encounter in their specific work environment. This promotes and engrains a culture of openness and transparency. The topic of compliance is also part of the annual feedback talks held between associates and supervisors. 20 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Products “Invented for life” – our products spark enthusiasm in people, improve their quality of life, and help conserve natural resources. In this way, ecological and social issues become a driver of innovation and form the basis for our success in business. With our Design for Environment approach, we have systematically internalized this connection, ensuring that the environmental impact of our products is progressively reduced over their entire life cycle. 21 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society Life cycle assessments for around 50 % of products by sales revenue 5,996 patent applications Konzernlagebericht 100,000 associates received Product Development Code training 22 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 2.0 Management approach Bosch creates technology that is “Invented for life.” Our Product development ethos sets a clear standard for our products: we improve quality of life worldwide with products and services that pursuant to a clear code are innovative and spark enthusiasm. We want to make homes more comfortable and resource-efficient, achieve The principle of legality and our “Invented for life” ethos emission-free and safe mobility, and – quite generally are the measure of our actions. Therefore, the develop– develop products that protect the environment and ment of Bosch products also follows clearly formulated conserve resources. A sustainable mindset and sustainbasic ethical principles, which we summarized in our able actions are therefore our engine for innovation – and Product Development Code in 2017. First, the developthe basis for our company’s success. ment of functions to detect test cycles or other tests is not permitted. Second, Bosch products must not be Bosch has a broad product portfolio. Our four business optimized for test situations. Third, normal, everyday use sectors Mobility Solutions, Industrial Technology, Conof Bosch products should safeguard human life as well as sumer Goods, and Energy and Building Technology are conserve resources and protect the environment to the leading providers in their fields of business. But our margreatest possible extent. This guidance applies for the kets and competitive environments vary significantly in entire Bosch Group. In unclear cases, Bosch values even some cases. The diversity and complexity of our product take priority over customer wishes. Since mid-2017, for portfolio is fascinating and a challenge at the same time. example, Bosch has no longer been involved in customer projects in Europe for gasoline engines that are not Three of the six globally important issues in our target designed to be equipped with particulate filters. vision of sustainability focus on product-related aspects: Urbanization addresses our ecological footprint as well As many as 100,000 associates, mainly from research and as the contributions that our products make toward development, received training in the code by the end protecting the environment, whereas health entails our of 2018 as part of the most extensive training program aim to keep people and the environment from harm. in our company’s history (see the “Company | Corporate Globalization adds the ecological and social risks in the governance and compliance” section). supply chain to this view. The result is a concise profile of requirements for our products that reaches far beyond their actual usage phase. In the supply chain, we can already identify and avoid ecological and social risks (see the “Supply chain” section). By efficiently managing prohibitions and restrictions on materials, we can avoid substances of concern in production and in products. Our related internal requirements go beyond what is prescribed by law. We also aim to keep the ecological footprint of our products to a minimum at the end of their life cycle – true to the idea of a closed-loop or circular economy. 23 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Research and development | Quality policy, IT security, and data protection | Sustainable products Responsible that we can document that we have satisfied the appliactions – also in our cable requirements (also see the “Products | Sustainable products” section). Where necessary, instruction manucommunication als are provided together with the products for our end customers. We also offer a support hotline to answer any further questions. The Bosch values also guide us in marketing our products. It goes without saying that we comply with the applicable laws. Our advertising communication policies are summarized in a separate manual, which describes in detail the Customer satisfaction brand core and brand positioning and sets out four principles that define our advertising communications: value and reputation cultural diversity, make reliable and credible statements, be fair and respect national rules, and apply a standard For Bosch, quality and customer trust are a top priority. to match our products’ quality standards. To ensure that The feedback we obtain from our customers via service the aforementioned principles are applied and messages hotlines by phone or email, or in personal meetings with are consistent across all media used, marketing comcustomers at trade fairs, for example, is a reliable barommunication worldwide is organized centrally and closely eter. We regularly gauge our customers’ satisfaction using coordinated with the regional companies and divisions. the Reputation Monitor (RepM). This market research Advertising and marketing for the products is mostly methodology is applied worldwide and aims to survey the managed locally via the divisions. perception of Bosch among selected customer groups in the B2B and B2C segments. This gives us important insights regarding indicators such as awareness or reputaProviding relevant tion and allows us to see them in relation to the results for local and international competitors. Moreover, we use the product information Corporate Reputation Analyzer (CoRA) to regularly survey the reputation of Bosch in comparison with our principal competitors. Our reference groups for the analysis are We ensure compliance with documentation duties which associates, customers, young professionals, journalists, are as diverse as our products themselves. For example, and representatives of nongovernmental organizations in the automotive and power tools business, safety data (NGOs), as well as influencers. Due to its size and comsheets are also available online. In addition to the statuplexity, the study is conducted in selected countries only. tory declaration duties (e.g. REACH), we meet further requirements of our customers. The basis for this is our scalable Material Data Management for Compliance and Sustainability (MaCS) system. This facilitates checking bills of materials by product and regional regulations so 24 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 2.1 Research and development At Bosch, we get to the bottom of things. Purpose-driven Our commitment to innovation and progress is bearing research has been part of the DNA of our company for fruit. In 2018 alone, we filed some 6,000 patent applicamore than 130 years – and it is by no means just an end in tions for the Bosch Group. On average, Bosch makes an itself. With our innovations, we want to help improve qualinvention every 22 minutes. And even if the number of patity of life such that each of our products is truly “Invented ent applications filed is declining in general in the age of for life.” At present, some 68,700 associates – almost digitalization, these figures demonstrate once again just 17 percent of our workforce – work in the research and how seriously we take our claim to innovation leadership. development network at Bosch, including some 1,400 in the Research and Advance Engineering corporate sector. Bosch research is present at 12 locations in eight countries. On top of this, there are 125 development locations Research at Bosch – worldwide. In order to make the best possible use of synergies, sharing knowledge and methodologies between pioneers for innovation business sectors is actively encouraged throughout the research and development network. Centers of compeBosch research traditionally sees itself as the pioneer for tence for universal issues such as plastics or adhesive innovation in the company. And since resource efficiency technology are just one example. and sustainability are of global relevance, our experts are part of a worldwide network that attaches great imporResearch and development cost came to around 6.0 biltance to scientific excellence and includes dialogue with lion euros in 2018; research and development intensity leading external partners. At the same time, cooperation was thus 7.6 percent. Between now and 2021, we will arrangements with universities and long-term support invest some 300 million euros in the Bosch Center for programs advance research in the areas of relevance for Artificial Intelligence (BCAI). Bosch, namely the environment, energy, and mobility. This leads to the creation of interdisciplinary teams from different cultures, with different work models and a range of academic and business perspectives. One good example of how broad our commitment is, shows our membership 10 of the board of trustees of Fraunhofer Institute for Manufacturing Engineering and Automation (IPA). Patent applications Bosch Group 2016–2018 5,340 5,812 5,996 2016 2017 2018 25 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Research and development | Quality policy, IT security, and data protection | Sustainable products 11 From megatrend to innovation Megatrends, such as: Digitalization Globalization Urbanization Market demand Corporate research innovations Technology drivers Computers and Energy and environ­ Robotics and Scientific environment, including: communication mental technologies artificial intelligence Ten areas of innovation is intended to help increase yields in agriculture while reducing the environmental impact (also see the “Proddefine the priorities ucts | Sustainable products” section). The sheer scale of our research and development activities demands a clear structure and consistent manageFocus on connected and ment of all stages – from idea to product. Ten areas of innovation, derived from global megatrends and technolsmart systems ogy drivers, therefore set the priorities. Owing to the size and diversity of our company, there is a multitude of The Internet of Things (IoT) is changing the world we live potential applications for the results in the Bosch Group in. It creates new conditions for individual mobility of the – producing innovations that fascinate. Many ideas that future; it makes homes smart and factories more producwere developed to market maturity would not have been tive. We want to play a role in shaping this change. More possible without our own research findings. The products and more, the development of software is supplementing originated here range from e-bikes and motorcycle stabilour existing hardware business. And we continuously ity systems right through to smart farming – which develop new possibilities for connectivity to make life Joining forces for flexible power supply for cities and industry In 2018, Bosch entered into promising collaboration with Ceres Power from the U.K., a leading player in the development of solid-oxide fuel-cell technology. Together, we are researching possible applications for next-generation fuel cells as a basis for interconnected, local, and emission-free power supply. This has opened up a range of completely different areas of application – from charging points for electric vehicles to supplying power to businesses, factories, and data centers. In addition, the cells can help balance intermittent renewables and in the future convert “green” hydrogen into electricity with little environmental impact. 26 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 12 Ten fields of innovation https://www.bosch.com/research/ Self-aware and Energy conversion Future of healthcare self-developing and infrastructure solutions systems Quantum Electric mobility technologies User-centric Connected and Fully autonomous computing intelligent systems systems Disruptive Clean air, water, materials and and food sustainability supplies easier in every respect. We see ourselves well on the way Artificial intelligence to becoming one of the world’s leading IoT companies (see the “Company” section). For Bosch, artificial intelligence (AI) is a basic technology of the future that will enable numerous further innovaAbout ten years ago, Bosch Software Innovations started tions, in particular in combination with our technological actively shaping the IoT, and 600 of our 5,000 IoT experts capacity, our experience with industrial production, and work there today. To date, they have designed, developed, our knowledge of the possibilities opened up by the IoT. and carried out more than 250 international IoT projects. By the middle of the next decade, 100 percent of Bosch Via the Bosch IoT Suite, we already link up more than products are to have AI, or AI is to have played a part in 8.5 million sensors, devices, and machines with their their development and manufacture. Associates at the users and corporate applications: from strawberry fields Bosch Center for AI are currently working on nearly 150 AI to welding robots, from smart home gateways to cargo projects. We see the benefits of artificial intelligence in trains, and from elevators to charging points for electric complementing human abilities. It should serve humanvehicles. kind. To this end, we are researching AI that is safe, robust, and coherent. Thanks to our broad portfolio and competence in sensor technology, software, and services, our business sectors One illustrative application is automated driving. Bosch produce groundbreaking solutions for smart homes, is striving to make road transportation emission-free, smart cities, connected mobility, and connected manu­ accident-free, and as stress-free as possible. With nine facturing. The strategic objective is to create solutions for out of ten accidents currently attributable to human error, a connected world. AI could be used to prevent many of these from happening in the first place. Another example is connected manufacturing: In a smart factory, people and machines will work together as an intelligent team. Robots will relieve people of strenuous and dangerous tasks and learn from experience. This will reduce the burden on people. 27 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Research and development | Quality policy, IT security, and data protection | Sustainable products The Bosch Center for Artificial Intelligence (BCAI) is a requirements in the various markets? What differences way for us to expand on our existing AI competence. At do we need to take into account? Only when all questions the center founded in early 2017, which currently has four relating to our product’s safety have been answered and locations around the world, we want to explore above all the relevant requirements have been satisfied with approthe rules by which machines learn and what conclusions priate tests to document this is the respective product they draw from these lessons. To promote young talent released for production. in this field, Bosch will be presenting the Bosch AI Young Researcher Award, which is endowed with 50,000 euros, for the first time in 2019. Design for Environment Together with partners such as the Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems, the universities of Tübingen and (DfE) Stuttgart, and other companies, Bosch is a founding member of Cyber Valley Tübingen, one of the largest To make sure that environmental aspects are specifically research cooperations in Europe in the field of AI. Under included at the development stage already, Bosch has the umbrella of Cyber Valley Tübingen, ten new research firmly anchored environmentally friendly product developgroups and two professorships are being created – one of ment (Design for Environment, DfE) in the product engiwhich is directly endowed by Bosch: the endowed profesneering process (PEP). The related principles are set out sorship for machine learning at the University of Tübingen in the Bosch standard for environmentally friendly product has been financed with a total of 5.5 million euros over design (Design for Environment) together with concrete the next ten years; it focuses in particular on developing design and manufacturing guidelines for developers and robust and explainable learning approaches. A case in product owners. Accordingly, environmental aspects must point is the development of automated decision-making be assessed using checklists and taken into account in systems that apply machine learning processes to rule out every development process. Specially trained DfE coordiany discriminatory decisions. nators support the divisions involved, helping them with requirements and questions relating to environmentally Another premiere in 2018 was the AI CON, an AI sympofriendly product design. The EHS and Sustainability corsium held for the first time where more than 200 experts porate sectors work together with the divisions to continutalked about the opportunities and challenges of AI. ously refine the approach. When assessing relevant enviOrganized by the BCAI and Cyber Valley Tübingen, the ronmental aspects, we consider the whole product cycle, event brings together leading AI experts from industry factoring in everything from procurement and manufacturand science. ing to use and disposal. The analysis of hot spots helps us to identify specific potential for improvement. The focus is especially on making efficient use of energy and resources Development – from as well as on avoiding substances of concern (SoC). This way, we seek to progressively reduce the environmental idea to actual product impact of our products throughout their life cycle (see the “Environment” section). Whereas research creates the foundations for our product innovations, development at Bosch gets actual products market-ready. The issue of product safety is a fixed component in all phases of the product evolution process (PEP). In-depth questions in relation to safety are incorporated in the development process already at an early stage. Is the product state of the art? What are the legal 28 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 2.2 Quality policy, IT security, and data protection Premium quality and reliability – these are the key stanthe respective requirements and continuously working to dards by which we measure each of our products, no improve the quality management system. A further central matter where in the world it has been produced or where directive on quality describes the process requirements it will be used. What this entails in detail is defined in our for product safety for the operating units and associates binding quality principles, which apply across the entire for a product’s entire life cycle. Bosch Group and also include our suppliers. These principles are implemented locally at the divisions. All guidelines, central directives, and objectives relating to quality are available to associates at all times, in the The Quality corporate department coordinates and is in respective databases and other resources. In future, we charge of quality management at Bosch. Quality officers want to increasingly provide universal documents on state at the sites are responsible for local operational impleof the art and product-specific implementation. mentation. In total, more than 15,000 associates work for quality at Bosch. All Bosch development and production sites have implemented a quality management system (QMS) certified according to ISO 9001. At sites where The challenge components for vehicles are manufactured, the quality management systems are certified according to the of durability IATF 16949 standard. This standard, which was developed jointly by the members of the International Automotive Durability and, related to that, the possibility to repair Task Force (IATF), combines the various requirements of our products and update them to the state of the art if quality management systems in the automotive industry required is a challenge to which we have found different and is based on EN ISO 9001. answers in the individual divisions. The demand for a long product life cycle often conflicts with other sustainabilityOwing to our extensive product portfolio, we also face the related goals. Older household appliances are often less challenge of complying with the various laws and regulaenergy-efficient than new ones, and in the automotive tions around the world relating to quality. We take these sector, likewise, a new car is usually superior to its prederequirements on board already in the product evolution cessor model in terms of fuel consumption and safety. process and have various policies in place defining a framework for our activities. Where repair work is feasible and advisable, we stock suitable replacement parts. In the automotive sector The “Quality policy and quality management” guideline where a remanufacturing program is the norm, we seek to sets out a company-wide quality policy to support our apply the idea of a closed-loop or circular economy with strategic orientation. It also enables us to set quality concepts such as Bosch eXchange. Vehicle manufacturers objectives and commits the organization to satisfying even give us specific instructions about how long to stock replacement parts. The situation in industrial business is similar, where we keep in stock replacement parts for facilities so as to allow repairs and maintenance work on such plants even over very long periods of time. 29 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Research and development | Quality policy, IT security, and data protection | Sustainable products Safety is quality IT security and Safety is a key element of our value proposition, which data protection plays a role in almost every single one of our products, it be a screwdriver or a gas-fired heating system, an In addition to traditional product safety, security in terms emergency braking assistant or lifting equipment. At of trust in the protection of systems and data against the product development stage already, we attach great manipulation is a decisive success factor for cooperation importance to safety tests. One example that concerns in the IoT. That is why data protection and data security part of our product portfolio is ISO 26262 “Road vehicles have always been at the heart of our digital strategy. The – Functional safety”, which we adopted from the day it corresponding principles are documented with binding entered into effect. effect in our IoT principles. Comprehensive product safety trainings ensure that all We take into consideration in particular the requirements associates are committed to, and fulfill, Bosch’s qualof our customers: it is our duty to handle their data in a ity standards. All associates are regularly briefed – for secure and transparent way and protect their privacy. example, by their superior – on the basic principles of We take a holistic approach to security and always look product liability. For associates who can influence product at the entire life cycle. This is true with regard to data quality, we also employ Web-based training on product protection and also the security of computer networks safety and product liability, which must be renewed in and infrastructure within our company, as well as with set cycles. Further classroom training creates profound respect to the IT security of our products, to which we knowledge for the divisions’ product liability officers, have dedicated a separate corporate office. The Security for example. They meet once a year to share information Engineering Process, which has been in place since 2014, and experiences. Outstanding quality achievements are ensures that security has a broad foothold in development recognized by Bosch with the Bosch Quality Award. The and that a general security-by-design approach is applied. Quality corporate department acts as the jury, presentCentral contact persons in the divisions are in charge of ing the internal quality award in five categories. Optimum consistent implementation. product launches are honored as well as the best quality of software or IT systems. There is also a quality award for high and stable manufacturing quality and the best logistics. And since quality is not unrelated to creativity, there is an open category for the most inspiring implementation of the quality principles established at Bosch. 30 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook As of July 1, 2018, the overall responsibility for IT security customer or compliance hotlines. When a solution has at Bosch rests with the Chief Digital Officer, in whose been found, we make it transparent online for all our organization all digital business activities are brought customers. At a political level, we also advocate clear together. A separate steering committee meeting is cybersecurity rules in the European Union. To this end, devoted to holistic reporting on the topic of security to we played a major role in drafting the “Horizontal Product the board of management. Information security is also Regulation for Cybersecurity” white paper issued by an integral part of company-wide risk management. The the German Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers’ respective management system is in accordance with the Association (ZVEI). internationally accepted standard ISO 27001. Related guidelines and central directives cover all relevant areas of information security at Bosch. For example, there is a separate “Information security and data protection” group guideline for the entire Bosch Group. It defines duties, processes, and responsibilities and sets out specific rules on how to handle information, which are binding for all associates. Technical rules on operating servers and other IT systems are contained in the “IT security” central directive, which also applies throughout the group. With our subsidiary ESCRYPT, we further possess the expertise to create solutions for secure communication and the secure operation of our products. We are thus able to make our products secure without having to disclose our product know-how to external partners. We endeavor to fulfill the highest security standards and are constantly adapting our systems and products. But despite all these efforts, we know that there is no absolute guarantee. Should white-hat hackers, partners, or customers discover a vulnerability in one of our products, we have a central team that they can contact, the Bosch Product Security Incident Response Team. Security gaps can also be reported via our central 31 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Research and development | Quality policy, IT security, and data protection | Sustainable products 2.3 Sustainable products Bosch products are “Invented for life.” Most of our prodWe counter these risks by setting high standards on the ucts are directly or indirectly coupled with environmental quality and performance of our suppliers, also with referor social aspects. For example, in product development in ence to sustainability criteria. Risks arising from materials the Mobility Solutions business sector, Bosch is striving utilization are managed by consistently using our MaCS to make road transportation emission-free, accidentsystem (also see the “Supply chain” and “Environment” free, and stress-free. And anyone working as we do on sections). the opportunities of digitalization – be it smart homes or connected manufacturing – makes a contribution toward conserving resources and increasing security. With our products, we are also able to directly improve people’s Life cycle assessments quality of life, such as with the Bosch Healthcare Solutions product portfolio. highlight opportunities With our comprehensive understanding of sustainStrategy for sustainable ability, based on the idea of a closed-loop or circular economy, we seek to understand the opportunities that products arise throughout the entire life cycle of our products. As the previous categories in our environmental and safety portfolio were no longer sufficient for such an extensive With our EHS strategy for sustainable products, we have analysis, we started to systematically carry out life cycle an overview of all opportunities and risks throughout assessments (LCAs) for all our divisions’ key products in our products’ life cycles, and this is also reflected in our 2017. For the individual phases of the life cycle, we take target vision of sustainability. In terms of urbanization, into account various aspects and impact categories such for example, there are various opportunities for Bosch, as materials utilization, weight or volume reduction, and whereas we encounter potential risks in globalization the potential to minimize greenhouse gases. The aim is (category: supply chain) and health (category: substances to then use the outcomes of the analyses to define the of concern). With respect to climate change, we see objectives in the divisions. In individual cases, such as for opportunities above all in new building-related technolonew technologies, we also perform these analyses in full gies (room-cooling systems) and new drive technologies compliance with ISO 14040/14044. such as in electromobility. The sector coupling – that is, using renewable energies to cut the use of fossil fuels in Meanwhile, around 50 percent of our sales revenue is other sectors – may also offer opportunities for the Bosch covered by our LCAs. In the course of these analyses, we Group. After all, in a distributed system of the future have identified the first focal points and hot spots. In the based on renewable energies, connected systems are area of materials, for instance, we have already achieved indispensable in order to respond flexibly to changed conconsiderable savings in terms of weight and volume of the ditions in power supplies or on the electricity market. We materials used. see risks in relation to our products’ sustainability above all in the complex supply chains and in materials utilization on account of the use of substances of concern. 32 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 13 Life cycle assessments B2B | e.g. vehicle component B2C | e.g. washing machine B2C | e.g. boiler Raw materials Raw materials Raw materials 4 4 4 3 3 3 End of life 2 ManufacEnd of life 2 ManufacEnd of life 2 Manufac1 turing 1 turing 1 turing 0 0 0 Use Transport Use Transport Use Transport Packaging Packaging Packaging Among other things, we were able to test in the course of Bosch is continuously working to identify substances the LCAs whether the materials used at Bosch are theoof concern or hazardous substances in its products and retically recyclable. The results range from 20 percent to processes, develop replacement substances, and reduce almost 100 percent, depending on the material’s composior altogether avoid hazardous substances in the long tion. When recyclability is low, we can explore options to term wherever possible. Our Material Data Management change the composition of materials used in a product. If for Compliance and Sustainability (MaCS) system allows that is not possible, the potential-for-improvement analyus to check and track the legal and industry-specific sis focuses on other aspects. We intend to expand the framework as well as additional internal requirements assessment system used in the LCAs in the coming year and, if necessary, take suitable action. The material data and apply it to all new products at Bosch. We also aim to from our suppliers, provided via systems such as IMDS or expand the scope to include additional criteria, such as CDX, are fed into MaCS. The system makes the relevant packaging and transportation. data available to all users. This produces considerable synergies, as around 30 percent of all purchased parts are used by more than one division. For the standardized Minimizing risks declaration of constituent sub­stances and confirmation of nonuse of prohibited substances, we have defined our requirements for suppliers and Bosch-internal processes As a company with global operations and a very extensive in the standard N2580 “Declaration duties and prohibition product portfolio, Bosch is subject to a large number of pollutants” (see the “Environment” section). of legal and industry-specific requirements relating to materials, including from the European Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) or the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) in the U.S. In addition, there are the requirements of our customers, in the automotive sector, for example, which go beyond what is required by law in some cases. 33 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Research and development | Quality policy, IT security, and data protection | Sustainable products Energy-efficient will satisfy public demand for good urban air quality. products – a real conConsequently, we support measuring real on-road CO2 emissions and considering all powertrain types from a tribution to climate well-to-wheel perspective – for if we ignore where fuel comes from and how electricity is generated, we are quite protection simply not telling the whole story about road traffic’s carbon footprint. Climate protection and the efficient use of energy are core In our operations, we therefore apply a broad range of elements of our approach to sustainability. This is undersolutions that comprises battery-electric mobility, fuel scored once again by the new, ambitious climate goal we cells, and synthetic fuels and also offers new mobility have set for our activities (see the “Environment” section). concepts ranging from car sharing to last-mile delivery Practically all our products need power to function. It is solutions. We see the combustion engine as a bridging therefore not surprising that more efficient use of energy technology in this context. Diesel powertrains in pargives rise to numerous fields of action and new business ticular still offer great potential here, as they produce opportunities for Bosch, starting with innovative mobility 15 to 20 percent lower CO2 emissions than gasoline solutions, spanning technologies for inductive chargpowertrains. There are numerous examples: by refining ing and powerful battery packs, right through to power the urea filter for the exhaust-gas treatment system, we services (smart charging) and the manifold possibilities were able to demonstrate that CO2 emissions could be of the IoT. B2B business poses various challenges in this cut by 40 percent compared with the previous generation connection, to which we find solutions together with our through the materials used. Not only that, but the prodcustomers and partners. In B2C, our product portfolio has uct’s redesign reduced its weight. always fulfilled the high standards that our customers set in terms of their devices and tools’ energy efficiency. In 2018, we demonstrated that Bosch diesel technology already achieves a record 13 milligrams of nitrogen oxide per kilometer in standard legally compliant real Broad solutions approach driving emissions (RDE) cycles. That is just a tenth of the limit that will apply from 2020. And even in particularly on the path to emissionchallenging urban trips, the levels achieved by Bosch test vehicles are down to an average of just 40 milligrams free mobility per kilometer. A combination of advanced fuel-injection technology, a newly developed air management system, At Bosch Mobility Solutions, our business sector with the and smart temperature management has made such low highest sales revenue, striving for energy efficiency and readings possible. avoiding emissions is the core of its business operations. Bosch endeavors to achieve a form of sustainable mobility And yet even this technological leap forward does not that is low in pollutants and independent of fossil fuels. exhaust all development options for the diesel engine. As a systems supplier for state-of-the-art injection and For example, we want to use the possibilities provided by drive systems as well as mobility solutions, we help autoAI to make an internal-combustion engine possible that, makers (OEMs) improve energy efficiency. with the exception of CO2, virtually does not pollute the ambient air. Alongside the energy and heating transformation, the mobility transformation presents opportunities as well as risks for us. We want to become the world market leader for electromobility. At the same time, we believe that the combustion engine will be with us for many years to come. Our technological developments prove we can make the combustion engine – whether powered by diesel or gasoline – significantly more efficient. In this way, we 34 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Clear strategy on } Standardization – For us, this is the basis for making electromobility mass-market electromobility scalable and affordable. The e-axle, our latest electric drive, is evidence of this. It integrates a motor, power electronics, and transmission There is no question about it: the mobility of the future in a compact unit and is suitable for all vehicle types, from will be shaped by electric drives – and Bosch is making small passenger cars to light commercial vehicles. The its contribution to forge ahead with development. In axle drive is of interest to a wide range of customers – to 2018 alone, we acquired 30 projects worth several billion established automakers and start-ups alike. As Bosch euros. And Bosch technology is already found in more can quickly and flexibly adapt the drive to the automakthan 800,000 fully electric and hybrid vehicles worldwide. ers’ requirements, customers do not need to come up In order to continuously increase this number and be the with time-consuming new designs, which speeds up their technology partner of choice for OEMs, our strategy rests development times and reduces costs. on three pillars: } Systems expertise – Our customers have always benefited from our expertise in intelligently linking all Incubator for the components in the powertrain. This broad-based systems expertise is our unique selling point (USP). And electromobility we are relying on it in electromobility as well. The Bosch portfolio includes key components of the electrical Especially in the market for electric vehicles, start-ups are powertrain, such as the electric motor, power electroncompeting with established manufacturers. In that conics, and battery systems. Yet true systems expertise goes stellation, Bosch sees itself not just as systems supplier beyond the electric car’s hood. Our “system!e” which we but also as incubator for electromobility. With our techrecently premiered connects the electrical powertrain nologies, we give both established OEMs and new players with the Bosch Automotive Cloud Suite. This gives rise in the market the opportunity to bring vehicles to market to Web-based services such as convenience charging, quickly. One example of this position is our cooperation which enhance the everyday benefits of electromobility. with the start-up company Nikola Motors from Salt Lake Let’s say someone is driving from Munich to Hamburg. The City, which specializes in truck electrification. By 2021, it service shows where all the charge spots along the route plans to launch the hydrogen-electric heavy trucks Nikola are, plans recharging stops in advance, and deals with all One and Nikola Two. Not only should they outpower other payment transactions. semi-trailer trucks, they should also prove more efficient thanks to the combination of hydrogen fuel cell technol} Energy efficiency – We already are a market leader with ogy and a new efficient electrical powertrain based on the our electric motors and electric axle drive, and we want scalable and modular e-axle from Bosch. to expand our position further. This is an area in which our engineers are working on new generations of electric motors, inverters, and battery systems. Modified thermal management systems can also increase electric cars’ range by up to 20 percent. Vehicle users benefit directly from this: the less electricity the motor and powertrain consume, the longer the battery charge of an electric vehicle will last, and the greater its range. 35 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Research and development | Quality policy, IT security, and data protection | Sustainable products Smart solutions the entire automation process, including project planning, for the energy market simulation, and advice. Energy-efficient products and systems with efficient components are another approach. The third lever is energy recovery, which also includes the More and more, the energy market is characterized by storage and utilization of energy that was left unused in local facilities and renewable energy sources. The grid the past. This includes, for instance, accumulator charging infrastructure is gradually being expanded to smart grids. circuits in combination with energy-recovery drives. EnerAt the same time, requirements are increasingly taking gy on demand, for example, in the form of variable-speed shape with respect to smart metering and the associated pump drives, makes possible especially high savings of up rollout of smart meters and metering systems. For systo 80 percent and is the fourth lever in this approach. tems operators, metering operators and service providers, dealers and suppliers, Bosch offers new energy management approaches. Bosch Connected Energy Solutions set new standards in simple and smart energy management. Great potential in energy Our solutions are already successfully used by more than 250 energy companies, and we are continuously refining and building technology them. With products such as the Smart Meter Gateway Manager or software for linking up local energy generation Besides the mobility sector, energy and building tech­ facilities as virtual power stations, we create solutions nology in particular offers great potential for Bosch. The for the renewable, distributed energy market of the biggest lever for achieving the climate targets for buildings future: smart demand and supply management can help and industry is thermotechnology. Only around 17 percent to balance output and demand peaks, making the entire of all industrial plant and facilities in Germany are state energy system more efficient. The environmental benefits of the art in this respect today. In German residential are obvious: more renewable energy can be fed into the buildings, only 19 percent of all installed heating systems system, and fewer power lines are needed. function efficiently using renewable energies. By using modern heating systems across the board, it would be possible to save some 31 million metric tons of CO2 a year Rexroth for Energy in Germany alone – the equivalent of around 20 percent of CO2 emissions on German roads. Efficient technology Efficiency and individual energy services could thus help to save tremendous amounts of electricity, fossil fuels, and carbon dioxide emissions – and with our products we want to As a global partner in the field of industry with state-ofmake a contribution toward leveraging this potential. the-art technology and unparalleled industry expertise, Bosch Rexroth offers a unique portfolio of mobile applications, factory automation, machinery application and engineering. Bosch Rexroth also draws on its extensive knowhow to assist machine manufacturers and industrial users with their efforts to achieve greater energy efficiency. It is bundled in the Rexroth 4EE – Rexroth for Energy Efficiency approach, which also plays a central role in the GoGreen project (see the “Environment” section) and comprises four levers: The first covers the systematic assessment of 36 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Bosch condensing boilers are already operating at their Targets change with advancing progress physical limits, with a seasonal energy efficiency ratio of 94 percent, and with the corresponding controls, they satisfy the requirements of energy efficiency class A+. Condensing boilers can also be operated using “green” In many divisions, we have made great progress in recent gas, from power-to-gas plants, for instance. In conjunction years in terms of resource and energy efficiency. Beyond with power from renewable energy sources, heat pumps this, we are increasingly addressing the opportunities can run entirely without fossil fuels and in the long term arising for Bosch from the principle of a closed-loop or open up ways toward a technology change for emissioncircular economy. Our household appliances illustrate free heat generation. Solar thermal systems also offer high how successful we are with respect to energy efficiency: efficiency in water heating and can effectively support the they are market leaders in many of the world’s markets, heating system throughout the year. Further efficiency not least thanks to their high energy efficiency. Between gains can be achieved in smart homes, for example, with 2001 and 2016, for instance, we greatly improved the smart thermostats that autonomously take into account energy efficiency of refrigerators (cutting power consumponline weather data when adjusting the temperature for tion by 55 percent), washing machines (cutting power greater efficiency. consumption by 68 percent), and dishwashers (cutting power consumption by 36 percent). Projects around the world are already demonstrating what is possible with the help of state-of-the-art Bosch In view of the progress made, our target vision is changtechnology today. Take, for instance, the Xiwanglanting ing, moving toward the principle of a closed-loop or residential complex in Shandong, China, with more than circular economy that is not focused on selected aspects 900 apartments: a modular air-conditioning system and or product features but rather covers the entire product heat pumps with waste-heat recovery have made possible life cycle. The traditional, linear relationship of “producenergy savings of 30 percent compared with a convention – use – waste management” is changing to “productional heating system. tion – use – repair – replacement – reuse – recycling.” This process entails many, often fundamental, changes relating to the way in which we make our products, use them, or take them back and recycle them. We are driving this development forward to continue to offer our consumers products in future that combine high quality with being sustainable and eco-friendly. 14 Changing perspectives: household appliances as an example Avoid risks Use opportunities 1992 2006 2015 202x Avoid hazardous Improve energy Improve resource Circular economy substances efficiency efficiency (e.g. CFCs) 37 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Research and development | Quality policy, IT security, and data protection | Sustainable products Resource efficiency – Resource efficiency in toward a closed-loop mobility solutions or circular economy For a large part of our automotive products, we have been able to reduce volume and weight – without making any One focus of the life cycle assessments for our products compromises in quality and safety, of course. To give an is placed on the efficient use of resources. This starts example: by adapting the rail design of common rail diesel with how the products are made (see the “Environment” injection systems, it was possible to reduce the weight section) and covers their packaging and usage phase right significantly – considering that the component has to through to recycling. withstand pressure greater than 1,400 bars and there are few alternative materials. Packaging solutions to The use of remanufactured automotive spare parts under the Bosch eXchange program also contributes conserve resources toward conserving resources. Workshops take back replacement parts, and worn or defective parts are exchanged. The reconditioned product then goes through Not only in our products’ packaging do we pay attention the same safety and quality tests as new products before to conserving resources: one of the leading suppliers of it is released for use again in certified workshops. This process and packaging technology, the Bosch Packaging way, Bosch is able to save valuable resources – to the Technology division is seeing the growing importance benefit of customers, workshops, and the environment of sustainability for its competitive position. Increasing alike. To make this possible, the later-stage remanufacurbanization, an aging population, and smaller houseturing is already borne in mind during the development holds are changing the demands made on packaging. phase (also see the “Environment” section). At the same time, the demand and need for sustainable packaging solutions and processes is increasing. One example of a Bosch solution is the first sealed paper packaging for dry foods such as sugar, pasta, grains, or C-ECO offers circular powder. It is not made of plastic, but of mono-material paper and can therefore be completely recycled. Other economy services promising food packaging includes bio-based plastics whose carbon footprint is often smaller than that of Back in 2016, we sent out a clear signal, underlining the conventional plastics. Back in the summer of 2018, Bosch importance of the topic of circular economy by foundannounced its decision to sell its packaging machinery ing our subsidiary C-ECO (Circular Economy Solutions business in order to sharpen its focus on the topics of GmbH). In a dedicated business field, it exploits the the future, such as transforming the group and orienting opportunities presented by a closed-loop or circular econit toward future digitalization, and to pool its resources. omy and offers related services. In 2018, its 24 associates The related cornerstones to secure our associates’ future versed in remanufacturing and reverse logistics generated during and after the sale have already been agreed on with sales revenue of 14.3 million euros. the employee representatives for Germany in a first step (see the “Associates” section). 38 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Resource efficiency Safety – technology in consumer goods that can save lives Since late 2018, green toolboxes from Bosch Power Bosch products provide extra safety – a further aspect of Tools for DIY enthusiasts have been made of 90 percent our “Invented for life” ethos. Together with our partners recycled plastics. This makes Power Tools the first manufrom the automotive industry, we work on solutions to facturer on the market for power tools to offer toolboxes make the roads even safer. In buildings, our sensors from 90 percent recycling material. Before the end of ensure fire protection and safety. And anyone working 2019, several hundred thousand Bosch toolboxes are to with tools from Bosch is also on the safe side. be made of the new material already. Thanks to the large share of recycling material used, carbon dioxide emissions are lower. This year alone, we want to save around 1,500 metric tons of carbon dioxide this way – the equivaPioneering achievements lent of the CO2 emissions accumulated traveling around 13 million kilometers by car. We are reducing plastic waste for safe mobility by some 1,000 metric tons a year. In the Mobility Solutions business sector, safety is part How design concepts can be used to further resource of our core business. With its electronic vehicle safety efficiency in consumer goods is demonstrated by the Blue systems, such as ABS, ESP® and the emergency braking Movement project in the Netherlands. Under the leasing assistant, Bosch is one of the pioneers in active and pasconcept for washing machines and dryers, the appliances sive driving safety. Initially a special feature in premium are returned to Bosch after six years to be reconditioned vehicles, electronic vehicle safety systems are standard for reuse and provide insights for a sustainable product nowadays in many new vehicles – and contribute to road design. This allows us to channel valuable resources back safety every day. In 2018, we reached a new milestone in into the value cycle and reuse them. At the same time, this respect. Based on the well-proven ABS for motorcustomers get to use appliances that are state of the art cycles, the world’s first market-ready ABS for e-bikes is to in terms of energy efficiency. enable controlled and stable braking even under difficult conditions. 39 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Research and development | Quality policy, IT security, and data protection | Sustainable products Fast communication after an accident can also help to Bosch health and save lives. Automatic emergency call systems such as Bosch eCall play a role here. Since March 2018, such syssafety solutions for tems are mandatory for all new cars registered in Europe. professionals But that does not mean that owners of older cars have to go without the lifesaver, as Bosch offers a practical retrofit solution: the Telematics eCall Plug that can be easily In the Power Tools division, solutions for greater health connected via Bluetooth. Simply connect it with associand safety are important criteria to set Bosch apart from ated smartphone app – and you have a direct line to the the competition. With professional power tools from emergency response center on board, which organizes Bosch, our customers choose a comprehensive program fast, professional help and an ambulance if required. that helps them to work efficiently and safely. The spectrum ranges from solutions to directly minimize the risk With our expertise in digitalization, we also create extra of injuries right through to protecting against long-term safety in the most diverse areas of life. For example, we health hazards. The sensor-based KickBack Control funcoffer a cloud-based solution to alert wrong-way drivers tion in the GSR 18V-60 FC Professional cordless screwand all other motorists in the vicinity within ten seconds driver, for example, provides effective and immediate by push message. The mySPIN smartphone integration protection: if the screwdriver is jammed, the integrated solution makes it safe for car drivers and motorcyclists sensor detects the sudden bind situation and cuts off to use smartphone apps while they are on the road. And motor current within a split second. KickBack Control radar-based assistance systems by Bosch – from side is now integrated in 25 Bosch professional power tools, view assist to collision warning right through to adaptive such as power drills, angle grinders, and screwdrivers. cruise and speed control – can effectively prevent accidents. These electronic assistants are always vigilant and, The GSA 18V-32 Professional cordless reciprocating saw in emergencies, should respond more quickly than people also offers long-term protection against health hazards can. According to estimates by Bosch accident research by means of active vibration control: with an opposite and independent studies, automatic emergency brakmovement, a counterbalancing weight permanently ing systems could prevent up to 72 percent of rear-end reduces vibrations so that virtually none are transmitted collisions. In addition, we are continuously developing to the user’s body. This anti-vibration principle is also our camera technology to make improvements in driver assistance systems and will in future use AI to deliver even more reliable results. 40 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook used for hammer drills. In addition, Bosch also offers a Health and nutrition – comprehensive dust extraction program: the Click & Clean System is compatible with a range of different dust extracour contribution tion systems such as for drilling and chiseling tools or with vacuum and suction accessories for angle grinders. They extract the dust where it is created. As a result, they enable doing a healthier, less fatiguing, tools-saving, and Health assistants in also more precise job. everyday situations Building technology – The subsidiary Bosch Healthcare Solutions (BHCS) entered the market for medical technology in 2016 with smart and safe the objective of making a contribution to people’s health. The subsidiary’s solutions draw on the Bosch Group’s core competencies: sensors to collect data, software to Bosch building technology, too, can save lives. In a smart evaluate that data, and services based on this data analyhome, the Bosch Twinguard acts as smoke alarm as well sis. Vivatmo, for instance, helps people suffering from as air-quality sensor. This system not only serves fire asthma to regain more quality of life. It is the first breath prevention purposes but also continuously measures analysis device that allows asthma patients to measure room temperature, relative humidity, and air quality – and the degree of airway inflammation from their own home. sends a notification to your smartphone when any of the readings are outside the optimum range. And last, but This means they can closely and precisely monitor their not least, surveillance technology from Bosch helps to condition – similar to how diabetics monitor their blood increase security at airports and can even be used – in sugar levels. They can then use the Vivatmo app to share thermal imaging cameras on aircraft, for example – to the recorded values with their physician who can then detect forest fires at an early stage. analyze the additional data. As a result, physicians can tailor treatment more precisely to each patient’s requirements. In all BHCS product development, strong partners provide a wealth of expertise: the Research and Advance Engineering corporate sector at Bosch provides the scientific basis, and the Robert Bosch Hospital lends its support in the development and testing. 41 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Research and development | Quality policy, IT security, and data protection | Sustainable products Lower noise emissions – the necessary software, sensor technology, and service greater quality of life expertise. New business models such as Deepfield Connect support farmers in their everyday work and help optimize harvests or make operating processes more Good technology runs quietly – and to that end we continefficient. For this purpose, Bosch is also applying what are uously work to reduce the noise emissions of our devices, known as MEMS sensors – originally developed for pasin particular of our household appliances. Be it washing senger cars – to agriculture. They measure relevant values machines, extractor hoods and dishwashers with Eco­ such as temperature and humidity and transmit them via Silence Drive, or vacuum cleaners with the SilenceSound the cloud to farmers’ smartphones. system – everything is designed to keep noise emissions to a minimum. The same applies outside the home: To give an example: with the Plantect sensor system, thanks to Bosch ProSilence technology, lawnmowers of Bosch already makes it possible to predict with 92-perthe new Rotak generation are the quietest high-perforcent accuracy today whether a disease will befall tomato mance mowers on the market. plants in the greenhouse. How does this system work? Sensors installed in the greenhouse measure temperaThe new generation includes cordless and corded models ture, sunlight, and carbon dioxide. AI analyzes these and is remarkably quiet while offering high performance. values, combines them with weather forecasts, and sends In the AdvancedRotak models, for example, we were able warnings to farmers via an app. to lower the guaranteed sound power level from 90 to 86 decibels – cutting mowing noise by 60 percent. From Furthermore, the Bosch IoT Cloud makes it possible to the mower cover to the motor right through to the blade: connect agricultural machines. Vehicle data can be used every element was optimized to make tending the lawn to predict faults and remedy them in good time, preventwith cordless mowers as efficient and also as silent as ing breakdowns and expensive repairs in the first place. possible. It’s not just the mower itself that is quieter – the sound has also been optimized and is now perceived as As part of a research partnership with BASF, Bosch is quieter. developing smart spraying technology. Using camera sensors, it is able to differentiate between crops and weeds and target the latter with pesticides. The positive effects Sustainable agriculture include higher yields, a lower environmental impact, optimized resistance management, and a reduction in in the age of digitalization the pesticides used. Sustainable agriculture does not necessarily mean lower yields. Our solutions for sustainable agriculture demonstrate how this can be done. From powertrain systems for tractors and hydraulic solutions for agricultural machinery to connected products for smart farming – there are very few industrial companies apart from Bosch that have 42 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Supply chain Responsibility does not end at the factory gate – rather, it extends across the entire supply chain. That is why, at Bosch, we also include our suppliers in our action for more sustain­ ability. Together, we work toward protecting the climate and the environment and conserving resources. We advocate fair working conditions and competitive practices as well as respect for human rights. This is also in line with a maxim of our com­ pany founder Robert Bosch: “Never forget your humanity, and respect human dignity in your dealings with others.” 43 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society 42.1 billion euros in purchasing volume 5,250 suppliers surveyed on Konzernlagebericht conflict minerals 862 environmental and occupational health and safety audits at suppliers since 2010 44 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 3.0 Management approach Our supply chains are as heterogeneous and international Purchasing and logistics as our range of products is varied and diverse. Bosch has supply relationships in 50 countries. We purchase direct in a worldwide network materials from some 7,000 suppliers around the world; for indirect materials the number is over 30,000. Each day, Worldwide, some 37,000 associates work in the Bosch more than 400 million parts – from high-precision turned purchasing and logistics organization. The purchas­ parts through to packaging materials – are delivered to ing function at Bosch is involved in the entire product the logistics bays of around 300 production facilities. Our evolution process – from the initial innovation phase supply chain is closely linked to our production. In total, to the start of production right through to the end of the Bosch Group’s global purchasing volume is around aftermarket supplies. Specialists in the various purchas­ 42.1 billion euros. ing departments support the process, contributing not only their technical expertise but also their knowledge of The procurement of components made of steel, alumi­ environmental and labor law as well as human rights and num, and plastic accounts for a large part of the resources supplier-related matters. This way, the purchasing func­ used in the supply chain at Bosch. In most cases, these tion supplies the production sites with purchased parts are semifinished products or finished components from applying the “local for local” strategy. Bosch accordingly suppliers. Only a small proportion is purchased directly builds up supply chains in the respective regions in order as raw material. to keep transportation and CO2 emissions to a minimum. The purchasing organization also has a local presence for Around 1.9 billion euros of our purchasing volume is this purpose, and purchasing representatives are located attributable to the direct procurement of such raw mate­ near the suppliers. rial. We determine these materials’ carbon footprint on the basis of data available to us about the raw materials’ In the logistics area, the focus is on transportation. At manufacturing process. present, Bosch is in the process of implementing regional management for all transportation worldwide of relevance As a company that acts responsibly, we also look beyond for the company. For this purpose, the land, sea, and air­ the use of materials and resources to the upstream sup­ freight for all divisions is managed at Transport Manage­ ply chain – because sustainability does not start at the ment Centers (TMC). These centers are already opera­ factory gate. This aspect is anchored in our target vision tional in the regions of Europe, India, Asia, and Latin and of sustainability in the key issue globalization. Our sup­ North America, and they are designing transport networks pliers are familiar with the high standards at Bosch. We with the aim of reducing transport and thus avoiding CO2 introduce sustainability aspects to them, in particular via emissions. In addition, these efforts are supplemented by the Code of Conduct for Business Partners, relevant con­ daily optimized scheduling of the freight in the network tractual clauses, and related trainings. When purchasing with a view to reducing the number of ton-kilometers on officers visit suppliers, they are instructed to take a criti­ the one hand and increasing capacity utilization of the car­ cal glance at environmental protection and work safety go compartment (avoiding empty runs) on the other hand. aspects as well. We continuously analyze the ecological It is already possible to record transport data across the and social risks in our supply chain and derive measures board in Europe using the TMC data platform so that the on that basis. carbon footprint can be determined in accordance with an externally certified process (DIN EN 16258). 45 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Trust-based supplier relationships | Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers | Conflict minerals and substances of concern 3.1 Trust-based supplier relationships Excellence at globally competitive prices – that is the Sustainability in relation challenge Bosch faces in purchasing in what is a vola­ tile market environment. Globalization and increasing to quality resource scarcity as well as increased connectivity via the IoT are changing markets worldwide. Many companies see For Bosch, sustainability performance and quality are these developments as a threat – at Bosch, however, we closely related. We have also investigated and validated believe they are primarily an opportunity for us to shape this relationship academically. In projects with univer­ our future. We know that no company is able to over­ sities, for example, Bosch examined the relationship come these challenges alone. The performance capacity between a supplier’s performance and the various quality of the entire supply chain is decisive for the success of and sustainability criteria. The results showed that sup­ everybody involved. This applies all the more the closer pliers with a good sustainability performance also tend and more connected we work together beyond company to have a higher maturity level in terms of quality. Our boundaries and national borders. That is why we believe purchasing officers are aware of this connection and – that open and trust-based relationships with our suppli­ as has also been confirmed in a study – are intrinsically ers are the prerequisite for us to be successful together motivated to purchase goods and services from suppliers and make an important contribution toward supply chain offering convincing sustainability performance. Moreover, excellence. the internal objectives at Bosch also look to maximize sup­ pliers’ sustainability performance to the greatest extent possible. However, Bosch not only demands sustainable Preferred suppliers for behavior but has also been supporting its suppliers’ activities in the realm of sustainability for many years. In long-term success the reporting period, supplier days were held on certain core topics relating to quality and sustainability. These joint activities are having an impact: the quality produced In our supplier management, we choose partnerships by our suppliers has improved continuously. In 2018, the that offer the perspective of long-term competitiveness. already very low level of complaints was reduced by a Suppliers with whom we work together particularly further 20 percent. closely are awarded the status of preferred supplier. They are involved at an early stage in strategies and develop­ ment projects, which gives them the opportunity to pre­ pare for the future. In total, we currently have around 550 preferred suppliers worldwide. Classification of the sup­ pliers is based on a number of assessment criteria, such as technical competence, sustainability performance, product and logistics competence, and value-for-money considerations. 46 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Clear requirements – high Compliance – what we standards require of our business partners In our cooperation with suppliers, we focus primarily on costs, quality, delivery reliability, and sustainability. We make clear agreements to this effect. For example, we Our suppliers and business partners are also subject to have concluded quality assurance agreements in addition clear compliance policies and procedures. In our purchas­ to the standard agreements with some 5,000 suppliers. ing conditions, we have included a compliance clause that These agreements include the declaration of materials refers to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global as well as compliance with environmental and social Compact, among other things, and explicitly requires standards. The suppliers undertake to communicate the respect of human rights as well as the generally applicable defined requirements also within their own upstream labor standards – freedom of association, elimination supply chain. They are also required to have a functioning of forced and compulsory labor, abolition of child labor, environmental management system – if possible, with and elimination of discrimination. In addition, we have corresponding certification such as under ISO 14001. formulated a Code of Conduct for Business Partners. It Only small and medium-sized suppliers are exempt. In is handed out to all suppliers at the start of the business 2018, around 5,400 of our suppliers had such a certified relationship, and it is also publicly available on the Bosch management system in place. website. The code of conduct also requires compliance with the “Basic principles of social responsibility at Bosch.” Our suppliers have been informed that we check whether our requirements are adhered to on a sample basis using quick scans or comprehensive drill-deep assessments. 47 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Trust-based supplier relationships | Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers | Conflict minerals and substances of concern 3.2 Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers In line with our quality ambition, we expect high standards Two processes for – from ourselves and our suppliers alike. We endeavor to develop our suppliers further via clearly defined process­ sustainability-related es. This process begins early during the supplier selection supplier assessment stage, which is preceded by a Dynamic Supplier Classifi­ cation (DSC). Based on clear criteria, suppliers are clas­ sified and, if necessary, for example, in the event of illegal Suppliers are assessed regularly at Bosch – in particular conduct or insufficient sustainability performance, can in terms of their sustainability performance. There are two be barred from contract awards at this stage already. The established processes in this context: quick scan assess­ higher the classification in this process, the greater the ments and more comprehensive drill-deep assessments. likelihood that the supplier will be chosen for a contract. The quick scan assessments are part of regular on-site The final classification is also the reference point for the visits to suppliers by appropriately qualified associates supplier’s further continuous development. from purchasing or the quality functions. The aim is to assess all new suppliers this way. The assessment is based on a checklist of environmental, occupational Minimum standards in health and safety, and human rights criteria. If deviations from the requirements are found, a development process supplier selection with the supplier begins: in agreement with the purchas­ ing function or with its help, the supplier defines mea­ sures, the implementation and observance of which are Sanction Party List (SPL) Screening is applied for all supported and checked by Bosch. Certification or audits business partners. In addition, an automated IT-based serve as evidence; findings are stored in our suppliers compliance check has been applied since 2017. It checks database. The total of around 2,000 quick scans carried our business partners against external compliance lists out by Bosch in 2018 identified some 100 suppliers with to identify any potential violation of national and inter­ whom development projects were then launched. After national legislation and other standards. In case of any two or three years, they can be reexamined if necessary. doubt on completion of the check, the compliance officer initiates suitable measures together with the purchasing Bosch developed an app for performance and processing officer, which can range from discussions with the busi­ of the quick scans in 2017. It includes the most recent ness partners through to withdrawal from the business checklists in German and English as well as help func­ relationship. The process is fully documented. This way tions, background information, descriptions, and images. we seek to make sure that our business relationships have This way, the app facilitates answering the checklist for a reliable and transparent basis in terms of compliance. the qualified associate and also makes it possible to add images and comments. As of 2019, Bosch provides the app free of charge for downloading via econsense so that other companies may also use it. 48 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook In addition to the routine quick scans, experts from our Since introducing the drill-deep assessments in 2011, purchasing function also perform drill-deep assessments. Bosch has conducted detailed checks of some 800 suppli­ These are used mainly in potentially high-risk regions or ers, and their number is set to rise to 1,000 by 2020. In a when there are specific indicators identified by the quick small number of cases, the deviations highlighted by the scans or whistleblower reports. The risk assessment is assessments were not remedied, and Bosch consequently based on the United Nations Human Development Index terminated the supply relationship with the respective and the Corruption Perceptions Index published by suppliers. Business relations are canceled with around Transparency International. five suppliers each year. The assessments are carried out by internally licensed assessors who receive regular training. During the oneto two-day assessments, the three areas covered by the Strict response to quick scan are tested in more detail and an analysis of sustainability management and working conditions, as noncompliance well as compliance issues, is performed. For each of the six issues, there is a list of categories and corresponding If an existing business relationship is in contravention of criteria that represent Bosch’s expectations of its sup­ the requirements of the Code of Conduct for Business pliers. The assessor evaluates the categories by maturity Partners, in a first step efforts are undertaken to further level, indicating the extent to which expectations are met. develop the supplier to thus remedy such violations. If Drill-deep assessments are performed independently of they cannot be remedied or the supplier repeatedly vio­ any other supplier visits. At the end, the assessor rates lates the code or local legal requirements, Bosch has the the company’s maturity level in the various categories right to terminate the business relationship. and supports the supplier, if necessary, in drawing up a development plan with specific follow-up measures. The In 2017 and 2018, for example, a number of companies insights we have obtained to date from all assessments were closed down in China by the government for reasons show that the suppliers generally meet the requirements relating to environmental issues and occupational health and that improvements are only needed in a small number and safety. Although Bosch suppliers were not directly of aspects. In 2018, improvements focused on occupa­ affected by the closures, we reinforced our quick scans tional health and safety as well as environmental issues. at our local suppliers and selected subcontractors in response and introduced additional supporting selfassessments for our suppliers. 49 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Trust-based supplier relationships | Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers | Conflict minerals and substances of concern Special focus on Consistent training at the human rights Supply Chain Academy In our purchasing conditions and in special quality assur­ Bosch works with its suppliers in partnerships, some of ance agreements, we request that our suppliers adhere to which have been in existence for many decades. In this the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and context, we offer our suppliers in all regions extensive also take them into account in their own supplier manage­ training opportunities and assist them in meeting our ment. Human rights risks in the supply chain are identified requirements with respect to environmental protection, by Bosch as part of the supplier assessments (tier 1). The occupational health, and safety. The same applies for drill-deep assessments in particular are used to evaluate social challenges within the supply chain, such as respect­ the system requirements, such as policies and suitable ing rights at work and strict occupational health and organization, and also the practical implementation. The safety. In addition, suppliers’ capabilities are enhanced quick scans usually do not involve inspecting documents through supplier development projects aimed at increas­ or conducting interviews. All on-site visits include a visual ing their competitiveness as well as their sustainability assessment, for example, to ascertain whether there are performance. More than 300 internal trainers regularly any minors on-site at facilities (also see the “Supply chain hold Web-based training and classroom-based events at | Trust-based supplier relationships” section). Bosch the Bosch Supply Chain Academy aimed at purchasing consistently follows up on all incidents reported via the officers as well as suppliers. The suppliers can also book Compliance Hotline. When Bosch believes there is a risk specific training courses themselves. In addition, events inherent in certain business partners, they are addition­ such as the regional supplier days regularly highlight the ally subject to a due diligence review. These include requirements in sustainability matters. intermediaries, among others, who carry out duties in the name of Bosch. 50 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 3.3 Conflict minerals and substances of concern Conflict minerals in the technological-analytical means back to the intermediate supply chain products and through to resource extraction is not pos­ sible for process-inherent reasons. Bosch purchases only relatively few resources directly from mineral-processing At Bosch, conflict minerals are regarded particularly companies. Such resources may, however, be contained in critically. We voluntarily take part in the conflict minerals particular in the electronics of Bosch products. reporting system provided for by the Dodd-Frank Act in the United States. In this context, we ask our suppliers annually to make a declaration regarding the origin of the conflict minerals tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. In Handling of substances 2018, we consulted more than 4,000 suppliers in total in this respect, of whom 82 percent responded with smelter of concern declarations. Except for gold, more than 90 percent of the smelters have already been certified under the crossOur suppliers are also called on to cooperate with us industry standard of the Responsible Minerals Initiative in handling substances of concern (SoC). Use of these (RMI; formerly: Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative, CFSI). substances at Bosch has been limited by the Bosch Bosch has also been a member of the initiative since late standard N2580 for more than 30 years now. Partly due to 2014. the requirements of our customers, it considerably goes beyond what is required by law in some cases (see the The certification approach of the RMI for processing “Environment” section). We require our suppliers world­ smelters/refineries covers the use of the conflict miner­ wide to apply the N2580 standard and report back on this als tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. The smelters are via a defined process. The content of N2580 is reviewed required to provide evidence of responsible sourcing of and updated every six months by an expert group from all the resources. The RMI standard is accepted both by the operating units. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and by our customers (OEMs). The related data from our suppliers – declared via the International Material Data System (IMDS) or the Com­ Due to the large number of Bosch suppliers and subcon­ pliance Data Exchange (CDX), for example, are stored, tractors, monitoring and verifying the entire upstream part inspected, and evaluated in our Material Data Manage­ of the supply chain and related process stages naturally ment for Compliance and Sustainability (MaCS) system presents a major challenge for Bosch. Therefore, we (see the “Environment” and “Products” sections). require our direct suppliers to submit the appropriate declarations. Tracing semifinished metal products using 51 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Trust-based supplier relationships | Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers | Conflict minerals and substances of concern 15 Handling of substances of concern Customer Declaration format pursuant to N2580 Request and • Declaration response • Confirmation N2580 Legislation and BOSCH Legal and additional Supplier market Group requirements 52 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Environment We want to keep the environmental impact of our operations to a minimum. For years, we have consistently been working to reduce our ecological footprint by systematically saving energy and resources and reducing materials utilization in our production. This not only helps to protect the environment and mitigate climate change but also makes us more efficient and competitive. With this in mind, we are now taking the logical next step: the entire Bosch Group aims to be carbon-neutral by 2020. 53 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society –31.1 % CO2 emissions compared with 2007* –3.5 % Group management report waste compared with 2015* –6.3 % water compared with 2015* * improvement relative to added value 54 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 4.0 Protecting the climate, conserving resources – our approach Environmental protection is very important at Bosch. As a globally operating supplier of technology, Bosch Five of the six key issues in our target vision of sustaincomplies with a large number of laws and standards ability directly relate to the environment: energy, climate, relating to environmental protection such as the European water, urbanization, and health. Our commitment has Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation a long tradition: for years, we have consistently been and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) and the European working to reduce our ecological footprint, in particular Directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardto systematically save energy and resources and reduce ous substances in electrical and electronic equipment materials utilization in our production. We use a global, (RoHS), as well as national legislation such as the Renewtarget-based environmental management system to able Energies Act (EEG) in Germany. At the same time, ensure that our activities are effective. Bosch observes regulations and directives on energy efficiency, packaging, and waste management. Added At 89 percent of our manufacturing and development to this are customer requirements as well as our internal sites with over 100 associates, we have an environmental environmental and quality standards that go beyond what management system based on ISO 14001. The majority is required by law. The experts at the competent Bosch of these systems has already been certified – by 2020 specialist departments ensure that the company and its implementation and certification will be mandatory for local operations comply with the applicable laws. all consolidated companies in the Bosch Group. Coordinated by the EHS and Sustainability corporate sector, the relevant key performance indicators are recorded and assessed by experts on-site and then evaluated centrally for the Bosch Group as a whole. 16 17 Spending on environmental protection Environmental management systems (EMS) Bosch Group 2016–2018, in millions of euros Bosch Group 2018 139.7 46.5 135.2 50.2 133.4 76.2 296 262 232 2016 2017 2018 Production and EMS EMS development implemented certified Environmental protection expenses sites Environmental protection investment 55 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Protecting the climate, conserving resources – our approach | Energy and climate protection | Materials and waste management | Water and wastewater 4.1 Energy and climate protection Management approach make a decisive contribution toward a successful sector coupling (mobility, buildings, and industry): we offer Climate change is one of the biggest challenges for attractive products, which we connect and take to a new humankind. Bosch supports the 2015 Paris Agreement, in level. The fight against climate change can only be won particular its goal to limit the global temperature increase if we all join forces in a move toward alternative forms of to below two degrees Celsius. With a comprehensive envienergy, heating, and mobility. ronmental and climate strategy, we want to play an active role in mitigating climate change and have anchored this Risks for Bosch from climate change arise, for example, aim in our target vision of sustainability with the climate from water scarcity and extreme weather events. This can and energy issues. also entail a risk to the stability of the supply chain. The same holds true for other environmental risks such those Climate protection and continuously striving toward that may arise from a shortage of resources and environenergy efficiency have a long tradition at Bosch. As far mental hazards. In each risk assessment, we consider back as the 1970s, this issue was driven forward at the various topics (e.g. the availability of water) as well as board of management level. Even in those days, the focus the perspectives of our stakeholders (e.g. customers, was placed on both risks and opportunities – and this asso­ciates, local communities). approach still applies today. The central committee for climate protection at Bosch is the CO2 steering commitAs part of our risk assessment at Bosch, we assess tee, which deliberates and decides on the relevant issues climate risks at least at six-month intervals with a horizon every six months. The CO2 steering committee includes of six years or more. We use as a reference the scenarios one member of the group’s board of management as well developed by the International Energy Agency (IEA) (two, as the specialist units for Real Estate and Facilities, Manufour, and six degree scenarios). Key in our assessment of facturing, and Environmental Protection, as well as board climate-related issues is the climate change report issued members from the divisions. by the Research and Advance Engineering corporate sector every two years, which highlights fundamental climate change developments and their relevance for our Opportunities and risks company and society in accordance with high scientific standards. In 2017, the report addressed the physical of climate change laws and causes of climate change, and for 2019 the focus will be on changes in climate protection policies around the world. The report is presented to the board of manLike all big challenges, climate change involves not only agement and also published on the intranet for access by risks but also opportunities for companies and society. all interested associates. To manage the respective risks For Bosch, climate change is also a driving force behind and opportunities, the individual divisions incorporate our innovation work – and we want to use our technologithe results of the risk assessment in specific plans and cal expertise and our associates’ knowledge to actively market forecasts. Together with our business partners, we shape the future of our company. With respect to climate work on strategically expanding the supply chain (e.g. for change, we see opportunities for Bosch above all in new a second source), adjusting its content-related orientabuilding-related technologies (room-cooling systems) tion, and developing our suppliers further (also see the and in the field of electromobility. The distributed energy “Supply chain” section). Climate-relevant criteria, such system of the future is based on renewable energies, and it is smart and connected. We are confident that we can 56 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook as energy efficiency, use of renewables, and low water Energy efficiency and own generation withdrawal in regions with water scarcity, have also been integrated in the process of designing and purchasing real estate, plant, and manufacturing facilities and serve as a decision-making basis in selecting new company sites. capacity as major levers Climate neutrality The focus is placed above all on energy efficiency and as a goal generating energy ourselves from renewable sources, as these two factors constitute the major levers for achieving our climate goal. By 2030, Bosch wants to save 1,700 GWh Bosch has set itself specific goals in relation to climate of energy and generate 400 GWh of its energy needs itself protection. Taking 2007 as the baseline year and relative from renewable sources. In order to support the measures to our added value, CO2 emissions company-wide are financially as well, the board of management of Bosch has to be reduced by 35 percent by 2020. With savings of approved an additional annual budget of 100 million euros 31.1 percent realized to date, we almost reached this goal for the period 2018 through 2030. At present, Bosch’s in 2018. As of 2019, a new CO2 strategy will replace the energy consumption consists above all of electrical power current relative goal. used to operate plant and machinery in production and of heat energy used for heating and air-conditioning in In view of the increased challenges we face from climate buildings and to operate furnaces at the foundries. Broken change, we have now set ourselves a considerably more down by energy sources used, 71 percent of our energy ambitious target: as of 2020, we want to make emissions consumption is attributable to electricity (5,554 GWh), in our direct sphere of influence (scope 1 and 2) climate19 percent to natural gas, and 10 percent to other energy neutral worldwide. By 2030, we then want to achieve a sources (e.g. heating oil, district heating, coal/coke). further improvement in terms of climate protection on Only a small number of sites in the Bosch Group have the basis of the quality of the measures applied. At pilot energy-intensive production facilities. Only three sites fall sites like Bosch in Eisenach, the requisite measures under the EU emissions trading system, and the volume of have already been launched in order to glean insights for certificates is therefore comparatively low. On aggregate, reaching the group-wide goal. And the site in Bidadi, India Bosch Group entities used some 7,844 GWh of energy – one of the current EHS award-winners – already sources in 2018 (previous year: some 7,800 GWh), equivalent a large part of its electricity needs from its own on-site to 3.26 million metric tons of CO2 emissions. Emisphotovoltaic facilities today. sions intensity relative to added value has thus fallen by 31.1 percent compared with 2007. In 2018 alone, some 1,000 energy efficiency projects were analyzed, designed, and launched in the Bosch Group 18 whereby a total of 325 GWh energy could either be saved or generated Emissions intensity on-site and in an environmentallyBosch Group 2007–2018, in metric tons/millions of euros friendly manner. More than 300 of these projects are already in the 99.97 98.20 96.43 95.55 88.56 87.34 83.82 80.04 73.56 69.40 67.20 68.84 implementation phase. Together with the projects implemented in 2018, around 109 GWh of energy will be saved annually, 66 percent of that 2020 target: 35 % lower in building technology and infrastructure and 27 percent in production. In addition, in 2018 Bosch already generated 55 GWh from renewable 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 57 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Protecting the climate, conserving resources – our approach | Energy and climate protection | Materials and waste management | Water and wastewater energies itself, which is equivalent to 13.8 percent of the Goal-driven implementation 2030 target of 400 GWh. At present, we are generating 15 GWh of that amount with hydroelectric facilities and 40 GWh with our 29 photovoltaic facilities annually. We plan to expand these facilities, in particular our photo­ In order to achieve the group-wide climate goal, the divivoltaic facilities. sions work toward specific targets relating to energy efficiency measures and on-site renewable generation capacity. The regional organizations are in charge of projects Green electricity relating to new clean power, green electricity, and carbon offsets. Since 2019, all respective targets, measures, and and new clean power their implementation are measured and reviewed across the board. The divisions also have detailed targets for onsite renewable energy generation. These are based on a One important starting point on our path toward achieving company-wide energy map that highlights the correspondclimate neutrality at Bosch is to source “green” electricity ing potential. The divisions and sites decide themselves from existing renewable energy generation facilities with about specific measures, taking into account geographical the corresponding guarantee of origin. We want to consisas well as economic conditions. tently raise the quality of the measures by 2030, focusing on new clean power – that is, exclusive long-term purchasing agreements with investors in new renewable energy generation facilities still to be built (e.g. wind turbines or 19 solar parks) and our own renewable-generating facilities. Energy consumption This way, Bosch will make an additional contribution to Bosch Group 2016–2018 in GWh climate protection, as these new facilities will be built 2016 2017 2018 only as a result of our commitment. As of 2019, we have Bosch Group 7,602 7,803 7,844 started to purchase a significantly higher proportion of Natural gas 1,513 1,517 1,512 electricity from renewable energy sources. To this end, Heating oil 97 104 86 we are in the process of conducting market analyses in LPG 39 44 40 many countries. Coke/coal 122 130 141 Renewable energies 39 51 54 Carbon offsetting Other 264 252 258 Direct energy (own combustion) 2,074 2,098 2,091 as a bridging solution Electricity 5,317 5,510 5,554 District heat, steam, cooling energy 211 195 199 Indirect energy (purchased) 5,528 5,705 5,753 The third lever for achieving our climate goal is offsetting measures (carbon credits). These are necessary to offset CO2 emissions from combustion processes (heating, process heat). In countries in which the levers described 20 above are not sufficiently available to achieve carbon neutrality (e.g. where green electricity can only be purchased Greenhouse gas emissions Bosch Group 2016–2018, in 1,000 metric tons of CO2 e to a limited extent), carbon offsets are also necessary. 2016 2017 2018 When choosing a project, we apply very high standards, Bosch Group 3,131 3,225 3,259 such as the Gold Standard, for example. In addition, we have joined the Alliance for Development and Climate Production 389 396 394 initiated by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Vehicle fleet 66 64 65 Cooperation and Development (BMZ). Diffuse GHG emissions 7 7 8 Scope 1 462 467 466 Electricity 2,550 2,650 2,689 District heat, steam, cooling energy 119 107 104 Scope 2 2,669 2,757 2,792 58 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Reducing indirect emisservices, logistics, associates’ commutes, or business sions – climate protection trips. The downstream emissions that we are looking at include, for example, the transportation of our goods and does not end at the products as well as the usage phase of our products. factory gates In individual divisions, such as thermotechnology, a tool with multiregional input/output tables is used to model the flow of goods and the associated CO2 emissions. This In order to reinforce our commitment to climate protectool also makes it possible to simulate the CO2 values of tion further, we are currently examining the possibility goods purchased by Bosch. In addition, we analyze emisof joining the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). sions from transportation by road, air, and sea. PurchasBosch is continuously expanding its activities for this ing goods regionally can also help us to achieve our goal, purpose. Besides the direct emissions caused by Bosch as can combining and optimizing transport routes and (scope 1 and 2), we also want to systematically reduce capacity utilization. indirect emissions (scope 3). For that purpose, we want to determine our carbon footprint from upstream and We already analyze our products’ carbon footprint in all downstream activities in order to derive measures on that divisions today in order to identify hot spots and derive basis. specific potential for improvement. As of 2020, all flights of Bosch associates as well as flights with the companyIn light of our large number of business partners around owned aircrafts will be offset. the world, we face big challenges here. Upstream emissions concern categories such as purchased goods and New mobility concept – app-based ridesharing At Bosch, we also want to make our associates’ The most recent example: since November 2018, we commute to work as eco-friendly as possible. In the use a fully renewable diesel fuel – C.A.R.E. diesel – in Stuttgart area alone, more than 50,000 associates the vehicle fleet for the Bosch board of management. commute to work every day, and we see this as a great From well to wheel, this renewable fuel reduces the lever for Bosch to make a contribution toward environCO2 emissions of these cars by around two-thirds mental protection, air quality, and sustainability. (65 percent, source: Toolfuel). At Bosch filling stations in Feuerbach, Schwieberdingen, and Hildesheim, we Multimodality is at the core of our approach: Bosch replaced conventional diesel fuel with R33 Blue Diesel associates throughout Germany can lease e-bikes in 2018. This contains 33 percent renewable fuel at a discount. This has proved a success with 8,000 components and can save about 20 percent of CO2 leased bikes in the first year, and clearly makes a conemissions compared with conventional diesel fuel. For tribution. In addition, shuttles are offered between our associates’ leased cars, there are applicable CO2 locations and the city (Stuttgart – Renningen, other limits which, if exceeded, trigger additional costs. In shuttles planned to Abstatt and Reutlingen, and contrast, associates who choose cars below the limits between Schwieberdingen and Feuerbach). Besides receive a bonus. Additionally, electric vehicles have coming to work by bus or e-bike, Bosch offers a been added to the fleet of leased cars. ridesharing app to support car pooling. And last, but not least, home office arrangements, telephone and video conferencing, and mobile work structures are to be encouraged in order to reduce CO2 emissions. We also want to contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions through vehicle fleet management. 59 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Protecting the climate, conserving resources – our approach | Energy and climate protection | Materials and waste management | Water and wastewater Measures for The tool records all quality and consumption data and energy efficiency automatically determines what needs to be done. It enables associates to monitor the consumption of individual machines and control them in an efficient manner. By implementing energy management systems and having By drawing on an analysis of weather data, the plant can them certified under ISO 50001, we want to continuously predict its photovoltaic output, identify additional energy make progress toward more energy efficiency. needs, and purchase the requisite quantities on the market at reduced costs. The plant is always looking for ways Further measures toward reaching the goal include to enhance its energy efficiency – by optimizing standard introducing digital energy management solutions (energy measures as well as through technological innovations management 4.0), as well as infrastructure measures in from the continuous improvement process. the areas of compressed air, ventilation, and lighting. Particular focus will be placed on our locations in Ger} GoGreen – four levers for energy-saving many where 34 percent of our global CO2 emissions production originate. The following examples illustrate the broad With its GoGreen project, Bosch Rexroth already began range of measures used. to focus on energy-saving production back in 2011. Since the start of the project, some 200,000 metric tons of CO2 } Bosch Homburg – on the way to a self-learning have been saved through around 600 measures taken and energy-efficient facility at the 30 participating plants. At the core of GoGreen is The Bosch site in Homburg is getting progressively closer a holistic analysis of production facilities with the aim to the vision of an energy-efficient, self-learning facility. In of reducing CO2 emissions. Bosch Rexroth draws on its 2018 alone, around 3,521 MWh were saved there – that extensive development know-how for automation soluare 1,221 metric tons of CO2 – which now improve the tions to assist machine manufacturers and industrial site’s carbon footprint every year. This achievement was users with their efforts to achieve greater energy efficienrealized by systematically revising operating infrastruccy. It is bundled in the Rexroth 4EE – Rexroth for Energy ture. The Homburg site now generates power and heat Efficiency approach, which also plays a central role in the simultaneously in a cogeneration unit of its own and has GoGreen project. The experience gained with GoGreen three photovoltaic systems with an installed capacity can be applied to many sites: back in 2013, a central techof more than 2,600 kWp. The site thus boasts Bosch’s nology support team was set up, which all sites can call largest solar facility in Europe. In addition, the plant is on. In addition, comprehensive training is offered each completely connected. Some 10,000 data points continuyear that is open to all sites worldwide. Moreover, in 2017, ously gather data from the plant’s machines and pool an energy efficiency manual was published that describes them in Bosch’s own IoT platform – the Energy Platform. the GoGreen and 4EE methodologies in detail (also see the “Products” section). } Cooperation for more energy efficiency – the 21 ETA factory As an industry and research partner in the ETA factory Energy management system (EMS) Bosch Group 2018 (energy technologies and applications in production), Bosch also applies its extensive expertise in energy 296 63 52 conversion. The aim of this model project led by Technische Universität Darmstadt is to further reduce energy consumption in industrial production. From the initial ideas through to the present day, Bosch Rexroth has lent its support to Technische Universität Darmstadt. The concept to optimize and connect manufacturing processes and factory infrastructure was developed in a joint effort. Bosch Rexroth derived this topic from its first holistic GoGreen potential analysis carried out in 2010. Accordingly, a real process chain for manufacturing a hydraulic component from that Rexroth plant was remodeled at the Production and EMS EMS development implemented certified ETA factory (scale 1:1). The target efficiency improvement sites 60 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook of 40 percent defined at the outset of the project has Other air pollutant emissions meanwhile been achieved. Now the ETA factory solutions are also to be applied to Rexroth factories. On account of the typical metal-working processes, they can also be adopted in other Bosch facilities. A follow-on project has We also want to keep emissions of other air pollutants been launched for this purpose with ETA transfer. The to a minimum. In a project in 2019, we will examine the results to date are promising. In 2019, the first efficiency relevance of other air pollutants and derive measures measures will be installed in the very factory where the accordingly. GoGreen story began in 2010. Creating competence Products that protect the for EHS climate We have extensive competence management in place “Invented for life” is our ethos. We want our products to to ensure that the associates concerned always have fascinate people and improve their quality of life. For us, the requisite specialist knowledge at their disposal to “Invented for life” is also about helping to conserve natural discharge their diverse health, safety, and environmental resources. In addition to energy efficiency measures, protection duties. Using Web-based e-learning courses Bosch products naturally also contribute significantly and classroom training, we further our associates’ to protecting the climate. The individual divisions have methodological skills and technical expertise, create the specific targets for reducing their products’ climate basis for the safe use of tools and machinery, and coach and environmental impact. In the industry division, for their soft skills. The target groups are intentionally wide example, concepts like 4EE at Bosch Rexroth help to make so that every associate can receive the training needed facilities more energy-efficient, thereby also making an to do his or her job. In addition to standard EHS training important contribution to climate protection. In recent worldwide, there are also specific training courses that years, we have also already achieved considerable gains in take account of the requirements of individual operating energy efficiency with our household appliances and heatunits, sites, or regions. Our executives have a special role ing systems (see the “Products” section). We will analyze in the implementation of EHS, as they are responsible for the potential for reducing upstream and downstream their staff complying with the rules and are traditionally emissions (scope 3) in a project in 2019. expected to set a good example at Bosch. For this reason, we provide them with separate Web-based EHS training to assist them in fulfilling their duties. Since they were 22 Other air pollutant emissions Bosch Group 2016–2018, in metric tons 2016 2017 2018 Chlorinated hydrocarbons 0.01 0.02 0.02 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 1,366.6 1,495.9 1,457.8 Carbon monoxide* 192.3 216.1 197.5 Nitrogen oxides* 632.7 687.9 651.1 Sulfur dioxide* 202.7 217.7 223.8 Nitrous oxide* 382.7 402.0 404.0 Methane* 333.7 349.1 351.1 Dust* 8.8 9.8 9.2 Volatile organic compounds* 19.1 20.3 19.7 *From combustion processes 61 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Protecting the climate, conserving resources – our approach | Energy and climate protection | Materials and waste management | Water and wastewater introduced at Bosch in 2014, over 26,500 such trainEnvironmental and climate protection ing courses have been completed. Furthermore, health, safety, and environmental protection are a set part of executive and managerial programs at Bosch. And since safety and security are not dependent on an employment accolades – commitment relationship, all external staff and visitors to our sites are is recognized also given the relevant instructions. Bosch’s relentless and systematic efforts for environInternal communications mental protection are bearing fruit and are repeatedly recognized externally. The Bosch site in Jaipur, India, for example, won first place in a competition organized by the Topics associated with health, safety, and environmental Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) as best energy-effiprotection frequently feature in our internal media at cient organization. The CII also considered Bosch’s waste Bosch. Newsletters, wikis, blogs, and online forums focusmanagement in Nashik exemplary, selecting it as a winner ing on specific topics help to regularly make associates of the 2018 Environmental Best Practices Award. This aware of EHS matters, provide them with the necessary recognition proves how successful our activities are – and information, and motivate them to engage in safe and motivates us to consistently pursue our course. environmentally friendly conduct by presenting good examples from within the company. These are suppleWithin the Bosch Group, the EHS Award highlights and mented by regular briefings, workshops, and audits. recognizes outstanding projects for environmental and climate protection. In 2018 the first prize in the category “CO2/energy efficiency” went to Nashik in India, where Dialogue with academia comprehensive energy management is used to reduce the carbon footprint – with the largest solar park in the and policymakers Indian automotive industry, among other initiatives. In recognition of its energy management 4.0 approach, the Blaichach site in Germany took second place. The plant Protecting the environment and the climate is a task that uses online monitoring right down to machine level to no company can shoulder on its own – but every company identify additional efficiency potentials. The bronze medal is called on to make a contribution. With this conviction, was awarded to the Bidadi site in India for its project we reach out to the various stakeholder groups, in parapproach to carbon neutrality. Here, too, own energy ticular to scientists, policymakers, and nongovernmental generation capacity with photovoltaic systems plays an organizations. With this in mind, we have also attended important role. the last two editions of the annual United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 23 and 24) and have entered The winner in the new category of resource efficiency into discourse with suppliers and customers on climatecreated in 2018 was the Campinas site in Brazil with a relevant issues. In the political arena, Bosch is part of project for water self-sufficiency. It centered around an the Alliance for Development and Climate initiated by the artificial lake that serves as a water reservoir, accomGerman Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and panied by various measures to save water and reduce Development in a move to combine climate protection wastewater.Reutlingen in Germany made second place, and sustainable development. In addition, we are active focusing on paperless warehousing. The jury was in the steering committee of the econsense network impressed above all by the great effect achieved for the of companies aimed at shaping the change to a more environment at a very minor cost: it cost just 100 euros in sustainable economy. We also make our contribution as paperless warehousing to avoid 3.3 metric tons of waste supplier of technology in the Industrial Resource Stratea year – and save costs of around 85,000 euros. Ahmedgies Think Tank set up by the German state government of abad in India was awarded third place. There, substantial Baden-Württemberg. improvements for the environment were realized through water-saving and water protection activities. 62 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 4.2 Materials and waste management Management approach is not always guaranteed due to the different sources and, on the other, there are technical reasons for not using In its various divisions, Bosch pays attention to reducing them, such as reduced durability or the limited range of the use of resources and recycling materials wherever colors available. possible. In so doing, we are guided by the idea of a circular economy. In 2018, Bosch purchased some 2.3 million metric tons of steel, aluminum, and plastics from suppliers, around 2.5 percent more than in the previous Design for Environment year (2.2 million metric tons). In terms of weight – 1.7 million metric tons – and CO2 emissions of 2.8 million metric encourages efficient use tons, steel accounts for the largest share of materials, of resources followed by 0.3 million metric tons of aluminum associated with 1.1 million metric tons of CO2 emissions. In At product level, Bosch started defining its requirements addition, 0.3 million metric tons of plastics were used, for an environmentally compatible design back in 2000. corresponding to an emissions volume of 1.3 million The aim is to systematically reduce the relative quantities metric tons of CO2. of raw materials used while increasing sales volumes. Bosch addresses this challenge already at the product The use of plastics made of or containing recycled matedevelopment stage and has established the Design for rial make a valuable contribution toward conserving Environment (DfE) process for this purpose. With this proresources, and we were able to increase the proportion cess, we want to make sure that resources (e.g. materials, of these materials by almost 50 percent in the years 2013 energy) are used efficiently and avoid or minimize the through 2017. Plastics made from recyclates are obtained impact on people and the environment wherever possible from a variety of materials today, including carpet fibers, throughout the product life cycle (also see the “Products” manufacturing rejects, start-up waste and waste fiber, and section). packaging waste. Among others, polyamides such as PA6 or PA66 containing recyclate are available for use in appliA particular focus is placed on avoiding substances ances or vehicles. However, plastics made of or containof concern (SoC) that are harmful for people and the ing recycled material are not suitable to cover all areas of environment, irrespective of whether they are used during application in their entirety. On the one hand, availability production or in products. In this context, we benefit from our detailed knowledge of the nature and scope of raw materials used in Bosch products, which is condensed in 23 material data sheets and made available along the supply chain. This way, we satisfy not only our own high environKey materials used Bosch Group 2016–2018, in 1,000 metric tons mental protection standards, but also customer-specific requirements in the automotive industry, for example. Total 2,285 Here, too, the environmental management systems that we have established at all relevant manufacturing and Aluminum 292 development sites stand us in good stead. In addition, our Material Data Management for Compliance and SustainPlastics 298 ability (MaCS) system offers a high-performance solution for recording material data and hazardous substances Steel used. Our suppliers’ data are also fed into MaCS. 1,695 63 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Protecting the climate, conserving resources – our approach | Energy and climate protection | Materials and waste management | Water and wastewater Our standard N2580 “Declaration duties and prohibition after three years for hazardous waste and otherwise after of pollutants” sets out the basis for the declaration of confive years. With respect to waste management, we apply stituent substances and nonuse of prohibited substances the principle of “avoid – reuse – dispose.” Specifically, this in accordance, for example, with the European chemicals means that waste is appropriately disposed only if it is not regulation REACH (also see the “Products” and “Supply possible to directly reuse the material and no other use chain” sections). appears economically feasible. Waste Goal of continuously The treatment of waste and its appropriate disposal is reducing the volume of governed by a standard that is binding company-wide at waste Bosch. Its application is intended to ensure compliance with the respective country’s requirements applicable We have been pursuing a specific goal also with regard in each case relating to transportation and disposal of to avoiding waste since 2015: we wanted to reduce the waste. All manufacturing sites have established a waste relative volume of waste by 6.9 percent by the year 2018. management organization in charge of sorting, classifying, We achieved a reduction of 3.5 percent by 2018 (baseline and handing over the waste to disposal companies. The year: 2015). The absolute volume of waste decreased department responsible for waste disposal decides on by 1 percent compared with the previous year to the disposal company and carrier. The relevant documen711,403 metric tons. In 2018, we analyzed the waste fractation is examined to ascertain whether they hold official tions of our sites that account for some 80 percent of our permits for the relevant waste types. The disposal comwaste volume. It transpired that around half of the waste panies are selected following a review, which is repeated volume is metal waste. Around a quarter of the waste 24 25 Waste by disposal type Waste intensity Bosch Group 2016–2018, in 1,000 metric tons Bosch Group 2015–2018, in metric tons/millions of euros 692.5 717.4 711.4 15.58 15.34 14.94 15.03 80.4 81.6 83.5 2018 target: 6.9 percent lower 19.6 18.5 16.5 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Recyclable waste in % Waste for disposal in % 64 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook volume is packaging waste. Foundry sand is the thirdMeasures to reduce waste largest waste fraction, accounting for a proportion of 13 percent. Another 13 percent approximately of the waste is hazardous waste. The analysis also showed that the potential for reducing the waste volume at site level is In order to continuously reduce the volume of waste, limited. Most approaches to reducing metal waste have a Bosch aims to recycle materials wherever possible. Condirect impact on the production process, and packaging tributions are made by initiatives at division level as well waste is largely attributable to delivered material and as activities at site level, such as with the new “zero waste components. For foundry sand as well, appropriate to landfill” campaign. Added to this are recycling methods benchmarking revealed hardly any further potential to such as sprue recycling in plastic injection molding and reduce the volume of waste. Hazardous waste, which vacuum distillation as well as ultrafiltration in wastewapresents high risk potential and involves high disposal ter treatment, which also have a positive effect on the costs, is the only waste fraction with which we can make volume of waste at Bosch. The Bosch eXchange program any notable progress. for automotive parts and accessories is also based on the idea of a closed-loop or circular economy. It makes use of As a result, the current waste target no longer seems remanufactured spare parts that are subject to the same appropriate and we will devote our efforts to two prime high quality standards as equipment for new vehicles objectives in future as part of our group-wide target and provided with the same guarantee as for new parts. vision: to further reduce hazardous waste and, if possible, Reuse not just saves close to 90 percent of the material completely reduce the waste disposed in landfills (zero needed, it also halves energy consumption. This in turn waste to landfill) by increasing the material recycling ratio. also reduces CO2 emissions by around 25,000 metric tons Campaigns will be launched in both respects in 2019 to a year compared with manufacturing new products. identify the associated potential and also derive suitable measures. Hazardous waste 26 At Bosch, hazardous waste consists above all of cooling Hazardous waste lubricants, washing water, oils, and fuels. A standard that Bosch Group 2016–2018, in 1,000 metric tons is applicable company-wide sets clear rules for the entire Bosch Group for handling such substances and their 83.5 93.0 89.5 disposal. At numerous manufacturing sites, Bosch has its own wastewater treatment facilities, for example, for treating cooling lubricants. A program for avoiding hazardous waste is currently in the process of identifying sites with comparatively large quantities of hazardous waste. In a next step, specific measures will be developed for these sites in order to reduce and process the quantities in a targeted manner. The respective campaigns will be launched by the end of 2019, and we expect to have the first results of the program by 2020. 2016 2017 2018 65 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Protecting the climate, conserving resources – our approach | Energy and climate protection | Materials and waste management | Water and wastewater Hazardous substances Moreover, the substances recorded under REACH and substances of are tracked systematically. Bosch aims not to use any substances of very high concern (SVHC) in new developconcern ments and applies for authorization as an exception only if it is not possible to avoid them, which applies only in a small number of cases. Furthermore, the internal “Design Bosch endeavors to keep people and the environment for Environment” standard must be complied with, which from harm. We have anchored this aim in the key issue of defines requirements for handling SoC, resource effihealth in our target vision of sustainability and have comciency, responsibilities, and other matters. Each business mitted to reducing the total consumption of substances of unit is responsible for compliance with the requirements. concern in our production processes. This also contribThe DfE coordinators (see the “Products” section) offer utes directly toward our goal of reducing hazardous waste. support, for example, through training or specific advice In this context, our highly diverse product portfolio continon how to interpret the requirements. ues to be a challenge for managing materials restrictions and declaration duties at Bosch. The focus is placed on If SoC are unavoidable in the production process for strict adherence to materials restrictions and the targeted technical reasons, hazard assessments are carried out to reduction of hazardous substances both in our products ensure suitable protective measures are taken when hanand during production. To efficiently manage materials dling such substances. Our long-term goal is to substitute prohibitions and restrictions, in particular for products, these substances. we use our central MaCS system, which is regularly updated (also see the “Products” section). In defining these rules, we mainly referred to European Nanotechnology standards, as in our experience they set the highest requirements worldwide these days. The defined Bosch Bosch is not active in the typical areas of application of standards apply throughout the company even in cases nanotechnology or does use alternative substances and where national legislation is less strict. Based on the technologies. Yet even though there is at present no eviinformation gathered in this respect, Bosch updates its dent need for action in this respect for Bosch, we regularly in-house standard N2580 every six months. It summarizes follow the related discussions and analyses, for example, the requirements of suppliers by materials specifications of the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). The responand also serves to check our own products internally for sible use of nanotechnology is of particular relevance to compliance with legal requirements and internal customus wherever nanoparticles are released into water or air, ers’ specifications. or come in contact with the skin. The standard comprises numerous requirements, based on European and non-European laws as well as industry standards, such as the Global Automotive Declarable Substance List (GADSL), in order to cover the entire Bosch product portfolio. Certain product categories are subject to additional legal requirements. For this reason, we have defined division-specific requirements that apply in addition to the basic company-wide requirements. The list is in the public domain, and internal as well as external users can avail themselves free of charge of learning modules on how to use the list or how to handle substances of concern (SoC). This way, Bosch makes a contribution to raising the standards, even beyond company boundaries. The standard N2580 also lists substances that are banned for new applications. 66 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 4.3 Water and wastewater Management approach After discussing this with the WWF, we are focusing on ways to remedy water scarcity in order to achieve signifiThe efficient use of water has been another declared aim cant improvements in the near future. We aim to achieve of Bosch for many years. Similar to the waste-reduction greater transparency also on the issue of water quality goal, over the last few years we have also pursued the and wastewater through a project in 2019. aim of reducing the relative water withdrawal of our sites by 6.9 percent by 2018 compared with the baseline year 2015. At the end of the current goal period, we replaced the goal with an absolute water target focusing above all on sites in regions with water scarcity. By 2025, we want to reduce absolute water withdrawal there by 25 percent. 27 To support the corresponding measures, an additional Water withdrawal dedicated budget of 10 million euros per year is available Bosch Group 2018 by region, until 2025. in millions of cubic meters Total 19.80 This constitutes a response to the fact that current climate change scenarios and associated forecasts show that the risks related to water scarcity and insufficient Asia Pacific Germany (including other coun6.72 water quality will become more acute worldwide. To take tries, also in Africa these developments into account in the new target vision 6.07 for Bosch, all 414 reportable sites of Bosch were analyzed Americas Europe (within terms of water scarcity in 2018 using the WWF Water 1.56 out Germany) 5.45 Risk Filter. The result showed that 61 sites are located in regions with the severest or severe water scarcity, and they account for 16.3 percent of our total water withdrawal. 67 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Protecting the climate, conserving resources – our approach | Energy and climate protection | Materials and waste management | Water and wastewater 28 Sites with water scarcity 2 1 1 2 3 1 13 5 1 2 9 1 2 16 1 1 x Number of sites with severest water scarcity x Number of sites with severe water scarcity Withdrawal Share of in millions total water Number of m3 withdrawal Affected regions Sites with severest water India, USA, Mexico, scarcity 17 0.8 4.0 % China, Turkey, Thailand Sites with severe water India, China, Mexico, USA, Italy, Thaiscarcity 44 2.4 12.3 % land, Turkey, Peru, UAE, South Africa 68 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Water withdrawal to save water and implement measures together with the parties responsible at the sites. The individual sites also Fresh water is used in many processes at Bosch, in particeach pursue their own targets based on their environular for cooling purposes. In regions with strained water mental management systems. Specific examples and supplies, recycled water is used wherever possible. Since best-practice measures are made available throughout the current water goal was defined in 2015, water withthe Bosch Group in a “Water Wiki.” drawal in the Bosch Group has increased from 19.34 million cubic meters to 19.80 million cubic meters today. Overall, a large number of projects were carried out in Relative to added value, this is a decrease of 6.3 percent, 2018, some of them with impressive results. One example which falls short of the 6.9 percent reduction goal. is Ahmedabad in India where the use of rainwater, among other measures, has had a positive effect on groundwater levels. Or take Nashik, also in India, where rainwater will Measures for reducing in future be used for cleaning the photovoltaic facilities, thus also helping to relieve the water situation. Both water withdrawal projects were honored with the 2018 EHS Award (see the “Company” section). To continue in our efforts to reduce water withdrawal, we set ourselves a specific target at the start of 2019: to reduce the absolute water withdrawal of the 61 locations in regions with water scarcity by 25 percent by 2025. The baseline year for calculating the reduction is 2017. Water coordinators in the divisions will identify local potential 29 30 Water intensity Water withdrawal Bosch Group 2015–2018, in cubic meters/millions of euros Bosch Group 2016–2018, in millions of cubic meters 446.3 428.8 401.0 418.3 2016 2017 2018 Bosch Group 19.40 19.30 19.80 2018 target: 6.9 percent lower Surface water 3 3.23 Groundwater 3 2.55 Public/private waterworks 3 14.01 Fresh water 1, 3 19.79 Public/private waterworks 3 0.01 Other sources 2, 3 0.01 1 <1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids 2 >1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids 2015 2016 2017 2018 3 Detailed data collection carried out for the first time in 2018 69 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Protecting the climate, conserving resources – our approach | Energy and climate protection | Materials and waste management | Water and wastewater Wastewater At some sites, Bosch has its own wastewater treatment facilities to ensure the most efficient treatment. DependBesides reducing fresh-water withdrawal, Bosch is also ing on the on-site conditions, ultrafiltration technology or making efforts to reduce the volume of wastewater physical-chemical treatments such as precipitation or disand improve its treatment. Compared with the previtillation are used. One example is the vacuum distillation ous year, the total volume of wastewater at Bosch has used in Schwäbisch Gmünd, which combines efficiency increased from 14.9 million cubic meters to 16.3 million with the highest environmental standards. cubic meters in 2018. We are currently working to collect more granular data, in particular regarding the individual As part of our strategically relevant key issue of water, wastewater flows, in order to derive targeted measures for a project will be carried out in 2019 to further reduce optimizing and further reducing wastewater. wastewater. In a first step, we will record centrally what quantities of wastewater are produced, where, how they At Bosch, wastewater is above all a by-product of manuare treated, and where they are discharged. The respecfacturing processes such as electroplating, washing facilitive analysis should be available by 2020, making the issue ties, processing centers, and others. Added to this, there of wastewater transparent throughout the company. In is wastewater from sanitation facilities and canteens, as the medium term, the aim is to have a list of projects over well as cooling water. Impairments of water quality can be different time horizons as is already the case for energy caused at Bosch primarily by discharged substances and and greenhouse gas emissions. a higher water temperature. 31 Wastewater Bosch Group 2016–2018, in millions of cubic meters 15.2 14.9 16.3 2016 2017 2018 70 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Associates Bosch associates share a unique corporate culture shaped by fairness, diversity, and mutual respect. In this way, all the company’s associates experience a consistent level of appreciation and have optimal opportunities and parameters to fully reach their personal potential. The “We are Bosch” mission statement combines our values, our strengths, and our strategic alignment. That allows us to move forward together – and individual strengths can become shared success. 71 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society 680,000 training days 16.6 % women executives Konzernlagebericht 2.2 work accidents per one million hours worked 72 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 5.0 It’s people that matter We know that people make success – and that is true The “Basic principles of social responsibility at Bosch” are more than ever in the age of digital transformation, in available online on our website. Responsibility for their imwhich established production and work worlds are unplementation lies with the management of the divisions, dergoing massive change; indeed, even entire business regional subsidiaries, and company locations. Every asmodels are being radically challenged. As employers, we sociate is familiar with the content of the basic principles have a duty to address this change early on and to actively and can report violations. The same applies to violations help shape it. That is essential if we are to take advantage of the Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to of the opportunities of digital change – for our company associates and business partners worldwide. It builds on and for our associates. the “Basic principles of social responsibility,” translates the legal requirements, and also contains additional, interHuman resources management thus becomes a key task nal company rules on the topic of compliance in particular for which it is rarely possible to find a standard solution. (see the “Company” section). That is why Bosch pursues a clear HR strategy that puts people at the center of all activities: “people matter.” Human resources Clear guidelines regulate management at Bosch collaboration The key to Bosch’s successful transformation lies in the topics of leadership, collaboration, and qualification. That At Bosch, responsibility for associates is a core element is why we are rigorously working to advance in these arof how we see ourselves as entrepreneurs. In the “Basic eas, especially with respect to our leadership culture. principles of social responsibility at Bosch” the board of management and the employee representatives comWe strongly believe that cooperative leadership, networkmit, among other things, to complying with human rights, ing among associates, and a culture of feedback based on equal opportunities, fair working conditions, and global openness and mutual respect serve as motivation and are standards in occupational health and safety. The 11 prinessential to our future success. As a result, transparency ciples in total are based on the core labor standards of and communication have to satisfy high standards. Within the International Labour Organization (ILO) and they are our central HR management, the various topics are claslikewise binding for our suppliers. Following in the footsified into two areas dedicated to supporting executives, steps of our founder Robert Bosch, we also embrace sotalent management, and organizational development on cial responsibility beyond the boundaries of our company. the one hand as well as, on the other, working conditions And our activities today are still focused on public benefit, at Bosch and setting and continually enhancing rules for particularly equal opportunities through education (see our joint collaboration including with employee representhe “Society” section). tatives. 73 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | It’s people that matter | Attractive employer | Occupational health and safety 5.1 Attractive employer As an attractive employer, not only do we stay true to Leadership and our corporate tradition and follow in the footsteps of our founder Robert Bosch, but we also seek to secure our collaboration entrepreneurial future. Our understanding of good leadership and collaboration This insight is not new. Yet the rigor with which we purat Bosch is defined in the “We LEAD Bosch” leadership sue these beliefs gives us the strength to successfully principles, which address both executives and associates. undertake the most comprehensive transformation in our The principles formulated there provide guidance and imcorporate history. Our objective is to respond with agility petus for all our associates as to how to shape leadership to growing uncertainty, dynamic changes, and increasing and collaboration within a team. “We LEAD Bosch” is also complexity – with a high pace of innovation, the courage the company-wide template for leadership principles in to change, and the passion to shape the future. For that the divisions, regions, and plants. It is also the responpurpose, we need highly qualified, motivated, and dedisibility of specialist departments to explore the impetus cated associates. And, as employer, we need to create the that the leadership principles give their units. conditions that will allow them to reach their full potential. More than ever before, creativity and new ideas are called The demands made on leadership and collaboration are for – and more than ever before, it is necessary to create changing. The business environment is more dynamic and the working environments that favor these attributes. At increasingly marked by uncertainty – not least against the same time, it is important to review the qualifications the backdrop of digital transformation. That requires less available within the company regularly and adjust them planning, but more agile action, and a different leadership as needed. And if we are serious about making it possible style. At the same time, the expectations of associates for associates to strike a balance between their careers on leadership are also changing, as many want to take on and their private lives, we have to live up to the challenge greater responsibility and have more control over their of adequately addressing the needs of associates in the work. Our HR strategy addresses these needs. Instead of different phases of their life and the needs of different rigid hierarchies, work instructions, and controls, three generations. principles govern work at Bosch. They are summed up by the terms autonomy, mastery, and purpose: Recognized employer } Autonomy allows every associate the opportunity to make their contribution and to shape the parameters for appeal their own work – coupled with the expectation that they also accordingly take on responsibility for their own actions. Bosch is an attractive employer, as is testified to by the numerous distinctions, media reports, and rankings. In } Mastery refers to the creation of framework conditions 2019, for instance, we ranked third in the list of Germany’s that advance interests and skills. best employers that is regularly published by the Glasdoor rating portal. The consulting and market research firm } Purpose describes the ambition that our activities Trendence also confirmed Bosch’s appeal as an employer always aim to achieve clearly formulated and purpose– we made second place in the survey of young profesdriven objectives. sionals. More than that, Trendence honored Bosch for its “fair trainee program.” 74 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Good leadership requires Extensive survey feedback of associates An integral element of “We LEAD Bosch” is the feedback Every two years, Bosch conducts a group-wide survey culture embraced at Bosch. This is premised on open and of associates aimed at measuring their satisfaction and intensive communication across all levels of the company. identifying specific improvement potential in the comWe seek and give feedback – and lead with trust, respect, pany. The outcomes of the survey are discussed in the and empathy. departments and measures derived, and a corresponding plan of measures is prepared and tracked. Through the 360° Leadership Feedback, our leadership receives feedback on their leadership skills from different Almost 270,000 associates took part in the last survey perspectives. This tool is available to all Bosch executives in 2017, which focused on the leadership principles “We worldwide in order to allow for a systematic comparison LEAD Bosch” that had been established at the time. The of self-assessments with the perception by others. Three results confirm once again the high degree of satisfaction perspectives are used for the analysis: leading my busiof associates and their unique level of identification with ness, leading myself, and leading others. The aim is the the company and the Bosch brand. For instance, the vast continuous improvement of leadership and collaboration majority of associates (87 percent) stated that they are as well as a feedback culture in the spirit of “We LEAD proud to work for the Bosch Group. In addition, 90 perBosch.” cent are willing to work for the success of their operating units, beyond what is expected of them. About 82 perIn 2018, the seminars for executives were aligned to the cent would recommend Bosch as a good employer to their new leadership principles. In addition, all executives refriends and family – and 80 percent enjoy their work at ceive training on the content and how to implement the Bosch. The company’s commitment to the environment principles. Furthermore, clear signals are sent for everyand society is viewed positively by the majority of associbody to see: for instance, more and more executives are ates (79 percent). The majority also value diversity and giving up their representative offices in order to work with teamwork irrespective of background, personal opinions, their team on the shop floor. experience, age, or gender. At the same time, associates understand that changes in the company’s environment necessitate a far-reaching transformation of the Bosch Group. In the assessment of results, we identified potential in the area of collaboration across operating units and functions. 75 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | It’s people that matter | Attractive employer | Occupational health and safety Education and training organization and on the basis of the annual goal & performance dialogue. At present, there are about 3,700 targetgroup-specific curricula, and roughly 139,000 associates More than ever, education and training are a major priorhave at least one such curriculum assigned to them. ity at Bosch. Especially against the background of the company’s far-reaching transformation, it is essential to ensure the optimal qualification of associates, particularly in the future fields of digital transformation, and thereby Combined works secure our ability to compete. Consequently, Bosch views training and personal development as a continuous proagreement governs cess that cuts across all functions, levels, and countries. external training Life-long learning is essential – along with the willingness to continuously enhance our skills and competencies and Bosch’s board of management and the combined works adjust them to the company’s needs. To this end, Bosch council consider it a shared task to support professional supports associates with a broad range of modern and training also with external training measures to make it flexible training courses. easier for associates to maintain and advance their professional qualifications. In Germany, a specific combined works agreement governs the details. Accordingly, associExtensive investment ates are supported who enhance their qualifications at their own initiative through external training measures. In in training addition, the measures must generally be suitable for supporting tasks for which an operational need is expected. Numerous special rules allow utmost flexibility in this In 2018 alone, we invested a total of more than 280 million process – from the refund of training costs to special edueuros in the training of our associates. Our associates atcation leave through to assistance for language courses tended roughly 680,000 training days, including semiabroad. In addition, associates with more than three years nars and webinars, in 2018. On top of that, they worked of service are entitled to a temporary leave arrangement through about 598,000 online learning courses. of up to five years for continuing education measures that further their professional development – after which These measures are based on target-group-specific curBosch guarantees their reemployment. ricula set for associates with standardized roles. Training measures are then implemented through the global HR 32 33 Training activities Target-group-specific curricula Bosch Group 2016–2018 Bosch Group 2016–2018 734,000 671,000 680,000 Training days 139,000 Associates with 124,700 a curriculum 611,000 112,000 assigned Training atten560,000 dance 494,000 280 3,700 250 260 Expenditure on 2,900 3,200 Number of targettraining [millions group-specific of euros] curricula 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 76 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook The competence model } Goal & performance dialogue Once a year, associates discuss with their supervisor goal agreements, further development, and feedback. Aside The Bosch competence model forms the basis for the from planning tasks and projects as well as defining their selection of associates and their personal development in goals and tracking achievement, this dialogue also deals the company. It is based on the “We are Bosch” mission with the assessment of competencies and performance. statement and it sets the framework for recruitment, goal As needed, support measures as well as training are joint& performance dialogue with associates, assessment of ly planned as part of competence management. potential, and support programs. Our “competencies” are understood to mean our attributes, skills, and behavior, } Competence management which are decisive for successfully dealing with current Competence management at Bosch is a systematic proand future tasks. With this in mind, the Bosch compecess for identifying and developing professional and methtence model comprises four competence areas, each of odological competencies. The aim is to ensure that the which has two competencies assigned: right abilities are available in the right place at the right time. To that end, each supervisor checks what capability } Entrepreneurial competence (results orientation, building is needed in their own organizational unit and disforward-looking) cusses the results of this process with associates at their } Leadership competence (leading myself, goal & performance dialogue. leading others) } Interpersonal competence (collaboration, } Career & development dialogue communication) The career & development dialogue focuses on the career } Professional competence (range of experience, and personal development goals for the next three to five depth of knowledge) years. Associates or their direct line managers initiate the dialogue, and the next-highest line manager and the comThe personal development processes for associates are petent HR business partner are also involved. The process anchored in the competence model and comprise several entails a comparison of the associate’s wishes and selfcomponents with a fixed cycle: assessment with the assessment of the other dialogue participants. This results in specific goals and steps for the associate’s further career at Bosch. 34 Personal development process Competence management (annual) Defines training and measures Goal & performance dialogue (annual) Insight into Agreed on request associate’s potential Agreed on request Talent and associate review Career & development dialogue (annual) (optionally every 3–5 years) Feedback on development Decision on talent pool acceptance Career advancement discussion (within 6 months of joining) 77 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | It’s people that matter | Attractive employer | Occupational health and safety } Talent and associate review Bosch Learning Company initiative Once a year, supervisors and HR business partners discuss the personal and technical potential of individual associates at a specific, globally comparable hierarchy level and above. That ensures that Bosch can primarily Life-long learning is a central determinant of success for cover the need for specialists and executives internally – the transformation at Bosch. In order to anchor this unand that associates have the opportunity to get support derstanding within the company and support associates for their career and to follow their own individual path at in their learning activities, the Bosch Learning Company Bosch. initiative was launched in 2016. The initiative is driven by numerous executives and learning stakeholders. In the meantime, the program has been established worldwide and is deployed at all company sites. All associates are Modular careers system entitled to participate in continuous education in this context. In order to succeed in an increasingly complex, diverse, and global environment, specialists and executives at An international team brings together people with differBosch need experience in cross-divisional and internaent perspectives and provides attractive opportunities. In tional tasks. A change of perspective between professionthis way, we want to make Bosch a place where knowlal and private life or working at another employer can also edge is quickly, effectively, and efficiently adopted and be a source of valuable experience. generated. Here we focus on three pillars. With offers for transformation training, we aim to give associates practiTo empower this approach, “career modules” at Bosch cal support in meeting the challenges of the transformadefine the criteria that need to be satisfied (e.g. change of tion and have developed learning opportunities tailored function or experience abroad) before being promoted to to their specific needs. Examples include training in the the next hierarchical level. It does not matter in this confields of electrification and digitalization. text whether associates have obtained their experience at Bosch or at another employer. Other preconditions are The second pillar of the Learning Company is a modern the successful completion of training under the talent learning architecture with a variety of learning formats so development plan and the corresponding personal and that individual associates or complete teams can quickly technical aptitude. and flexibly take up training opportunities that are specifically tailored to their needs. The “family time” module is one special means of striking a work-life balance at Bosch. To avoid being placed at a As the third pillar, we aim to establish a culture of learning disadvantage in their career planning, non-tariff associthroughout the company. Indeed, the continuous developates who are facing particularly high demands due to proment of knowledge is to become an integral part of our fessional and family responsibilities can use this module work culture and routine. In this vein, an internal platform once to replace another career module. It is not relevant in on which associates can publish their own instructive this context whether the associate has a full-time or partvideos has been running since the beginning of 2019. time position. The decision to replace a career module with family time is made by the supporting HR department and the respective line manager together with the associate. Support program for specialists As part of our support program for specialists, we train our associates without university qualifications for technical and commercial jobs in our company. The aim is to empower participants to assume some of the tasks of engineers, business graduates, or IT specialists in their current unit or factory. The program increases the appeal of 78 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook the vocational training courses for specialists and makes Germany. About one-quarter (23 percent) of our apprena contribution toward covering the company’s need for tices and trainees are women; in technology disciplines, engineers and other university graduates. they make up 16 percent. With offers like the Germanywide Girl’s Day, we – like many other industrial companies Eligible for the program are specialists with high technical – want to spark the interest of girls in STEM careers qualifications and an interest in advancing their careers. (science, technology, engineering, mathematics). Participation is premised on a willingness to attend some of the training measures outside of official working hours. For years, Bosch has been training more candidates than Participants are generally preselected in the talent and needed, offering in Germany alone roughly 1,400 apprenassociate review. ticeships and traineeships every year, with about 300 of those under programs with universities of cooperative education. The 20,000 applications on average for these Vocational training training positions are testament to just how appealing training at Bosch is for career starters. To about 20 percent of a year’s trainee intake, we offer the opportunity For over 100 years, Bosch has been using apprenticeto take part in our international trainee exchange so that ships and traineeships as a means of covering its needs trainees can obtain international experience, improve for qualified young talent, while also assuming its cortheir ability to work in a team, take on responsibility, and porate social responsibility. Back in 1913, Robert Bosch become independent early on. Once their training is comfounded the first apprentices’ workshop. Since then, more pleted, we usually offer suitable young talent a permanent than 100,000 young professionals worldwide have been job. In recent years, the hiring rate was around 90 percent. trained at Bosch’s facilities. As a globally operating supplier of technology, Bosch Bosch’s vocational training measures are offered at about is also transferring the concept of dual education and 50 sites and 100 branches in over 30 countries. Young taltraining in cooperation with universities to Asia and Latin ent have a choice of over 30 career profiles. At present, America. In cooperation with the Chamber of Industry and more than 7,000 Bosch apprentices and trainees are preCommerce (IHK) and the German chambers of commerce paring for their future careers, and 4,500 of those are in 35 Training and study at Bosch Global overview Europe: some 5,500 trainees in 20 countries Americas: some 500 trainees in 4 countries Asia-Pacific, Africa: some 1,000 trainees in 7 countries Dual education programs similar to German concept in China, India, Vietnam Brazil, Turkey Training locations 79 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | It’s people that matter | Attractive employer | Occupational health and safety abroad, we are helping establish dual training programs same time, Bosch has created 75 new apprenticeship based on the German system in a number of countries, positions for young Italian and Spanish talent – 50 of among them China, India, Vietnam, Brazil, and Turkey. which are in Germany, 15 in Spain, and 10 in Italy. The trainees receive a variety of support, including language For instance, Bosch Vietnam Co., Ltd. in cooperation with courses, company mentors, and assistance from social the Delegate of German Industry and Commerce in Vietcounseling professionals. nam (AHK Vietnam) and the vocational education center LILAMA2 International Technology College (Dong Nai) has been offering a three-and-a-half-year course to qualify as an industrial mechanic since 2013 – and has recently Knowledge factory introduced another course as mechatronics engineer. initiative Several hundred Bosch associates around Germany took Dual education and part in roughly 300 education cooperation arrangements with preschools, schools, and start-ups as part of the PreMaster programs association Wissensfabrik – Unternehmen für Deutschland e. V. (Knowledge Factory – Companies for Germany). Back in 1972, Bosch together with other companies Bosch was one of the network’s founding members in founded the model of the universities of cooperative edu2005. Since then about 140 companies and foundations cation in the state of Baden-Württemberg (today Badenaffiliated to corporations have joined the network. The Württemberg Cooperative State University), making it one aim of the nationwide “get involved” initiative is to spark of the pioneers of the dual university program in Germany. the interest of young people in technology and business Today, it offers about 20 different programs in commerand thereby strengthen Germany’s future prospects. The cial, technical, and IT fields. focus is on STEM subjects as well as business thinking and action. The PreMaster program allows BA graduates of technical or business programs to obtain practical experience while Many associates and trainees support the activities of the they pursue an MA course. In this way, we want to idenknowledge factory. Bosch managers help out, including tify suitable students early on and get them interested in by providing coaching for start-ups. In addition, Bosch is Bosch, advancing the technical and personal development represented on the steering committee, on the executive of participants in order to attract qualified specialists to board, and on various task groups of the initiative. the company. The PreMaster program comprises a phase at the company and an MA phase. Participants are assigned to a spe“All together” for refugees cialist anchor department that individually structures the content of the phase served at the company and – togethAs part of the integration initiative of the German econoer with a personal mentor – supports participants during my, Bosch prepares young refugees for living and working the complete duration of the program. in Germany and supports them in their new environment. Since 2016, we have provided roughly 1,000 refugees at about 30 company sites with career-orientation and trainSouthern Europe ing measures assigned as needed in cooperation with local authorities and programs. The focus here is on eduapprenticeship initiative cation, language acquisition, and work experience. Bosch generally assumes responsibility for the work experience element. These offers are supplemented by local activities After the great response to the “Prepare for the Future” and voluntary work by Bosch associates in many different project, with which Bosch has reached roughly 260,000 forms – but again in line with the specific local needs. students at about 1,300 schools and universities in Italy since 2015, Bosch duplicated the project in Spain in 2018. As part of the program, students obtain initial insights into the working world and possible career profiles. At the 80 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Remuneration Social benefits for associates Bosch sees itself as a hands-on social partner that actively helps shape agreements and set parameters. This is esCompany pension benefits are paid worldwide and they pecially the case when it comes to fair remuneration and have to be coordinated with headquarters on account of attractive framework conditions for associates. their high potential cost impact at group level. In addition, associates receive other benefits such as under compaThe principles underlying the remuneration system at ny healthcare schemes or as a means of improving their Bosch are governed by a central directive that is applicawork-life balance to the greatest extent possible (also see ble worldwide. The dual objective is to ensure an attracthe “Associates | Occupational health and safety” section). tive remuneration level in line with market conditions for all associates while structuring expenses and costs in a way that optimally supports the Bosch Group’s competitive position. A number of contributing factors are taken Collectively bargained into account in this regard: legal, collective bargaining, and internal company rules are reflected, just as much as innovation agreement general labor market conditions, the competitive situation of the respective operating unit, strategic aspects, or The IoT is driving the increasing convergence of informaforeseeable market developments. tion technology and production. That has a direct impact on the nature of collaboration. More and more, the emFor associates without management responsibility, there phasis is turning to creative work in mixed teams with is no binding remuneration system applicable worldwide greater responsibility of each individual so that associates at Bosch due to the very different premises and requireneed a great deal of latitude. In response to these condiments prevailing in individual operating units, regions, tions and in order to support the company’s transforcountries, and company sites. Owing to the growing volamation, Bosch entered into a new collective bargaining tility of markets, it is necessary to ensure here in particuagreement with the trade union IG Metall Baden-Würtlar that it is always possible to adjust the remuneration temberg that is applicable starting 2019 for the roughly system at short notice (reversibility). 300 associates of the Connected Mobility Solutions division. Referred to as the collectively bargained innovation Worldwide standards apply to the management remuagreement, this structure transfers to associates a high neration at Bosch. Individual bonuses were discontinued degree of responsibility and autonomy, for instance, by in 2016 and replaced with a collective profit participation allowing them to choose when they work, giving them model from which associates with collectively bargained a personal training budget they can appropriate themcontracts in Germany also benefit. This model recognizes selves, as well as numerous models for paid leave and the the increasing shift in emphasis from individual perforoption of converting remuneration into additional vacation mance to team success. Talks to enlarge the group of days. At the same time, there is a strong emphasis on perparticipants are currently being held in the regions. formance that is anchored in fair and transparent remuneration based on the collectively bargained salary. In 2019, we are evaluating the experience with the new rules. If the collectively bargained innovation agreement proves successful, the next step will be to review together with IG Metall whether it can also be applied to other innovative business fields at Bosch. 81 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | It’s people that matter | Attractive employer | Occupational health and safety Work-life balance the Bosch Group worldwide. In the interim, they have been adopted in many countries or adapted to countryspecific requirements. In this context, various working Aside from remuneration and social benefits, another time models were also introduced (especially mobile determinant of the company’s appeal as an employer is working and part-time models), for example, in the United increasingly work-life balance. Bosch wants to enable States, Brazil, China, India, the United Kingdom, Austraits associates to strike a balance between their personal lia, Mexico, several European countries, and the ASEAN career goals, lifestyle, and private objectives. To that end, countries. we are working on increasing the flexibility of when and where associates work, not least by taking advantage of the opportunities afforded by information and communication technology. A corresponding determinant of sucWorking time models and cess for a good work-life-balance policy is the continuous evolution of our work culture. Among other factors, this other agreements create development is supported by the “Guidelines for a flexible room for individuals and family-friendly working culture,” which had already been introduced in 2012. Commitment to these guideWith numerous working time models, we want to emlines is voluntary. They provide executives and associates power associates to structure their working time as indiat Bosch with guidance for creating a culture in which it is vidually as possible while optimally catering for business possible to successfully combine a career with private life. requirements. For example, more than 100 different working time models are used across all hierarchy levels of the The guidelines are based on the Bosch values and the Bosch Group, including part-time work, telecommuting, Charter for Family-friendly Working Hours drawn up by and job sharing. The models are structured individually the German Federal Ministry of Family Affairs that Bosch by associates in consultation with their line managers. signed in 2011. Directly after their announcement in GerWith its rules on mobile working, Bosch sees itself as a many, the guidelines began to be rolled out throughout pioneer. Back in early 2014, Bosch already introduced in a Bosch guidelines for a flexible and family-friendly working culture 1. Individual solutions: A flexible choice of working time and place benefits family and professional needs. We therefore seek individual solutions together from which both sides can benefit. 2. Mobile working: Many tasks do not necessarily have to be performed in the workplace. To help reconcile family responsibilities and work, we therefore support mobile working to the greatest extent possible. 3. Faster return to work: In order to ease a speedy return to work after a family-related period of leave, we also allow part-time working models – and if desired also with a decreased number of hours – to the greatest extent possible considering the job in question. 4. Results orientation: We want to evolve our leadership culture toward the realization that it is not the physical presence of associates that is important but rather their commitment and achievements. That we respect our associates’ vacation and breaks goes without saying. 5. Part-time leadership: We actively support part-time leadership so that our executives can also fulfill their family responsibilities. 6. Consideration: There are always phases in which people experience particularly challenging family situations. Our goal is to show consideration in this respect and provide the best possible support. 7. Binding appointments: Binding appointments are essential to achieve a work-life balance; it is therefore our goal to hold face-to-face appointments and meetings within the guaranteed childcare or nursing care times to the greatest extent possible. 8. Appreciation between colleagues: We value the dedication of associates who support colleagues with intense family commitments (e.g. those who care for family members). 82 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook combined works agreement the right of associates to moFor instance, in the wider Stuttgart area, the aim is to bile working to the extent that it was compatible with their reduce the volume of individual traffic by using shuttle tasks. In 2018, these rules also found their way into the buses. After over 8,000 associates took advantage of the collectively bargained regional agreement for the metal offer to lease a bicycle in the first year, the bike-leasing industry and are disseminated internationally as a fundascheme will be continued. And the Bosch vehicle pool mental principle. now includes electric vehicles. At the larger company sites, we are planning to provide associates with co-workAside from various working time models, other agreeing spaces so they can always choose the work location ments offer associates freedom to balance professional that is closest to them. We have completed an extensive and private commitments in the best possible way. Exonline survey of daily mobility that allows us to underamples of such agreements include the rules on parental stand the mobility patterns and needs of associates in leave – but also the care of family members, or offers of order to develop and establish adequate offerings. sabbaticals, special leave, and paid leave in special circumstances. Especially with families in mind, Bosch offers a broad Employee rights spectrum of measures in order to arrange care services in emergencies, for instance. To this end, various company The Bosch Group has always maintained open and sites also cooperate with service providers in order to help constructive dialogue with employee representatives. find individual childcare or tutoring services, take care of The objective is to engage in productive and construcpets, or provide help around the house and garden. tive cooperation in order to make decision in consensus with employee representatives to the greatest extent posAssociates themselves are also active in this regard. For sible – and that for a good reason. We are convinced that example, some founded the “Elder Care” work group, we can only implement the change processes needed to which has a platform on the “family@bosch” forum for assecure and enhance our competitiveness in cooperation sociates dedicated to the exchange of information on and with employee representatives. In this way, associates experience with taking care of family members and supand the company equally share the responsibility for the porting affected colleagues with advice and assistance. future of Bosch. A central directive applicable worldwide defines the Company mobility framework for cooperation with employee representatives as well as the corresponding agreements. This is based on management the “Basic principles of social responsibility,” which have been in effect since 2004 already and govern relations between entities of the Bosch Group and employee repThe commute to work is another important factor in the resentatives. For instance, they prescribe that associates context of work-life balance – and it also impacts our comcan form independent trade unions as far as the company pany’s carbon footprint. That is why, in 2018, we launched is concerned and join them of their own free will. In addia new project for a multimodal mobility concept compristion, nobody in the company receives preferential treating a number of components. ment or is disadvantaged on account of their membership in a trade union or employee representation. At the same time, the Bosch Group respects the right of associates to 83 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | It’s people that matter | Attractive employer | Occupational health and safety choose of their own free will not to elect or form employee employee representatives and the relevant organizations. representations. Further, for the forwarding of informaIn this process, we relentlessly strive to improve condition to employee representatives as well as talks, consultions in the respective countries. If any problems arise tations, or negotiations, the central directive sets out locally with implementing our standards, the HR corpothat the company has to assign a negotiation partner who rate sector deals with the issue and works toward finding has coresponsibility for trust-based cooperation with a solution that achieves the greatest possible consensus employee representatives. and is consistent with our principles. Constructive cooperation Above-average length with works councils and of service trade unions Bosch associates typically remain loyal to their company As is typically the case for a German industrial company, for a very long time. We have set ourselves the objective practically all our company sites in Germany have works of keeping labor turnover below the average value for councils. Only a few small units are the exception to the each respective region. In times of change, this ambition rule. Collectively bargained agreements are in effect for poses a challenge as we endeavor to win new associates practically all units at Bosch in Germany, covering some for Bosch and thereby generate new impetus for the com120,000 associates. A large number of combined works pany. Our apprenticeship management, with which we agreements additionally govern cohesion and cooperation attract more than 1,400 apprentices in Germany year after in the company. Outside Germany, associates are typiyear, helps Bosch master this challenge. cally represented by trade unions. In this respect, Bosch accompanies supraregional dialogue between employee representatives across Europe and worldwide. Common regulation with the International Trade Union Confederation Based on the core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO), Bosch had already entered into agreements with the International Trade Union Confederation as early as 2004 – making the company once more a pioneer with regard to employee rights. We rigorously pursue the implementation of agreements in our regions. In this ambit, we face challenges time and again on account of our highly heterogeneous organization and broad footprint. Particularly the colleagues responsible in the regions locally maintain dialogue with 84 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Subcontracted labor, Redundancies remain temporary employment, the exception and service agreements Bosch associates rarely terminate their employment relationship; the number of associates who hand in their Bosch only uses subcontracted labor and other temporary notice is also very low compared with the industry as employment solutions to cover requirement peaks for lima whole. However, there are large regional differences. ited periods such as production starts or to help shoulWhile associates in India and China generally switch emder the workload from special contracts. Accordingly, the ployers more frequently, associates in Germany remain company has a low share of subcontracted labor, with loyal to their employer for a very long time. Owing to the fewer than one percent of associates working for Bosch low number of associates handing in their notice, Bosch under such arrangements. It goes without saying that we does not record this metric or the turnover rate in detail. give due regard to subcontractors’ compliance with legal frameworks and that collectively bargained agreements As a responsible employer, Bosch goes to great lengths are respected. to avoid redundancies. Furthermore, depending on the number of jobs lost, the board of management has to be Over ten percent of our workforce have temporary eminvolved in the corresponding decisions of the operating ployment contracts, with the primary focus again on the units. Redundancies are the exception at Bosch. flexibility of personnel deployment. At the same time, the temporary associates often benefit from their assignment When job losses are inevitable, Bosch generally pursues at Bosch, as it allows them to improve their skills and, in a socially acceptable approach and uses instruments turn, their prospects on the labor market. Bosch draws on such as severance payments, early retirement, or phased other employment forms whenever it does not have the retirement schemes. As a rule, employee representatives expertise for specific topics in-house or when only a limare involved at a very early stage in the coordination and ited number of workdays are needed. Examples include mediation process in connection with restructuring and service agreements with consulting firms or conventional divestment measures. freelancers, such as IT experts, who are generally not interested in a permanent position. At present, the transformation of mobility poses a series of challenges for Bosch that impact employment in this field. Here, too, the goal is to shoulder the structural change in a socially acceptable manner on the basis of 36 workable agreements with employee representatives. Terms of employment Bosch Group 2018 Diversity and Temporary employment 13 % opportunities Permanent employment 87 % Bosch values the diversity of ways of thinking, experience, and lifestyles of its associates. We are convinced that mixed teams often produce better results and that appreciation of individuality is beneficial for the workIndirect employment 4% ing atmosphere. That is why diversity is a fixed element Direct employment of our corporate strategy and firmly anchored in our mis96 % sion statement “We are Bosch.” Our Code of Business Conduct also states that Bosch respects and protects the 85 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | It’s people that matter | Attractive employer | Occupational health and safety personal dignity of each individual, tolerates neither dispatterns of thinking and conduct. Unconscious bias was crimination nor harassment of associates, and promotes also the focus of the fifth Bosch Diversity Day held on diversity. In this way, Bosch ensures that all associates – April 26, 2018, and in which more than 200 company sites irrespective of gender, age, or background – feel valued worldwide took part. around the globe and can freely devote their individual strengths, experience, and potential to the company. Diversity initiative The HR corporate sector is responsible for managing diversity at Bosch – and thus for equal opportunities in the company. It also manages the Bosch Diversity initiative. Launched in 2011, the initiative is intended to create awareness for diversity at Bosch and to bring it to life by 37 highlighting positive examples. It pursues an integrative Proportion of women approach in this context: “Diversity is our advantage” – Bosch Group 2016–2018, in % this message is communicated worldwide through a variety of channels. It illustrates the benefits for Bosch and 27 26.2 26.9 Bosch Group every individual and encourages participation. In this way, we want to get as many associates as possible involved and strategically anchor diversity in the company. 16.1 16.6 15.4 Management Bosch is also exploring unusual avenues in this context and, for example, is paying greater attention in its diversity management to unconscious bias, which is one of the causes of stereotyping. Since 2015, Bosch has already held roughly 180 workshops with over 4,000 multipliers at 37 company sites in Germany. Added to this are numerous 0 0 0 Board of workshops in over 20 countries worldwide, at which asmanagement 2016 2017 2018 sociates were also made aware of their own unconscious Diversity has many advantages } Excellence and innovation power: It is most often mixed teams that come up with new ideas and approaches. } Customer focus: Diverse teams have a better understanding of different customers and markets. } Effective collaboration: An open attitude and mutual understanding enhance the ability of teams to perform. } Motivation: Appreciation of differences and similarities creates a positive and motivating work atmosphere. } Change is an opportunity: Diverse teams are more flexible in their approach to finding solutions and more active in shaping change. } Employer attractiveness: An open and appreciative corporate culture as well as flexible working (time) models increase Bosch’s appeal as an employer. } Business success: Diversity boosts profits, market share, and the likelihood of penetrating new markets. 86 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Dimensions of diversity Through Bosch Management Support (BMS), a subsidiary founded in 1999, Bosch also temporarily assigns project and advisory tasks to former associates. Our former speDiversity has many facets. In order to do justice to the cialists and executives, some of whom have more than different dimensions of the topic, we have established a 40 years of Bosch experience, are highly valued, and they wide variety of measures. Here is a brief overview: tend to be called on especially whenever professional advice is needed at short notice. Gender: Mixed gender teams are more successful because they capture the potential inherent in having differTraining on demographic change and cross-generational ent vantage points and solution strategies. That is why cooperation rounds out our efforts. Just one example of we encourage mixed teams at all levels and draw from our many: together with the Swiss association “Generationen­ entire pool of talent. Against this backdrop, equal pay is tandem” (generation tandem), Bosch helps younger and a decisive principle in our company. At Bosch, associates older generations quite literally interact more with each get equal pay for equal work. In particular, Bosch wants to other as they undertake an array of tasks. increase even further the proportion of women in its total workforce from the current level of 27.0 percent. In this Internationality: People from different cultures work tocontext, the aim is also to further increase in particular the gether for Bosch at more than 400 company sites in over share of women in leadership positions, which is currently 150 countries. We draw on this diversity so that we can at 16.6 percent. Mentoring and seminar programs such as successfully collaborate with our international customers, the “Business Women’s Program” for women in specialpartners, and suppliers. ist, project, and leadership positions are intended to make a contribution to this end. Numerous internal networks To that end, we have organized in particular international support women additionally in their professional careers, networks of associates such as afric@bosch, chinese@ among them the women’s network women@bosch, the bosch, “For Bosch abroad,” and the Bosch Turkish Forum. network for women engineers heratec, or the forum With over 2,200 international assignments each year, we “Frauen in Technik” (women in technology). Bosch is also also encourage international exchange within our worka founding member of the “Chefsache” (top management force. Added to this, there are numerous seminars on the priority) initiative. Under the patronage of the German subject of internationality, global collaboration, and the Chancellor, this network of high-profile organizations and various cultures. This way, as a company we do not only companies is dedicated to promoting a balanced mix bewant to be active worldwide, we also want to act inter­ tween women and men in management positions. Based nationally in a very real sense. on legal requirements in Germany, the share of women on the supervisory board and the board of management is Culture: We promote a working culture in which our assubject to targets that are to be reached by December sociates can be authentic. Diversity can be achieved when 31, 2021. For further details, please refer to the annual we are also attractive for people who think out of the box report 2018, page 24 et seq. and come to us from nonconventional career paths. That is why we need the support of a courageous and open Generations: At Bosch, all generations work together, leadership culture. Examples of these efforts include from generation Y to the baby boomers. In this context, activities such as project MORE (Mindset ORganization we take account of the various needs and adjust our Executives), with which we make flexible and mobile leadership instruments accordingly. In order to live up to working models tangible for our managers and encourage this aspiration, Bosch places an emphasis on vocational them to take advantage of them. We are also taking new training that is aligned to the different phases of life of approaches to recruitment. Take for instance the new associates, among other initiatives. online tool JobConnector, which connects associates interested in job sharing. 87 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | It’s people that matter | Attractive employer | Occupational health and safety People with disabilities: We increase our innovation Commitment is recognized power by focusing on the unique abilities of our associates and not on their limitations. That is why we create an inclusive working environment that takes into consideration and appreciates everybody’s special needs Our commitment to diversity and equal opportunities and skills. Indeed, all associates add to our diversity and is also resonating with people outside the company contribute their own personal strengths. Representatives who recognize our efforts. In Germany, for example, the for disabled persons at the company sites give the interFeuerbach, Eisenach, Salzgitter, and Blaichach sites have ests of associates with disabilities a voice at Bosch. In been awarded the TOTAL E_QUALITY accolade for equal cooperation with workshops for people with disabilities, opportunities with the add-on “Diversity.” The award recwe also offer additional work participation opportunities. ognizes organizations from the private sector, academia, With this in mind, Bosch is also active in Germany in the and public administration as well as associations for their association “Bundesarbeitsgemeinschaft Werkstätten forward-looking, successful, and sustainable HR policy. It für behinderte Menschen e. V.” (National Working Group is presented by the TOTAL E_QUALITY initiative, which Workshops for Disabled People). advocates equal opportunities between women and men as well as diversity in the workplace. LGBT: At Bosch, all associates are valued – irrespective of their sexual orientation or gender identity. We help associAt our Campinas site in Brazil, associates are actively inates network and encourage dialogue and mutual undervolved in inclusiveness work. In the project “Ambassadors standing between people of different sexual orientations of Inclusion,” more than 300 specifically trained ambasand identities. At Bosch, everybody should be given the sadors work to address the needs of associates with disopportunity to make an authentic contribution. abilities. They help increase visibility in the daily work of the roughly 200 colleagues with disabilities, they drive We demonstrate this stance in a wide variety of activities. projects to improve infrastructure designed to be accesFor instance, Bosch supports the foundation PrOut@ sible for people with disabilities, and they motivate the Work, which advocates equal opportunities in the workworkforce to actively remove mental barriers and attend place. And corresponding networks are also encouraged sign language courses, for example. In 2018, the concept within the company, such as the global network for LGBT received the global recognition award “Good Practices of associates RBg (Robert Bosch gay). RBg helps create an Employability for Workers with Disability” of the United open corporate culture – irrespective of the sexual orienNations in New York. tation or gender identity of associates. RBg’s commitment extends beyond the company and out into the community. The German foundation “PrOut@Work” recognized the RBg has been taking part in the annual Christopher Street work of Bosch’s global LGBT network “RBg” with the Big Day (CSD) event in Stuttgart since 2014, with many Bosch Impact Initiative Award 2018. The work recognized inassociates joining in. In 2017, the network launched the cluded public-facing drives such as media relations work, LGBT Ally initiative. Allies are associates from all business social media campaigns, and networking that served to sectors who are open and approachable on matters restrengthen equal opportunities in the workplace as a lated to this topic. Allies are also called on to openly societal topic. address possible incidents of bias or discrimination, to raise awareness among associates, and to help shape the transition to an open working culture. 88 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 5.2 Occupational health and safety Management approach the risk of accidents. Besides avoiding work accidents, other core topics for protecting people and the environIt’s people that matter – and we want to maintain and ment include compliance with materials restrictions and encourage their long-term health. Consequently, occupareducing hazardous substances – both in our production tional health and safety are priority at Bosch and are firmly and our products. To efficiently manage materials prohianchored in our sustainability vision through the health bitions and restrictions, especially for products, we are issue. The central core process that is consistently deupgrading our central IT system MaCS. You can find furployed throughout the Bosch Group manages the related ther information about this IT system and how it is used topics. While requirements and targets are set centrally, at Bosch in the “Products” section of this report. We are the persons in charge of EHS in the regions and at compaalso further developing our established IT system to supny sites are responsible for compliance with requirements port the safe management of hazardous substances in and achieving targets. An array of documents define production. the internal framework for action, first and foremost the guideline “Occupational safety, fire safety, environmental protection and emergency control” and the corresponding principles. In addition, the central directives on organiClear standards and zation and policy deployment address the topics of occupational health and safety. We report on the degree of high-performance goal achievement in our six-monthly report to the board of management systems management or – in particularly serious incidents – in ad hoc reports (also see the “Company | Sustainability Standards in emergency control as well as occupational strategy and organization” section). and fire safety have been in place at all manufacturing and development sites for many years. We take a highly systematic approach to occupational health and safety, Occupational safety and we use high-performance management systems. As early as 2007, Bosch introduced an occupational health and safety management system based on the globally recLasting operational excellence is only possible in a safe ognized standard OHSAS 18001 and has since developed working environment. Occupational safety and accident it into an integrated EHS management system. We have prevention measures improve associates’ performance since transitioned to the new ISO standard 45001, which and motivation and ultimately help Bosch stay compe­ replaces the OHSAS standard, combines for the first time titive. occupational health and safety management, and focuses not only on risks but also on the corresponding opportuBosch wants to keep people and the environment from nities. harm and pursues a clear vision in this regard: by 2020, we want to reduce the accident rate within the Bosch With our activities, we want to avoid, to the greatest exGroup to 1.7 accidents per one million working hours. tent possible, any work accidents and injuries as well as As part of a project in 2019, targets and potential perforincidents that cause damage while identifying risks and mance indicators are being defined for the period after introducing effective countermeasures. We have defined 2020. A special focus of this work is on priority topics a specific target in this ambit as well: all manufacturing such as handling of hazardous substances and mitigating and development sites with more than 250 associates are to introduce occupational health and safety management 89 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | It’s people that matter | Attractive employer | Occupational health and safety systems and have them certified externally within the Best-in-class measures next two years. We are well on the way to achieving that. As of the end of 2018, 244 of the 296 manufacturing and In order to roll out and implement especially effective and development sites had already implemented occupational exemplary measures quickly in the company, we started health and safety management systems, almost 60 pera project in 2013 at all manufacturing and development cent of which had been certified. sites aimed at identifying all such best-in-class measures. In this context, sites with an accident rate of zero or sharp declines in accident numbers were identified, and the measures implemented there were analyzed. This led to 38 the identification of six best-in-class measures, resulting in specific improvements. Aside from rigorously analyzing Occupational health and safety management accidents and deriving risks or dangerous hot spots, the systems (OHSMS) identified measures included actions to mitigate hazards, Bosch Group 2018 for instance, caused by pollutant emissions. Not least, the 296 244 146 analysis reconfirmed once more the importance of training and the sensitization of associates with respect to occupational health and safety. Manufacturing OHSMS OHSMS and development implemented certified sites 39 Work accidents Declining accident Bosch Group 2016–2018 numbers for years 1,849 1,649 1,567 Our occupational health and safety activities are having Work accidents an impact. In the past five years alone, the number of ac2.7 cidents per one million hours worked has decreased from 2.3 2.2 6.9 to 2.2. More than that, no Bosch associates lost their Work accidents [per 1 million life due to a work accident in 2018. hours worked] 2016 2017 2018 90 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Deriving risks Mitigating hazards At Bosch, risks to occupational safety are identified, We take particular care to protect associates exposed to assessed, and clustered by risk priority annually on the risks as a result of their work with hazardous substances basis of accidents reported in the Incident Management or pollutant emissions. For instance, the standard governSystem (IMS) as well as findings from internal ISO audits ing the assessment of hazards requires a review of the use or the audits of the internal audit department. The analyof hazardous substances in a first step. We are currently sis then forms the basis for developing risk mitigation working on compiling a central registry of hazardous subprograms and determines the focus of subsequent audits. stances in order to support the process company-wide. Added to this are specific measures for assessing hazards In addition, hazard assessments are conducted at relating to tasks, workplaces, and machines, as well as company sites based on an internal standard applicable workplace-specific instructions, and the use of personal worldwide throughout the Bosch Group. The standard protective equipment. We have a series of measures dealso indicates the risk factors that are included in the signed to raise awareness among associates in order to assessment scope for various activities. In Germany, the change behavior in individual cases. In fact, this is where standard is also extended in response to national requirewe see the greatest improvement potential with respect to ments on the assessment of physical hazards. occupational safety. At present, we see improvement potential, for instance, in the coordination of third-party companies, in the changes made to machines and production facilities, and in the Safety basics – raising assessment of hazards and the implementation of corresponding measures. awareness among associates We counter risks inherent in the deployment of external service providers at Bosch sites with clearly defined reSince 2016, the safety basics initiative has been setting sponsibilities and processes. For instance, the respective clear priorities for occupational safety at Bosch. For this colleague responsible at the company site must ensure purpose, safety experts have developed six compelling that service providers performing work on-site are coorprinciples intended to help associates and supervisors dinated by a qualified Bosch associate and that they have avoid accidents in their daily work. The ambition is to been given safety instructions before commencing their embrace safety as an element of leadership culture, to work. Implementation of these requirements is checked integrate it in standard processes, and to share lessons on a sample basis. In the event of irregularities identified, learned with colleagues. Newsletters, posters, and videos the work can be discontinued and the purchasing departsupport the corresponding communication. Regular asment considers the possible implications (also see the sessments at company sites shed transparency over how “Supply chain” section). safety basics are practiced and implemented locally. More safety in the workplace with virtual reality Aside from training as part of EHS competence management, Bosch prepares associates for their work with instructions and training. Occupational health and safety are priority topics in this context. That is because, in the majority of cases, the causes of accidents at Bosch can be traced back to human error. 91 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | It’s people that matter | Attractive employer | Occupational health and safety In 2017, Bosch therefore decided to take a different Principles of occu­pational health approach to training its associates. At its site in Abstatt, Germany, the Chassis Systems Control division has developed augmented reality safety training in cooperation with Heilbronn University of Applied Sciences. This methmanagement od allows virtual modeling of different safety areas, such as offices or production environments. One of a total of Occupational health is anchored in the fundamental 55 critical situations has to be solved in each room. Safety principles of work at Bosch and a fixed element of the training of this kind thus combines fun, curiosity, and corporate culture. Both associates and the company have safety-conscious behavior, thereby raising awareness for a joint responsibility in this respect. Because, aside from the topic of occupational safety. Starting in May 2019, the operational parameters, factors external to the company application is to be available at all division sites. likewise affect health. Irrespective of distinctions between internal or external factors, Bosch supports the health of associates in all relevant areas. Team spirit among colEHS Award – recognizing leagues helps as does a positive leadership culture – in fact, protecting health is defined as a leadership task at safety Bosch and firmly anchored in the “We LEAD Bosch” leadership principles. The company-wide EHS Award dedicates a category specifically to occupational safety. Every year, the submitted nominations contain a series of good-practice solutions Focus topics (also see the “Company” section). In 2018, a total of 42 projects from 11 countries were submitted. The thematic and organization areas spanned the entire spectrum of safety measures, from videos and training courses to rules of conduct In view of the aging workforce, the number of absentees through to protection barriers developed at the respective due to sickness increased in the last two years from just company sites. under 29,000 to roughly 31,500. In order to counter this trend, occupational health at Bosch sets clear priorities. These are derived based on the expertise of in-house Occupational health medical staff and safety engineers. In addition, the health report of the Bosch company health insurance fund (BKK) is also factored into the assessment, along with insights Health and fitness are preconditions for associates’ ability from occupational reintegration management and the and willingness to perform and are thus contributing facglobal survey of associates as well as hazard assessment tors for Bosch’s competitiveness. Aside from a safe work results. The focus is on conditions affecting the musculoenvironment and avoiding accidents, Bosch therefore also skeletal and respiratory systems as well as mental sets great store by occupational health management. This illnesses. covers a broad spectrum of topics – from preventive medical care and the maintenance of the ability to perform The core health team at corporate headquarters defines both mentally and physically to mental health through to strategic modules for deployment at company sites as workplace design and tips on healthy nutrition. Occupaneeded. Modules range from work organization, healthy tional reintegration management as well as integration of nutrition, and mental health to physical and mental people with severe disabilities and reduced capacity to fitness, medical checkups, and healthy leisure and sports work also play a major role. At many company sites worldactivities. On-site implementation of modules is the wide, associates can draw on the services of our in-house responsibility of the health working groups, in which all medical staff, workplace designers, social counseling relevant experts and functions are represented. professionals, and fitness experts. 92 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook To this end, the internal stakeholders work closely togethOffers include free health checks for skin and bowel caner – among them the Bosch health insurance fund (BKK), cer, for instance, that all associates at the respective sites representatives of severely disabled associates, the ocare entitled to. Sports groups offer a broad spectrum of cupational safety function, social counseling, the works options for associates to improve their personal fitness. In council, and the company medical staff. This ensures that countries without full medical coverage, associates have associates get fast and competent support in all matters the option of visiting clinics located directly on-site. An exof relevance to their health. External support from specialtensive range of training offers makes it easier for associist physicians or medical laboratories is obtained as needates to take ownership of their own health. Training topics ed. One example of such cooperation with externals is the include work-life balance, metabolic disorders, or exercise OncoCure program, in which the company – in cooperaand health. tion with Robert Bosch Hospital – enables associates with cancer to get a second opinion and a genetic diagnosis. In Germany, training courses are offered on mental health based on a works agreement. In addition, the Psyga portal provides associates and executives with information and Occupational health in tests on the topic of mental health and, when needed, indicates who the best person to talk to is. Bosch was one connected manufacturing of the first companies in Germany to introduce in-house social services back in 1917. Since 2017, associates can also take advantage of this offer online and get support for Anybody seeking to help shape the digital transformaall personal and professional matters. Over 100,000 astion also has to consider the implications of connected sociates in Germany can contact a social counseling promanufacturing on the health of the workforce. That is fessional from our in-house social services department what motivated Bosch to inspect different company sites through a website at any time, and anonymously if they to see which repetitive or monotonous work could be left wish. to robots. For example, at Bosch in Homburg, collaborative robots were recently introduced to assist our associates with monotonous work and nonergonomic tasks so that they can concentrate on activities that create value. befit – systematic health In addition, we are creating personalized workplaces that address the needs of individuals with regard to the informanagement mation required, language, and ergonomic design. Under the “befit” umbrella brand, the various internal specialist disciplines in Germany and all offers and meaBroad spectrum sures related to health are combined in an integrated and people-oriented health management system. Aside from of measures medical checkups, ergonomic workplace inspections, or sports and nutrition offers, associates can also access a service that helps arrange nursing care, for example, Occupational health is as differentiated as our associates as well as seminars for managing mental and physical are diverse – and, at Bosch, it spans a broad array of meastress. A virtual healthcare center is currently being set up sures. The options available locally depend on the size of through which associates can easily obtain information the respective facilities and the needs in the given region. regarding the complete range of services available. Our company sites also frequently cooperate with each other so that they can offer associates the most appealing The quality of the befit health management is measured options possible. based on a capability maturity model that was developed in cooperation with the Bosch health insurance fund. With this management tool, local health working groups can 93 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | It’s people that matter | Attractive employer | Occupational health and safety assess their befit health management system and use this Time and again, the impact of our activities is recognized as a basis for continually developing their local requirewith awards. In the United States, for instance, Bosch ments. In order to systematically improve the quality of received the Workplace Health Achievement – Gold Level befit, objectives are mutually agreed. If the objectives are Recognition of the American Heart Association in 2018, achieved, the Bosch insurance fund pays out a bonus, the which recognizes the quality and effectiveness of occupaamount of which is governed by a master agreement betional health management. In Spain, three operating units tween the insurance fund and Bosch. In 2018, an amount received the “Healthy Company” award of the National of roughly 680,000 euros was thus channeled into occupaInstitute for Safety and Health in the Workplace (INSSBT). tional health at the company’s sites in Germany (previous year: roughly 670,000 euros). Similar initiatives are also in place in other countries. A global commitment to health For a company active worldwide like Bosch, occupational health has many, very different facets. From one country to the next, the challenges differ, as do the tasks that need to be solved. That is why this is another area in which there are no uniform objectives applicable around the globe – instead, we have very extensive activities, especially in countries such as Brazil, China, India, and Romania, where the healthcare coverage available varies substantially. In China, Bosch offers an annual healthcare check at a local hospital through the Health Screen program. In addition, Bosch offers a platform that provides associates information on relevant medical examinations depending on age, gender, or health condition. More than that, the platform also explains which forms of cancer are most frequent in China and how associates can assess their individual risk. The impact of occupational health measures at Bosch is illustrated by India, to take one example. In 2017, a total of 3,941 people there took advantage of our offers, and 1,600 of them were vaccinated. At the same time, the cost of inpatient treatment and sick leave also decreased significantly. Awareness of healthcare benefits among individuals is growing so that we can expect the situation to improve even further in the coming years. 94 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Society Social responsibility has a long tradition at Bosch. We see ourselves as part of the society in which we operate as a business. And we play an active role: with our skills, our expertise, and our financial resources, we want to steadily improve people’s quality of life. Because we need a cohesive social environment if we are going to achieve lasting success as a company. That is why our activities are always focused on the common good and equal opportunities. In this context, we consciously promote education as one of our priorities, in order to support the advancement of society for future generations as well. 95 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society 153.04 million euros total funding by Robert Bosch Stiftung 24.5 million euros in Bosch donations for charitable causes Konzernlagebericht 5 regional institutions 96 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook 6.0 Active at three levels – our social initiatives Improving people’s quality of life – that is the aim of Cents for help Bosch’s ethos of creating solutions that are “Invented for life” and its extensive commitment to the development of In order to make a joint, sustainable contribution society. Bosch sees itself as an active member of society to society, the board of management of Robert even the business activities that are at its core. We want Bosch GmbH and the employee representatives to play our part – and are taking different avenues to that of the Bosch Group founded the “Cents for help” end. In our activities, we clearly distinguish between initiative in Germany in 2017. The name says it donations, political lobbying, and sponsorship. Our all: associates can voluntarily donate the cent donation work focuses on the common good, and we do amounts from their monthly take-home pay. not expect anything from the recipients in return. Clear Bosch then rounds up the amount collected in guidelines ensure compliance with the law. this way by the end of the year – and the cents become tangible aid. In 2018, roughly 70 percent In our political lobbying work by contrast, we pursue speof Bosch associates in Germany took part in the cific objectives and we seek to actively contribute with our initiative. Bosch thus collected an amount of arguments to the political decision-making process. Our 500,000 euros, which it then rounded up to one guiding principle in this context is to provide fact-based million euros. Associates of the Bosch Group in and technology-oriented policy advice with a clear objecGermany can apply for funds for a public-benefit tive: making technology advancements work for people. project that they consider a good cause. To this end, we want to engage in dialogue with decision makers in order to develop society without being led by A committee made up half-and-half of employee ideologies or political interests. representatives (of the combined works council and the combined executives committee) and Finally, sponsorship at Bosch mainly serves advertising company representatives (associates of the objectives such as strengthening our brand or the level departments HR policy and donations) decide of awareness among specific target groups, among them how the donations should be used. Associates prospective customers or associates. and the company thus jointly breathe life into the Bosch Group’s basic principles of social responsibility – with a contribution from the heart. 97 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Active at three levels – our social initiatives | Donations – a global commitment | Political lobbying – technology orientation | Sponsorship – based on clear rules 6.1 Donations – a global commitment Donation volume of the donation, the reasons for the donation, and the date on Bosch Group which confirmation of receipt was received. Donation purposes are likewise clearly outlined by the guideline. Bosch thus makes donations for education and for supporting Bosch’s social commitment in the form of donations is young professionals, as we see good education as the key carried out by the respective companies and, in some element for providing for the future and a core concern countries, through dedicated institutions. These entities for any company. As a technology group, we also support work together with a variety of partners in the implemenuniversities and research institutions in fields of relevance tation of projects locally. Aside from Bosch’s financial for our company. In this way, we want to play our part commitment, many of our associates also contribute to in advancing progress in the sciences and support the society in an array of projects – perfectly in step with our education of qualified future talent. corporate culture and our values. In the regions surrounding its company sites, Bosch makes donations to schools and childcare centers as well Clear rules for the contrias social and cultural institutions. We support nature conservation and environmental protection as well as popular bution of operating units sport and other nonprofit organizations to which our associates volunteer their time. More than that, we also make donations in response to natural disasters, particularly in In the reporting year, the Bosch Group donated 24.5 milthe vicinity of Bosch sites. lion euros (previous year: 24.6 million euros) for charitable causes. In this context, individual operating units acted on their sense of corporate social responsibility and made donations in cash and in kind to education, science, culVolunteering ture, and social initiatives. The members of the board of management of Robert Bosch GmbH or the managers of Bosch encourages the social commitment of its associthe operating units decide how the funds raised should be ates, as they work for social cohesion – in the spirit of our spent. A corresponding corporate guideline sets outs prinvalues. Moreover, in the course of a wide array of activiciples, examination criteria, and responsibilities for the ties, they demonstrate team spirit and develop creative granting of donations. It also prescribes strict adherence solutions – skills that directly enhance our company’s to the principle of disinterested action in granting donainnovation power. That is why, for instance, part of the tions. Grants to political parties are likewise governed program for prospective executives at Bosch in Germany by the guideline, although they are clearly differentiated involves supporting a local social organization in the from donations. A clear distinction is also made between implementation of a current project. sponsorship and donations. All donation transactions must be documented in writing and the documentation archived. The persons responsible keep an annual ledger of donations that is accessible for audit purposes. At a minimum, this ledger must document the recipient of the donation, the amount of the 98 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Bosch encourages the commitment of its associates people in a city district that is rife with drugs and poverty. in a wide variety of ways. The spectrum stretches from For this purpose, an extensive education program was temporary leave to supporting regular volunteer meetings developed together with the city’s authorities that among through to promoting joint activities. However, initiatives other subjects also offers two-year training courses are always organized locally at the respective companies, in fields such as industrial production or electrical as local commitment always delivers the greatest impact. engineering. Year after year, numerous Bosch associates take part Regional institutions in the volunteering program of Instituto Robert Bosch. In so doing, they promote the social and intellectual promote local projects development of children and young people in the context of leisure activities, through the mutual exchange of experience or – quite simply – by helping with reading, math, In five countries, Bosch’s regional companies have and studying in general. In 2018, the foundation spent established dedicated institutions tasked with distributroughly 164,000 euros in connection with the project. In ing donations. These entities are organized as national addition, 780 associates got involved in the program and public-benefit institutions. Specifically, the institutions rendered 7,032 hours of voluntary work. Bosch supported are as follows: this volunteering effort by granting partial leave to four associates to work on the project organization. 40 Spending on social initiatives Regional activities, in millions of euros Primavera Hilfe für Kinder in Not e.V. Total project grants 9.8 Founded in 1990 by ten Bosch associates, the Fundación Primavera association’s aim is to help children Bosch India Robert Bosch México from poor areas in developing and emerging counFoundation (Bengaluru, India) (Mexico City, tries and offer them better prospects. Although Mexico) the number of members has since increased Instituto Robert Bosch ComBosch (Campinas, munity Fund substantially, the association still largely consists Brazil) (Farmington of former and active Bosch associates. At presHills, USA) Bosch China ent, the association supports over 40 projects Charity Center (Shanghai, China) and roughly 15,000 children in 15 countries. The projects are supported by volunteer associates of the local Bosch sites or their family members. This approach ensures that the aid goes where } Instituto Robert Bosch it’s needed. Bosch supports Primavera both with First formed as an association back in 1971, Instituto donations and with administration work. As a Robert Bosch has been promoting in particular education result, every euro donated by associates, friends, and training projects in the locations of Bosch’s Brazilian and sponsors flows directly to the projects. factories since 2004. Through its work, the institute helps children and young people from socially disadvantaged However, the aid is not just limited to the chilfamilies improve their future prospects. In 2018, 0.9 mil­ dren’s medical care and basic needs. Primavera lion euros in donations were dedicated to that cause also wants to show them ways out of the poverty (previous year: 0.9 million euros). As part of the long-term cycle and supports many educational or vocaproject “Peça por Peça” in Curitiba, Brazil, for example, tional training activities that will allow them to the institute contributes toward systematically supporting lead an independent life in the long term. 99 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Active at three levels – our social initiatives | Donations – a global commitment | Political lobbying – technology orientation | Sponsorship – based on clear rules } Bosch China Charity Center With its BRIDGE initiative, the foundation trains its focus Founded in 2011, the Bosch China Charity Center coordion the growing need for well-educated new talent. The nates social work at Bosch sites in China and implements program was especially designed for young people with long-term projects. In accordance with its guiding prinlow levels of education from economically deprived ciple “Charity for A Better Life,” the center, which has an backgrounds. Launched recently in 2013, the initiative is annual budget of around three million euros, primarily puralready represented in private and public organizations sues educational programs for reducing poverty. Roughly nationwide with 250 centers – and roughly 20,000 young 145 projects have thus been promoted so far, from which people have received training in the services sector. more than 300,000 people have benefited in total. } Bosch Community Fund One of the current projects, for instance, deals with the The Bosch Community Fund (BCF) combines the nonsystematic vocational training of about 4,000 preschool profit activities of the about 90 Bosch sites in the United teachers in Gansu and Qinghai provinces, with the objecStates and has been supporting nonprofit projects with tive of improving the quality of the pre-school education of up to four million dollars per year since 2012. Its priorities more than 70,000 children in China’s rural communities. are in the promotion of education in science, technology, However, the center’s commitment extends further, even engineering, and mathematics, as well as in environto third-level education. For instance, the Bosch University mental protection. The work of the Anderson Institute of Freshman Bursary Program has been supporting stuTechnology in South Carolina is one example of the many dents in need since 2011 at 11 universities. They receive projects in which BCF is involved. As part of the Fostering financial assistance so that they can concentrate on their Innovation Through Teaching (F.I.T.T.) program, the fund academic work. At the same time, the program also seeks donates almost 43,000 dollars for the vocational trainto encourage the students to pursue social initiatives ing of teachers and the purchase of learning materials in themselves by offering training and start-up financing. order to promote science and technology education in Bosch associates serve as mentors on the program. Funds grades 9 to 12. In that way, Bosch as one of the biggest of about 1.8 million euros have thus been dedicated to the local employers makes a concrete contribution through its program in the last eight years. A total of 2,894 students foundation to help remedy the shortage of well-educated were directly supported, along with 49 social projects in young professionals. which 352 students were involved. } Fundación Robert Bosch México } Bosch India Foundation Founded in 2016, Fundación Robert Bosch México mainly Since 2008, the Bosch India Foundation has been using supports the education of disadvantaged children and its education offers to help people lead an independent young people in the vicinity of Bosch’s company sites life, whatever their background. The offering spans comin Mexico. The focus is on the natural sciences and puter-training courses for unemployed young people from languages. In 2018, 31 projects were implemented and India’s rural areas through to language and self-defense Bosch associates volunteered more than 7,000 hours of courses or bicycle repair workshops for street children. their time. The company doubled every euro donated by In cooperation with Indian organizations, the foundation associates. The projects and the volunteer work reached also helps finance operations for sick children or pays for over 42,000 children and young people. pregnant women to receive the medical care they need. In addition, the Bosch India Foundation makes a contribuAs regional nonprofit institutions, the five entities pursue tion to help secure the basic needs of local people. In one country-specific objectives and set corresponding content instance, the foundation helped create a kitchen to serve and local priorities, typically in the vicinity of our company daily lunches to 12,000 schoolchildren. And more than locations. Despite regional and cultural differences, such 7,500 families have been provided with access to clean charitable activities must be recognizable as joint actions drinking water. by Bosch. In addition, these organizations document their work to make their activities transparent and enable their evaluation. 100 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Robert Bosch Stiftung Due to its special ownership structure, Bosch’s long-term entrepreneurial success creates the foundation for a large number of social activities: of the share capital of Robert Bosch GmbH, 92 percent is held by the not-for-profit foundation Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH. The latter does not have operating activities and has transferred its voting rights to Robert Bosch Industrietreuhand KG. It finances its work from the dividend it receives as a shareholder in Robert Bosch GmbH. In 2018, Robert Bosch Stiftung spent about 153 million euros on charitable causes. Since it was established in 1964, Robert Bosch Stiftung has been carrying on the company founder’s public welfare endeavors. It is devoted to social challenges and promotes projects whose aim is to develop innovative solutions and models for our future. To this end, it is active in the areas of international relations, healthcare, education, science, and society. Robert Bosch Stiftung sees itself both as an operative foundation that pursues its objectives with programs of its own and as a sup­ portive foundation that enables others to develop and implement their projects. With more than 50 years of experience, Robert Bosch Stiftung has extensive knowledge in the fields it supports, the capacity to develop solutions, and an extensive network of partners, experts, and practitioners on the ground.For further information on Robert Bosch Stiftung and its projects, visit www.bosch-stiftung.de/en. 101 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Active at three levels – our social initiatives | Donations – a global commitment | Political lobbying – technology orientation | Sponsorship – based on clear rules 6.2 Political lobbying – technology orientation rather than ideology As a supplier of technology with global operations and a policy, international trade policy, data protection law, large number of different products, Bosch is affected by or labor and social policy. As a company with operations the large number of regulatory frameworks at national, worldwide, we are often directly affected by policy deciEuropean, and international levels. We believe it is our sions and are dependent on a constructive dialogue with responsibility to put our technology expertise to work for policymakers. Generally speaking, Bosch only enters into the benefit of society and to indicate concrete opportunibusiness operations if the underlying business is viable ties and solutions. With this in mind, Bosch helps shape also without subsidies. Having said that, government opinions at a policy level, in associations, and in various assistance – temporarily – can prove a suitable tool to help social forums. This work is driven by our ethos “Invented a new technology achieve a breakthrough, for example, or for life” and Bosch’s general stance on environmental and to implement a strategic decision in the realm of indussocial issues. trial policy to secure the viability of a business location or maintain key industries in a region. For instance, in the Bosch is in favor of standards that are both ambitious and case of our wafer fab in Dresden, EU subsidy approval as as consistent as possible. For instance, carefully considpart of the first “Important Project of Common European ered EU legislation is preferable to having a large number Interest” (IPCEI) was a key factor behind the project’s of different requirements at national level, and it can fresuccess and also helped secure Europe’s viability as a quently serve as a global benchmark. New business fields business location. in the realm of connecting things and services also create new need for regulation. In their efforts to design the corresponding framework conditions, policymakers have for years valued Bosch as a reliable partner and routinely Political activities ask the company to share its knowledge. The political activities of Bosch are split into technical In this context, our aim is to lobby for the best technical areas of competency. The political affairs and governmenand technology solutions in the fields of relevance to us. tal relations department is active in Berlin and Brussels, So instead of pursuing ideological lobbying, the question where it represents the political interests of the Bosch of technical feasibility is at the heart of our activities. Group vis-à-vis EU institutions, the German Federal We also want to do justice in this regard to the complete Government, the German Bundestag, and wider society. spectrum of requirements of our stakeholders. For Activities at EU level also include membership in the instance, Bosch takes a differentiated view on the discushigh-level working groups of the EU Commission on key sion regarding tomorrow’s mobility and pursues a broad enabling technologies and AI. Among other activities in solution corridor. That includes a new and complete view Germany, Bosch is a member of various working groups of of CO2 emissions in road traffic that considers all sources the newly established National Platform Future of Mobility of emissions from well to wheel and factors them into the (NPM) and the advisory committee of the sustainable assessment (see the “Products” section). mobility initiative Agora Verkehrswende. Our political lobbying activities aim to identify at an early stage political regulation and intervention that can affect our products, our company sites, or our business operations in general. After all, due to its highly diversified product portfolio, Bosch is affected by a large number of legislative projects, including in energy and environment 102 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Transparency as a Clear rules in dealing fundamental principle with policymakers We want to make our lobbying activities transparent. To Worldwide, Bosch upholds an extremely strict policy with this end, we strictly adhere to the various requirements regard to donations to political parties. The correspondin the respective regions. For instance, Bosch is entered ing guidelines stipulate that only the shareholders in with its Brussels office in the Transparency Register of the combination with the board of management are authoEuropean Commission and usually voluntarily publishes rized to make political gratuities. Beyond that, Bosch has responses made in the course of EU consultations. A total a central directive that is binding worldwide and governs of 10.2 full-time equivalents (FTE) at Bosch are directly gratuities in dealings with third parties. Accordingly, it is assigned to EU legislation activities, with five of them only permitted to offer, grant, or accept gratuities in strict directly in Brussels. In the reporting year, we spent about compliance with numerous prerequisites. The rules relatone million euros on our activities related to the European ing to officials and elected representatives are especially Transparency Register including personnel and lease restrictive. Here, it must be ensured that any appearance expenses. In the regions with relevant business activiof influence being exercised can be ruled out and that the ties, Bosch also employs governance coordinators (about internal rules of public authorities are adhered to. Should 25 FTEs). In the United States, we are additionally subject local law in some regions prescribe stricter or more to an obligation to publish and document political activispecific requirements, the corresponding rules must be ties. Moreover, only accredited lobbyists are permitted to adopted and complied with. Another central directive speengage in pertinent talks there. cifically dealing with political and government relations regulates interaction with political officials, for instance in Aside from direct dialogue with policymakers, Bosch the run up to elections. Bosch is committed to remaining engages in numerous associations and is actively involved politically neutral and seeks to engage in dialogue with all in establishing positions on topics. For instance, in relevant political parties, particularly in Germany. Germany, at EU level, and in a number of other countries, Bosch is member of the industry associations of relevance Bosch regularly makes donations to political parties, for its business activities. In Germany, for example, we mainly in Germany, in order to make a contribution toward are members of the German Electrical and Electronic a functioning political discourse. From a conceptual Manufacturers’ Association (ZVEI), the German Associaperspective, donations are distributed based on fairness tion of the Automotive Industry (VDA), and the German criteria. The Bosch Group makes donations to the parties Mechanical Engineering Industry Association (VDMA). At CDU, CSU, SPD, FDP, and Bündnis 90/Die Grünen. All of an international level, Bosch is represented on the Internathese donations to political parties are disclosed in the tional Chamber of Commerce, among other organizations. parties’ statements of accounts. We comply with the relBosch also informs policymakers, NGOs, and the general evant requirements governing the amount of such donapublic at events on relevant topics. In 2018, for example, tions and their publication. We do not at present centrally as part of the “Real Driving” tour through Stuttgart, we compile information at an international level on donations made a contribution to the current debate on the subject made to political parties and institutions adjacent to the of air quality and transparently showed how emissions political system. standards can be adhered to. 103 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Active at three levels – our social initiatives | Donations – a global commitment | Political lobbying – technology orientation | Sponsorship – based on clear rules Priority setting 6.3 SponsorAside from the priority agenda of political activities set by ship – based on clear rules the board of management, the regions can set additional specific topics and formulate corresponding objectives. Through the feedback it obtains from the regions, Bosch also gets an indication of the extent to which priority topics are of relevance worldwide. When selecting topics, we also consider regulation that might have a major influence on Bosch’s current business activities or future topics that A central directive also governs the Bosch Group’s concern our company. sponsorship activities. Individual measures have to be logically integrated in an overall communication stratOn this basis, the following topics were deemed particuegy or a corresponding concept for them to be deemed larly important for Bosch in 2018: air quality and traffic eligible. The objective of measures also has to be clearly bans in cities, CO2 reduction and e-mobility, IoT, AI and defined and focused on increasing brand recognition and cybersecurity, and research and innovation policy. A reputation, promoting sales, winning customers, and special focus is also placed on trade policy, especially attracting associates. For any sponsorship measures in in view of the possibility of Brexit as well as continuing excess of 30,000 euros, headquarters must be consulted. negotiations for various trade agreements. For 2019, we In addition, when sponsorship measures exceed a certain expect automated and connected driving, climate change amount, measurement criteria have to be defined that mitigation policy, and data policy (i.e. data protection and allow an assessment of the measure’s success. Binding access issues) to gain in importance. criteria apply to the process of selecting sponsorship initiatives. One such criterion is the principle of customer Aligned policy papers define the Bosch Group’s position neutrality: as a rule, the Bosch Group does not engage on relevant topics. They form the basis for political lobin sponsorship with individual customers, unless key bying and, depending on their relevance, are released by technology developments are realized together with the the board of management. In what we refer to as Bosch customer. Moreover, only sponsorship measures are Political Viewpoint, we summarize facts and arguments pursued that directly communicate the strengths of the and provide them targeted to external contacts. MeetBosch brand or other brands of the Bosch Group and in ings and talks on individual topics are only held once the which these are clearly profiled. corresponding policy papers are available. In addition, related measures are clustered by topic in order to assess A focal point of Bosch sponsorship is on motorsport. their impact. Starting in the 2019 season, Bosch will be official partner of Formula E for an initial three years. Bosch’s involvement in the racing series marks a continuation of its motor racing tradition: Bosch has been official sponsor of DTM as technology partner for many years. 104 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook Annex 105 | Annex | GRI index | About this report | Publishing details GRI index GRI indicators Keyword Reference* General disclosures Organizational profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 111 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Business sectors 8–9 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 8 GRI 102-4 Location of operations 8 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Shareholders of Robert Bosch GmbH 8 GRI 102-6 Markets served 8–9 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Number of associates 8–9 Subsidiaries and regional companies GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Forms of employment 8; 84 Terminations GRI 102-9 Supply chain Purchasing volume 44; 62 Logistics and transportation GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its 44 supply chain GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Design for Environment 27; 54–56; Life cycle assessments 63–64 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 13–14; 50; 61 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 13–14; 27; 101–102 Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker 4 Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms Code of Business Conduct 10; 17–19; of behavior Code of Conduct for Business Partners 22; 46; 72; 81; Mission 84–87 Product Development Code Basic principles of social responsibility Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure Board of management and supervisory board 12–13; 16; 85 Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14–15 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Works council 82–83 Trade unions GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 14–15 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Forms of dialogue 14–15 Materiality analysis GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 15 106 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook GRI indicators Keyword Reference* Reporting practice GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Consolidated group 111 statements GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Materiality analysis 15 GRI 102-47 List of material topics Materiality analysis 15 GRI 102-48 Restatement of information 111 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 111 GRI 102-50 Reporting period 111 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 111 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 111 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 111 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 111 GRI standards GRI 102-55 GRI content index 104–110 GRI 102-56 External assurance 111 Economic performance indicators Economic performance GRI 201/103 Management approach disclosures Economic KPIs 9 Climate change adaptation GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 9; AR p. 44 et Position on climate change seq. GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 55–56 opportunities due to climate change Market presence GRI 202/103 Management approach disclosures Remuneration 80 Social benefits GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender 80 compared to local minimum wage Anti-corruption GRI 205/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Business Conduct 17 Code of Conduct for Business Partners GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 17 Compliance training GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Risk management 18–19 policies and procedures Anti-competitive behavior GRI 206/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Business Conduct 16–17 Code of Conduct for Business Partners GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 16; AR p. 58 et Compliance training anti-trust, and monopoly practices seq. Risk management 107 | Annex | GRI index | About this report | Publishing details GRI indicators Keyword Reference* Environmental performance indicators Materials GRI 301/103 Management approach disclosures Key materials 54; 62; 65 Materials efficiency GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 62–65 Hazardous substances GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used Nanotechnology 62; 65 Energy GRI 302/103 Management approach disclosures Energy management system 54–61 Reduction targets GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 57 Energy consumption GRI 302-3 Energy intensity Energy efficiency, own generation, green power, offsets 56 Sales-related energy consumption GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 56 Energy efficiency of the products GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products 33–36; 60 and services Water and effluents (2018) GRI 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Wastewater management 66–69 Water-stressed regions GRI 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 69 Reduction targets GRI 303-3 Water withdrawal Use of water 66–69 Sales-related water consumption GRI 303-4 Water discharge 69 Wastewater Products with positive water-related effects Emissions GRI 305/103 Management approach disclosures Reduction targets 44; 54–61 GHG emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 57 Energy efficiency, own generation, green power, offsets GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Sales-related GHG emissions 57 Mobility concept Logistics and transportation GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 56 Other air pollutant emissions GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 56 GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 60 significant air emissions Effluents and waste GRI 306/103 Management approach disclosures Waste management 63–66; 69 Waste disposal GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 63–64 Sales-related waste GRI 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Hazardous waste 64 Environmental compliance GRI 307/103 Management approach disclosures Compliance management 11–14; 17–19; EHS management 54; 60–61 Environmental management GRI 307-1 Noncompliance with environmental laws and 19 regulations 108 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook GRI indicators Keyword Reference* Supplier environmental assessment GRI 308/103 Management approach disclosures Supplier standards 45–49 Code of Conduct for Business Partners GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmen47–48 Supplier risk management tal criteria Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers Social performance indicators Employment GRI 401/103 Management approach disclosures Work-life balance 80–83 Remuneration and social benefits GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 80–83 Forms of employment provided to temporary or part-time employees Employee rights Labor/management relations GRI 402/103 Management approach disclosures Leadership and collaboration 72–74; 82–84 Associate survey GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 82–84 Works council and trade unions changes Terminations Occupational health and safety (2018) GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Occupational health and safety management system 88–89 Safety basics GRI 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 90 Occupational accidents and ill health investigation Preventive healthcare and occupational health GRI 403-3 Occupational health services 92–93 GRI 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communica88–92 tion on occupational health and safety GRI 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 60–61; 90–92 GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health 92–93 GRI 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 29; 38–40; 90 and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries 89 GRI 403-10 Work-related ill health 91 Training and education GRI 404/103 Management approach disclosures Personal development process 75–79 Education and training GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 75 Support program for specialists GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 76–77 transition assistance programs GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 76–77 performance and career development reviews 109 | Annex | GRI index | About this report | Publishing details GRI indicators Keyword Reference* Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 405/103 Management approach disclosures Equal opportunities 84–87 Nondiscrimination GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 85 Dimensions of diversity GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women 86 to men Nondiscrimination GRI 406/103 Management approach disclosures Equal opportunities 18–19; 84–87 Nondiscrimination GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 18–19 Dimensions of diversity taken Complaints mechanisms Freedom of association and collective bargaining GRI 407/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Business Conduct 16–19; 45–50; Works council and trade unions 82–83 Code of Conduct for Business Partners GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to 16–19; 47–50 Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers freedom of association and collective bargaining Compliance management may be at risk Child labor GRI 408/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Business Conduct 16–19; 45–50; Code of Conduct for Business Partners 82–83 Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 16–19; 47–50 Compliance management incidents of child labor Forced or compulsory labor GRI 409/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Business Conduct 16–19; 45–50; Code of Conduct for Business Partners 82–83 Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 16–19; 47–50 Compliance management incidents of forced or compulsory labor Human rights assessment GRI 412/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Business Conduct 16–19; 46–50 Code of Conduct for Business Partners GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights 16–19; 46–50 Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers reviews or impact assessments Compliance management GRI 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or 18–19 procedures Supplier social assessment GRI 414/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Conduct for Business Partners 45–50 Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 47–48 criteria Public policy GRI 415/103 Management approach disclosures Political lobbying 101–103 Contact with policymakers GRI 415-1 Political contributions 102 110 Bosch sustainability report 2018 | factbook GRI indicators Keyword Reference* Customer health and safety GRI 416/103 Management approach disclosures Product quality 28–29; 31–32; Product safety 38–40 Life cycle assessments GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 28; 31–32; product and service categories 38–41 Marketing and labeling GRI 417/103 Management approach disclosures Responsible advertising 23 Product information GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information 23 and labeling Customer privacy GRI 418/103 Management approach disclosures IT security and data protection 29–30 Compliance management GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 19 customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic compliance GRI 419/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Business Conduct 16–19 Code of Conduct for Business Partners GRI 419-1 Noncompliance with laws and regulations in the 16; 19 Compliance management social and economic area * The references indicate the pages on which the respective GRI content is mentioned within this report. References marked “AR” refer to our annual report 2018. 111 | Annex | GRI index | About this report | Publishing details About this report Publishing details The Bosch Group’s sustainability report has been issued annually since 2011. PUBLISHED BY: The present report describes the progress made in terms of sustainable Robert Bosch GmbH business practices in the 2018 fiscal year (from January 1, 2018, to December Communications and 31, 2018). Governmental Affairs As in previous years, the report is aligned with the internationally recognized Postfach 10 60 50 guidance issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This year for the first 70049 Stuttgart time, this report has been prepared to the best of knowledge in accordance Germany with the GRI Standards: core option. We have not sought external assurance Phone +49 711 811-0 for the content. Communications and Governmental Unless indicated otherwise, all disclosures in this report relate to the entire Affairs (C/CG) consolidated group. Besides Robert Bosch GmbH, the consolidated group Executive vice president: comprises a further 462 (previous year: 442) fully consolidated companies. Prof. Dr. Christof Ehrhart For details of the consolidated group and related developments in the fiscal year, please refer to the annual report (see annual report 2018, page 85 et Health, Safety, Environmental and Fire seq.). Environmental and occupational health and safety performance indi­ Protection as well as Sustainability (C/HSE) cators cover 414 (previous year: 399) reportable sites. Head: Torsten Kallweit The information was collected electronically, and the data were mostly Sustainability and Ideas Lab (C/HSE2) recorded using sector-specific software. In certain cases, it is not yet possible Head: Annette Wagner to present three-year trends, but we aim to do so in the future. In individual annette.wagner@de.bosch.com cases, facts related to previous periods were corrected. If data are added up, differences may occur due to rounding. CONCEPT AND COORDINATION: S&C Schlange & Co. GmbH All forward-looking statements in this report are based on assumptions that were valid when this report was authorized for issue. Actual results, devel­ TEXT: opments, and the company’s performance may diverge from our forecasts, Carlsberg & Richter GmbH & Co. KG estimates, and announcements as a result of unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors. DESIGN: AD&D Werbeagentur GmbH The sustainability report 2018 is available online in PDF format in German and English. Additional information can be found at sustainability.bosch.com PRINT: and in our annual report 2018. The next sustainability report is scheduled for Elanders GmbH publication in the spring of 2020. Printed in Germany. 111 | Annex | GRI index | About this report | Publishing details About this report Publishing details The Bosch Group’s sustainability report has been issued annually since 2011. PUBLISHED BY: The present report describes the progress made in terms of sustainable Robert Bosch GmbH business practices in the 2018 fiscal year (from January 1, 2018, to December Communications and 31, 2018). Governmental Affairs As in previous years, the report is aligned with the internationally recognized Postfach 10 60 50 guidance issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This year for the first 70049 Stuttgart time, this report has been prepared to the best of knowledge in accordance Germany with the GRI Standards: core option. We have not sought external assurance Phone +49 711 811-0 for the content. Communications and Governmental Unless indicated otherwise, all disclosures in this report relate to the entire Affairs (C/CG) consolidated group. Besides Robert Bosch GmbH, the consolidated group Executive vice president: comprises a further 462 (previous year: 442) fully consolidated companies. Prof. Dr. Christof Ehrhart For details of the consolidated group and related developments in the fiscal year, please refer to the annual report (see annual report 2018, page 85 et Health, Safety, Environmental and Fire seq.). Environmental and occupational health and safety performance indi­ Protection as well as Sustainability (C/HSE) cators cover 414 (previous year: 399) reportable sites. Head: Torsten Kallweit The information was collected electronically, and the data were mostly Sustainability and Ideas Lab (C/HSE2) recorded using sector-specific software. In certain cases, it is not yet possible Head: Annette Wagner to present three-year trends, but we aim to do so in the future. In individual annette.wagner@de.bosch.com cases, facts related to previous periods were corrected. If data are added up, differences may occur due to rounding. CONCEPT AND COORDINATION: S&C Schlange & Co. GmbH All forward-looking statements in this report are based on assumptions that were valid when this report was authorized for issue. Actual results, devel­ TEXT: opments, and the company’s performance may diverge from our forecasts, Carlsberg & Richter GmbH & Co. KG estimates, and announcements as a result of unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors. DESIGN: AD&D Werbeagentur GmbH The sustainability report 2018 is available online in PDF format in German and English. Additional information can be found at sustainability.bosch.com PRINT: and in our annual report 2018. The next sustainability report is scheduled for Elanders GmbH publication in the spring of 2020. Printed in Germany. Robert Bosch GmbH Postfach 10 60 50 70049 Stuttgart Germany www.bosch.com
