UNITED NATIONS Global Compact Communication on Progress SOGES SpA Torino, Milano, Padova, Firenze, Roma, Frosinone, Bari, Cagliari Torino February 2019 About SOGES Leading provider of consultancy and training services to private companies and public institutions since 1974, SOGES S.p.A. manages donor-funded technical assistance projects in Africa, Pacific countries, Latin and Central America, Central and Southern Asia, the Mediterranean area and the Western Balkans as well as within Italy and the EU. In order to achieve its quality objectives, essential for a mature and strongly competitive market, SOGES works with 65 internal professionals and with a network of over 200 external consultants operating both in the national and international market. SOGES, holding the ISO9001 quality certificate, has 7 Italian offices and 3 branch offices ensuring and guaranteeing operational coverage and an extensive and direct management of all projects. SOGES Holding is now developing its business through 7 main areas and a growing network of controlled companies1. SOGES gained considerable experience working for over twenty years worldwide in multidisciplinary projects in transition economies and in developing countries. With regard to the European projects and public policies sector, SOGES’s main area of intervention deals with the access to and management of the European funds and the technical assistance to the public administrations. More specifically, SOGES implements at EU level (1) assistance to local public bodies and private companies in the identification, development and management of project proposals drawn on various Community programmes of territorial cooperation (MED, Alpine Space, ADRION, CENTRAL, Interreg Europe, ENPI, IPA) and programmes managed by the Directorates of the EC (Horizon2020, Eco-Innovation, Erasmus+, etc …); (2) support to the European institutions, at central, regional and local level or sup-port to the European Countries in transition in the development of the economic environment in which they operate; (3) technical assistance to the management authorities of some EU programmes. With regard to the International cooperation sector, the main areas of activities relate to the Institutional and Private Sector Support, such as to Ministries and public administration agencies. SOGES carried out numerous technical assistance development projects in the field of capacity building and support to public institutions, training initiatives and support to small and medium enterprises in starting, growing and strengthening competitiveness in world markets, assistance in the process of corporate reorganisation. 1 Please, see at; http://sogesnetwork.eu/en UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2019 II Statement of continued support SOGES SpA is a Torino-based Italian stockholders' company, it's been originally established in the Eighties and evolved through several changes both in organizations and ownership to what is presently an integrated group of seven companies making business in synergistical fields so to successfully provide its Clients the substance of our motto: a vision on your future! Most of the principles stated by the UN Global Compact are part of our DNA since the very beginning and they are reflected in the internal policies, more specifically summarised in the Ethical Code2, formally adopted on April 27th, 2012. In 2017, the Board of Directors decided to adhere and sign the UN Global Compact to publicly commit to a stronger effort in the implementation of the basic principles. Among the 17 SDG's3, Soges SpA considers itself to be able to give a positive contribution to a number of them, namely: SDG-4 (ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all); SDG-5 (achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls); SDG-8 (promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all); SDG-11 (make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable); SDG-12 (ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns) and SDG-16 (promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels). This is our first Communication On Progress. Luigi Marconi CEO Torino, February 1st, 2019 2 Please, find it at: http://www.sogesnetwork.eu/sites/default/files/code_of_ethics_en.pdf 3 Please find them at: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/?menu=1300 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2019 III 1. HUMAN RIGHTS 1.1. Principles 1. SOGES supports and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2. SOGES makes sure not to be complicit in human rights abuses 1.2. Reference to Policies Since 2012, SOGES adopted a voluntary Code of Ethics, which is annually subject to the monitoring and control action of a Third-Party body of Trustees. The principles include the main criteria for human right policy monitoring and enforcement in all phases of each individual expert assignment. As an internal policy guideline, SOGES decided to allocate yearly donations for the benefit of local associations with an active role in developing and implementing projects in defence or promotion of human rights. Each year a specific new agreement is made and the work of the association chosen is introduced to all employees in the annual meeting. 1.3. INDICATORS Practical indicators to measure the implementation level of this field are the following:  Projects implemented in the field of human rights (number). During 2018 there has been no project implemented with a specific focus on human rights.  Internal Code of Ethics. The CoE is routinely implemented in all SOGES's running contracts, thanks to a special clause requesting for direct personal commitment to the principles stated in the document.  Internal Organisation and Management System. This internal document, stating the basic rules for organisation and management, is periodically revised, adopted and used as a reference within the ISO 9001 quality management system. It is featuring a special UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2019 1 attention on issues focused by the overall commitment undertaken within the UN Global Compact.  Support to no-profit organisations acting in the HR sector. Christmas gifts, as well as a special donation, has been allocated to the Freedhome4 association, supporting the work culture among convicts in a network of Italian jails. 1.4. Actions and Outcome SOGES launched a framework agreement with a human right association specialised in support to convicts re-education through a correct approach to the values of work within the prisons system. The company is now committed to develop a memorandum of understanding which will allow for the contracting of convicts to work in the enterprise's headquarters in Torino. 4 http://www.myfreedhome.it/ UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2019 2 2. LABOUR 2.1. Principles 3. SOGES upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of right to collective bargaining 4. SOGES upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. SOGES upholds the effective abolition of child labour 6. SOGES upholds the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 2.2. Reference to Policies Since 2012, SOGES adopted a voluntary Code of Ethics, which is annually subject to the monitoring and control action of a Third-Party body of Trustees. In September 2018, SOGES subscribed to the UNWOMEN proposed Statement for the Women's Empowerment Principles, reinforcing its commitment to a policy for advancing equality between women and men in the business environment. The monitoring of the enforcement of the internal equal opportunity policy is subject to a specific action and the results are given in the following section. 2.3. INDICATORS Practical indicators to measure the implementation level of this field are the following:  Ratio of wo/men employees. At the end of 2018, the actual ratio between sexes was as follows: Women employees Men employees 27 (59%) 19 (41%)  Average gross cost for employee. At the end of 2018, the average all-inclusive yearly cost for employee has been put as a baseline value of 100.  Ratio of average gross cost for women and men employees. At the end of 2018, the overall ratio of average all-inclusive cost by sex was as follows: UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2019 3 Contract level Women employees Men employees 2 100 100 3 100 100 4 100 107 5 100 99 6 100 91 7 100 n/a 8Q 100 97 Dir 100 123  Women in managing position (7th level and upper). At the end of 2018, the situation was as follows: Women in top level position Men in top level position 6 10  Stagiaires (months of active presence). At the end of 2018, the number of working months performed by stagiaires has been 22 months.  Stagiaires contracted at the end of their stage period. During 2018, 2 stagiaires have been contracted after their stage period.  Apprentices contracted at the end of their training period. During 2018, no apprentice has been contracted at the end of their training period.  Ratio of unlimited/limited working contracts. At the end of 2018, the ratio of limited time working contract compared to the unlimited time working contracts was 2,2%. 2.4. Actions and Outcome SOGES SpA recommends not to make use of extra-time in the implementation of each one's tasks, whether this might be unavoidable, the employees are asked to immediately recover the extra-time. It is an internal policy not to call for internal meetings which might be prolongated beyond the schedules working time, to avoid a negative impact on the reconciliation of family-work time and an arguable major impact of the same on the women employees. In that concerns the use of stagiaires, SOGES SpA tends to host as many as possible, spread in each internal business units, and to follow their training period in such a way that those proving to be more suitable to the current needs of the company are offered an opportunity for longerterm contract. No discrimination is applied based either on sex, belief or social condition and a special attention will be focussed on the practical implementation of an equal-opportunity environment in the workplace. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2019 4 3. ENVIRONMENT 3.1. Principles 7. SOGES supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. SOGES undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. SOGES encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 3.2. Reference to Policies SOGES launched a number of internal actions aiming at reducing the environmental impact and the energy consumption of its actions. Starting from direct office inputs, such as the setting-up of a centralised travel office optimising mission costs and facilitating the use of public transport during job assignments; the establishment of a company-wide agreement with a car sharing company, which will reduce the use of personal cars in the urban areas; the introduction of separated waste collection bins, while reducing the overall number in order to limit internal plastic bags use; the installation of a central printing machines server allowing for an efficient use of machines and inputs; the adoption of a specific software protocol deleting printing queues not utilised within a pre-defined time spam; the adoption of energyand ink-savings set-ups in the printing and copying machines. 3.3. INDICATORS Practical indicators to measure the implementation level of this field are the following:  Use of car-sharing and public transport for urban mobility. During 2018, a total of 861 minutes of car sharing have been utilised for urban movements and in the same year a small company car for limited-range movements has been purchased. This makes the comparison with previous year (in 2017, the car sharing use had been 1,468 minutes) impossible, but tis will be used as a new baseline.  Use of public transport for medium-range trips. This data is not currently measurable.  Use of smart printing machines. The absolute number of printed copies increased between 2017 (413,683) and 2018 (430,498) by 4%, but the average value per employee raised by just 1.8% from 9,193 to 9,359 and the rate of colour/B&W copies has been reduced from 52% to 50%. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2019 5  Annual consumption of paper. Copy paper, based on date of purchase of A4 and A3 white paper, shrank from 30,249 sq. metres to 26,819 sq. metres.  Differentiated collection of plastic bottles and high-density plastic caps. The system is currently enforced, though not all offices, through the distribution of separated clearly identified bins. See the table below for details.  Number of differentiated waste bins in the offices. The number of bins in the offices has been reduced to 51 so to limit the use of internal plastic bags, at the same time disposable plastic bags have been eliminated and substituted by long-life stronger bags. Rooms General use Plastic HD plastic Paper collection (number) bins collection bins collection bins bins 21 51 3 3 8 Implementation of differentiated office waste collection at the end of 2018. 3.4. Actions and Outcome Printing machines have been reduced to 2, with a centralised software control storing print requests and automatically deleting those which are not actually executed within a limited time range and a pre-set black and white printing option. A new internal campaign will encourage to think 4-times before using 4-colour print. A new distribution of differentiated paper and plastic bins will be made to increase the density in the office spaces. Internal campaign for preferential use of the company car or the company car-sharing account will be reinforced. The choice of appropriate choice of the means of transportation is delegated to the central travel office. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2019 6 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION 4.1. Principles 10. SOGES works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 4.2. Reference to Policies Since 2012, SOGES adopted a voluntary Code of Ethics, which is annually subject to the monitoring and control action of a Third-Party body of Trustees. All individual contracts, either signed by permanent employees or by external independent consultants, contain an explicit reference to their commitment to the implementation of the principles enumerated in the Code of Ethics and making specific reference to anti-corruption and prevention of similar challenging situations. 4.3. INDICATORS Practical indicators to measure the implementation level of this field are the following:  Projects implemented in the sector of fight to corruption (number). There are no running projects in this sector, at present. But SOGES SpA expressed its interest in several open public tenders dealing with this sector, without being appointed any assignment.  Internal Organisation and Management System. The internal Code of Ethics is consistently enforced, including a specific section asking for a direct commitment of employees and contracted external consultants against corruption and stimulating the denouncement of corruption-related behaviours. 4.4. Actions and Outcome No further specific action is envisaged in this domain, further than the continuation of those already enforced. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2019 7
