Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group 4.2 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Since October 1, 2018, Essilor International (SAS) has been It is a subpart of the EssilorLuxottica Non-financial Statement part of the EssilorLuxottica Group. found in Chapter 4 of EssilorLuxottica’s 2018 Registration This document is the Essilor International (SAS) Non-Financial Document. Statement for 2018 in which the sustainable development As regards wording, the names “Essilor” and “the Group” program and all related social, environmental and societal refer to Essilor International (SAS). CSR is the acronym for information is presented. Corporate Social Responsibility. 4.2.1 Essilor’s approach to Sustainable Development 4.2.1.1 The Essilor value chain professional customers, prescription laboratories are crucial and stakeholders for ensuring product quality and conformity. The environmental footprint of the prescription laboratories is fragmented and Essilor’s approach to sustainable development is based on limited, and derives primarily from the use of chemical products consideration of the environmental, social and societal impacts and the consumption of energy and water; of its business activities on the various stakeholders along the value chain. ••optical retailers and chains: the Group supplies optical retailers and chains in over 100 countries and sells optical products online (contact lenses, prescription spectacles and sunglasses) Value chain through several local websites, serving a rapidly expanding Throughout the Essilor value chain, from product design to global distribution channel. Information security, data marketing, the Group’s business activities impact on the protection and product promotion have been identified as environment and on society at large. The nature and magnitude major issues for the Group; of these impacts differ according to the Group’s five main ••operational, R&D and administrative divisions: a limited business activities: portion of the Group’s employees work in the registered ••production plants: the Group has 32 production plants in offices, R&D centers and operational and administrative 17 countries. Each year, they produce more than 500 million divisions. While the social impact of these facilities is very lenses via lens polymerization or resin injection moulding. significant, the environmental impact is low (energy from The production plants account for the majority of direct buildings, paper, greenhouse gas emissions associated with environmental impacts due to of the chemical products and business travel, electrical and electronic waste, etc.). raw materials that they use, the energy they consume, the (Note: EssilorLuxottica business model and strategy are emissions they generate and the waste they produce. Given presented in Chapter 1 of the EssilorLuxottica 2018 Registration the concentration of environmental impacts, Essilor places Document.) the emphasis on the management of water and energy and the processing of waste, as well as on occupational health and safety measures; Ecosystem Essilor has daily interaction with a whole host of stakeholders ••distribution centers: Essilor has 14 distribution centers in 12 countries. Situated close to manufacturing units, the role of throughout the world. Engaging with them is therefore at the these centers is to coordinate the logistics flows between heart of the Group’s sustainable development strategy. Essilor suppliers and customers. Most of the impacts of these centers strives to understand each component of its value chain and are therefore felt in terms of greenhouse gas emissions from to adapt to the constant evolution of its ecosystem. As the transportation (air and road freight, etc.). Furthermore, the significance and handling of social and environmental issues high number of employees and the nature of their activities, differ between countries, relations with stakeholders are requires extreme vigilance in terms of occupational health generally managed locally, under the responsibility of the senior and safety; management of the legal entities. Essilor has introduced a “guide to partnership” for its business partners that formalizes ••prescription laboratories: the Group has 481 laboratories, edging Essilor’s role and responsibilities and those of the partner, facilities and local distribution centers which are major sources facilitating transparent and effective working relations. Moreover, of local employment. As the final link in the value chain, surfacing all employees are actively encouraged to apply the Essilor and coating finished lenses before they are marketed to Principles and Values in their interactions with stakeholders. 308 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Depending on the situation, interactions between stakeholders ••to contribute to growth via partnership projects, particularly and Essilor may serve a range of different purposes: in the fields of health and the environment: support for ••to listen, by setting up a consultation process for the purpose patients’ associations, humanitarian aid programs and of anticipating business developments, the market and partnerships with universities. regulations, and also manage risks and identify opportunities; Stakeholder relations are therefore key for the Group, as they ••to hold discussions to involve stakeholders in strategic bring and create positive impacts. The new issues arising from decisions: customer satisfaction surveys, employee opinion their needs and viewpoints fuel the Group’s strategy and surveys, organization of forums, training sessions, etc.; operations. Essilor is aware of what is at stake and strives for continuous improvement to maintain a relationship of trust ••to inform, by providing reliable factual data using different with its stakeholders. The Group documents and addresses kinds of communication methods made available to the its stakeholders’ main concerns. The table below presents the relevant stakeholders (brochures, website, annual reviews, key points. questionnaire responses, various requests, etc.); Main stakeholders Main issues Quality of working conditions Employees & representative Recruitment/Attracting and retaining talent organizations Skills development Equal opportunities, diversity and inclusion Shared commitment to social and environmental concerns Business partners Collaboration on innovation and development Integrity in business relations Offering high quality, innovative products Responsible marketing/Transparency and validation of the benefits of Essilor lenses Clients & Prescribers Integrity in business relations Data protection Sustainable procurement Product quality and efficiency 4 Responsible marketing Consumers Products meeting new visual health needs related to societal trends (digitalization, urbanization, etc.) Data protection Governance Shareholders, investors Transparency and evaluation of non-financial activity and rating agencies Management of CSR risks Integrity in business and adherence to regulations Suppliers Constructive collaboration/Co-innovation Sustainable procurement & supplier CSR audit Dialogue & Partnership NGOs and consumer Communication – Transparency (on social initiatives, environmental footprint, product organizations performance, etc.) Sponsorship & philanthropy Cooperation for research and innovation Educational institutions Attracting and developing talent Social and economic impact Public authorities Contribution to visual health and the inclusive economy & governments Fair business practices Dialogue & Education Quality of life: provide quality vision for all Local Communities Social and economic impact (jobs, support for the local economy and inclusive business) Raising awareness Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 309 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group 4.2.1.2 Essilor’s sustainable In recent years, regulatory changes and feedback from stakeholders (key account customers, investors, new UN development priorities development goals, etc.) have confirmed the priority and strategic dimensions of initiatives which directly aim to fulfil Materiality assessment the Group’s Mission, lead to a greater focus on sustainable The Group defines and develops its sustainable development procurement and the circular economy in the wider sense (see strategy using a materiality assessment, so that it can continually Section 4.2.5.5), and highlighted two major themes: climate assess and prioritize stakeholder requirements, identify new change (see Section 4.2.5.4), and human rights (see 4.2.6.2). risks and opportunities related to social and environmental The Group has updated the materiality matrix below based issues, focus non-financial reporting and publications on major on this information. issues and ensure the Group’s reporting complies with international standards. STRATEGIC TOPICS • Awareness & access to quality vision care solutions • Inclusive Business & BoP • Strategic Partnership • Innovation and R&D Stakeholders perspective PRIORITY TOPICS • Human capital development • Energy Efficiency & talent attraction • Climate Change adaptation • Water use & mitigation • Sustainable procurement • Diversity & Inclusion • Responsible Marketing CORE TOPICS • Resource & waste • Stakeholder dialogue • Safety & well-being • Human Rights Customer Relationship • Governance Management (CRM) • Employee shareholding • Product Quality management • Local economic development • Compliance & business ethics Business impact Note: Strategic: key themes linked to the development of Essilor business model. Priority: key subjects for Essilor’s short, medium and long term value creation. Core: pillars of Essilor’s business culture. UN Sustainable Development Goals Essilor is fully involved in this effort through its Mission. The Group has therefore assessed its contribution by mapping 13 At the end of 2015, 193 countries had adopted the United SDGs according to two dimensions: the themes in its sustainable Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. This development program (see materiality matrix) and its value Agenda has 17 core goals and 169 targets. The Sustainable chain. Development Goals (SDGs), which entered into force in 2016, are a global call for action to eradicate poverty, protect the In 2017, Essilor published a specific report outlining the action planet and ensure prosperity for all. The involvement of civil plans and commitments it has entered into for each of the 13 society, the private sector and ordinary citizens is crucial to selected SDGs. This document was updated in 2018. See the success of these goals. Section “Sustainability” and “Mission” on www.essilor.com. 310 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group STRATEGIC / HIGHEST CONTRIBUTION STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS AWARENESS & ACCESS TO QUALITY VISION CARE SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABLE WATER USE INNOVATION TALENT SOURCING: & DISCHARGE & R&D MANAGEMENT USE OF CHEMICALS / INVESTMENTS RAW MATERIAL IMPACT EXTRACTION ON WATER STRESS AREAS ESSILOR MATERIALITY ANALYSIS INCLUSIF BUSINESS, ADVOCACY & PHILANTHROPY PRIORITY/CONTRIBUTION 4 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT (ENERGY EFFICIENCY, WASTE, CARBON FOOTPRINT) LOCAL ECONOMIC PRODUCT END OF LIFE IMPACT ON SUPPLIERS PROMOTION OF RESPONSIBLE HUMAN RIGHTS CONSUMPTION/ IMPACTS ALONG RESPONSIBLE MARKETING THE VALUE CHAIN ECONOMIC PROMOTION DEVELOPMENT OF DIVERSITY & INCLUSION SAFE & HEALTHY WORKING CONDITIONS COMPLIANCE CORE BUSINESS ETHICS HUMAN RIGHTS RAW MATERIAL PRODUCTION PRESCRIPTION DISTRIBUTION DISTRIBUTION FINAL SUPPLIERS PLANTS LABORATORIES CENTERS CHANNELS CUSTOMERS Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 311 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group 4.2.1.3 Sustainable development 2. Optimizing the environmental footprint strategy driven by our Group Despite an environmental footprint that is fragmented and Mission limited in comparison to industrial processing activities, Essilor strives to reduce its impacts. By continuously improving On the basis of the materiality assessment, supplemented by environmental management processes, the work focuses on an analysis of the Group’s contribution to the SDGs, Essilor reducing water use, improving energy efficiency, reducing the has strengthened its sustainable development strategy to serve carbon footprint and adapting to climate change; and finally, the Group’s Mission according to three supporting pillars, by reducing and recovering waste. See Section 4.2.5. specifying the actions it will take in certain key areas (see details on www.essilor.com/en/sustainability): 3. Working with society Group Mission: Improve lives As a leader in its sector, the Group has made a commitment to introducing preventive and vigilance mechanisms to ensure by improving sight respect for human rights and the rules of integrity in the conduct The Group is committed to the global challenge of helping of business. Essilor joins forces with its suppliers in its approach to correct, protect and prevent risks to the visual health of the to sustainable development via a policy of sustainable planet’s 7.4 billion inhabitants. To this end, Essilor has identified procurement and also gets involved with local communities four key focus areas: raising awareness, product and service to contribute to their development. Furthermore, Essilor takes innovation, inclusive business and strategic giving. See care to market products with stated levels of quality and Section 4.2.3. performance that meet customers’ needs most effectively. See Section 4.2.6. 1. Caring for and engaging our people The Group’s employees are the leading players in and contributors to Essilor’s sustainable development. The Group’s employee policy focuses on four areas: ensuring employee health and safety and providing quality working conditions; training, developing skills and talent; integrating employees and all forms of diversity; and finally, promoting employee shareholding along with their participation in the governance and employee consultation through social dialogue. See Section 4.2.4. 312 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group 4.2.1.4 Main objectives for 2020 Essilor has defined a “2020 roadmap” with specific internal objectives and is working on all levers of employee engagement. This approach enables the entire Group to be involved, with building of momentum, measuring of impacts and monitoring of progress. The Group published in 2017 the ten main objectives shown in the table below: % of progress Aims Ambition Objectives for 2020 2018 to target Creating wearers Bring tangible social 1 Improve the lives of 50 million individuals +23 million 46% and economic benefits “at the base of the pyramid” (a) to individuals and their (cumulative, reference year 2013) communities: “improving lives by 2 Create 25,000 primary vision care providers 8,963 36% improving sight” (cumulative, reference year 2013) 3 Invest €30 million in philanthropic €49 million 163% visual health programs (reference year 2014) Optimizing Contribute to tackle 4 Reduce water intensity by 20% -21% 107% environmental climate change and its compared to 2015 baseline (b) footprint impacts through 5 Reduce energy intensity by 15% -7% 45% sustainable compared to 2015 baseline management of energy and water resources Caring for Engage employees in 6 Decrease by 30% work-related injury -16% 53% and engaging the sustainable growth frequency rate (compared to 2015 baseline) our people of our business & towards a zero accident goal ensure a safe and 7 Give 100% of employees access to Essilor 63% 63% rewarding working University online training platform environment 8 35% of employees as shareholders, 68% 194% with a longer-term ambition of 50% Working with Lead sustainable 9 100% of strategic suppliers undertake 78% (c) 78% 4 society business practices in CSR assessments our industry through 10 100% of preferred suppliers acknowledge 95% 95% responsible sourcing Essilor’s Supplier Charter and procurement (a) “Base of the pyramid” refers to underprivileged and high-risk populations characterized by high rates of poverty, living on less than $2.50 a day. (b) Objectives measured on each good lens produced by a selection of the upstream plants with the highest environmental footprint. (c) In 2018, Essilor has increased its strategic supplier base to expand the scope of its Supplier Sustainability Program – see Section 4.2.6.3. In addition, Essilor’s compensation policy aims to contribute Essilor also participates voluntarily in CDP (formerly the Carbon to the achievement of the Group’s objectives and the Disclosure Project), an international, independent non-profit deployment of its Mission. Hence, in 2017, Essilor introduced organization that assesses companies’ efforts to measure and specific criteria linked to its Mission, its Principles & Values reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and water footprint. In and its sustainable development program in calculating the 2018, the CDP recognized the continuous progress Essilor has annual variable salary component of the members of the been making in these areas, awarding it an Arating for its response Management Committee and the business committees, as to climate change and an Arating for water management. well as the key managers in each entity of the Group. US magazine Forbes also ranked Essilor among the World’s 100 Most Innovative Companies for the eighth year running. Ratings and recognition In 2018, Essilor was listed on the following non-financial indices: DJSI World & Europe, MSCI World ESG & World Low Carbon Leader, FTSE4Good, STOXX Global ESG Leaders, Euronext Vigeo Europe 120, ECPI indices, and Ethibel Excellence & Pioneer. Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 313 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group 4.2.2 Governance and management of Sustainable Development 4.2.2.1 The Essilor CSR Committee ••communicate Essilor’s initiatives, contribute to the public debate on sustainable development challenges and engage Set up in 2013, the CSR Committee reports directly to the in dialogue with stakeholders; Board of Directors. It is chaired by an Independent Director and comprises three members (the Chairman and Chief ••engage employees in the approach to sustainable Executive Officer and two Directors). The Chief Mission Officer development through training and employee recognition is also invited to attend meetings as a guest. measures. The CSR Committee met three times in 2018, with an attendance The Sustainable Development department oversees a Global rate of 100%. In its supervisory role, it was consulted primarily Steering Committee that brings together all the major functional on: and geographic divisions to coordinate the deployment of the Group’s sustainable development roadmap, report best ••the progress of the new innovative, inclusive socio-economic practices and discuss cross-functional issues (e.g. Human rights, models, through the 2.5 New Vision Generation entity, the non-financial reporting, climate change, etc.). philanthropy and all awareness-raising initiatives; The Sustainable Development department is also regularly ••review of the Group’s sustainable development roadmap consulted by the CSR Committee. and the key measures to be implemented; ••evaluation of the direct and indirect economic and societal impacts of Mission activities; 4.2.2.3 Management of CSR risks ••changes in the way Essilor’s non-financial performance is Essilor conducts its business in an ever-changing environment perceived by recognized raters; and is exposed to environmental, social and governance risks that, were they to materialize, could have a negative effect on ••assessment of the main CSR risks; its activities, its growth or its profitability. To ensure its ••review of the reports published regarding sustainability topics, development and to achieve its objectives, the Group aims particularly as regards current regulatory obligations. to anticipate and manage the risks to which it is exposed in its various areas of business. The Group gives priority to those 4.2.2.2 The Sustainable Development CSR risks that may be damaging to the health and safety of department its employees, consumers and other stakeholders, or that may lead to non-compliance with local or international laws, have Essilor has chosen strong management support to drive an impact on the environment or damage the reputation of environmental, social and corporate governance challenges. the Group and its Mission. Accordingly, the Sustainable Development department reports to the Chief Mission Officer, who in turn reports directly to the Essilor uses a continuous process (1) to identify, assess and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. prioritize all its risks (financial, operating, legal, etc.). By means of this process, the main categories of CSR risk are specified The role of the Sustainable Development department is to under four types: strategic, operating, compliance, and guarantee actions are consistent and to coordinate initiatives reporting. deployed within the various functional teams (Environment, Health and Safety, R&D, Human Resources, Marketing, etc.) In 2018, the Sustainable Development department coordinated and the three main geographical areas: North America, Europe an exhaustive review of CSR risks. Dedicated governance was and the rest of the world (Latin America, Asia, Middle East, implemented to this end. Each of the Group’s functional Russia & Africa), with the following main responsibilities to: departments (EHS, Logistics, Human Resources, etc.) helped identify and assess their risks in connection with CSR. The ••define and deploy the Group’s Sustainable Development overall analysis was then shared and discussed during quarterly program; sustainable development steering committees. Finally, the ••steer non-financial reporting and lead the community of results were presented to the Group CSR Committee. correspondents within various countries and functions; The approach was broken down into three steps: ••provide expertise to Group entities in their deliberations on ••identification of the CSR risk universe based on the materiality sustainability, the implementation of associated action plans assessment (see Section 4.2.1.2), dialog with stakeholders, and respond to questions from key accounts or other the specific features of the Essilor business model, and stakeholders; regulatory monitoring; ••coordinate several cross-functional topics such as management ••assessment of inherent risks via analysis of their impact and of CSR risks, climate change, dialog with stakeholders or their probability of occurrence with each functional department human rights; in charge and the support of external experts; ••review of internal control and risk management measures. (1) See Chapter 1 of the EssilorLuxottica 2018 Registration Document. 314 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group This analysis identified nine priority CSR risk topics: The indicators and the glossary are reviewed and updated ••Business ethics; every year according to changes of reporting standards, stakeholders’ expectations and feedback on previous reporting ••Supplier relations; campaign. In 2018, to take into account Essilor stakeholders ••Human rights; expectations and to monitor the effectiveness of some of the ••Talent management; top sustainability initiatives, a set of new indicators has been ••Occupational health and safety; added on human rights, climate change, supplier sustainability and contribution to the Group Mission. ••Water use; ••Climate change; Scope of reporting ••CSR communication; The reference scope of reporting is all Essilor entities and ••Non-financial reporting. subsidiaries that are within the Group financial consolidation Note: As required by Law L. 225-102-1, the themes of “fighting scope and have been in the Group for more than one year (as against food waste and food poverty”, “Means in favor of of June 30 of the reporting year). Against a backdrop of strong responsible, fair and sustainable food” and “the respect of growth, the Group is continuing to gradually integrate recent animal welfare” were incorporated into the CSR risk assessment financially consolidated companies to its non-financial reporting process. They were not selected as part of the Group’s priority scope. CSR risks. With a strong involvement of all the organization, this year See in Section 4.2.7.2 correspondence table on priority CSR non-financial reporting covers 100% (1) of the Group entities risks. for the second year in a row. The coverage rate for each indicator can vary and is specified in the disclosure for each indicator. Essilor plans to maintain 100% engagement of all entities on 4.2.2.4 Organization of non-financial the annual non-financial reporting, as well as to keep increasing reporting the coverage rate for each indicator. The aim of non-financial reporting is to provide Essilor with a tool for managing and measuring the effectiveness of its Reporting period sustainable development program, as well as to ensure To optimize the organization, coordination and integration of compliance with European Directive no. 2014/95, transposed financial and non-financial reports, Essilor collected the majority into French law by the decree no. 2017-1265 of August 9, 2017. of its social, environmental and societal information over a Organization and protocol To mitigate the risk that the Group cannot collect, consolidate period of 12 months from October 1, 2017 to September 30, 2018. However, certain information was collected during the calendar year from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; this 4 and disclose relevant, reliable and accurate non-financial data, is followed in the text or the indicator tables by a superscript Essilor has put in place a robust global organization to manage at sign (@). its non-financial reporting. Essilor collects its non-financial data once a year from all the Compliance and standards Group subsidiaries, using a software application named Essilor has made public its social, environmental and societal “Sustain” that replicates the structure of the Group’s unified information since 2002, in accordance with the French NRE financial reporting system. “Sustain” has similar procedures law of May 2001. Since the 2012 fiscal year, the Group was for consolidating financial information, which provides compliant with Article 225 of the French Grenelle 2 law. Starting interoperability between the two reporting processes. A network from this year, the Group follows the principles defined by of contributors from a wide range of disciplines (human decree no. 2017-1265 concerning transposition into French resources, environment-health-safety, supply chain etc.) reports law of the European directive on non-financial reporting. information that is reviewed by the finance departments of Meanwhile, Essilor continues to follow the guidelines of the each entity then checked and consolidated at Group level by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. See Section 4.2.7 the Sustainable Development department. A specific glossary of this document. outlining the indicators with their associated definitions, rules The information presented in this chapter has been reviewed of reporting and consolidation, consistency checks and by PwC, an independent third-party organization, in accordance supporting documents, available in five languages (French, with the existing law, regulations and standards. See in Chinese, English, Portuguese and Spanish), are shared across Section 4.1.5 for the Report of the Independent Third-Party the Group. Organization. (1) Two entities were exempted from non-financial reporting in 2018. One entity in Japan experienced a fire at end of September and was in recovery process during the reporting campaign. One entity in Romania will participate in sustainability reporting starting from 2019. Given the specific cases above, Essilor considers that the 2018 non-financial reporting covers 100% of the Group’s entities and workforce. Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 315 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Essilor mission 4.2.3 Improving lives by improving sight Providing everyone, everywhere, with access to quality vision Essilor designs, manufactures and sells a wide range of solutions care is Essilor’s biggest challenge in terms of sustainable to correct, protect and prevent visual health risks. While 2 billion development. This challenge lies at the crossroads between people enjoy vision correction today, uncorrected poor vision the Group’s economic activity and its social contribution through remains the world’s most widespread unaddressed disability. the positive impact on quality of life better vision brings. The It indiscriminately affects 2.5 billion – 1 in 3 – people around desire to meet this challenge drives the Group’s strategy and the world, yet 80% of vision problems can be solved with a involves all of the Group’s employees. simple pair of eye glasses. In line with the Group’s mission to improve lives by improving sight, Essilor has the ambition to eradicate poor vision by 2050. IMPROVING LIVES BY IMPROVING SIGHT 2 BILLION 2.5 BILLION 7.4 BILLION Deserve ever better Suffer from uncorrected Need to protect their vision vision correction poor vision Product Leadership Best technologies Sunglasses 2.5 New Vision Generation Operational excellence Blue Light Philantropy Consumer insights & ECP solutions UV protection Solutions for myopia Solutions for myopia Safety Eyewear Innovation (Products, Services, Business Models…) Awareness and access (Consumer marketing, Vision Impact Institute, New distribution channels) Strong governance and committed teams In 2013, Essilor considerably accelerated its efforts to meet the needs of the 2.5 billion people living with uncorrected poor vision by addressing all barriers to vision care: access and awareness. Essilor’s actions on four fronts help to fulfil this Mission: 1. make as many people as possible aware of the importance of good vision; 2. innovate responsibly for current and future customer needs; 3. develop inclusive business models; and lastly; 4. drive strategic giving initiatives. 316 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group 4.2.3.1 Raising awareness of the ••Essilor continues to champion national public awareness raising campaigns, organized in partnership with industry importance of good vision players and other stakeholders such as: The main reason for large numbers of people lacking the visual •• “Think About Your EyesTM” in the United States, correction they need can be primarily explained by a lack of awareness of vision problems. Many people have never had •• “La Bonne Vue” – a consumer infomation wesbite and an eyesight test, or have never been able to see properly in dedicated social media channels in France to educate their life. people on the importance of visual health. To address this, Essilor is investing locally, nationally and Essilor supports initiatives to gather statistical data on the internationally to raise awareness of the importance of visual social and economic impact of poor vision to obtain health and of having regular eyesight tests. Different initiatives government support to invest in visual health improvement are taken: programs. Examples include: ••In March 2018, Essilor became one of the first strategic partners ••Since 2016, Essilor has been part of the Eyelliance coalition of the Vision Catalyst Fund, an ambitious multi-stakeholder and has been involved in drafting the World Economic Forum’s initiative spearheaded by the Queen Elizabeth Diamond Report, “Eyeglasses for Global Development: bridging the Jubilee Trust in the UK to raise $1 billion for vision care. The Visual Divide”. This report demonstrated that investing in Fund aims to provide sustainable solutions for eye health in access to vision correction would lead to considerable gains the Commonwealth and around the world. Essilor committed in terms of economic and social development, entirely in the expansion of its inclusive business to create sustainable line with the SDGs. vision care infrastructure and employment opportunities for ••In 2012, Essilor lent its support to the founding of the Vision local communities and a first-of-its-kind donation of 200 million Impact Institute (VII). The organization’s mission is to raise pairs of ophthalmic lenses to those most in need. awareness about the importance of vision correction and ••In December 2018, Essilor signed Letters of Intent with the protection to make good vision a global priority. The Vision Royal Government of Bhutan and the Central Monastic Body Impact Institute curates a unique database of scientific to sustainably strengthen the country’s vision care infrastructure. research, reports on the impact and prevalence of poor vision In line with the common ambition to eradicate unprotected and advocates around the world to recommend changes to and uncorrected poor vision, we will address the two biggest public health policy. barriers to good vision, access and awareness, through training ••The Institute is guided by an Advisory Board comprised of and capacity building, a philanthropic donation of 400,000 five independent international experts who inform the pairs of corrective and protective eyewear and organization’s strategic direction. The Institute’s website – awareness-raising. ••On World Sight Day 2018, Essilor’s “Put Vision FirstTM” www.visionimpactinstitute.org – provides a single repository of 350 research studies and reports on numerous aspects of 4 campaign highlighted the importance of regular eyesight the impact of uncorrected vision and in 2018 more than 90 tests in 55 countries, screened over 80,000 people and new studies were added. The website is available in five provided a free online vision test as a first step to checking languages: English, French, Chinese, Spanish and Portuguese. vision. ••In 2018 the Institute was actively engaged in raising awareness ••In 2018, Essilor launched the “Road Safety Starts with Good about the importance of good vision. The following two Vision” campaign that served as a critical lever to create examples illustrate its work: awareness on the importance of good vision for the safety of •• In India, the VII finalized a study with the Central Road all road users (driver, biker, cyclist or pedestrian), reaching millions Research Institute in four cities to evaluate the state of of people around the world. In partnership with the FIA, the vision among a select group of commercial drivers. The campaign was deployed to global audiences through optical, results will be used to address policy change. sport and mobility events, including Mido, Formula 1, 24h •• In the United States, is working with Optometry Giving Le Mans, Paris Motor Show, and the 1st African Road Safety Sight as founder of the Kids See: Success initiative to pass Forum. As a high point, the Essilor World Sight Day campaign legislation in the state of New Jersey that requires a emphasized the crucial link between good vision and road comprehensive eye exam for all children, aged six and safety, inviting all road users to adopt good behaviors to under, entering school for the first time. Final adoption of improve their sight on the road. In 2019, Essilor will continue the legislation is anticipated in early 2019. launching new programs – such the collaboration announced in 2018 with TOTAL, a major player in mobility – in order to fight poor vision and improve road safety in Africa. Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 317 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group 4.2.3.2 Sustainable innovation Each “roadmap” is made up of multidisciplinary teams and uses Design Thinking methods to accelerate the ideation and for customers’ current innovation process. These roadmaps have started to deliver and future needs a high number of new ideas, some of them have been selected and are now included in the Consumer Innovation funnel, Innovation at Essilor either in the concept or feasibility stages. After confirmation Innovation is the linchpin of the Group’s growth strategy and of the consumer benefit and the value creation, the best concept central to Essilor’s model. It is a major differentiating factor are converted into new product and services in the year to and applies to products, services, business models and come. governance structure. As such, it characterizes the unique way the Group carries out its Mission. A global organization Optical lenses are high-technology products. Although At Essilor, R&D is structured around four Centers for Innovation innovation is essential, it is also very important to continue & Technologies, at the heart of major current and future markets working to improve existing solutions. This makes it possible and close to centers of international expertise. It operates as to respond to all new needs which arise as a result of a collaborative, creative network, fostering synergies, speeding demographic and lifestyle changes. up execution and promoting the emergence of new applications. Each year, Essilor devotes a significant part of its revenue for This approach has resulted in Forbes magazine ranking Essilor Research and Innovation, so that it can respond to market as one of the 100 most innovative companies in the world trends in visual health driven by several major social trends since 2010. (ageing population, use of digital technology, new “Base of the Pyramid”, or BoP, consumers, etc.). In that sense, the Group Including sustainable development has notably step up its R&D efforts on Myopia by working on cause studies in collaboration with universities in different in innovation countries and associated control solutions. Essilor has expanded its culture of global innovation through gradual integration of the challenges of sustainable In 2018, R&D investment amounted to €213 million before development. For the Group, as well as being compliant with deduction of research tax credits. regulations, innovation must be: Meeting consumer expectations ••Collaborative. This means that stakeholders (universities, research centers, suppliers, customers, professional Innovation is everywhere within the Group, and it is now taking associations, etc.) can be involved from design through to on new forms, combining technologies with an understanding the launch of the innovation. Essilor has forged over twenty of the whole range of consumer needs: across the following partnerships with universities and public research bodies: three dimensions: visual correction, eye protection and Institut de la Vision in Paris, CNRS, Inserm, Polytechnique prevention of eye disease. Montreal, Universities of Shanghai and Wenzhou in China, Essilor defines its innovation priorities by listening to consumers etc. Based on the results of the See Change Challenge open and paying attention to their unmet and specific needs, as Innovation, a new solution for prescription measurement, well as their lifestyles. Quickcheck, has been developed and will be launched in In order to meet this challenge, marketing and innovation are the year to come. The objective of QuickCheck is to be an inseparable. From the very beginning, the Group’s Centers affordable alternative to the retinoscope, and so give an for Innovation and Technology work in direct contact with the approach value for the subjective refraction, that is done in markets. The centers detect “weak spots” by observing general with trial lenses; technology and competitors. Later on, researchers work with ••Eco-designed. Essilor endeavors to develop products with the marketing teams and the “Global Engineering” department an ever-decreasing impact on the environment by analyzing to quickly make innovations available to consumers. the product’s life cycle, favoring eco-design, working with In order to place the consumer at the very heart of the innovation its subcontractors (purchasing raw materials with less process, Essilor created in 2017 five “roadmaps” for different environmental impact, etc.) and optimizing production consumer types, each of which constitutes a specific market processes. For example: for the Company: •• Essilor now only promotes lighter, more resistant and more ••Kids & teens; environmentally-friendly corrective lenses that are manufactured from thermosetting resins or thermoplastic ••Young adults; materials, ••Mid-life; •• Costa brand has launched its “Untangle our oceans” ••Seniors; initiative in partnership with the Bureo Company to create ••Next Generation Consumers. a collection of sunglasses with frames made from recycled fishing nets, 318 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group •• The online optical group Clearly launched a new brand of The challenge is to find sustainable economic models that environmentally-responsible glasses called “Main + Central”. will continue to support communities as they develop and The frames are made of a highly durable and biodegradable their correction needs evolve. material called “Natura”, which can be returned to the Since 2013, Essilor has put in significant resources to develop Company for recycling when customers want to change and roll out inclusive business solutions that involve skill building their style. of local youth and creating infrastructure to dispense Primary Furthermore, no new chemical component requiring Vision care. toxicology tests is used in the Group’s innovations. Lastly, These solutions demand close collaboration with local as part of animal welfare considerations, Essilor does not organizations, hence Essilor is co-constructing partnerships conduct any tests on animals; with NGOs, social entrepreneurs and regional or national ••Transparent. To guide end users in their choices as effectively governments for its inclusive business models. This provides as possible, Essilor is careful to provide high quality, relevant the Group with a better understanding of local needs and information on new products. By working with visual health obstacles to build a framework for ensuring long-term professionals, training them and providing them with technical sustainability projects. documentation and informative materials, Essilor ensures To this end, Essilor has created two dedicated complementary that its products are promoted in a compliant way. See structures: Section 4.2.6.4 of this document; ••the “BoP Innovation Lab”, the Innovation Laboratory for the ••Accessible to all. For the Group, any innovation must support Base of the Pyramid, supported by the Singapore Economic its Mission. New products are therefore developed to address Development Board, is an internal incubator, accelerator specific or even local issues (such as population aging, the and facilitator which works on inclusive business models with emergence of a middle class in high-growth countries, or teams and foundations across the Group, to raise awareness the development of digital technology) and reach as many and maximize impact. As an incubator, the Lab develops people as possible. To provide more complete protection and evaluates inclusive business models tailored to the local against harmful blue light and UV, both of which contribute context or customer needs. As an accelerator, the Lab provides to age-related vision loss, the Group introduced the Eye strategic and operational support to on-site teams to Protect System™ innovation. This innovative system integrates implement the projects. As a facilitator, the Lab builds and filtering properties directly into the lens itself for maximum strengthens relations with key partners, social enterprises, protection. For the 2.5 billion people without visual correction foundations and development agencies. It works in close living mainly in emerging countries with limited visual health collaboration with Essilor’s inclusive business entity, 2.5 New structures and complex logistics chains, Essilor has developed 4 Vision Generation™ (see description below), to select an improved version of Ready-to-Clip™. This new solution programs, evaluate their social impacts, make any adaptations provides a larger selection of frames with symmetrical lens that may be necessary and develop new products, solutions shape, pre-edged lenses, interchangeable Left & Right lenses and business models in line with the needs of BoP consumers. which allows different spherical prescription. This enables As part of the Lab’s efforts to develop a portable, robust consumers on low incomes to buy an affordable pair of glasses and inexpensive tool to measure visual defects (the current locally, immediately after their eye test, avoiding any issues devices like autorefractometers are expensive and complex), with logistics and order tracking. the team is developing a tool that will be able to provide primary vision care providers and NGOs working in the field 4.2.3.3 Developing inclusive business the ability to conduct accurate measurements on-the-go, models The device, developed in collaboration with startups that participated in an open innovation challenge in 2016-17, is A large number of individuals suffer from poor vision because expected to be available for launch in early 2019. On the they cannot access eye care professionals in the rural product front, the team is also launching the next generation communities or urban areas where they live. of its flagship Ready-2-Clip™ range of frames and lenses Reaching people on low incomes, often designated as “Base which allow for on-the-spot dispensing through pre-cut lenses of the Pyramid” (BoP) consumers, requires a totally different and frames that can be assembled on the spot. The next and innovative approach in terms of products, pricing and generation of Ready-2-Clip™ will enable even better distribution. Training micro-entrepreneurs in primary vision customization by allowing adjustments to pupillary distance care is one of the keys to expanding access to good vision. It and temple sizes. The Lab team is also working on new-age also helps create local jobs and combat poverty. omnichannel business models that can leverage the rapid spread of mobile technology and e-commerce to bring sustainable vision care to the underserved; Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 319 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group ••the “2.5 New Vision Generation™” (“2.5 NVG”) business (a non-profit organization devoted to fighting poverty and division leverages dedicated sales and logistics teams in key discrimination in France and beyond), Emmaus Solidarité, the geographical areas of Asia, Latin America and Africa. It focuses Rothschild Ophthalmology Foundation, Vision Aid Overseas, on the adaptation and local deployment of solutions for BoP Sightsavers, Standing Voice and Orbis International. customers so as to create an initial network of infrastructure To ensure the success of these initiatives, the Group established and vision care micro-entrepreneurs (“Primary Vision Care a Foundation (Essilor Vision Foundation), with legal entities Providers”). These poorly served communities often lack in seven countries and in 2015 launched the Vision For Life™ access to vision care facilities. Essilor’s goal is to create 25,000 funds in France and the United States. Endowed with €49 million primary vision care providers by 2020. At the end of 2018, Vision For Life™ finances philanthropic and sustainable the Group had created 8,963 primary vision care providers programs to raise awareness and improve access to vision (more than 35% of its target) with solid plans in place to care in underserved regions. In 2018, the Group was involved scale-up to the 2020 target numbers. This implies agile, in around 200 programs operating in 50 countries and over scalable business models. For example, in India, where the 3,000 employees volunteered for these initiatives. 3 million 2.5 NVG structure originated, Essilor has developed the Eye people got their eyes tested and 500,000 people were equipped MitraTM (“friends of the eyes” in Sanskrit) program with the with corrective glasses. The Group’s subsidiaries have donated aim of training under-employed young people as vision over 1 million pairs of glasses to the NGO “Restoring Vision”, technicians. They receive training and the equipment needed bringing the total number of people benefitting from a free to start a “micro-business” carrying out eye exams and pair of spectacles to over 1.5 million in 2018. dispensing eyeglasses for the inhabitants of rural or semi-urban In 2016, Vision For Life™ co-founded Our Children’s Vision, a areas. In 2018, more than 6500 Eye Mitra™ partners have global coalition with over 80 partners, which has reached already been created to provide vision care services to their 30 million children through free eye care programs and equipped communities. An impact study conducted by the Dalberg close to 2 million with a free pair of glasses by end of 2018. practice highlighted the major socio-economic contributions this program has made (see Section 4.2.6.5). Inspired by the success of the Eye Mitra program in India, 2018 saw the Essilor Vision FoundationTM flagship business model being expanded to Indonesia, Following the creation in 2007 of the Essilor Vision Foundation Bangladesh, Kenya and China with other countries to follow. in the United States, the Group increased its impact by setting Based on the expertise acquired from the Eye Mitra™ program, up foundations in India, Singapore (covering ASEAN) and the 2.5 NVG teams also developed the Vision Ambassador™ China. In 2016 the Foundation was established in Canada, program, which is designed to train individuals to screen for Australia and New Zealand. near-vision problems in adults over the age of 45 and sell Essilor Vision Foundation’s activities in 2018 include: over-the-counter reading glasses as a complementary business. ••Essilor Vision Foundation US operates in every state through At the end of 2018, this program had over 2,248 Vision more than 175 NGO partnerships and has brought eye care Ambassador™ partners in nine countries: China, Brazil, India, to more than 20,000 schools. One of its flagship programs Indonesia, Cambodia, Vietnam, Ivory Coast, Kenya and South is Kids Vision For LifeTM, which allows students to be equipped Africa. with the glasses they need right on the spot thanks to mobile At the end of 2018, the 2.5 NVG products were being distributed vision clinics. In 2018, Essilor Vision Foundation US launched in more than 50 countries. More than 8 million people were three new programmes to increase its outreach: equipped with eyeglasses this year, majority of them first-time •• See Kids Soar, an awareness campaign with the objective wearers, compared to almost 3.3 million people in 2017, to engage parents, patients and employees by providing 2.2 million in 2016, 1.2 million in 2015 and 300,000 in 2014. them with the necessary marketing and communication assets to raise funds for the foundation; 4.2.3.4 Strategic Giving •• Changing Life through LensesTM, which allows eye doctors Essilor continued to deploy its philanthropic initiatives around and charities to create an online account for no-cost the world in 2018 providing disadvantaged communities and prescription eyeglasses and access to resources for people, many of whom live below the international poverty line, charitable engagement; with the vision care they need. Essilor’s philanthropic activities •• A community grants program through sponsorship of the include awareness-raising campaigns, screening events, donations AOA Foundation’s Healthy Eyes Healthy Children program, of lenses and frames and funding for vision care programs led offering up to $5K per optometrist focused on vision services in collaboration with partner organizations from the public and for youth. private sectors and NGOs. The partners include; Ordre de Malte ••Through these three programs, Kids Vision For Life, Changing in Africa, Lions Clubs International, Brien Holden Vision Institute, Life through Lenses and Healthy Eyes Healthy Children, have Optometry Giving Sight, the Samu (social humanitarian 354,389 children have received a free pair of spectacles. emergency service in Paris), le Secours populaire français 320 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group ••Essilor Foundation China continued implementing school to fighting poverty and discrimination in France and beyond) eye care programs in almost 20 provinces, reaching over Emmaus Solidarité, the Samu social, (a humanitarian 400,000 children. A new partnership with the Chinese People’s emergency service) Médecins du Monde and public or private Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries (CPAFFC) organizations such as the Assistance Publique – Hôpitaux and the local government of Xing County in Shanxi Province, de Paris (AP-HP) and the Rothschild Ophthalmology was launched to cover an additional 41 schools, reach 23,000 Foundation. Vision For LifeTM was involved in setting up the kids, and ultimately contribute to eradicating poverty in this first “PASS-O” unit in France, which provides access to province. ophthalmology care and eyeglasses for almost 5,000 people ••Essilor Vision Foundation India together with 25 partners in without medical insurance per year; 16 provinces, screened over 600,000 people. 50,000 of them ••initiatives for young people from disadvantaged communities, were disadvantaged children who received a free pair for to raise awareness about the importance of visual health for glasses. In the state of Karnataka, together with the local their academic success and professional future. These government, the foundation launched a first of its kind pilot initiatives reached over 20,000 young people, and over 5,000 project to eradicate poor vision in Doddaballapura Taluk. received a free eye test; The project will provide free vision care to 300,000 people. ••initiatives for refugees, at a refugee center in the Paris region, ••Essilor Vision Foundation ASEAN rolled out programs with which offered free vision tests for 400 people, 200 of whom 40 partners in 10 countries, raising awareness and providing were equipped with glasses; 400,000 people with free vision screenings. Over 80,000 ••a partnership with the French Ministry of Education, launched people were equipped with glasses to correct their eyesight. in 2017, to raise awareness and provide all involved parties ••In Australia and New Zealand, Essilor Vision Foundation with training on the importance of good eyesight for academic provided over 5,000 students with free eye tests thanks to performance. a school screening campaign. These initiatives were reported In Europe, Essilor launched multiple initiatives reaching more in local media and helped educate millions of people about than 20,000 wearers. As an example in Kosovo, the Group how important good eyesight is for academic success. started a program for school children in Kosovo in partnership Furthermore, under the global partnership between Essilor with the Lions Club with the objective to screen 6,000 kids. and Special Olympics, since 2002, the vision program Special This program will be continued in 2019 with a 2nd partnership Olympics Lions Clubs International Opening Eyes program to reach an additional 20,000 kids in 20 schools. has screened more than 430,000 children and adults with In 2018, a range of programs were implemented in Africa, intellectual disabilities participating in Special Olympics. In including: 4 2018, a total of 160 events took place around the world, with more than 25,000 Special Olympics athletes screened of which ••renewal of a three year partnership in Ethiopia with the British NGO, Vision Aid Overseas, to provide 90,000 people with over 13,000 athletes received prescription eye wear equipped free eye care and equip 20,000 of them with glasses; with Essilor lenses. ••in Ivory Coast Vision for Life entered into a new partnership with CBM International dedicated to children, to be continued Vision For Life TM in 2019. Vision for Life also contributed to the creation of an Vision For LifeTM administered by two nonprofit entities, the ophthalmology station in Kinbugo Hospital together with Essilor Social Impact Fund, a nonprofit corporation in the US the organization Ordre de Malte; and the “Essilor Social Impact fonds de Dotation” (endowment fund) in France was created in 2015, and aims to accelerate ••in Angola, together with Caritas, two new programs were launched with the objective to reach 800 people with free initiatives targeting poor vision through awareness-raising, eye care; capacity-building and the creation of basic vision care infrastructure. ••in Algeria, a large scale program was launched in the Cheraga district to be rolled out in 143 schools and reach 60,000 Essilor made an initial contribution of €30 million to these two children. A first pilot to screen 10,000 children was completed organizations, making it the world’s largest strategic giving in 2018 and the project will continue in 2019. program dedicated to eliminating Uncorrected Refractive Error. In 2017, the Group made an additional donation totaling €19 million to roll out new eye care programs worldwide. Combined impact of inclusive business In France, these philanthropic initiatives fall into four categories: and strategic giving initiatives ••access to eye tests and basic optical equipment for Essilor aims to improve 50 million lives at the base of the pyramid underprivileged people. These initiatives are delivered in by 2020. At the end of 2018, the Group has reached more than partnership with humanitarian organizations such as; the 46% of its target, i.e. more than 23 million of people have been Secours populaire français, (a non-profit organization devoted equipped with eyeglasses on a cumulative basis since 2013. Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 321 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Social information 4.2.4. Caring for and engaging our people Essilor’s success is deeply intertwined with the 68,972 (full time regarding the Company’s performance and the value created equivalent) employees worldwide who, irrespective of their as a result. role and the work that they do, are committed to developing, Through its human resources policy, Essilor also hopes to producing and promoting the innovative products and services encourage the development and personal fulfilment of its that contribute to the Group’s Mission: to improve lives by employees, by offering them opportunities for growth as part improving sight. of a global, diversified, multicultural Group in multiple locations. With a history spanning 170 years, the Group has a unique This aim entails a working environment that respects their corporate culture based on strong values established in all physical and moral integrity and ensures equal treatment at areas and subsidiaries of the business: entrepreneurship, respect all times. for others and mutual trust, spirit of cooperation, diversity and Ensuring these conditions are met means that Essilor is able innovation. to attract and retain talent as well as to improve the employability Essilor’s employee shareholding structure is a key characteristic of its staff – in particular, by facilitating access to training of the Group’s social policy. It not only benefits employees throughout their career and by broadening their roles and but also shareholders by aligning their common interests experience so as to encourage increased autonomy and responsibility. Total workforce and breakdown of employees by geographical area, gender, function and age As of December 31, 2018, Essilor had 68,972 employees worldwide according to the financial consolidation method. The average workforce for 2018 was 68,333 employees (according to the consolidated personnel costs for the period). 2018 2017 2016 Total workforce (FTEs) at the end of the period 68,972 (@) 66,918 (@) 63,676 (@) Average workforce (FTEs) for the year 68,333 (@) 66,118 (@) 63,107 (@) North America 14,642 (@) (21.2%) 14,123 (@) (21.1%) 13,476 (@) (21.2%) Breakdown of the workforce (FTEs) Europe 11,887 (@) (17.2%) 11,934 (@) (17.8%) 12,141 (@) (19.1%) by geographical area Latin America/Africa/Asia/ 42,443 (@) (61.6%) 40,861 (@) (61.1%) 38,059 (@) (59.7%) Australia/Middle East/Russia Note: FTE = Full Time Equivalent. 2018 2017 2016 Reporting Coverage 100% 100% 91.9% Workforce (headcount) covered by 2018 reporting (end of period) 70,382 69,400 61,995 Note: Reporting coverage is calculated based on the workforce of the financial consolidation at end of 2018 and rule for scope of reporting (See in Section 4.2.2.4). The coverage is almost 100% for a second consecutive year thanks to strong engagement of all Essilor and partners teams. Two entities were exempted from non-financial reporting in 2018. One entity in Japan experienced a fire at end of September and was in recovery process during the reporting campaign. One entity in Romania will participate in sustainability reporting starting from 2019. Given the specific cases above, Essilor considers that the 2018 non-financial reporting covers 100% of the Group’s entities and workforce. Total number of employees reported has slightly increased by 1.4%, which is stable compared with last year. 322 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Workforce breakdown by gender 2018 2017 2016 Breakdown of the workforce by gender Women 37,163 (53.0%) 36,054 (52.0%) 33,587 (54.2%) (based on the workforce covered by reporting) Men 33,219 (47.0%) 33,346 (48.0%) 28,408 (45.8%) Note: There is no significant changes in distribution of employees by gender compared with previous year. 61,995 69,400 70,382 37,163 36,054 33,587 33,346 33,219 28,408 2016 2017 2018 Men Women Workforce breakdown by function 2018 2017 2016 Production staff 35,053 50.0% 35,230 50.8% 31,558 50.9% Breakdown of the workforce by function Supervisors and (based on the workforce covered by reporting) administrative employees Managerial personnel 27,730 7,599 39.0% 11.0% 26,369 7,801 38.0% 11.2% 22,780 7,657 36.7% 12.4% 4 Note: According to the Group’s definition, the “production staff” category includes employees working at production plants; “Supervisors and administrative employees” includes individuals who have management responsibility and/or are employed in an office. Lastly, “Managerial personnel” comprises Executive Directors, managers and experts. There is no significant changes in distribution of employees by category compared with previous year. 61,995 69,400 70,382 35,230 35,053 31,558 27,730 26,369 22,780 7,657 7,801 7,599 2016 2017 2018 Managerial personnel Supervisors & administrative employees Production staff Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 323 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Workforce breakdown by age Age 2018 2017 2016 16 to 18 126 (0.18%) 132 (0.19%) 167 (0.27%) 18 to 24 7,471 (10.61%) 7,084 (10.21%) 6,297 (10.16%) Breakdown of the 25 to 34 23,087 (32.80%) 23,068 (33.24%) 20,245 (32.65%) workforce by age group 35 to 44 19,705 (28.00%) 19,448 (28.02%) 17,065 (27.53%) (based on the workforce covered by reporting) 45 to 54 12,132 (17.24%) 12,180 (17.55%) 10,968 (17.69%) 55 to 59 4,090 (5.81%) 3,893 (5.61%) 3,769 (6.08%) 60 and over 3,771 (5.36%) 3,595 (5.18%) 3,484 (5.62%) Note: Employees below 18 years old are mainly from the entities in Brazil, China and USA, where the minimum legal working age is below 18 with specific conditions. The other few cases are apprentices in the Company. The employment of these people is compliant with local regulations. 23,087 19,705 12,132 7,471 4,090 3,771 126 From 16 From 18 From 25 From 35 From 45 From 55 60 years to 18 years to 24 years to 34 years to 44 years to 54 years to 59 years and above New hires, layoffs and turnover 2018 2017 2016 TOTAL NEW HIRES 21,336 17,848 14,548 Note: The data reported covers almost all the Group workforce reported. The increase of Group recruitments is linked to the higher number of recruitments in China and USA due to operational needs. 2018 2017 2016 TOTAL LAYOFFS 2,699 2,279 1,632 Note: The data covers 90% of the Group workforce reported. The layoffs were mainly in Brazil, USA and Indonesia and were linked to the reorganization of the Group and local employment culture. 2018 2017 2016 VOLUNTARY TURNOVER RATE 9.1% 9.0% 10.0% Note: The turnover rate disclosed is based on the voluntary departures of the Group. It is calculated based on a sample of entities which represents 69% of the Group total workforce reported and covers all the geographic regions where the Group operates and all the Group’s business activities. 4.2.4.1 Ensuring health and safety with Health and safety targets a quality working environment in the workplace Maintaining the health of all employees and offering them a As part of a continued drive to improve occupational health quality working environment are priorities for Essilor. This and safety conditions and reach the target of zero workplace involves preventing accidents and occupational illnesses, taking accidents, the Group has set itself the target of decreasing measures to minimize the severity of accidents and the the work-related injury frequency rate by 30% by 2020 (reference implementation of corrective action plans to prevent repetition. year 2015). At the end of 2018 and on this scope, the Group In addition to the human factor, the accident may involve had already attained 53% of its target, with a 16% reduction. significant direct costs (related to absences and temporary replacement staff, fines, contributions and increased insurance costs) and indirect costs (a drop in productivity and disruption to services). Essilor, its employees and their representatives therefore have a mutual interest in working together to reduce accidents to a minimum. 324 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Organization practices of external companies (such as the International Automobile Federation’s (FIA) golden rules, discussions with In collaboration with the Human Resources department, the the Laboratory for accidentology, biomechanics and human Global EHS (Environment-Health-Safety) department, leads behavior studies (Lab, etc.). In 2019, Essilor France will sign the Group’s approach to health and safety. It includes experts the national call by companies to promote road safety. Lastly, in occupational health and safety, as well as in the management as part of the partnership signed between Essilor and FIA to of chemical products and in ergonomics. It is in charge of promote the importance of vision in reducing road accidents, consolidating data relating to the Group’s accident record several in-house awareness-raising operations took place this and analyzing it to define priorities in terms of reducing the year. frequency and severity of accidents. It creates the risk management systems, establishes the annual targets and is Occupational health and safety policies at the production supported by a network of EHS coordinators at the Group’s plants are shaped by OHSAS 18001 guidelines, as well as main sites, to whom it provides assistance and technical Essilor’s EHS guidelines. The key objectives are to improve operational support, such as standard procedures, action plans, awareness, training, and communication on health and safety and on-site audits. It also ensures that specific attention is issues. More specifically, the EHS guideline identifies and tracks paid on some sites to high-risk procedures such as the synthesis, all the typical risks of a given site depending on its activity storage and implementation of the catalyst (IPP) necessary for (production, prescription laboratory, logistics center or tertiary ORMA® lenses or the formulation, storage and implementation site). This guideline includes minimum requirements applicable of the various monomers for highand ultra-high index lenses. to all sites as well as advanced requirements that are implemented gradually to improve the EHS culture and maturity of these sites. As of December 31, 2018, the production plants Main preventive actions in Brazil (1), China (1), the United States (1), France (2), Ireland (2), For each of the procedures outlined above, a safety guideline Mexico (1), the Philippines (3) and Thailand (2) were was created with the participation of the French national institute OHSAS 18001-certified. As a result, the percentage of certified for industrial environment and risks, INERIS, and the company health and safety management systems in the Group’s upstream Bureau Veritas. The Essilor sites implementing these procedures production plants was 76% (13/17). are audited and certified by Bureau Veritas every three years. The development and launch of new products now include a The sites of Group partners implementing monomers for process called Stages & Gates (see Section 4.2.3.2) which aims high-index lenses are also subject to an internal audit every to coordinate the work of the various departments, from design two years based on an appropriate guideline. Lastly, the creation to deployment at production plants. This process includes of a guideline dedicated to the storage and implementation occupational health and safety and environmental requirements 4 of a specific form of IPP catalyst used by partners will complement in an effort to prevent occupational illnesses and accidents the control system for all the Group’s high-risk procedures in and reduce their impact on the environment. These requirements mid-2019. pertain to safe machines and processes, ergonomic workstations, Road risk management is another major concern at Essilor. chemicals management, regulatory aspects and change The Group policy in this field was strengthened in 2018 with management, among other topics. the help of an internal working group, based on the best Health and safety indicators 2018 2017 2016 Work-related injuries with lost work time 304 294 193 Work-related injuries without lost work time 652 463 333 Fatal accidents 0 1 0 Lost days due to work-related injuries with lost work time 8,735 7,722 6,550 Frequency rate of work-related injuries with lost work time for the period 2.0 2.0 1.9 Severity rate of work-related injuries with lost work time for the period 0.06 0.05 0.06 Note: The number of injuries with absence is stable compared to 2017. The number of injuries without absence increased mainly due to due scope impact of 3 entities in Mexico. The frequency rate and severy rate is at similar level compared to 2017. Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 325 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Accidents with lost work time Lost days (severity rate for the period) (frequency rate for the period) 1.9% 2.0% 2.0% 0.06% 0.06% 0.05% 304 8,735 294 7,722 6,550 193 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Occupational illnesses Identifying and monitoring the possible occurrence of a special emphasis is placed on chemical management with occupational illnesses is the task of each entity and the a focus on preventing employee exposure. Based on a risk number of cases has not been consolidated due to the difference assessment approach, prevention and protection actions are between local regulations. The vast majority of reported underway, such as: Group-wide replacement program, technical occupational illnesses fall within the category of musculoskeletal systems to extract steam and fumes, automatic filling machines, disorders (MSDs). An ergonomics position has been created adaptation of work stations, training sessions and specially within the Global EHS department to initiate and monitor adapted personal protective equipment. The effectiveness of programs set up to reduce the existing number of cases and these actions is verified by periodic sampling or via continuous prevent the occurrence of new cases. More specifically, monitoring, in addition to appropriate medical surveillance Ergonomics Clubs have been launched within the main of employees. A “Critical Raw Materials and Consumables” organizations to bring together experts or site ergonomics steering committee is in charge of monitoring these substitution coordinators and to pool their best practices and standardize actions or programs to reduce exposure. workstation analysis tools. All these action programs were continued in 2018. Because the manufacturing of lenses involves the use of numerous chemicals, including some hazardous substances, Absenteeism 2018 2017 2016 ABSENTEEISM RATE 3.0% 2.9% 3.4% Note: The absenteeism rate is calculated based on a weighted average of entities covering 93% of the Group total workforce. Working time organization 4.2.4.2 Training and the development Working hours vary considerably within the Essilor group. Each of skills and talent legal entity has the autonomy to decide the most appropriate With a rapidly growing international business, a presence in working hours. For that reason, Essilor does not disclose the emerging countries, areas of specific know-how and growth consolidated data regarding working hours. in new segments, training and the development of skills and The Group promotes flexibility initiatives in the organization talents are strategic challenges for the Group. It may be difficult of work (part-time, teleworking, etc.). Local decisions in terms to hire and retain trained, experienced employees, particularly of the organization of working hours are based primarily on in competitive areas of the labor market and in emerging adapting to customers’ needs, discussions with employees countries. This situation affects all levels of employees (workers, and their representative bodies, compliance with local supervisors and managers) and calls for specific measures. regulations and optimizing operational efficiency. In consequence, such measures have a prominent role in Essilor’s human resources policy. 326 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Developing employees’ skills and employability is both an co-designed with prestigious business school across the essential criterion for operational efficiency to support the globe such as ESSEC (France), Nanyang Business School Group’s growth, and a sustainable commitment by the employer (Singapore and China), McCombs School of Business (USA) towards its staff. and Indian Institute of Management Bangalore (India) and Training also supports internal mobility and helps to build mainly targeting newcomers and middle managers; fulfilling career paths. Essilor has a strong commitment to its ••the Advanced Management Program (AMP) is designed to employees in both these respects. help business leaders to better support Essilor’s strategy From very early on, Essilor created its training schemes and execution. In 2018, 35 participants, 11 women and 24 men put in place means of identifying and developing talent. Today, from 15 countries, attended the program. For 2019, a new a number of initiatives are lead regarding training and talent partnership have been signed with INSEAD, which will management. integrate new themes such as leading teams and digital transformation; Training and development ••for Essilor global senior leaders, a Senior Management Program (SMP) that is co-designed with INSEAD, offers a The Essilor group has designed and set up a flexible learning space for them to reflect, learn and share on their leadership environment for employees by integrating digital learning and effectiveness and efficiency. There is a specific focus on topics presential programs to acquire managerial and functional such as governance, value creation and senior leadership capabilities. impact. It welcomes on a yearly basis between 25-30 The global learning and development team is dedicated to executives. design the corporate learning roadmap, to roll out and Additional leadership programs are offered to address administrate the various learning campaigns. This means leadership challenge such as the Transition from Management regularly adding new contents and courses to support the to Leadership (TML). It is a leadership bootcamp for managers organization’s evolving business challenges and transformation to observe, analyze and improve their leadership role. In 2018, needs. four sessions of TML were successfully rolled out in Asia and Training on Group level falls into three categories: Europe, with 86 participants, 33 women and 53 men from 20 countries. In 2019, a similar program will be offered in USA. “EssilorU”, the Essilor online As one of the official sponsors of the “EVE” program, Essilor training platform nominates a selected group of employees to participate yearly. “EssilorU” is the Group’s digital training platform, which connects In 2018, 22 employees took part in sessions held in France 4 employees from all of the Group’s entities across the world. and Singapore. This intercompany leadership program engages As of end of 2018, 44,465 employees are connected and have women and inspires them to contribute to the development access to more than 1300 training contents, some of them of strong, inspiring individuals to bring change to the business. available in 20 languages. Additional partners had been selected It encourages them to build their network and reinforce their for external contents such as LinkedIn, HMM, Go Fluent, HEC working identity. and Crossknowledge. In 2019, there will be a specific focus “Vision Essilor” is a one-week global onboarding program on the curation of new contents and the improvement of the held in Essilor’s Paris headquarters for managers and executive learner experience. The Group will also select a new innovative levels. This immersion program offers participants an opportunity learning system to extend the reach to the entire organization, to share and interact with Essilor Top Management as well as pursuing Group’s goal to ensure all employees have access with the international network of their group. to “EssilorU” by 2020. There are other programs available in Essilor such as “Grow More than 54,000 courses were completed in 2018 and this Your Team” which consist of a combination of in-class sessions, was largely supported by the launch of learning campaigns digital and coaching modules to improve the capability of such as road safety awareness, code of ethics, business and Group’s managers to discover and enhance their leadership human rights, mission insights series and compliance modules. skills. These blended programs are highly appreciated as it gives leaders and their team opportunities to discuss and Essilor business management address key challenges and priorities to be engaged and and leadership programs motivated. Essilor’s business management curriculum is based on three In total, more than 1000 employees and managers participated major management development programs available to to corporate training programs in 2018. In 2019, in addition employees: to current offers, there will be additional programs in the fields ••the General Management Program (GMP) focuses on the of Finance, Communication, Negotiation and Culture, and fundamentals of business topics (strategy, marketing, finance, Business Acumen to complete the corporate offers and address innovation and change management) for executives and business needs. organized in five major countries. This program has been Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 327 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Total number of local training hours To monitor overall training activity across all locations of the Group, the subsidiaries are asked to track the “number of local training hours” indicator for production staff and all other management positions (supervisors, administrative employees and managerial personnel). 2018 2017 2016 Number of training hours for production employees 430,159 418,021 357,196 Number of training hours for non-production employees 293,718 255,028 259,819 TOTAL 723,877 673,049 617,015 Note: To avoid double counting of the training hours, training reporting is separated into two main parts: local trainings and Group online trainings. Local trainings include trainings for production employees and trainings for non-production employees. The reporting coverage of local training information covers 79% of the Group headcount, increased compared with 2017 scope, which led to an increase of the training hours reported. The Group online training is collected and consolidated separately through “EssilorU”, the Group online training platform. 723,877 ••implementing a dedicated recruitment platform for internal 673,049 and external use. This makes it easier for employees to find 617,015 vacancies within the Group and, as such, provides more internal mobility opportunities. It also improves the efficiency 430,159 of the external recruitment process and supports the Group’s 418,021 357,196 efforts to become an “Employer of Choice”, •• the E-Talent’s E-Recruitment module has become the global reference platform for Essilor: with 15,000 current employees 293,718 259,819 and 4,000 new comers from the USA division having access 255,028 to the internal and external Essilor job boards, Essilor’s employees are offered central and global visibility of internal 2016 2017 2018 positions, Number of training hours for production employees •• providing visibility on these career opportunities also Number of training hours for non-production employees improves Diversity & Mobility – the Group’s ambition in the years to come is to be able to provide visibility of these internal opportunities to the entire Essilor population; ••furthering Essilor’s “Employer” brand: Talent management •• maintaining a regular presence on the international Essilor keeps improving its dedicated department, to focus campuses of top-ranking management schools (INSEAD, efforts on Talent & Organization Management. A specific Talent ESSEC, HEC, NUS, NTU, SMU, CEIBS, etc.) by hosting Network in different geographies and business units of the presentations on the Group’s businesses, job and career Group has been set up in order to leverage on best practices fairs and presenting Essilor case studies, and expertise for professionalizing Talent Management. The •• developing comprehensive Employer Branding Strategy team collaborates with the Learning & Development department to attract Talent at all levels, that includes critical skills and to provide support in designing programs with a Talent capabilities, Management perspective. Three mains governance bodies has been created to manage this topic with monthly or •• developing external campaign roadmaps on social networks bi-monthly meetings: Group Human Ressources Committee, such as LinkedIn™; Global Mobility Committee and Talent Network. ••developing internal talent-acquisition capacity to create a In order to attract, develop and retain talent, Essilor’s Talent uniform experience for candidates and fill vacancies more Management department continued in 2018 with the rollout quickly; this was done in 2018 and will continue to be worked of a comprehensive roadmap built on several initiatives: on through the following: ••Deploying the Successfactor software (E-Talent) as a •• enhancing recruitment process with the support of IT comprehensive talent management tool to appraise systems, performance, review talent and prepare succession plans at •• piloting Shared Services solution and/or expansion of the global level, and also to set growth targets to continue in-house talent acquisition teams to excel in talent acquisition employees’ development, activities, •• E-Talent has 15,000 users by end of 2018 (vs. 9,000 users •• upskilling the talent acquisition capabilities through training, by end of 2017), with a plan of reaching 25,000 employees best practice exchange and by building a strong talent in the Talent Processes by end of 2019. A CoreHR system acquisition community. is in development that will allow for more efficient management of employee data and HR processes; 328 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group ••globally launching the ETP (“Emerging Talent Program”) 4.2.4.3 Employee integration and which targets recruits from the best campuses, and offers students a rotation within a region or globally. The program inclusion of all forms of diversity has already been launched in Europe, AMERA and for the Diversity, one of Essilor’s five core values, is a key priority for Finance function, the Group and an integral part of its culture. The Group’s efforts in promoting diversity in all its forms have, over the •• in 2018, a set of standard plug-and-play guidelines were years, brought great value through innovation in products and developed to enable the easy development of ETP across services, international expansion and exceptional growth. the globe, to provide greater exposure to top-tier graduate The inclusive culture has also contributed to success in talent, integrating newly acquired companies, as well as fostering •• for 2019, the Group’s R&D team is exploring the opportunity personal initiative and the development and professional of running an ETP across their major CIT labs in France, growth of Essilor’s employees. Singapore and the US; Essilor is firmly committed to building a work culture that is ••developing the COMET program, which is an accelerator inclusive and that nurtures diversity to allow unique perspectives for talented young employees in the Group, and supports and novel ideas to flourish. The Group believes that inclusion them in their career plans; is not an isolated effort by individuals, but is an embedded ••relaunching the Global Essilor Mentoring program to set part of a culture which begins with the ability to welcome new the standard and establish a baseline for qualified mentors; talent, introduce them to the culture and strategy of the Group, ••developing the Step Up program, designed to tangibly respect the uniqueness of each individual and promote the accelerate the growth of key talents within the Group to value that the amalgamation of these varied profiles can create become future successors for Country Management roles. at Essilor. To monitor the effectiveness of the Talent Management program, In 2018, special emphasis was placed on Inclusion in light of Essilor has put in place a specific reporting process. Essilor’s merger with Luxottica, as well as creation of more jobs and new positions to facilitate more internal as well as ••For 2018, Essilor executive population remained largely steady external mobility. with a total of 17 positions being staffed with internal successors and 21 positions filled externally due to the onset of new skills. As for manager and emerging talent populations, Onboarding new employees the Group had a significant growth of 7% and 20% respectively. At the Group level, the “EssilorU” training platform is used ••As a Talent Management function Essilor has tracked the for the onboarding of new employees. The platform served almost 45,000 employees in 2018 with aims to increase this 4 progress of various indicators (such as diversity, successor coverage, completion ratio, employee engagement growth, number even further in 2019. An induction program is available HR effectiveness) across different populations across the for new employees at the time of the creation of their accounts Group and drove concrete actions to move the needle. to equip them with Essilor’s Business fundamentals. It details However, no formal targets have been set prior to 2018. out the Group’s Mission, Principles & Values and key health and safety compliance polices, allowing each new employee ••For the next years, Talent Management Team has taken a to feel fully immersed and involved towards achieving the long-term approach and has determined some key areas to Group’s overall goals. focus upon: Additionally, “Vision Essilor” is the induction program offered •• create a culture of development to accelerate growth of to welcome new managers; it includes a full week in direct employees across their careers, reduce skills shortage and contact with General Management to explore the Group’s invest in new skills; core businesses, strategy and culture. In 2018, Vision Essilor •• diversify the workforce to enrich the talent pool and promote attracted 117 participants from 27 countries and 16 partners. inclusiveness to boost creativity and innovation; There are a number of induction initiatives at the regional level, •• create an ecosystem to enable line leaders to execute such as the Somos Essilor program in Brazil, the “Y.Essilor” effectively the talent strategy; initiative for trainees and interns in France, and the 90-day “Smart •• transform of HR experience by simplifying and digitalizing Start” program in the USA which is aimed at providing more employees life cycle, increasing quality and productivity information on the optics sector, the Essilor group, the Essilor of the Group workforce; of America subsidiary, and the participant’s business area. •• inspire employees to unlock their performance and potential For the onboarding of Executives, Essilor conducted the first to improve the Group’s business results. pilot of a more inclusive induction process in Paris. The new induction process, piloted in Q4 of 2018, combines business knowledge as well as better integration of key new leaders, including both internal and external hires. Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 329 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Challenges, priorities and key themes •• to enhance the HR and management processes to further of the diversity and inclusion policy promote diversity and its associated benefits. For every new vacancy in a key position, be it external or internal, The Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) policy at Essilor covers several there must be at least one woman fitting the desired profile key priorities: ensuring equal opportunity; supporting among the shortlisted candidates. Certain regional initiatives geographical development and adaptation to local cultures; also include the requirement to first publicize a job opening optimizing the organization; and using the Group’s social, with firms specializing in the recruitment of people with human and cultural richness to boost economic performance. disabilities, an established practice in France and some The Group’s D&I strategy has four main aims: other countries. Local initiatives include the setup of the ••indicators: To create awareness for diversity and inclusion, IDEA (Inclusion & Diversity @ Essilor of America) Committee internal indicators were established in 2018, and were also in the United States. At the Group level, a quarterly made part of the talent strategy. These were measured using discussion committee (the Best Practices D&I Committee) results from the employee engagement survey, and will comprising some 15 “local diversity ambassadors” has continue to be tracked and communicated in 2019; been introduced, ••awareness: To illuminate the importance of diversity and •• to implement initiatives to support the professional inclusion and the elimination of unconscious bias is an development of all employees: “Female leadership” important aim for the Group. In 2018, Essilor’s Diversity & program, such as the EVE program initiated at Danone in Inclusion Focus and Roadmap was communicated to which Essilor has been involved since it was set up five executives, and a D&I toolkit was developed to facilitate years ago; specific courses to attract and develop talent speaking points for leaders for effective dissemination of in the United States, Europe and Asia; training on diversity D&I awareness. The Group plans to continue to promote and unconscious bias aimed at a wide variety of profiles D&I ambassadors and networks globally in 2019, and also within the Group, with pilot sessions for all managers in create a D&I Global Council with business leaders to France and all US employees. walk-the-talk; ••development: To educate and bring awareness to employees Measures taken to promote the employment about the prevention of unconscious bias in the workplace, and integration of people with disabilities Train-the-Trainers, an unconscious bias training was conducted Essilor places emphasis on the issue of disability. Its efforts on “EssilorU” in 2018, which attracted over 1500 participants are reflected across countries, in awareness campaigns and globally. D&I learning was further enhanced through training initiatives, actions to promote fair and sustainable implementing corporate development programs, attending recruitment job security for people with disabilities, and the diversity conferences and joining associations, with plans to development of a purchasing policy that involves the protected continue and expand on these efforts in 2019; worker sector. Servioptica, an Essilor Business Partner in ••process: Colombia, was recently awarded recognition from the United Nations for its good practices of employing people with •• to encourage local teams to take more action in their disabilities. respective regions. 2018 marked the third year of celebrating the month of March as Diversity and Inclusion month at A guide to assist managers, who are key players in integrating Essilor. As part of this celebration every year, many people with disabilities, has been produced in France. Other subsidiaries engage their employees in diversity-themed Essilor entities have also introduced similar methods to promote breakfasts, exhibitions to raise awareness on disability, and the employment and integration of people with disabilities. a special evening with traditional costumes and cuisines The Group’s recruitment procedures allow individuals with from different cultures, competitions and diversity quizzes, disabilities to access genuine job opportunities, and all etc. Further, internal networks for women are being reasonable efforts are made to make a workstation suitable developed in the USA, France, within the e-commerce for and accessible to an individual with a disability. Essilor does subsidiary Clearly in Canada and in Singapore, not engage in any discrimination based on a person’s disability in respect of employment, the job itself or promotional opportunities. 330 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group 2018 2017 2016 Number of employees with a disability 655 617 523 Percentage of employees with a disability 0.9% 0.9% 0.8% Number of associated jobs created 97 85 84 Note: 2018 disability hiring information covers 92% of the Group total headcount. Level of group employees with disability and disability job creation increased slightly compared to last years. Over the years, Essilor has committed to the continued Since its establishment, Essilor has been committed to a strong employment and integration of people with disabilities within internal employee shareholding policy. The Group’s commitment the Group through signing four collective bargaining in favor of employee shareholding has three objectives: to agreements. In France, the Group is a member of two non-profit strengthen employees’ commitment to the Group’s mission associations, Club Handicap & Compétences and Club Être, and strategy, to align their long-term interests with those of which support the inclusion of people with disabilities through the Group and other shareholders, and to give them the the sharing of best practices and organizing of think-tanks opportunity to contribute to value creation and the Group’s with other stakeholders. This commitment by the Company success. and its social partners to the practical implementation of a Employee share ownership has given rise to an original method sustainable, coherent proactive policy, is reflected in an increase of governance that encourages dialog and involves employees in the employment rate for employees with disabilities over in the Group’s key decisions. This involvement in strategic the years. decisions is reflected in the governance model by the presence of a representative of employee shareholders on the Essilor Anti-discrimination policy Board of Directors. In fact, with more than 10,000 current and Essilor has implemented a specific procedure that is invoked former employee shareholders of the Group, Valoptec in the event of employees reporting allegations of discrimination. Association, a non-profit association under the French 1901 Such issues may relate to a job or to an occupation. law, has a representative on the Board of Directors. The Group’s ambition to have 35% of its employees as shareholders by 2020 was already greatly surpassed in 2017, 4.2.4.4 Employee shareholding & thanks to the success of the first “Boost” international plan, engagement/employee which took the total to 54,2% of employee shareholders. Thanks consultation Employee shareholding to this success, the Group repeated the initiative in 2018, extending the scope of its offer to almost all the global workforce of Essilor, thus an additional thirty countries. 4 Employee profit-sharing through the promotion of employee In 2018, Essilor’s employees were accordingly invited to join shareholding and the organization of social dialog is one of the “Boost 2018” international plan alongside local investment the founding principles of Essilor, as well as an essential feature plans. This plan saw a record subscription rate of 66%. It enabled of its governance model. In keeping with its history, its some 36,000 employees in over 40 countries to become entrepreneurial spirit and significantly influenced by its dual shareholders or increase their financial investment in the Group. economic and human objective, in 2018 Essilor continued to The number of employee shareholders is above 46,000, strengthen its employee shareholding representing 68% of the Group’s employees. As of December 31, 2018, employees and partners held 4.3% of share capital and 4.4% of voting rights. 2018 2017 2016 Number of employee shareholders 46,481 (@) 35,866 (@) 13,557 (@) Percentage of employee shareholders 68.0% 54.2% 21.5% Note: Data concern only active employee shareholders as of December 31, 2018. Percentage calculation is based on an average of 68,333 employees for the full year 2018. Employee Engagement explain as well how the Mission nourishes the Group Strategy, detail the importance of employee shareholding, promote Since July 1st, 2017, the Group has created the Culture & the uniqueness of the governance model, in which employees Engagement department within the Global Human Resources shareholders members of the Valoptec association are involved, department. Its main responsibility is to ensure that the Essilor and share Essilor Principles and Values to guide behaviors and fundamentals, as pillars of the Essilor Culture, are deployed attitudes at work. Those fundamentals develop employee’s in all Group entities and communicated to all employees. pride and sense of belonging, as well as the understanding Meetings are organized directly with teams, in the field, to and support to the strategy and values, all of them being explain the Group Mission: “Improving lives by improving drivers of fulfillment and engagement. sight” and to make sure employees understand that, through their daily job, they all contribute to this Mission. These meetings Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 331 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group In order to address 70,000 employee around the world, local as well as many activity committees, communication committees, correspondents called “engagement champions” have been employee committees, factory committees, safety committees, nominated among the local teams. In direct contact with welfare committees and similar structures. managers and local Human Resources teams, they animate Numerous initiatives are conducted in the countries of operation meetings with local teams to develop the level of understanding in the spirit of labor-related dialogue that the Company and support in all countries and entities to Essilor fundamentals. embodies. Staff negotiations vary from one establishment to In addition they facilitate the deployment of transversal projects another, but Essilor consistently promotes these throughout such as employee shareholding development, Valoptec the world as a factor in employee satisfaction. Global staff membership development, communication and training on opinion polls continue to be conducted periodically within Principles and Values, participation to the new global employee the Group. opinion survey. In late 2018, the Group launched a new opinion poll at global In 2018, the group has launched a brand new global Employee level. More than 54,000 employees in 78 countries were invited Opinion Survey. In partnership with Peakon, specialized in the to take part. Entirely digital and anonymous, the online measure of employee engagement through an intuitive and questionnaire was accessible from a computer, tablet or interactive application, this survey allows to identify precisely smartphone, and available in 35 languages in order to facilitate the employee’s drivers of engagement. A set of 33 questions its understanding by all Group employees. Participation was related to employee well-being and engagement was sent to over 80% and more than 300,000 comments were posted. 54,000 employees in 78 countries. 100% digital and anonymous, Ongoing management/employee dialog also allows Essilor this questionnaire was accessible from computer, tablet and and its staff to manage necessary changes in the organizational smartphone, in 35 languages to ensure full understanding by structure with ease. This capacity for dialog is essential to any employee. Total participation has reached over 80% and safeguard the agility of the Group, its business continuity – even more than 300,000 comments were collected. This survey has in case of grievances – and the excellent reputation that Essilor enabled us to identify our strengths, locally and at Group level, enjoys among all its stakeholders. All Group employees have and areas to be improved to enhance employee well-being access to social security; this varies depending on local and engagement in the workplace. 3,000 managers have had characteristics. access to a training to the new tool and have got access to their own dashboard a few days after the survey closing, with customized advices to support them to build action plans. Overview of collective agreements The global survey is now a yearly process and the next round There are a vast number of collective bargaining agreements will happen in November 2019. per legal entity, each of which has the autonomy to implement collective bargaining agreements according to the regulations Organization of dialogue between in force. management and employees Most collective bargaining agreements relate to the provision When it comes to dialogue between management and of both long-term benefits (distribution of performance shares, employees, Essilor promotes listening, discussion and medical cover, pensions, diversity and disabilities, life assurance, transparency in local decision-making. It also encourages open etc.) and short-term benefits (performance bonuses, communication with employees and strives to ensure that shareholding, etc.) which attract and retain employees who everyone can participate without hierarchical boundaries. contribute to the Group’s performance through their expertise Dialogue between management and employees varies widely and talent. Agreements signed on such issues typically have within the Essilor group. Each legal entity has complete a broader framework in respect of general working conditions autonomy to decide on the most appropriate labor-related and therefore include occupational health and safety. dialogue. Labor-related dialogue is generally organized by employee representatives through any means possible or Compliance with the freedom directly for the smallest entities or those not wishing to be of association and the right represented by one or more third-parties. Such dialogue covers to collective bargaining more than 90% of the Group’s total workforce. Essilor recognizes the eight fundamental conventions of the The forms of representation include the following: Optical International Labor Organization (ILO), particularly compliance Union, in Brazil; Shanghai Essilor Optical Company Limited with freedom of association and the right to collective Trade Union, in China; Committee for Dialogue and Information bargaining, the abolition of all forms of forced or compulsory Sharing within Essilor (CEDIE), in Europe; Group Committee labor, abolition of child labor and removal of discrimination in France, Karmika Sangha, in India; Confederation of Filipino in employment and occupation. To date, no activity has been Workers Essilor Manufacturing Philippines Incorporated Chapter, identified as presenting a compliance risk in this area. in the Philippines; Essilor Workers’ Union of Thailand, in Thailand; 332 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Environmental information 4.2.5 Optimizing the environmental footprint In the mid-20th century, Essilor both revolutionized the optics 4.2.5.1 Strengthening environmental industry and, substantially reduced its environmental footprint management by introducting ORMA lens (for ORganic MAterial®). This would replace the mineral lens and lead to the cessation of impactful manufacturing methods. Since this innovation, the environmental Environmental assessment impact of production activities has been significantly reduced and certification and is now limited to water and energy consumption, specialGiven its industrial activities, historically, Essilor has implemented waste management and water discharge treatment. The materials environmental management systems that conform to the and chemical products used in the production process are subject ISO 14001: 2015 standard. As of end of December 31, 2018, to stringent regulations in terms of environmental protection the production plants in Brazil (1), China (1), the United States (1), and are supplied by industries with good environmental practices France (2), Ireland (2), Mexico (1), the Philippines (3) and allowing associated impacts to be controlled. Thailand (2) have all been certified to ISO 14001. Essilor has set five priorities regarding the operational, financial As a result, the percentage of certified environmental and reputational challenges associated with the environment: management systems of the Group’s upstream production 1. Strengthen environmental management processes. plants was 76% (13/17). In 2018, inspection audits were carried out as planned. 2. Reduce water consumption and guarantee supply. Furthermore, some of the most significant prescription and 3. Improve the energy efficiency of manufacturing and service laboratories and distribution centers in terms of transportation processes. production volume have also introduced and maintain 4. Decrease the carbon footprint and adapt to climate change. ISO 14001-certified environmental management systems where 5. Limit waste generation and optimize recycling. this is relevant. Responsibility for overseeing the Group’s environmental impact reduction program lies with the Global EHS department. To Environmental training 4 manage the operation of both environmental management In 2018, in addition to the training and awareness-raising and environmentally-friendly behavior on sites, it relies on a initiatives inherent in ISO 14001-certified systems, the various network of EHS coordinators present on production sites and entities saw the delivery of numerous training courses on aspects at the main prescription laboratories. To develop and deploy of environmental management. The Global Environment, Health reduction solutions and to improve effectiveness in water use and Safety (EHS) department continued with the rollout of a and energy consumption, via the Reboost program, it program to raise partners’ awareness of the EHS policy and coordinates a team of engineers, Global Engineering experts management tools via “EssilorU” (e-learning), train-the-trainer and Water or Energy specialists from the Group’s various courses on the Reboost Water and Energy program, and organizations. dedicated seminars. Provisions and guarantees for environmental risk Essilor made no provision for environmental risks in 2018. 2018 2017 2016 Monetary value of significant fines 0 0 0 Noise pollution performed biodiversity mapping on the majority of its sites worldwide; this was updated in 2017. Four sites are located No complaints about noise, odor or any other form of specific within an area of biodiversity interest. The biodiversity audit pollution were received in 2018. of one of these sites by an external company showed that there was no significant potential impact and no significant Biodiversity & land use dependency in respect of biodiversity and ecological services Finding potential significant impacts on biodiversity is one of for this site and the activities taking place there. the aims of the environmental management systems. Essilor Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 333 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Essilor carries out its business in industrial buildings, usually a scope that represents the majority of its water impacts. In located in existing industrial areas or commercial premises. 2018, on this same scope, and as part of the Reboost program, Land is therefore not used in the Group’s operations per se, the Group has reduced 21% of water use, on track to reach but rather is associated with the buildings the Group occupies. this target. 4.2.5.2 Reducing water use Reduction program To ensure a more effective rollout of initiatives to reduce the Management of water consumption of natural resources, Essilor has launched the “Reboost” program, which aims to define and roll out Group The mass production plants and the prescription laboratories performance standards, along with associated field projects, use considerable quantities of water for lens machining, surfacing to reduce the main environmental impacts. This “Reboost” and rinsing operations. However, net water consumption is program is supervised by a steering committee which ensures not significant since the water used in the production processes the deployment of action plans, the achievement of interim is subsequently treated and returned in near-equal volume, objectives, the development of remedial solutions, the excepting leaks, a low level of evaporation and everyday site preparation of new solutions and the monitoring of a specific consumption. Water & Energy projects budget, which is in addition to site Access to high quality water for production operations is an budgets. essential factor in ensuring the quality of the finished and The following actions have been taken within the “Reboost semi-finished lenses that the Company distributes. Most Group Water” program: sites are generally located in industrial or urban areas where access to water is provided by local authorities. They are ••water mapping: drafting of network maps for water and dependent on these local authority managed utilities. equipment using water for the main laboratories and mass production sites; Water is also used in sanitary networks. A number of entities use recycled production water or collected rainwater for sanitary ••installation of several meters, including “smart” meters to networks. allow more accurate, continuous measurement of water use by the various production lines, support equipment or sanitary The Group has 4 entities located in water stress areas in India water networks; and Mexico. The Group may be faced with restrictions on water withdrawals imposed by local authorities, an increase ••comparison of sites’ water performance with the benchmark in the cost of water and potentially, questions from local process, or “water model”; stakeholders who are also dependent on water resources. ••drafting of a medium-term plan to reduce each area of water To mitigate these water-related risks, sites are introducing more use for sites. stringent water-management programmes and setting specific As part of “Reboost Water”, each region has to define its own water-reduction targets. Meanwhile, the Group fosters and Water roadmap, a process which is overseen at Group level. sustains the conditions for dialogue between public sector In 2018, water use on all sites participating in the Reboost services, water suppliers and NGOs to anticipate changes in program continued to fall. The scope of action for the Reboost the availability and cost of water, so as to adjust production. program was also extended to include, in addition to all mass This policy has enabled Essilor’s production plant in Shanghai production sites, export laboratories and the twenty or so to be recognized as a “company attentive to water-saving” most significant prescription laboratories. The program has by the Shanghai government in 2017. Only 22 companies have focused in particular on coating machines, implementing received this distinction. solutions to reduce and reuse water. The Group continued to Aware of its impact on the environment, Essilor has voluntarily install smart meters on these main sites and is nearing its disclosed its water management approach and water footprint objective of fitting around fifty sites with these solutions. In 2018, through the CDP (1) platform. In 2018, Essilor was awarded with the Global EHS department continued to take account of the A(leadership) score, positioning it among companies eco-design solutions for new projects via the Group’s “Stage which have made ambitious commitments to optimize water & Gate” tool. It also ensured that the environmental friendliness use and improve the security of water resources. Finally, the of equipment is taken into account by sites within the “Reboost Group aims to continue its efforts by cutting its water use per Water” scope. good lens produced by 20% by 2020 compared to 2015, on (1) CDP is an organization which supports disclosure of the environmental impact of major corporations. 334 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Water withdrawals (m3) (m3) 2018 2017 2016 Water Withdrawals 5,068,309 5,577,607 6,048,575 Breakdowns by source Municipal water 4,616,181 4,964,754 5,661,638 Natural water 452,128 612,853 386,937 Note: With efforts to continuously improve the reporting data quality, a mistake was identified for 2017 reporting on water withdrawals. The 2017 data have been restated accordingly. The decrease of water use of 2018 is mainly explained by the Group's strong effort on water reduction (-7% vs 2017) and change of reporting scope: 2 entities with siginificant water use in 2017 are not any more in the financial consolidation scope and 1 entity was exempt from reporting for 2018 (5% decrease). Meanwhile, the expansion of perimeter accounts for 3% of the total water use of 2018. The coverage rate of 2018 water data is 90% of the Group headcount. 6,048,575 5,557,607 673,008 386,937 5,068,309 163,710 612,853 452,128 5,661,638 4,964,754 4,616,181 2016 2017 Variation on Scope 2018 same scope impact Municipal water Natural water Water discharge control program systems. These parameters are also monitored as part of water use reduction projects in the “Reboost” program. In fact, actions The prevention and reduction of water discharges are taken to reduce water withdrawal consequently increase the 4 into account whenever relevant. This involves investing in concentration of pollutants. The Group must thus ensure that wastewater treatment systems, from single or combined filtering, these projects do not have a negative impact on wastewater neutralization, settling and degreasing processes to complete from sites where these solutions are fitted. processing units, purification plants or similar treatment facilities. These measures are designed to reduce loads in existing In 2018, the Group continued to implement actions for more effluent, which, in the case of prescription laboratories, are accurate monitoring of wastewater by means of the “Wastewater essentially suspended solids related to surfacing that are filtered Model” program, on the same scope as Reboost Water, in at the job site and sent to a dump as solid waste. order to compare site performance with the benchmark process. This program helps to identify the actions needed to prevent The Group controls the quality of its water discharges. water discharge incidents outside permitted limits. Suspended materials, COD, five-day BOD, heavy metals and other general criteria like pH or other more specific indicators Essilor completed the installation of water treatment plants, depending on the requirements of local water agencies are particularly in China, on the three production plants in Danyang. monitored locally through the environmental management The Group had more than 130 water treatment plants in 2018. Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 335 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group 2018 2017 2016 TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER DISCHARGED (m ) 3 4,054,647 4,462,085 4,838,860 Note: The volume of water discharges is calculated from the difference between water withdrawals and water consumption. Essilor’s water consumption is mainly due to evaporation during the manufacturing process. Knowing the percentage of water consumption of different manufacturing operations and geographic regions can vary from one mass production plant or prescription laboratory to another, we estimated the Group level of water consumption at 20% of the water withdrawals based on the Group’s expertise. That is to say, the volume of water discharges of the Group is estimated to be 80% of the Group water withdrawals. With the restate of 2017 water withdrawal data, water discharge data has been restated accordingly. Water discharges (m3) 4,838,860 4,462,085 538,406 130,968 4,054,647 2016 2017 Variation on Scope 2018 same scope impact 4.2.5.3 Energy efficiency in production Reboost Energy now incorporates several areas of focus: and distribution ••a review of the energy efficiency of manufacturing processes (heat chambers, vacuum processing machines, etc.) and Energy & Production peripheral units, such as compressed air, chilled water and air conditioning units, etc.; Compared with industrial transformation processes, the energy requirement for manufacturing finished and semi-finished ••calibration of settings and usage of equipment, and its lenses is minimal. However, Essilor is committed to improving environment in terms of impact on support equipment its energy efficiency, as reflected in a steady decrease in energy consumption (cold water, air conditioning, fresh air renewal intensity over the last 15 years. rate, etc.); Beyond Essilor’s corporate commitment, energy efficiency is ••improvement of the equipment efficiency ratio (EER) by the also a lever for cost reduction, since energy accounts for a sites, redefinition of the stoppage or standby conditions for significant proportion of operational costs. The action plans equipment with the highest consumption; implemented also allow the Company to control the rise in ••raising awareness among technicians and maintenance teams energy costs and increase its ability to avoid interruptions to and providing them with training. One of the three online or restrictions on energy supply in particular business regions. training sessions available on the Essilor Academy – Save Lastly, energy efficiency helps to reduce direct greenhouse Energy (EASE) intranet site is designed to provide training gas emissions. and a continuous flow of information on good practices, As with water, energy efficiency initiatives are managed under and monitor energy-saving technological developments; the Reboost program by applying a similar methodology: ••improving the energy efficiency of existing buildings. ••“Energy mapping”: mapping of energy networks and In order to specifically monitor support equipment that accounts equipment that consumes energy for the main mass for around 50% of the energy consumption of a given site, a production sites and laboratories; committee comprises of experts and maintenance staff known ••rollout of meters, including smart meters, to accurately and as a “Utilities Techno-Club” was set up. Specific KPIs enable continuously measure the direct and indirect energy the energy consumption of equipment or its performance to consumption of the various production lines, support be compared across sites. An equipment replacement program equipment or other site installations; is currently being developed. ••establishment of benchmark energy performance of the With regard to energy mix, to date it is still difficult for most various items of equipment to create site “Energy Models”; sites to use renewable energy, except in countries where this is available and offered as an option to industrial customers ••preparation of medium-term plans to reduce each area of by energy providers. For instance, the Export laboratory in energy use. India gets 70% of its energy from a neighboring solar farm. 336 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group In 2018 the Reboost Energy program continued, with the goal Essilor has also voluntarily contributed to the work of the CDP of achieving a 15% reduction in energy intensity per good lens Climate. In 2018, the Group was again awarded an “A-” rating produced by 2020 (compared with 2015) on a scope that in recognition of its efforts and continuing investments, having represents the majority of the Group’s energy consumption. shown leadership in this area. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 2018 2017 2016 Total consumption (GWh) 915.8 932.0 830.7 Breakdown by type Electricity 841.5 849.7 759.1 Gas 62.1 70.1 61.0 Liquid fuel 12.2 12.2 10.6 Renewable energy 190.6 193.7 174.8 % of renewable energy 20.8 20.8 21.0 Note: Energy consumption has decreased by 2% compared to last year. Reporting coverage is upped to 93%. With the same scope of 2017, the consumption of energy decreased by around 3% thanks to the energy reduction programs of the Group. Increased participation rate and the expanded reporting perimeter have an impact of 2% of 2018 total energy use. Renewable energy is calculated based on the average percentage level of renewable energy within the global energy mix per country according to IEA database. The Group will strengthen the renewable energy reporting to have more accurate number in the future. Energy consumption (GWh) 932.0 30.0 13.8 915.8 830.7 849.7 841.5 759.1 10.6 61.0 12.2 70.1 12.2 62.1 4 2016 2017 Variation on Scope 2018 same scope effect Gas Liquid fuel Electricity Energy & Transportation Essilor has a clear climate strategy to not only being resilient to climate-related risks which is considered as one of main Energy used by transportation is measured using three CSR risks of the Group, but also take climate actions as a driver categories: primary (flows to a distribution center or offshore of efficiency, innovation and competitiveness. prescription laboratory, regardless of the point of origin), secondary (flows to a subsidiary, regardless of the point of Specifically, Essilor manages its Climate Change program and origin) and tertiary (flows to the customer, regardless of the associated risks through 3 main areas of actions: point of origin). See details in Section 4.2.5.4. ••monitoring: measure the Group carbon footprint and identify main sources of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions; 4.2.5.4 A limited carbon footprint ••mitigation: reduce GHG emissions to contribute mitigating Following the achievements of the Paris Agreement and the climate change; United Nations COP23 conference, Essilor signed up to the ••adaptation: assess climate change related risks, adapt the French Climate Pledge in 2017, along with 91 other French business to climate change consequences and build business companies which have committed, over the following years, resilience. to limit their impact on the climate, notably by financing energy In 2018, the Group has made improvements on each of the efficiency programs, optimizing their production equipment areas. and logistics chains, and innovating in the field of low-carbon products and services. Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 337 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Monitoring the main sources In 2017, Essilor performed its first global carbon assessment of GHG emissions of its business by taken into account all sources of emissions along its value chain (raw materials, transportation to customers, Knowing monitoring is the foundation of all climate change depreciation of buildings, end of product life, etc.). The Group’s related initiatives, with the risk of incorrect or limited carbon footprint has been estimated at 2.7 million tCO2eq, measurement, the Group keeps improving its reporting capacity across all scopes (Scopes 1, 2 & 3). This work has enabled the on GHG emissions, by strengthening the data collection process Group to: and by extending the reporting scope. ••confirm that the Group’s current reference reporting scope, All this work follows the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol” (GHG with a total of 752,103 tCO2eq, is consistent, representing Protocol), the international set of standards for greenhouse 28% of the total estimated footprint (see details below); gas accounting. Under this Protocol, there are three categories: ••provide more detailed information on the largest sources ••Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions occur from sources that of emissions; are owned or controlled by the Company; ••improve the Group’s knowledge of Scope 3 so as to begin ••Scope 2 – GHG emissions from the generation of purchased dialogue with stakeholders (transporters, suppliers, etc.); energy (e.g.: purchased electricity) consumed by the Company; ••identify the next focus areas in terms of reporting and ••Scope 3 – all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) mitigation; that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions. ••confirm Essilor’s positioning as a low-carbon company. Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions deriving from energy consumption (scope 1 and 2) Since 2015, Essilor has been working on an extended reporting scope for its greenhouse gas emissions, and has reviewed the associated calculation methodology. The Group uses the main emissions factors via the databases of the French Environment and Energy Management Agency (www.ademe.fr). 2018 2017 2016 TOTAL SCOPE 1+2 EMISSIONS (tCO2eq) 457,034 462,618 395,093 Scope 1 19,116 21,050 17,470 Gas 15,152 17,102 13,661 Liquid fuel 3,964 3,948 3,809 Scope 2 437,918 441,568 377,623 Electricity 437,918 441,568 377,623 Note: GHG emission (Scope 1+ Scope 2) of 2018 has decreased by 1.2%. With the same reporting scope, the GHG emission decreased by 3%, in line with the decrease in energy consumption. The 2018 scope impact accounts for 2% of the total Emission of Scope 1+ Scope 2. 462,618 15,041 9,457 457,034 395,093 441,568 437,918 377,623 17,470 21,050 19,116 2016 2017 Variation on Scope 2018 same scope effect Scope 1 Scope 2 338 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Indirect greenhouse gas emissions deriving ••tertiary transportation (so called “last miles”): flows to the from transportation (scope 3) customer, regardless of the point of origin. While it is important to understand the global footprint of the Since 2015, to focus on the material impacts, the Group has Scope 3 emissions, the Group has a specific focus on the been working with a reference reporting scope in terms of downstream transportations and distributions of the lenses, volume and geographical coverage, covering all three types one of the most important carbon emission sources of the of transportation and has been continuously integrating more Group activities. subsidiaries and locations in the reporting scope. Downstream transportation emissions have been split in 3 The 2018 emissions data covers 33 mass production plants, categories: seven offshore prescription laboratories and 14 distribution ••primary transportation: flows to a distribution center or offshore centers, representing almost all locations of the Group’s lenses prescription laboratory, regardless of the point of origin; business with international transportation flows. In addition, the Group has expanded the scope of “last miles” reporting, ••secondary transportation: flows to a subsidiary, regardless notably for European subsidiaries. of the point of origin; (tCO2eQ) 2018 2017 2016 TOTAL SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS ASSOCIATED 295,068 281,988 226,371 WITH TRANSPORTATION Impact related to transported volume & reorganization 290,535 281,988 Development factors of logistics flows Impact of reporting scope 4,533 expansion Note: GHG emission linked to logistics of 2018 has increased by 4.6%. With the same reporting scope as 2017, the GHG emission increased by 3%, mainly due to the increase of transported volume. The expanded scope accounts for 1.5% of the total 2018 emissions. Mitigation production plants and significant laboratories. A public target has been issued to reduce energy intensity by 15% by 2020 While implementing its growth strategy, the Group is committed 4 compared with the 2015 level. to reducing the environmental impact of its operations, particularly its carbon footprint. Reducing the Group’s GHG emissions is also an opportunity Adapting to the consequences to reduce the associated costs (energy, transportation), limit of climate change energy dependence (even if relatively moderately), anticipate Essilor was one of the first signatories of the United Nations’ the application of binding climate agreements (taxes, quotas) Caring for Climate initiative in 2007, and – being aware from and meet the expectations of investors and financial institutions, a very early stage of the effects of climate change – it has as well as of key account customers in this area. gradually included the potential natural hazards in its operations The analysis of GHG emissions shows that there are three management. As such, analyzing the consequences of climate main sources of emissions that are considered as priorities on change on Essilor’s operations is part of mitigating operational mitigation projects: risks at the Group’s manufacturing plants and those of its strategic suppliers. The Group assesses these risks and integrates ••transportation between suppliers, plants, laboratories and them into its overall risk management strategy so that it can customers. seek the most appropriate solutions. The Group continues to optimize its supply chain by favoring In 2018, to better understand the potential physical risks linked regional flows between the production plants and the to climate hazards and to improve Group resilience to climate prescription laboratories, by replacing the use of air change consequences, Essilor conducted an assessment on transportation with other means such as sea or road physical climate risks in the long term to build its first climate transportation, by reducing the delivery frequency and by risk model and tested the model with a sample of 80 main requiring logistics subcontractors to use more environmentallysites, including production plants, laboratories and distribution friendly transportation methods; centers. ••purchasing, including raw materials to manufacture the lenses. Based on the assessment, five main climate hazards and risks As part of its Supplier Sustainability Program (see 4.2.6.3), have been identified: Essilor also works in partnership with its suppliers to improve ••temperature and heat waves, which can increase the the environmental profile of its products (e.g.: using less operational costs of facility management and can affect packaging, eco-design…) to reduce the associated carbon employees’ well being at work; footprint; ••humidity, which can increase the operational costs of facility ••the energy used at the lens production plants and prescription management and slow down production process; laboratories. ••periods of extreme drought, which may affect water availability; Essilor has implemented an ambitious energy efficiency program named “Reboost Energy” (see 4.2.5.3) at the Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 339 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group ••flood and heavy rains, which may cause deterioration of the better prevention of and adaptation to all climatic risks. buildings and potentially threat employee security; As such, the Group pays close attention to the choice of ••storms (cyclones, hurricanes and typhoons) which can cause location for its industrial facilities, damage to the buildings and slow down the logistics chain; •• business continuity plan to ensure that production and In addition, fluctuating costs of energy and raw materials (e.g.: business activity continues, even in the case of a weather additional taxes on fossil energy, carbon tax levy, etc.) can also event that could slow down a production plant or disrupt cause risks and additional costs to Essilor’s operation. the logistics chain; Essilor has defined two focus areas in response to climate 2. Developing the product range: eye protection needs in change: response to a context where climate change may impact the quantity or nature of harmful rays have not yet been 1. Managing operational risks: a major focus area, broken down evaluated with sufficient precision. However, the protective into three complementary components: function of the corrective lens may be incorporated, •• environmental audit prior to acquisition of any new business particularly as a response to the harmful nature of ultraviolet partner, to assess their exposure to climate change, light in general, which is filtered by Xperio® lenses and several •• improvement to the environmental management system other ranges of sun lenses with different E-SPF® index values. at the plants by implementing specific action plans to ensure 4.2.5.5 A circular economy approach to raw material optimization and waste management Essilor mainly uses resins, monomers, minerals and chemical products in the manufacture of lenses. It also buys in packaging products (cardboard, plastic casing, plastic film, etc.). (tons) 2018 2017 2016 Raw materials used 21,970 (@) 21,110 (@) 18,000 (@) Note: raw materials include resins, monomers and minerals. Environmental impact studies, for the most part based on Essilor is pursuing this as part of a more comprehensive circular life-cycle analyses conducted in 2017, show that Essilor’s economy approach. For example: operations do not present any risks of discharges into the air, ••the Group uses reusable shuttle packaging known as water and ground which could seriously affect the environment. “Bulkpack” between certain production plants and However, these activities generate special waste, which must laboratories, significantly reducing packaging waste; be handled and processed in a particular way. ••Essilor has completed the waste generation analysis of its For many years now, Essilor has been committed to a strategy main plants, export laboratories and a number of its most which combines improvement to manufacturing yields (quality significant prescription laboratories. This work involved management, continuous improvement, eco-design, etc.) with mapping the amount and type of waste, as well as the the promotion of the “3Rs”: Reducing the volume of materials associated processing solutions. It became apparent that used in the various processes (manufacture, distribution), Reuse the structure of existing local waste treatment measures play and Recycle raw materials and packaging. an important role when it comes to managing waste sorting To cite a few examples by way of illustration: at Group sites; ••the use of cupless cardboard boxes; these offer a number of ••Essilor’s environmentally-responsible paper policy has received benefits, including dispensing with the plastic cup previously recognition by WWF France. Essilor improved its performance, used for the semi-finished lens, without altering the level of ranking fourth in the PAP50 2017 survey. Its paper use per protection; employee has fallen by 19%; over 300 tons of paper have ••the development by the Equipment Division of a system for been recycled and its recycling rate is close to 100%. blocking lenses in surfacing operations which breaks with In 2018, Essilor created a mapping of its main waste and existing technologies and paves the way for the gradual established monitoring indicators to develop an initial roadmap. replacement by all market players of conventional blocking A Waste workshop was organized over several days with Essilor’s systems, some of which use metal alloys; Waste experts, specifically involving the Purchasing and Legal ••the compacting of polycarbonate shavings and residues from departments, to establish best practices for waste reduction, the surfacing process to reduce the weight of waste and waste recycling and waste recovery. The most promising recover water, which is then filtered and reinjected into the solutions will undergo pilot projects to validate their large-scale prescription laboratory’s in-house system; deployment. ••partnerships with waste managers for incineration of waste The prevention and reduction of air discharges are taken into with recovery of the energy; account whenever relevant. For example, the Group’s entities invest in devices to treat volatile organic compound (VOC) ••recycling by subcontractors of certain used effluents (oils, emissions, ranging from simple on-site extractors to computeracids etc.), for reuse in Group facilities. controlled biofilters and activated carbon filters or similar 340 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group devices adapted as needed. They set objectives and targets Essilor entities also have a waste sorting system to manage for the reduction of existing discharges. their ordinary and special industrial waste. This waste is recorded The possibility of discharges into soil that would be likely to and taken away by certified specialist companies. impact the environment, even slightly, has been assessed and Lastly, Essilor believes that fighting food waste and food poverty has led to the implementation of appropriate prevention is a collective challenge, even if it is not a challenge for the measures, such as retention devices to deal with accidental Group in the context of its own activities. However, the Group spills or the outfitting and special management of chemical still educates its employees about this issue. storage premises. (tons) 2018 2017 2016 WASTE GENERATION 41,956 43,994 34,683 Ordinary (non-hazardous) waste 33,323 36,825 27,328 Sent to material recycling 11,116 15,322 10,875 Sent to incineration with energy recovery 9,012 Sent to incineration without energy recovery 4,239 21,503 16,453 Sent to landfill 8,956 Special (hazardous) waste 8,633 7,169 7,355 Sent to material recycling 2,191 3,378 2,434 Sent to incineration with energy recovery 2,635 Sent to incineration without energy recovery 2,141 3,791 4,921 Sent to landfill 1,666 Waste recover/recycle rate 59,5% 42,5% 38,4% Note: To continuously improve the reporting data quality and relevancy, the waste breakdown has been updated in 2018 and new categories have been created. With this more demanding requirment, the waste reporting coverage has decreased to 74% of Group headcounts. The decrease of waste of 2018 is mainly due to this scope reduction, resulting in 6% decrease in waste compared to 2017 scope. 2,653 3,791 3,378 614 3,807 4,826 4 4,921 2,434 21,503 13,195 16,453 20,128 15,322 10,875 Variation on Scope 2016 2017 same scope impact 2018 Non hazardous wast recycled Non hazardous waste not recycled Hazardous waste recycled Hazardous waste not recycled Chemical spills 2018 2017 2016 Number of accidental chemical spills 2 1 2 Note: In 2018, there were two accidental chemical spills happened in Brazil. The 2 cases in total have less than 100 litres of impact and actions have been put in place. Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 341 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Societal information 4.2.6 Working with society As Essilor has grown internationally, it has based its success on To promote fairness in its business practices, Essilor International the proper consideration of local impacts, dialogue with has introduced procedures which are formalized in a number of stakeholders and the creation of shared value with partners, documents: suppliers, governments and local communities. The establishment ••the Essilor Principles and Values formalize the general conduct of Essilor sites provides access to meaningful jobs in a buoyant rules to be followed by every employee; sector and generates significant direct and indirect income. The Group’s Principles and Values and its Code of Ethics are ••a Code of ethics, available since the first quarter of 2018, reaffirms that Essilor is accomplishing its mission to “improve the foundation of all business relations, ensuring fair and honest lives by improving sight”, driven by its Principles and Values. collaboration which is transparent for stakeholders. This Code is being deployed through face-to-face training As a signatory of the Global Compact, Essilor has undertaken for managers and employees, supplemented by e-learning to promote the ten universally accepted principles relating to training on “EssilorU”, offered in 21 languages. All employees human rights, labor standards, the environment and the fight with access to “EssilorU” will then be asked to acknowledge against corruption. Essilor also contributes to the United Nations they have received and understood the Code Sustainable Development Goals through its Mission. ••the Minimum Control Standards (MCS) formally enshrine 80 Within Essilor’s scope of consolidation, this undertaking is internal controls which are generally considered to be the reflected in internal control procedures to prevent, detect and most crucial to have in place. Brochures explaining these remedy any situations that undermine integrity and the principle procedures to employees have been translated into 32 of free competition as well as in employee management languages. The MCS also form the basis of the annual selfprocedures that comply with best practices. With its partners, assessment questionnaire for internal control; the Group ensures that it does not work with entities that fail to respect the provision of decent working conditions for their ••the Group Standards Guide, which brings together the various rules of internal control covering the main Group-level employees, employ people below the local legal age or prohibit organizational processes; employee representation. ••detailed rules and policies (local, regional and/or Group level); 4.2.6.1 Fair business practices ••ad hoc working groups devoted to the implementation of Given the diversity of the countries in which Essilor operates, specific regulations, such as REACH, UK Bribery Act, the the Company has to remain vigilant to changes in local labor Modern Slavery Act, “Devoir de vigilance” and California and environmental regulations. Proposition 65; This requires a specific organizational structure, ongoing ••development of a formal competition law compliance monitoring and close collaboration between the Legal Affairs, program; Compliance, HR and Environment/Operations functions. ••preparation and implementation of a formal Group corruption Given its business activity and its commitment as a responsible prevention guide, explaining the common rules and principles company, Essilor has to combat all forms of corruption and to be observed throughout the Group in addition to local fraud, particularly in geographic areas that are sensitive to this laws. This guide was updated in early 2018 to take account type of risk. Tax evasion and money laundering, as well as the of the requirements of the French Law on transparency, the frauds that are often associated with it, are also given special fight against corruption and the modernization of economic attention. Essilor condemns these practices firmly and has put life (known as Sapin II) and is available in 14 languages to in place procedures to prevent the risk of occurrence. facilitate its distribution within the Group. This entails devising a system to prevent risks of corruption and training employees in how to apply it properly, in compliance Prevention of corruption with local regulations, the Code of Ethics, and the Essilor As a signatory to the Global Compact and member of Principles and Values. In 2015, the Group decided to make Transparency International, Essilor complies with, supports improvements in this area by appointing a Chief Compliance and promotes the UN convention against corruption and Officer and putting together a network of local correspondents. ensures compliance with local regulations. Finally, as an industry leader, Essilor is highly vigilant with regard In terms of raising awareness about the various forms of corruption, to compliance with competition rules and takes care to prevent training and awareness-raising tools have been rolled out by conflicts of interest. means of audio kits available on the intranet. Training in local languages is provided as a suite of awareness-raising programs that are gradually cascaded from the Group’s Management Committee. With the odd exception as a result of very recent hires or other extraordinary events, all Directors of the Group have been made aware of and trained in the prevention of corruption 342 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group and conflicts of interest, through e-learning. The same is true of 4.2.6.2 The Group’s human rights employees who, due to their role, may find themselves in risky situations. They are also requested to undertake training provided vigilance plan via e-learning modules, available since 2018 in 22 languages. This section aims to present Essilor’s approach to meeting the These e-learning training courses are complemented by requirements of French Law No. 2017-399 relating to the duty classroom-based training programs, where necessary. of care of parent companies and contractors. These awareness-raising and training actions supplement the This vigilance plan covers the scope of the Essilor group rollout and access to the corruption prevention Guide, updated represented by Essilor International and its subsidiaries within in early 2018. They express the firm resolve of the Group’s its scope of financial consolidation. general management to promote the corruption prevention As the combination between Essilor International and Luxottica measures entrusted to the Group Compliance department. was only very recently finalized, thus in late 2018, Luxottica This department, created in 2015, relies on a dedicated team cannot be considered in respect of this vigilance plan. reporting to the Chief Compliance Officer and a local network Essilor attaches particular importance to identifying risks and of regional coordinators. preventing serious breaches of human rights and fundamental In addition to these awareness-raising activities, risk mapping freedoms, health and safety at work (these are referred to on corruption, tax fraud, tax avoidance and money laundering below as “human rights”), as well as the environment, that was established at Group level. This is an essential tool that could arise as a result of its activities, those of its subsidiaries, helps to determine priority actions in this area, and has allowed and those of its suppliers and subcontractors, whatever their the Group to adapt its internal prevention procedures. To this position in the value chain. end, compliance procedures have been drafted and made The Group hearby reports on the progress of the operational available within the Group, and integrated into the Group implementation of its commitment and vigilance approach Standards Guide (GSG). Monitoring and compliance with the for each of the corresponding key themes, and according to GSG are led by the Internal Control department. The deployment any changes in its activities and structure. For the sole purposes and effective implementation of these anti-corruption measures, of clarity and readability of this vigilance plan, if necessary, combined with the implementation of other preventive readers will be referred back to sections of this Non-Financial measures, are then subject to specific audits, led by the Internal Performance Disclosure for further details. Audit department. This forms part of the Group’s effort to continuously improve the effective implementation of risk An essential mission that helps provide prevention measures regarding corruption, tax avoidance, tax fraud and money laundering. access to visual health Accordingly, access to EthicsLine, the internal alert system for several years now which covers various areas (HR, CSR, legal, Seeing well is essential for daily wellbeing and good quality of life. Having good vision allows an individual to acquire knowledge, access employment and integrate socially within 4 finance) within the limits set by local regulations, is a key part of the corruption prevention actions. Introduced initially in their environment. That is why Essilor’s teams are active North America, EthicsLine has been rolled out since 2017 across worldwide in their drive to “improve lives by improving sight” the Group as a whole. The system can be accessed by each with the aim of providing better vision to the world’s 7.4 billion employee via a secure dedicated website or via a toll-free people. Through its mission, operations and organization, hotline. This system also allows all employees to request advice Essilor plays a role notably in providing access to visual health. on other topics related to human rights (data protection, Its expertise, global presence and capacity for innovation have psychological or sexual harassment, health/safety, etc.). All alerts resulted in more than a billion people worldwide already wearing and requests for advice are processed by the Group Compliance Essilor products. See Section 4.2.3. department, which relies on a network of internal investigators trained in this respect (HR, Legal, Internal Audit, etc.). In 2018, A mission that helps to promote human several alerts resulted in disciplinary sanctions ranging from rights and protect the environment warnings to dismissal. across the whole value chain For nearly 170 years, Essilor has placed particular importance Compliance with competition rules on respect for human rights and the environment, along with The Group’s legal risk prevention policy is structured around the applicable laws and regulations. This is an integral part of the three main risks associated with its business activity. As such, its culture and is fully at the core of the Principles, Values, and for Essilor, a major player in its market, compliance with the Mission of the Group. rules of competition law and commercial practices is an essential This requirement was strengthened in recent years in a context pillar of its risk prevention policy. The compliance program of sharp growth: with lenses constantly evolving, new activities has been formally established and its rollout allows the Group being developed, and the expansion of Essilor’s presence in to promote and reinforce good competition law practices in new countries. trade relations with Group partners and stakeholders. Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 343 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Moreover, the development in recent years of international In addition, so as to strengthen its commitment and its action standards has informed the Group’s approach. Since 2010 and structure in 2018, Essilor published its Code of Ethics in which the adoption of several international laws, human rights and respect of human rights and the environment are among the the environment must in fact be a core focus of any responsible themes outlined. Available since Q1 2018, this Code is deployed corporate policy. In addition, the Group ensures the application through face-to-face training for managers and employees, of the UK “Modern Slavery Act” and the French “Duty of Care” supplemented by e-learning training. It is also available on law. For illustration, Essilor has also decided to base its the Group’s website, www.essilor.com. See Section 4.2.6.1. sustainable development approach on the United Nations The Group is committed to continuous progress, and is aware Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights as well as that its human rights and environmental approach requires the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. monitoring, review and regular improvement in terms of As part of its Mission and commitment as outlined previously, identifying the associated risks, updating policies and internal Essilor develops its actions contributing towards stakeholder procedures, making commitments and implementing actions dialogue, the optimization of its environmental footprint, the “on the ground” to mitigate risks, preventing serious breaches, development of various inclusive economy models and and taking corrective action where applicable, then remaining philanthropic actions and the promotion of employee permanently vigilant about the consequences of its activities. shareholding. This continuous progress approach includes its value chain. Essilor’s commitment to the respect and promotion of human Essilor attaches particular importance to ensuring that its rights and the environment was specifically marked by its signing suppliers and subcontractors contribute to this approach. of the United Nations Global Compact; a commitment which See Section 4.2.6.3. has been renewed every year since its first signing in 2003 and is supported at the highest level in the Company, by the Organization and steering Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. This is part of the In 2017, Essilor set up a Group-wide operational working group commitment to the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights made up of the heads of Sustainable relating to respect human rights, labor law, the environment, Development, Human Resources (HR), Purchasing, EHS, and the fight against corruption, of which the Group has now Compliance, and internal experts to improve its policy and been a part for more than 15 years. vigilance plan in order to ensure the respect and promotion Generally speaking, Essilor endeavors to ensure that its activities of human rights and the environment. comply with the International Bill of Human Rights and the This working group meets each quarter to draft a roadmap, principles on fundamental rights set out in the Declaration on to assess its progress, and to review the associated action Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the International plans. It reports on its work to the Global Sustainable Labor Organization (ILO). Development Steering Committee and prepares all items to Essilor cares about the quality of its employees’ working life. ensure that the CSR Committee is informed of the application A human resources policy that entails respect of physical and of the Group’s commitments. This organization is intended to moral integrity, and fair treatment under all circumstances, has support the operational functions (mainly HR, EHS and thus been implemented. See Section 4.2.4. Essilor also Purchasing) at regional or local level in the application of the recognizes the eight fundamental conventions of the ILO, thus Group’s policies and the implementation of reasonable vigilance freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, measures. the abolition of all forms of forced or compulsory labor, abolition In addition, the Group’s Global Environment, Health and Safety of child labor and removal of discrimination in employment department is responsible for managing the program to reduce and occupation. its environmental impact and ensure the health and safety at Furthermore, Essilor cares about reducing its environmental work of all employees. It relies specifically on a network of footprint, and attaches particular importance to complying correspondents present locally on production sites and the with the corresponding laws and regulations, as well as applying main prescription laboratories to manage the operation of environmental best practice that facilitates management of environmental management. the related impacts. See Section 4.2.5. Essilor has also joined the French association Entreprises pour In addition, the Group attaches particular importance to the les Droits de l’Homme – EDH (Companies for Human Rights) proper application of the laws and regulations in force in the to share best practice and facilitate dialogue with stakeholders. countries where it is established. However, it operates in EDH provides tools and advice on implementing the United geographic regions where the application of human rights Nations Guiding Principles on human rights. and environmental legislation may be limited, and fall below Lastly, Essilor wishes to involve its stakeholders more and go international standards. In such situations, Essilor strives to beyond the actions already undertaken, reflected by its regular perform its activities in accordance with international standards discussions with representatives from civil society, its support for the protection of human rights and the environment, and of NGOs and its participation in round table discussions. to implement actions designed to prevent any negative consequences in these areas, and to remedy them should they occur. 344 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group For instance, the Group supports the RHSF (Ressources geographic sectors and businesses in question, and existing Humaines Sans Frontières) NGO, whose mission is to promote Group risk management tools, as well as external experts. the respect of human rights at work and in the entire Several working groups were also set up with the internal subcontracting chain, in compliance with the environment and teams of the departments most concerned by these challenges communities; Essilor also contributes financially to the (purchases, EHS, HR, internal audit). endowment fund established by RHSF and has launched several Finalized in 2018, this mapping helped identify the Group’s field projects with RHSF in Asia to improve practices on their biggest challenges in human rights and the environment in production sites. its operations (at site level and concerning the nature of activities considered) and/or in terms of its Tier 1 subcontractors and Risk mapping suppliers, as follows: Essilor carries out its activities in more than 100 countries in ••Challenges relating to human rights and fundamental varied economic and sociocultural contexts, through businesses freedoms: freedom of association, right to collective that may present risks relating to human rights and the bargaining, excessive working hours, harassment, abuse, environment. Identifying, assessing and managing these risks and disciplinary measures, equal opportunities and is thus an integral part of Essilor’s corporate culture and is discrimination, remuneration methods that do not provide strengthened over time: fair and equitable wages, and non-compliance with ••in 2014, the Group undertook its first risk mapping in relation international labor standards for migrant workers, inadequate to human rights, within Essilor’s scope alone. This gave a social benefits and social security. better understanding of the challenges faced by each type ••Challenges relating to the health and safety of individuals: of business activity (Lenses, Equipment, Sunglasses & Readers), accidents, occupational illnesses, death, exposure to toxic by geographic region, and by theme through which Essilor products, industrial accidents, and architectural integrity of may have an impact. On the basis of this analysis and with buildings. help from experts and stakeholders, Essilor was able to further ••Environmental challenges: waste management and water structure and strengthen its vigilance approach; pollution. ••in 2017, Essilor undertook a new risk mapping exercise, this time across two separate scopes: firstly all the Group’s Risk prevention and mitigation measures operations and core businesses, secondly its supply chain Risk mapping has helped to raise awareness among operational incorporating suppliers and subcontractors for Tier 1 direct teams and to prioritize action plans at both Group and and indirect purchases. The aim was to identify and analyze regional level. 4 the priority risks of serious breaches in human rights and environmental matters, ranked on the basis of their impact For each key theme, the functions involved coordinate the on individuals, fauna and flora, their occurrence in recent most appropriate approach in a continuous improvement years, their scope of impact, and their remediable nature. process. When undertaking this recent risk mapping, Essilor used the For more details on the measures of prevention, mitigation United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting Framework (ILO, and/or remediation implemented, as well as on progress made Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch), specific databases in 2018, please refer, for clarity and readability purposes only, (Social Hotspots Database) specifically referring to the to the following sections: Risk family Sections Challenges relating to human rights 4.2.4.3 Employee integration and inclusion of all forms of diversity and fundamental freedoms 4.2.4.4 Employee shareholding & management/employee consultation 4.2.6.3 Sustainable purchasing in supplier relations Challenges related to the health 4.2.4.1 Ensuring health and safety with a quality working environment and safety of individuals 4.2.6.3 Sustainable purchasing in supplier relations Environmental challenges 4.2.5.2 Reducing water use 4.2.5.5 A circular economy approach to raw material optimization and waste management 4.2.6.3 Sustainable purchasing in supplier relations Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 345 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Regarding Tier 1 suppliers and subcontractors, Essilor developed Regular assessment of subsidiaries, and relies on the Supplier Sustainability Program since it attaches suppliers and subcontractors particular importance to ensuring that its Tier 1 suppliers and subcontractors act in an exemplary manner and in compliance The risk assessment as presented above is regularly updated with its Principles and Values. on the basis of monitoring work carried out with third-party organizations specialized in human rights, internal audit reports, The latter are required to comply with the general purchasing and/or audits conducted with Tier 1 suppliers and subcontractors. conditions, which include clauses on the obligation to comply The development of new activities, the establishment of plants with the ILO’s Fundamental Conventions and local legislation, in new countries or the referencing of suppliers and particularly as regards minimum wage, working hours, the subcontractors are also factors that contribute to the update environment and health and safety, and on the protection of of the risk mapping. In the long term, Essilor wishes to assess human rights (forced labor, child labor, etc.). In addition, the the risks of its suppliers and subcontractors across its entire Group’s Supplier Charter, available from its website www.essilor. supply chain. com, describes the four guidelines to be followed; one of which covers respect for human rights and labor standards. Furthermore, all subsidiaries directly or indirectly controlled Another also relates to hygiene, the safety of individuals, and by the Group are subject to an annual report on sustainable the environment. development (see 4.2.2.4) in which key indicators relate to human rights, the environment, and associated risks are Moreover, the Purchasing department assesses the CSR monitored. On this basis, the Sustainable Development performance of suppliers by means of a shared assessment department produces a performance report for each “business platform (managed by EcoVadis). In 2018, Essilor also unit” or region so that departments can monitor changes in strengthened its system by directly training suppliers for the their key indicators and take corrective action if necessary, in Supplier Sustainability Program and implementing an exclusion terms of human rights and the environment. procedure for suppliers deemed “not to meet our requirements” after an on-site social & environmental audit should said company not wish to implement corrective actions deemed Alert mechanisms necessary. Additionally, to facilitate the identification and Essilor attaches particular importance to ensuring that all management of these risks, Essilor will implement a Supplier employees act in compliance with the applicable laws and Relationship Management (SRM) tool with existing suppliers regulations, in accordance with the Group’s Principles and and new suppliers to qualify them. See Section 4.2.6.3 for Values, and also that they are given the means to be heard more details. when they have a question or concern about ethics, compliance, Furthermore, regular awareness-raising and training actions human rights, and the environment. dispensed to employees on human rights are organized via Various channels are available to employees who witness or dedicated e-learning modules on the “EssilorU” platform, fall victim to a situation that could prove to be risky in order and using face-to-face training. As previously explained, the to bring it to the attention of the Group’s teams. Every Essilor Code of Ethics is also deployed through face-to-face training employee can send an alert via: for managers and employees, supplemented by e-learning ••internal channels: the direct manager, the HR manager or training, proposed in 21 languages. Many training courses the legal department, the country manager, the regional were also dispensed in the various entities on environmental manager or their business manager, a staff representative management aspects. of the entity; In addition, in 2018 the Internal Audit department created a ••external channels: Essilor has deployed the so-called specific “human rights” audit program on risks relating to “EthicsLine” system throughout the Group, allowing human rights, fundamental freedoms, health and safety at employees to report any concerns, including those about work and the environment, likely to be generated by the Group’s human rights and the environment, via a secure website or business and its Tier 1 suppliers and subcontractors. In 2018, a free hotline. The deployment of this alert system for five so-called “pilot” audits were launched in England, employees (communication, face-to-face training) and the Thailand (2), Brazil and South Africa, covering approximately associated distribution of supporting documents (flyers, 10% of the Group’s workforce. They helped to clarify and posters) were developed with the support of local Human strengthen the methodology of said audit program. The sites Resources departments in subsidiaries in France, Europe were chosen according to three criteria: geographical and Asia. This alert system has been in place for several distribution, activity, and number of employees. The results years in North America and Latin America. of these audits, included in the audit reports, will be monitored Employees can use either of these options, subject to the by the departments concerned to ensure that the corrective same confidentiality rules (for instance, it is possible to submit actions recorded in these reports have been implemented. an anonymous alert). The Compliance department is authorized In 2019, based on the results of its risk mapping, Essilor will to investigate any alerts it receives and, where applicable, to continue to deploy this “human rights” audit plan across its take the necessary action to remedy acts or situations in breach entities most at risk and by covering the largest number of of the Code of Ethics. See Section 4.2.6.1. Group employees. 346 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Monitoring system In addition to the assessment and monitoring mechanisms indicators related to human rights and the environment, inspired (audits, reports, participation in regional and local committees, etc.) by those of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are outlined above, Essilor has developed an initial set of performance published each year in the Registration Document. By monitoring these indicators, Essilor evaluates the effectiveness of the initiatives implemented to prevent the related risks. Below is a summary of some key indicators: Theme Key indicators – 2018 status ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES •• # of chemical spills 2 •• # of entities in water stress area 4 in India and Mexico CHALLENGES RELATED TO THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF INDIVIDUALS •• # Frequency rate and severity rate of work related injuries Frequency rate: 2.0; servirity rate: 0.06 •• # of work-related fatalities 0 CHALLENGES RELATED TO HUMAN RIGHTS AND FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS •• # of alerts raised through the whistleblowing system (EthicsLine) 156 Training •• # of employees having completed the “Human Rights & Business” training 1,859 •• # of employees assigned to the “Code of Ethics” training 43,000 Suppliers •• % of Preferred suppliers acknowledging the Supplier Charter 95% •• % of Strategic suppliers undertake CSR assessments 78% 4.2.6.3 Sustainable purchasing Program contents in supplier relations Essilor maintains mutually-beneficial relations with its suppliers The program is composed of two parts. The first is sustainable purchasing, the goal of which is to assess suppliers’ CSR 4 and subcontractors: they are essential partners in its operations performance by ensuring that: and growth, and the Group supports their performance by ••all listed suppliers and subcontractors comply with the helping them, particularly in the field of international expansion. principles set out in the Supplier Charter (see www.essilor. Essilor therefore seeks to establish constructive dialogue with com), and from a contractual standpoint, comply with general them and develop a durable, balanced relationship with respect purchasing conditions, which include clauses on the obligation for ethics and social and environmental issues. to comply with the International Labor Organisation’s Fundamental Conventions and local legislation, particularly Dedicated organization as regards minimum wage, working hours, the environment Since 2016, the Purchasing department has relied on the Supplier and health and safety, and on the protection of human rights Sustainability Program (SSP) to manage its supplier relations (forced labor, child labor, etc.). In 2018, 95% of spending with and, reflecting the importance of this program, has set up a preferred suppliers complied with the principles and values dedicated structure to deploy it. of the Supplier Charter; A sustainable purchasing manager was appointed within the ••the CSR performance of suppliers and subcontractors Group Purchasing department to run and monitor the (representing 80% of overall expenditure) complies with the implementation of the various parts of the program within the Group’s requirements. In this regard, the Purchasing purchasing community. This function relies on regional department assesses their performance by means of a shared purchasing managers to ensure it is deployed within the Group evaluation platform run by EcoVadis. In 2018, 78% of strategic and to measure its effectiveness. Furthermore, regional SSP suppliers underwent CSR assessment. Furthermore, this Leaders are appointed to ensure that the program is approach will be extended to all Essilor’s preferred suppliers. implemented and the process is monitored. Furthermore, the Methodology for classifying supplier CSR performance: When remuneration policy of purchasing teams is indexed in part the results of their assessment are not satisfactory (<45), on the achievement of objectives set as part of the SSP roadmap. suppliers must design and implement remedial action to In addition, the progress of the program is reviewed each year counter the weaknesses identified. To do so, they may call by the CSR Committee of the Group’s Board of Directors. on Essilor’s purchasing managers who are trained to support Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 347 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group them in their improvement process. Once the remedial action ••free services negotiated with one of Essilor digital marketing has been implemented, suppliers must undergo a new agencies to overhaul the website of Essilor Vision assessment. In the event that a non-compliant supplier does Foundation™; not wish to implement remedial actions or commit to make ••eco-design (development of cardboard-only packaging progress, Essilor may have to terminate its business relationship instead of a mix of cardboard and plastic, such as the with said supplier; “Cupless®” concept); ••risk management is addressed by regular, systematic ••use of bio-sourced materials in the manufacture of frames; assessments of all listed suppliers. In the event of detected risk or suspicion, the Purchasing department will trigger on-site ••fitting equipment at Group manufacturing plants to reduce water and energy use, or recycle it (solar panels, increased audits and require suppliers to implement remedial action. use of renewable energy, etc.); Furthermore, to comply with the Law of March 27, 2017 on the duty of care of parent companies and instructing ••analysis of the life cycle of the main raw materials used to manufacture the lenses. companies (Law No. 2017-399 published in the Official Journal of March 28, 2017) and to further develop its assessment and support measures for suppliers on CSR aspects above Training for purchasing and suppliers and beyond preferred suppliers, Essilor has mapped the To support the Supplier Sustainability Program, training courses CSR risks within its supply chain. See Section 4.2.6.2. in CSR Purchases intended for the whole Group Purchasing Once this human rights mapping was complete, the existing department and suppliers have been set up in all regions. risk mitigation and prevention measures were assessed and, These programs are given in the form of face-to-face seminars with a view to continuous improvement, those suppliers or webinars, in different languages, to ensure that participants identified as priority 1 will be incorporated in the process fully understand the approach taken by the program. In 2018, defined above. 63% of the team had already attended these training courses. Additionally, to facilitate the identification and management Essilor extended this approach to its suppliers (approximately of these risks, Essilor will implement a Supplier Relationship 160 took part in dedicated webinars) to further understanding Management (SRM) tool with existing suppliers and new of the Group’s CSR objectives and challenges. In 2019, these suppliers to qualify them; training courses will continue to help gradually raise awareness among all stakeholders. ••lastly, the Group aims to undertake CSR assessments with all strategic suppliers, and to ensure that all preferred suppliers comply with the principles of the Essilor Supplier Charter 4.2.6.4 Sustainable product marketing by 2020. Essilor has to market products with stated levels of quality and The second component is responsible purchasing, the goal performance that meet customers’ needs most effectively. of which is to relay Essilor’s Mission and encourage its suppliers to embark on initiatives, alone or with others that will have a Quality & Customer satisfaction positive impact on people and the environment. The following The ongoing improvement in the satisfaction of the Group’s are some examples: customers is driven in particular by product and service quality ••promoting World Sight Day: in 2017, the Purchasing team assurance. This is a major factor when it comes to guaranteeing held a series of events for suppliers and their employees to stable costs, limiting legal risks and strengthening the Group’s raise awareness about the importance of good eyesight and reputation. highlighted this issue on their own social networks. Over The Quality and Customer Satisfaction Function reports directly 160 suppliers in 32 countries (Europe, Asia, North and South to the Senior Vice President, Global Operations and liaises America) across various sectors (e.g.: transportation, IT, catering with the Group’s commercial organisation. It is driven by 3 services, etc.) took part in this initiative. This resulted in around fundamentals: product safety, customer centric and compliance; 500 sight tests being carried out and over 2 million people and has three key aims: being made aware of the issue via social media. In this context, the purchasing teams won an award at the Global Operations ••to satisfy customers, in terms of products and services, taking Awards for their major contribution to improving the societal into account the diversity and variety of expectations according impact and development of the Mission. The Group also to customer segments; offers awareness-raising actions through the Vision & Road ••to improve the effectiveness and consistency of internal Safety program (See Section 4.2.3.1), and endeavors to make processes, aligning them with the overall strategic objectives equipment solutions available to ensure the safety of its and measuring their efficiency; employees and suppliers working in the transportation sector. ••to represent the Essilor group on standards bodies to promote ••local inclusive purchasing programs (developing business the interests of consumers on these bodies (e.g., ISO). in the protected worker sector, local sourcing to boost the local economy in all countries where Essilor operates, increased purchasing from suppliers representing minorities); 348 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group 2018 2017 2016 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and 0 0 0 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Responsible marketing professionals/optometrists may be given. It should be noted that due to the diversity of regulations in force around the Essilor is committed to communicating with its customers and world, each of the subsidiaries involved in marketing the end consumers in a clear, sincere way about the performance Group’s products, may undertake its own monitoring to of its products and services, in accordance with the regulations. comply with the local laws, standards and voluntary codes This transparency is at the heart of the relationship of trust in force; that Essilor has built for many years with its customers, and is today one of the Group’s major intangible assets. ••lastly, honest communication also calls for transparency in the public positions that the Group adopts in its dealings For this purpose, Essilor was eager to specifically develop five with the authorities and professional associations and for areas of work: the consistency of these positions with the targets for ••Essilor ensures, from manufacturing to marketing, that sustainable development. In accordance with French law, communication about products is accurate and complies Essilor has no political involvement. It works with its local with the applicable regulations in force, specifically as regards public sector stakeholders and participates in the development advertising. This may involve a link with the local authorities of international standards and in other work relating to its and/or consumer associations who wish to have more details areas of business. It also belongs to professional associations about the specific features and characteristics of its products, for its industry whose mission is to improve awareness of in order to confirm that the performance and benefits outlined the importance of good vision. The Group is a member of are genuine and proven; ASNAV, Association Interprofessionnelle pour l’Amélioration ••to facilitate uniform communications on this subject, and to de la Vue (interprofessional association for improving vision), maintain the consistency of its marketing statements, Essilor of GIFO, a French optical industry group, of the EUROM 1 developed an internal platform named “The Media Place”, European optical industry group and of the Vision Council where all communication elements, tools and marketing in the United States. packs approved at Group level are accessible to partners in all regions worldwide. To ensure that the deployment of 4.2.6.5 Direct and indirect 4 these tools remains compliant with the above principles, by validating and disseminating them at global and regional socioeconomic contribution level, all Essilor teams pay particular attention to items of Essilor stimulates local economies with its industrial activities, intellectual property, image rights, copyright, advertising purchasing, and business partnerships, creates direct and law and any local regulations in effect; indirect employment, develops local skills and expertise, and generates taxes and duties. ••one of Essilor’s main features, allowing it to assert its position as market leader, is that it has implemented a validation The first lever for action was to priorities local employment. process for the marketing arguments of its products to ensure The Group encourages the local recruitment of management that for each of them (i) appropriate proof exists and (ii) the teams in its subsidiaries and, more generally, enforces the performance of the products in the laboratory can be taken principle of local decision-making. into account within its production environment. Hence, most The Group also generates significant business flows with its of Essilor’s products and services are based on reliable wearer local suppliers by preferring short supply chains for products tests carried out with representative panels that take real-life and services outside the scope of central referencing. and experimental conditions into account. For instance, Local distributors of products and services referenced by Group Essilor has opened a House Lab and a Car Lab to test the contracts also benefit from the local economic impact of the performance of some of its products in real-life settings; Group’s purchasing. The result is a balanced situation, the ••in addition, in order to maintain the sincerity and transparency Group estimating that 50% of its procurement is sourced of its messages, right up to end consumers, Essilor is deeply centrally and 50% locally. involved with its sales networks, professional bodies and Essilor’s economic value breaks down into many components other interested authorities, remaining at their disposal to (revenue, operating expenses, salaries and expenses, donations, explain and raise awareness of the products they market. taxes and duties, dividends, etc.) that are available in the In this context, in some countries, training (face-to-face or EssilorLuxottica 2018 Registration Document. e-learning) intended for the sales force and eye care Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 349 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Over and above its economic contribution, Essilor’s Mission Conducted in six provinces of the Uttar Pradesh region in helps to improve the quality of life and the productivity north-east India, the study identifies three main impacts: of millions of individuals by correcting their sight. A key ••a boost to the local economy, with an average of US$770 in contributor to this shared value creation, the Group’s 2.5 NVG income generated for suppliers and SMEs for each participant Division deploys inclusive business models to provide local in the Eye MitraTM program; vision correction at an affordable price for low-income populations in more than 50 countries in Asia, Latin America ••an increase in income of 64% for Eye MitraTM partners, who also feel more respected in their community; and Africa (see Section 3). Essilor has appointed a third-party expert to measure the social ••growth in productivity for 59% of new eyeglass wearers (1), who gain an average of one-and-a-half hours a day in their impact of its Eye MitraTM program, which aims to provide primary daily tasks. eye care to populations in rural and semi-urban areas of India through the development of local micro-enterprises by Lastly, besides the actions targeting its core business and led individuals who are underemployed. The challenge is by the Mission teams (2.5 NVG and Essilor Vision Foundation), considerable: in 2013, it was estimated that 550 million people several Group entities conduct other charitable initiatives that in India needed visual correction and the associated overall generally involve issues of public health, education and productivity loss was estimated at US$37 billion a year. integration. 4.2.7 Methodology note & correspondence tables 4.2.7.1 Methodology note Calculated Indicators As defined in the Group’s reporting protocol: Scope of reporting ••the frequency rate is calculated as: Number of work-related According to the Group reporting protocol, the scope of injuries with lost days x 1,000,000/total number of worked sustainability reporting is updated annually according to the hours during the reporting period; the total number of worked finance consolidation scope as of June 30 of the year. New hours is theoretical worked hours based on calculation of entities acquired for less than one year are granted one year scheduled working days and average number of hours worked before being integrated into the Group reporting system. This per day; year, for the second consecutive year, the non-financial reporting ••the severity rate is calculated as: Total number of lost days covers 100% of the Group entities. Two entities were exempted (calendar days) x 1,000/total number of hours worked over from non-financial reporting in 2018 for the following reasons: the reporting period; the total number of worked hours is One entity in Japan experienced a fire at end of September and theoretical worked hours based on calculation of scheduled was in recovery process during the reporting campaign. One working days and average number of hours worked per day; entity in Romania will participate in sustainability reporting starting from 2019. Given the specific cases above, Essilor ••the voluntary turnover rate is calculated as “total number of voluntary departures (resignation)/average number of considers that the 2018 non-financial reporting covers all Group’s employees during the reporting period” based on a entities and workforce. Reporting coverage of each indicator representative sample; has been specified in the footnote of each indicator. Essilor is working on building specific indicators on CSR communication ••the absenteeism rate is calculated as “total number of lost and fair practice. Performance of these indicators will be days (working day)/total scheduled working days of all the disclosed next year. employees during the reporting period”. (1) 75% of women who buy their glasses from an Eye MitraTM partner are doing so for the first time. 350 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Method for calculating GHG emissions The conversion factors for the main countries where Essilor is a consumer of electricity are: In accordance with the GHG Protocol, the accounting and reporting standard for greenhouse gas emissions ••China: 766 gCO2e/kWh; (http://www.ghgprotocol.org), information on GHG emissions ••United States: 522 gCO2e/kWh; is communicated on the basis of three scopes: Scope 1, 2 ••France: 82 gCO2e/kWh; and 3. ••Thailand: 513 gCO2e/kWh; In 2018, the Group continued to follow the GHG Protocol standard and used the databases of the Agence française de ••Philippines: 481 gCO2e/kWh. l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Énergie (www.ademe. Scope 3 – This corresponds to other indirect emissions related fr/) for conversion factors. to the transportation of lenses. For lens logistics, Essilor redefined the various types of transportation and freight in Scope 1 – This corresponds to direct emissions resulting from 2015 to include journeys between Essilor sites and airports, the on-site combustion of fossil fuels such as gas or fuel oil. ports or railway stations. The GHG conversion factors were in accordance with the ADEME database (http://bilans-ges.ademe.fr): Transportation is classified as follows: ••Gas: 244 gCO2e/kWh LCV; ••primary transportation: flows to a distribution center or offshore prescription laboratory, regardless of the point of origin; ••Liquid fuel: 324 gCO2e/kWh LCV. Scope 2 – This relates to indirect emissions associated with ••secondary transportation: flows to a subsidiary, regardless of the point of origin; the electricity consumption required for manufacturing and machining lenses. The Scope 2 emission was calculated ••tertiary transportation: flows to the customer, regardless of according to the location-based method of the GHG Protocol. the point of origin. The conversion factors for electricity were updated in 2015 The reporting scope covers all three types of transportation. based on figures provided by the ADEME database. Essilor has successfully integrated the transportation of new locations into the 2018 Report. 4.7.7.2 Correspondence table for priority CSR risks and mandatory topics The correspondence table below indicates the section that detail the policy or program, action plan, organization and indicators for each priority risk or mandatory topic. PRIORITY CSR RISKS Reference 4 Business ethics 4.2.6.1 Supplier relations 4.2.6.3 Human rights 4.2.6.2 Talent management 4.2.4.2 Occupational health and safety 4.2.4.1 Water use 4.2.5.2 Climate change 4.2.5.4 CSR communication 4.2.1.4 Non-financial reporting 4.2.2.4 MANDATORY TOPICS Societal commitment to sustainable development 4.2.3 Societal commitment to the circular economy 4.2.5.5 Information on collective agreements 4.2.4.4 Information on actions to combat discrimination and promote diversity 4.2.4.3 Information on measures taken for the benefit of persons with disabilities 4.2.4.3 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 351 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group 4.2.7.3 Correspondence table for topics considered in risk analysis (updated based on Grenelle 2 law) Reference SOCIAL Employment Total headcount and distribution by gender, by age and by geographic zone 4.2.4 Recruitments and redundancies 4.2.4 Organization of labor Working time organization 4.2.4.1 Absenteeism 4.2.4.1 Health and safety Occupational health and safety conditions 4.2.4.1 Occupational accidents, including accident frequency and severity, and occupational illnesses 4.2.4.1 Social relations Organization of social dialogue including information procedures, consultation and negotiation with the employees 4.2.4.4 Summary of collective agreements signed with trade unions or worker representatives on work place health and safety 4.2.4.4 Training Policies implemented regarding training, notably with regard 4.2.4.2 to the protection of the environment and 4.2.5.1 Total number of training hours 4.2.4.2 Equal opportunities Measures implemented to promote gender equality 4.2.4.3 Measures implemented to promote employment and integration of disabled people 4.2.4.3 Policy against discriminations 4.2.4.3 ENVIRONMENT General environmental policy The organization of the Company to integrate environmental issues and, if appropriate, the assessments and certification process regarding environmental issues 4.2.5.1 Resources allocated to prevention of environmental risks and pollution 4.2.5.1 Amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental risks, unless such information is likely to cause serious prejudice to the Company in an ongoing litigation 4.2.5.1 Pollution Measures of prevention, reduction or repair of discharges into the air, water and ground, impacting 4.2.5.1, 4.2.5.2, 4.2.5.4 severely the environment and 4.2.5.5 Consideration of any form of pollution specific to an activity, particularly noise and light pollution 4.2.5.1 Circular economy (i) Waste prevention and management Measures of prevention, recycling, reuse, other forms of recovery and disposal of waste 4.2.5.5 Actions to fight against food waste and food poverty 4.2.5.5 ii) Sustainable use of resources Water consumption and water supply adapted to local constraints 4.2.5.2 Consumption of raw materials and measures implemented to improve efficiency in their use 4.2.5.5 Energy consumption and measures implemented to improve energy efficiency and renewable energy use 4.2.5.3 Land use 4.2.5.1 352 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group Reference Climate change Significant greenhouse gas emissions items generated as a result of the Group’s activity, particularly by the use of goods and services they provide 4.2.5.4 Adaptation to consequences of climate change 4.2.5.4 Reduction targets set voluntarily in the medium and long term to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the means used for this purpose 4.2.5.4 Biodiversity protection Measures implemented to protect and conserve the biodiversity 4.2.5.1 SOCIETAL Societal commitments for sustainable development Impact of the Company’s activity on employment and local development 4.2.6.5, 4.2.3.3 and 4.2.3.4 Impact of the Company’s activity on neighboring or local populations 4.2.6.5, 4.2.3.3 and 4.2.3.4 Relationships with the stakeholders of the Company and the dialogue with them 4.2.1.1 Actions of partnership and sponsorship 4.2.3.1, 4.2.3.3 and 4.2.3.4 Subcontractors and suppliers Integration of social and environmental issues into the Company procurement policy 4.2.6.3 Taking into account in relations with suppliers and subcontractors their social and environmental responsibility 4.2.6.3 Fair practices Measures implemented to promote consumers health and safety 4.2.6.4 Promotion and respect of the fundamental conventions of the International Labor Organization Respect for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 4.2.6.2 and 4.2.4.3 Fight against discrimination in employment and occupation 4.2.6.2 and 4.2.4.3 Fight against forced or compulsory labor Fight against child labor 4.2.6.2 4.2.6.2 4 Other actions implemented to promote Human Rights 4.2.6.2 and 4.2.6.3 Fight against corruption and tax evasion Action implemented against corruption and tax evasion 4.2.6.1 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 353 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group 4.2.7.4 Correspondence table for the Guidelines of the GRI, SDGs and UNGC Following the recommendations of the Global Reporting Initiative Standards, United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) Principles and United Nation Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), all the indicators and information disclosed in this chapter have been reviewed and audited by PwC according to the modalities explained in the ITO Report in appendix 8. GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference GENERAL DISCLOSURES (THE LIST OF GENERAL DISCLOSURES HAS BEEN PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE “CORE” OPTION) Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization. 5.1.1 102-2 A description of the organization’s 1.5 activities and primary trademarks, products, and services. 102-3 Location of the organization’s 5.1.1 headquarters. 102-4 Number of countries where the 1.5.1 organization operates, and the names of countries where it has significant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report. 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form. 5.1.4 and 5.2.1 102-6 Report the markets served (including 1.3 and 1.5 geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers and beneficiaries). 102-7 Scale of the organization, including total Key figures in number of employees, number Chapter 1 of operations, net sales, total capitalization, quantity of products or services provided. 102-8 Principle 6 Detailed information on employees and 4 other workers. 102-9 A description of the organization’s 1.5 supply chain, including its main elements as they relate to the organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and services. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization’s 1.5 size, structure, ownership, or supply chain. 102-11 Whether and how the organization 2.2.3.3 and applies the Precautionary Principle 4.2.6.4 or approach. 102-12 A list of externally-developed economic, 4.2.6.1 and environmental and social charters, 4.2.7.1 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes, or which it endorses. 102-13 A list of the main memberships 4.2.3.1 and of industry or other associations, 4.2.3.4 and national or international advocacy organizations. 354 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference Strategy 102-14 A statement from the most senior Introduction decision-maker of the organization (such Chapter 4 as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Principle 10 A description of the organization’s 4.2.6.1 values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior. Governance 102-18 Report the governance structure of 2.1 and 4.2.2.1 the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 Provide a list of stakeholder groups 4.2.1.1 engaged by the organization. 4 102-41 Principle 3 Report the percentage of total 4.2.4.4 employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Report the basis for identification 4.2.1.1 and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 102-43 Report the organization’s approach 4.2.1.1 to stakeholder engagement. 102-44 Report key topics and concerns 4.2.1.1 that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns. Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 355 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference Reporting practice 102-45 a. List all entities included in the Appendix 2 of organization’s consolidated financial Chapter 3.4 statements or equivalent documents. b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not considered by the report. 102-46 a. An explanation of the process 4.2.2.4 and for defining the report content 4.2.7.1 and the topic Boundaries. b. An explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining report content. 102-47 A list of the material topics identified in 4.2.1.2 the process for defining report content. 102-48 The effect of any restatements of 4.2.5.2 information given in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 102-49 Significant changes from previous 4.2.2.4 reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period for the information 4.2.2.4 provided. 102-51 Date of the most recent previous report 2017 (if any). Registration Document covering fiscal year 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle 4.2.2.4 (such as annual, biennial). 102-53 Provide the contact point for questions invest@essilor.com regarding the report or its contents. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 4.2.7.4 the GRI Standards. 102-55 The GRI content index, which specifies 4.2.7.4 each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report. 102-56 Report the organization’s policy and 4.2.8 current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 356 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 a. An explanation of why the topic is 4.1 of the 2014 material. Registration b. The Boundary for the material topic, Document which includes a description of where the impacts occur and the organization’s involvement with the impacts. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. 103-2 Principle 1 For each material topic, the reporting Description Principle 8 organization shall report. of the a. An explanation of how the management organization manages the topic. approach for b. A statement of the purpose each issue of the management approach. c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component (Policies, Commitments, Goals and targets, Responsibilities, Resources, Grievance mechanisms, Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives). 103-3 For each material topic, the reporting Description of organization shall report an explanation the of how the organization evaluates management the management approach. approach for each issue TOPIC-SPECIFIC STANDARDS Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated 4.2.6.5 4 and distributed. 201-2 Principle 7 Financial implications and other risks 4.2.5.4 and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 4.2.3, 4.2.3.1, supported. 4.2.3.2, 4.2.3.3, 4.2.3.4 and 2017 “See Change Report” 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts. 4.2.3, 4.2.3.1, 4.2.3.2, 4.2.3.3, 4.2.3.4 and 2017 “See Change Report” Anti-corruption 205-2 Principle 10 Communication and training on 4.2.6.1 anti-corruption policies and procedures. Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 357 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive Note 30.2 of behavior, anti-trust, Chapter 3.4 and monopoly practices. Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume. 4.2.5.5 Energy 302-1 Principle 7 Energy consumption within the 4.2.5.3 Principle 8 organization. 302-2 Principle 8 Energy consumption outside 4.2.5.3 of the organization. 302-5 Principle 8 Reductions in energy requirements 4.2.3.2 Principle 9 of products and services. Water 303-1 Principle 7 Interactions with water as a shared 4.2.5.2 Principle 8 resource 303-2 Principle 8 Management of water discharge-related 4.2.5.2 impacts 303-3 Principle 7 Water withdrawal 4.2.5.2 Principle 8 303-4 Principle 7 Water discharge 4.2.5.2 Principle 8 Biodiversity 304-1 Principle 8 Operational sites owned, leased, 4.2.5.1 managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Emissions 305-1 Principle 7 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 4.2.5.4 Principle 8 (Scope 1). 305-2 Principle 7 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) 4.2.5.4 Principle 8 emissions (Scope 2). Report gross locationbased energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, and gross market-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions if applicable. Report standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. 358 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference 305-3 Principle 7 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) 4.2.5.4 Principle 8 emissions (Scope 3). Effluents and waste 306-1 Principle 8 Total water discharge by quality 4.2.5.2 and destination. 306-2 Principle 8 Total weight of waste by type 4.2.5.5 and disposal method, with the breakdown of hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste; the breakdown of these figures by disposal methods (e.g., reuse, recycling, composting) isto be reported where applicable. 306-3 Principle 8 Total number and volume of significant 4.2.5.5 spills. Environmental Compliance 307-1 Principle 8 Non-compliance with environmental 4.2.5.1 laws and regulations. Employment 401-1 Principle 6 New employee hires and employee 4.2.4 4 turnover. Occupational health and safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety 4.2.4.1 management system. 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, 4.2.4.1 and incident investigation. 403-3 Occupational health services. 4.2.4.1 403-5 Worker training on occupational health 4.2.4.1 and safety. 403-9 Work-related injuries. 4.2.4.1 Training and education 404-1 Principle 6 Average hours of training per year 4.2.4.2 per employee by gender, and by employee category. 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 4.2.4.2 and transition assistance programs. Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica 359 Social, environmental and societal information 2018 Non-financial statement of Essilor International (SAS), a subsidiary of the EssilorLuxottica Group GRI UNGC Standards Principles SDGs Topic Reference Diversity and equal opportunities 405-1 Principle 6 Composition of governance bodies and 2.1.1.1 and breakdown of employees per employee 4.2.4 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Non-discrimination 406-1 Principle 6 Incidents of discrimination and 4.2.4.3 corrective actions taken. Child Labor 408-1 Principle 5 Operations and suppliers at significant 4.2.6.2 and risk for incidents of child labor, 4.2.6.3 and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of child labor. Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Principle 4 Operations and suppliers at significant 4.2.6.2 and risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 4.2.6.3 labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Local Communities 413-2 Principle 1 Operations with significant actual and 4.2.5.2 and potential negative impacts on local 4.2.5.4 communities. Supplier social assessment 414-2 Principle 2 Negative social impacts in the supply 4.2.6.2 and chain and actions taken. 4.2.6.3 Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Percentage of significant product 4.2.3.2 and and service categories for which health 4.2.6.4 and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. 416-2 Total number of incidents of 4.2.6.4 non-compliance with the regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Marketing and Labelling 417-3 Total number of incidents 4.2.6.4 of non-compliance with the regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws 4.2.6.4 and/or regulations in the social and economic area. 360 Registration Document • 2018 • EssilorLuxottica
