Communication on Progress Year: JanuaryDecember 2018 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT In May 2007, Serena Hotels Pakistan established a comprehensive corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative titled, Serena Environmental and Educational Development (SEED) programme. Serena Hotels Pakistan continues to strive to create sustainable impact through its Social, Environmental and Education Development Program (SEED) for the local communities where its units are located and, as a result, on the economy as a whole. The SEED programme has reached to a maturity stage where we would like to link this with UNGC and will continue reporting on annual basis. MAY 22, 2019, DR. MOIN UDDIN DIRECTOR TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT Contact: DR. MOIN UDDIN Email: moin.uddin@serena.com.pk Phone: 92-51-287-1687 Fax: 92-51-287-1181 P 1/14 Brief description of nature of business TPS – P is a subsidiary company of Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development. Serena Hotels is the brand under which TPSP manages its hotels and resorts in Pakistan. Serena Hotels provides hospitality and tourism promotion services to some of the most demanding areas in different parts of Pakistan. Serena Hotels builds hotel capacity in underserved regions. Serena Hotels hold their presence in East Africa, Pakistan, Afghanistan and Tajikistan. As part of AKFED’s development ethos, Serena is both a commercial enterprise and a development project. All Serena Hotels are designed to be engines of economic growth through local employment and the development of human resources, sourcing, and the generation of tax revenues. From its beginnings, Serena has shown keen emphasis on cultural and environmental sensitivity, for which it has received number of awards. P 2/14 PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Actions taken The company supports human rights of its employees as well as stakeholders linked to its value chain. • HSE department in place to provide healthy environment to employees, customers and business partners. Actions • OHSAS 18001 certified to ensure safe systems of work and safety of employees • ISO 22000, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications in the organization • Integrated Management system in place in bigger units to ensure effective management and control. • Effective human resource policies to protect human rights Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company • Ensure safe and healthy working environment Outcomes • Strong reporting mechanism • Strong community linkage and participation P 3/14 PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Actions taken • The company has zero tolerance for any human right abuses. Actions • Effective human resource policies are in place to protect human rights in the company. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes • Strong human resource department • Compliance with local laws and regulations where the company units operate P 4/14 PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Actions taken Union Agreements are negotiated in congenial environment and finalized with CBA. ➢ Collective Bargaining Agents are free to hold meetings in their respective units. Actions ➢ Management facilitate Collective Bargaining Agents to hold these meetings and provide them enabling environment to interact with associates. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company ➢ Peaceful Working Environment Outcomes ➢ Respect at Work Place ➢ Enhanced Productivity & Morale of Associates P 5/14 PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Actions taken ➢ Serena Hotels strongly believes it has the responsibility to engage in employment practice that meets the highest legal and ethical standards. Actions ➢ Company’s Recruitment & Selection Policy is designed and executed to ensure eliminations of all kinds of Force and Compulsory Labour. ➢ It further encourages its vendors who provide allied services to have a complete compliance with laws to discourage Force and Compulsory Labour Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company ➢ Full Compliance with applicable labour laws Outcomes ➢ Socially Responsible Company ➢ Company’s better image and repute P 6/14 PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Actions taken ➢ Company comply with all relevant and applicable labour laws related to Child Labour. Furthermore, the Company will not employ any person less than 18 years of age or deemed by law to be a child in any capacity in any hotel under its control. ➢ As a good Corporate Organization, the Company is committed to the principles of protecting Actions children from child labour exploitation. ➢ Company’s Recruitment & Selection Policy does not allow the hiring of people under 18 years of age. ➢ Company has ensured that staff deployment through third party must follow the Company’s policy of hiring associates above 18 years of age. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company ➢ Improved Company’s image and reputation ➢ Helped to make sure Company have educated and capable workforce for the long-term Outcomes ➢ Free from Child Labour ➢ Socially Responsible Company P 7/14 PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Actions taken ➢ Serena Hotels recognizes that to stay at the forefront of the ever-evolving world, it is critical to open the doors of opportunity for all. Talent is not defined by an individual’s race or religion, colour or sex, age or national origin, and Company is committed to identify and recruit the best talented Associates. Actions ➢ Company is committed to provide equal opportunity of employment and to the implementation of positive procedures designed to ensure the prevention of any discriminatory practices, either intentional or inadvertent, with respect to race, colour, religion, national or ethnic origin, disability, veteran status, age or sex. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company ➢ Diversity at Work Place Outcomes ➢ Well respected by the Associates ➢ Enhanced Company Image P 8/14 PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Actions taken World Forest Day Hunza Serena Inn celebrated World Forest Day by conducting a tree plantation drive in Aga Khan Diamnod Jubilee School Zuwood Khoon, Various Government Schools in Ghulkin, Ghulkin Community, Hussaini and village organization community area. 3,150 trees were planted in these areas. Associates of Hunza Serena Inn, School teachers & students and the local community participated in tree plantation. Swat Serena Hotel celebrated World Forest Day by conducting a similar activity at Government Centennial Model High School. Associates of Swat Serena Hotel along with teachers and students of the school participated in the activity. 55 plants were planted in school. A similar activity was conducted by Quetta Serena Hotel, they also conducted a tree plantation activity at a local school for disables. The associates, school children and teachers participated in the activity. World Water Day Swat Serena Hotel celebrated World Water Day by conducting an event at the hotel. A group of speakers including Dr. Moin Uddin, Director Training & Development, Dr, Bushra, Dr. Ishaq Kaka Khel, Department of Environment Sciences Peshawar University, Ms. Karen Janjua, Community World Service and Mr. Haldane, Canadian High Commission emphasized on the importance and need of clean water. Also emphasized on the provision of clean water by taking steps to set up a system for disposal of garbage. Quetta Serena Hotel celebrated World Water Day by conducting an awareness session for the Actions children of Odyssey School. The session was on usage of water and how water wastage can impact our lives and environment. Gilgit Serena Hotel also conducted an awareness session, drawing competition and tree plantation with the children of Government Middle School Sonikot, Old Polo Ground and Al Mustafa Public School. The purpose was to create awareness among them regarding the importance of water and the sustainable approach towards it. A similar activity was organized by Islamabad Serena Hotel, they conducted a speech competition among the children of Mashal School, Master Ayub School and Holy Help School. Prizes were also distributed among the winners. Earth Hour Quetta Serena Hotel celebrated Earth hour by switching off lights for an hour from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm. The guests also participated in the activity. Islamabad Serena Hotel also observed earth hour by switching off all non essential lights from 8:30pm to 9:30 pm. Gilgit Serena Hotel conducted an awareness session at Al Mustafa Public School Gilgit on this year’s theme “End Plastic Pollution”. The session was on the use of plastic and how if not handled carefully can affect our environment. A paper bag making competition was also held. Faisalabad Serena Hotel celebrated World Earth Day with the children of SOS village, a plantation activity was conducted with the children of SOS village. FSH also distributed cloth bags among children, the purpose was to create awareness about environment and how these steps can help us save environment. World Environment Day Hunza Serena Inn in collaboration with Aga Khan Higher Secondary School, Government Schools, P 9/14 Town Management Society, local administration and Ismaili District boys Scouts and Girls guide, organized a walk. Students, teachers and government officials participated in the event. The purpose was to educate and create awareness regarding environment and its impacts on our lives. This was followed by a presentation session at the hotel, GB-EPA, WWF and KADO participated. The purpose was to discuss the issues currently faced in Hunza District and solutions to them. Quetta Serena Hotel celebrated World Environment Day through an awareness campaign in hotel through displaying standees and tent cards on dinner tables. World Tourism Day: Swat Serena Hotel celebrated the World Tourism Day with Government Centennial Model High School. A painting competition was on this year’s theme ‘Tourism and the Digital Transformation’ was organized. 120 students took part in competition, 45 student’s paintings were shortlisted. A jury comprises of teachers selected best three paintings. The jury also highlighted the importance of use of digital marketing and how this has brought world close and made it easier to reach people anywhere. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company • healthier work environment • promoting and creating awareness among employees and communities about environment Outcomes • Promoting responsible tourism • Emphasis on clean environment P 10/14 PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Actions taken • Annual Plantation Activity with local governments in Pakistan Tree Plantation Gilgit Serena Hotel carried out a tree plantation campaign in different areas of the city and also donated walnut trees to the local community. GSH contributed 250 Dayar trees and 150 walnut trees. Clean Hunza Initiative Hunza Serena Inn in collaboration with GB-EPA, Hunza Local Administration and local business community called a meeting to discuss how to overcome the pollution and littering caused by the influx of tourist in the area. The outcome of the meeting was to create awareness by using local cable channels, through displays at check posts and need to ban use of plastic bags in the area. Tree Plantation: Swat Serena Hotel also participated in Government’s Tree Plantation drive by providing 70 plant samplings to Government College of Technology. The associates, teachers and students participated in the activity and planted trees in and around college campus. The purpose is to improve environment by planting trees Actions A similar activity was conducted by Islamabad Serena Hotel. One day tree plantation campaign was launched by the hotel and 100 trees were planted in areas around the hotel. Islamabad Serena Hotel also partnered with the Friends of Environment to support the Government’s Tree Plantation campaign. ISH gathered seeds from the kitchens and provided them to Friends of Environment. 800 seeds were collected in two weeks. Faisalabad Serena Hotel also participated in Government’s tree planation campaign. FSH provided 5,000 plant samplings to University of Agriculture Faisalabad. The plants were planted in and around university campus. Cleaning Activity Islamabad Serena Hotel carried out a cleaning activity at the Margalla Trail 5, 30 associates participated in the activity. O u tc o me s Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company P 11/14 • Awareness among employees and community about environment • Promote healthy and clean environment P 12/14 PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Actions taken 1. Energy conservation by automation of Power factor (industrial & commercial transformer) for transformer rationalization at Rawal wing 2. Installation of media filter at 35 AHU (Air Handling Units) rooms to improve the indoor air quality at Actions Margalla wing 3. Installation of energy efficient VFDs (variable frequency drives) at Margalla and Rawal wing cooling towers to reduce the energy consumption and increase the life of the system 4. Tune-up of 4 generators to reduce the carbon emission of ISH 5. Tree Plantation with CDA. 6. Cleaning of the Trail-5 by associates of Serena hotel once a year to promote waste management. 7. Reduce 15% paper use by purchasing and implementing iScala online system Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company • These initiatives, plantation and technological changes will improve and promote healthy environment. Outcomes P 13/14 PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Actions taken ➢ Company has very strong Code of Conduct against all forms of Corruption including Extortion and Bribery. Actions ➢ Company has zero tolerance against illegal gratification in any manner or form & Associates involved in such activities shall be liable to disciplinary action. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company ➢ Strong Core Value System ➢ Strong Image in the Community Outcomes ➢ Honest Work Force How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? We plan to keep it available to our stakeholders through UNGC and our own web portal. P 14/14
