2018 Amorepacific Group Sustainability Report Exciting Changes 06 Sustainable Lifestyle 16 Inclusive Growth 26 Circular Economy 36 2020 Sustainability Commitments Company Overview 42 Brand Portfolio 48 Global Network 50 Corporate Vision 51 AP WAY 52 Financial Performance 56 R&D Innovation 57 Strengthening Digital Capabilities 58 Major Management Activities of Subsidiaries Sustainability Management System 64 Materiality Analysis 66 Stakeholder Engagement 67 Governance Structure 73 Ethical Management 75 Risk Management Reporting of Sustainability Management Performance 80 Customer Satisfaction 81 Sustainable Consumption 83 Good Workplace 89 SHE Management 96 Mutual growth 99 CSR CEO Message Dear valued stakeholders, For the past seven decades, Amorepacific Group has dedicated itself to communicating with the world through the value of “Asian Beauty” with the founder’s philosophy of contributing to the humanity with beauty and health. Despite the fierce competition and uncertain changes in the business environment, we have been focusing on our customers and continuing our challenges to become ‘the first’ and ‘the best.’ Amorepacific Group is striving to create ‘A MORE Beautiful World’ as a responsible global corporate citizen. We are in full support of the ten principles of the UN Global CompactUNGC on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We also take part in the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals and apply the goals in our corporate operation. In particular, as a company that has grown with its women employees and customers, Amorepacific Group strives to facilitate gender equalitySDG 5 and realize responsible consumption and productionSDG 12. Amorepacific Group’s firm will to make the world more beautiful is present in its ‘2020 Sustainability Commitments,’ which is composed of three focus areas and eight commitments. Through the ‘2020 Sustainability Commitments,’ we will help all stakeholders in our corporate ecosystem move on to the sustainable lifestyle, support the inclusive growth with economic and social communities, and contribute to the realization of a circular economy for future generations. Amorepacific Group is ready to meet the challenges accompanying these ‘exciting changes’ in all circumstances. We will ceaselessly explore and innovate ways to grow in harmony with our customers, the environment, and society. We cordially welcome your warm support and interest in Amorepacific Group’s journey to create a more beautiful future for humanity. May 2019 Suh Kyung-bae, Chairman & CEO of Amorepacific Group Exciting Changes Amorepacific Group continues to endeavor to build A MORE Beautiful World according to its three initiatives of helping customers practice sustainability in everyday life, growing with social and economic communities and contributing to the realization of a circular economy. Even though we are facing grave environmental and social issues, we can overcome them if we find pleasure in everyday challenges and work to change ourselves. Amorepacific Group will continue to lead the way toward a better future and A MORE Beautiful World, pioneering Exciting Changes. 5 Sustainable Lifestyle Good Habits for Earth in Everyday Life While plastic makes our life more convenient, its increasing use is becoming a burden to the environment. To take responsibility for the environmental impact of plastic, Amorepacific Group is joining the global movement to reduce the consumption of plastic. With its investment in A MORE Beautiful World, Amorepacific Group strives to transform the whole process of production and distribution by operating in more eco-friendly ways and proposing sustainable means of living through diverse brand campaigns. By spreading good habits to practice in everyday life for our planet, Amorepacific Group realizes ‘Responsible Consumption and Production,’ the 12th agenda of SDGs(Sustainable Development Goals) adopted by United Nations member nations around the world. GOAL 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMOTION AND PRODUCTION 7 Plastics–Can We Use Them Less? Sustainable Lifestyle The easiest and most obvious way to reduce the environmental impact of plastic is to use less plastic in everyday life. Throughout the entire process of production, distribution and disposal, Amorepacific Group proposes ‘Less Plastic’ to customers. Less Waste, More Convenience More Effective With No Microbeads Bubble wrap is usually used to protect packaged products from transit. Made from plastic Microbeads, which are produced invisibly small from the beginning, are very small and vinyl, bubble wraps are mostly discarded after a single use and they are difficult particles and easier to flow into the sea after being used. Once absorbed by marine to recycle once it is contaminated with other substances. As a result, they produce a organisms, they can eventually impact humans. To tackle this serious issue, Amorepacific significant environmental burden. In 2018, Amorepacific Group suspended the use of Group has prohibited the use of microbeads in wash-off products since 2014. In 2018, the innisfree Super Volcanic Pore Clay Mask 2X bubble wrap in its domestic distribution centers and introduced a new paper filling made group developed a new material as a replacement for microbeads, developed using bioApplied biodegradable polymer in the contents of FSC-certified paper. Color-coated boxes which previously used colors to represent degradable polymers from sugar cane and creating composite powders from volcanic ash. each brand have been replaced with kraft paper boxes. Vinyl tape has been replaced with The material was successfully applied in innisfree’s Super Volcanic Pore Clay Mask 2X. paper tape, making it more convenient for customers to recycle paper by eliminating the The product enhanced the absorption rate of sebum by more than double than products Paper cushion replacing plastic aircap process of separating vinyl tape from color-coated boxes. In total, more than 70 percent using microbeads while also reducing environmental impact. of plastic materials are expected to be saved during the transportation process. As a result of our continued effort, the use of disposable plastic items was also greatly Fixture made out of paper reduced. Osulloc Tea House and innisfree Green Cafe stopped using disposable plastic Many customers have concerns about additional plastic packaging for bundled products. straws and instead introduced paper straws and bio-degradable straws, respectively. Although it is necessary to safely deliver products to customers, Amorepacific Group They also introduced a new cup lid that can be used without a straw, greatly reducing shares the concerns regarding the environmental impact of plastic packaging. To help the disposal rate corresponding to the use of plastic straws. solve this problem primera applied a new packaging design that uses degradable and primera Mango Butter Hand Cream(3Types) recyclable paper, while still offering the same degree of protection and stability as plastic Applied fixture made out of paper Producing More Beautiful Products Using Less Plastic packaging. As a result, the new packaging design reduced the environmental impact of primera’s products. Amorepacific Group is also continuing its efforts to minimize unnecessary uses of plastic by changing the design of product containers. For example, IOPE’s Super Vital Cream reduced the use of plastic over 20% as a result of changing the structural design of the container. The convex bottom that had previously been filled with plastic has been IOPE Super Vital Cream eliminated, while actually protecting the product more effectively than before. Hanyul Reduction of plastic usage on the package also reduced the weight of its product packaging by more than 5% through changing the lids and construction of containers. 8 9 Imagination for Better Use of Plastic We worked hard Sustainable Lifestyle INTERVIEW Amorepacific Group strives to use plastic in better ways. We realize the full capabilities of plastic materials and continue our effort to solve issues such as the low recycle rate. “ to find ways to retain the benefits of plastics while reducing their environmental impact. Recycled Plastic: Giving Plastic a New Life A Better Way to Make Plastic: Sugar Cane Replaces Oil When plastics are recycled and reused as raw material for producing new plastics, “Plastic has excellent material qualities, since it is lightweight and flexible enough to be made it is possible to reduce the use of petroleum and plastic waste. However, it is difficult to into any shape. However, it is made out of oil, a non-renewable natural resource contributing produce consistent colors and solid properties with recycled plastics, which are sorted by to environmental burden. Fortunately, plastic can also be produced using sugar cane, a plant color and texture before being melted into new plastics. ETUDE House has incorporated conventionally used to add sweetness to food. Since plants can be regrown after they are new additives into recycled plastic materials to ensure high quality and applied them to ETUDE House Double-lasting Cushion harvested, plant resources are renewable. Applied recycled plastic to the outer packaging dark colored parts of product containers. This kind of recycled plastic offers products to customers with reduced environmental impact that are nonetheless beautiful. To create better plastic material, we researched ways to apply ‘plant-based plastic.’ As a result, a number of Amorepacific brands including mise-en-scène and innisfree began using plantbased plastic in new products in 2018.” Transparent Package for Better Recycling Transparent plastic containers can be recycled more easily since there is no need Park Sung-ha, Amorepacific Packaging Research Team to sort them by color in the recycling process. Happy Bath’s product, Creamy Milk Body Wash, uses transparent PET and attached a shrink label which contains only the necessary information about the product. The label does not use any adhesive and is marked with a perforated line for an easy removal. Thanks to such efforts to enhance recyclability and convenience, customers can help protect the environment with more Happy Bath Creamy Milk Body Wash fun and a sense of pride. Applied transparent PET and a shrink label 10 11 Less Plastic Campaign with More Fun Sustainable Lifestyle Amorepacific Group’s effort to reduce the use of plastic will ultimately be completed by the customers. Amorepacific Group is developing diverse campaigns for customers to practice a range of eco-friendly behaviors in their everyday lives beyond the group’s products and stores. GREENCYCLE, Completing the Circulation Loop innisfree PLAYGREEN Festival, Green Life with Enjoyment GREENCYCLE campaign promotes recycling and upcycling by collecting used cosmetic ‘PLAYGREEN Festival’ is part of PLAYGREEN, innisfree’s eco-friendly campaign launched bottles from customers and finding new uses for them, such as creating artworks. This in 2014. The festival is a special event for those who live a green life. In 2018, PLAYGREEN campaign facilitates coexistence with nature. Festival presented ‘Less Plastic, It’s Fantastic’ as a slogan and introduced playful activities geared toward reducing plastic in everyday life. In 2017, innisfree opened ‘Gong Byeong Gong Gan’ in Samcheong-dong, Jongno-gu, Seoul, upcycling 230,000 used bottles that had been collected through the GREENCYCLE program. Artworks were also created using the bottles and exhibited at Cheonggyecheon Plaza. In 2018, Amorepacific Group collaborated with a social enterprise to develop ‘Play Ground’ offers a natural experience of diverse alternatives to plastic a new technology for reusing used bottles as raw material for products, realizing the ‘Upcycling Class’ provides opportunities to create fashion items with disposed plastic materials true meaning of circulation. The upcycled packaging will be applied to innisfree’s new ‘Green Beauty Class’ educates participants on how to upcycle cosmetics with famous YouTube beauty influencers products in 2019. We are also working to achieve higher efficiency of resource use PLAYGREEN Festival through continued research on recycling and upcycling methods. GREENCYCLE Campaign Play Ground Upcycling Class Green Beauty Class 12 13 Protecting our products with paper cushion with less environmental burden, instead of bubble wrap. 14 15 Inclusive Growth A MORE Beautiful Way for Inclusive Growth Today, inequality is worsening and the quality of life is diminishing. What steps can be taken to provide equal opportunities to social minorities and the underprivileged while helping all members of society work in happiness? Amorepacific Group strives to achieve ‘Inclusive Growth,’ ensuring the health and well being of employees and business partners as well as the underprivileged in local society. Amorepacific Group contributes to the enhancement of Gender EqualitySDG 5, which is the fifth of UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. In doing so, we facilitate a culture that appreciates more diversity and provide opportunities of growth for all. GOAL 5 GENDER EQUALITY What Makes a ‘Good Workplace’? Inclusive Growth At a time when economic growth is slowing down, quality jobs are in decline and small enterprises find it difficult to hire new employees, the job market reflects this polarization. Amorepacific Group is creating quality jobs and injecting vitality into the Korean economy and society at large. A Good Company with Relaxation and Wellness A Virtuous Circle of Growth with Small Enterprises The workplace is where we spend the majority of our time. If we can enjoy more pleasant through Quality Jobs and beneficial experiences at our workplace, our quality of life will be enhanced. Providing opportunities for employees to demonstrate their abilities and developing The unemployment rate experienced by younger generation is getting higher lately. a healthy and safe workplace have been the driving forces behind Amorepacific Group’s Amorepacific Group is sharing the concern of the imbalance between the low continued growth. employment rate of young job seekers and high outflow of employees experienced by small and medium enterprises. Amorepacific Group participates in the Korea Small and Medium Business Corporation’s Win-Win Employment Program. Through the program, Healthier Employees the group is educating competent young job seekers with professional knowledge for Amorepacifc Group considers employee’s health to be the primary condition for a good workplace. the cosmetics industry and connecting them with medium and small partner companies, AP-Severance Clinic is complete with leading medical facilities and medical services, providing diverse helping these companies hire new employees. outpatient services including general treatment, vaccination, dietary consultation, medical exams and Many small enterprises lack safety, work environment and welfare benefits. As a consultations. In addition, AP-Severance Clinic operates a body remodeling center to help employees result, young job seekers that look for quality jobs tend to avoid small enterprises. To manage musculoskeletal disorders, the most common health problems for office workers. enhance the competitiveness of partner companies that operate as small enterprises, Amorepacific Group has implemented a support program which assesses competency Healthier Mind of labor, human rights, safety, sanitation and the environment of partner companies Emotional labor of workers who interact with customers can lead to health issues. To prevent and and suggests improvements. Based on these assessments, the program provides resolve any potential stress for them, Amorepacific Group published and distributed <Self Protection intensive consulting sessions to improve the safety and environmental conditions Manual for a Happier Workplace>, a guide which offers responses to potential issues associated which affect the health and working environments of employees at partner companies. with difficult customers. Happy Life Consulting is a consultation service for employee happiness and Through its support program, Amorepacific Group is committed to attracting talents psychological stability, helping them resolve stress and psychological anxiety. to partner companies by establishing healthy and safe working environments, which enhances competitiveness of partner companies in return. Employee Health Promotion Programs Number of Health and Number of Partner Companies Assessed for Labor, Anti-smoking Fund Participants Safety and Environment in 2018: 483 77 Self Protection Manual for a Happier Workplace AP-Severance Clinic Safety and Health Improvement Program for Suppliers 18 19 We create a safer, Inclusive Growth “ healthier workplace. INTERVIEW Fostering New Ideas with Beauty Startups Against the Prejudice of Poor Working Conditions at Small Enterprises Startups invigorates the society with new energy and provides job opportunities for “Young people recently have endured suffering due to the job market, but it is a different story the young generation thanks to their new ideas and daring efforts. To secure growth for small enterprises. We are still short of employees. There may be a variety of reasons for engines for the future and provide quality jobs and opportunities for economic activities this, but one of them is the misconception that small enterprises tend to offer dangerous to innovative new entrepreneurs, Amorepacific Group operates AP TechUP+, a startup jobs in poor working conditions. Although companies at every scale must observe basic support program for beauty technology, and the Lean Startup Program, an incubator for legal regulations and assure the safety of their employees, there are limitations for small corporate venture companies. enterprises which lack professional staff and corporate investment.” In 2017 and 2018, a total of 10 startups received support from AP TechUP+(five startups in each year). Two to three corporate venture companies are also supported by Lean Startup Becoming a Better Workplace Program every year. By facilitating beauty startups, Amorepacific Group activates the ecology of the beauty industry and shares new ideas, opening possibilities for strategic with Safety·Environment Improvement Consulting collaborations. For three months between June and September 2018, Amorepacific Group offered its Amorepacific Partner Company Sustainability Improvement Program. Through this winwin program, professional safety and environment consultants and responsible officers from Amorepacific companies assessed legal violation risks for the safety and environments of partner companies. After the assessment, a few critical risks were diagnosed, which were subsequently improved through coaching sessions with professional consultants. As a result, in 2018, Jang Up System was awarded the highest level in Amorepacific Group’s supplier sustainability assessment of labor, safety, environment and corporate ethics. Based on such efforts, Jang Up System strives to provide aspiring young people in the beauty industry safe and healthy jobs and contribute to the development of the domestic beauty industry. Kwak Soo-choon of Jang Up System, a partner company specializing in packaging materials TechUP+ Demo Day 20 21 More Diversity, Further Growth Inclusive Growth Many people in our society are constrained in their social and economic activities because of gender and physical disadvantages. , Amorepacific Group is reducing the atmosphere of inequality and facilitating diversity through empowering women’s potential and encouraging social participation for people with disabilities. 20 by 20 Commitment: Healthier and More Confident Women WeDream: Disabilities Are Not Disadvantages Amorepacific Group aims to enhance health, well-being and economic capability for Amorepacific Group established an affiliated company WeDream which serves as a 200,000 women by 2020 under ‘20 by 20 Commitment.’ standard workplace for the disabled. The company provides quality jobs for individuals with disabilities who tend to be alienated from the job market. Hope Store Project is a microcredit project that provides start-up loans to ensure the self-reliance of single mothers and bring positive changes to the lives of their families. WeDream employees with disabilities work at Beauty Campus Osan’s Distribution Beautiful Life is a support program for low-income women from diverse backgrounds, Support Unit. At LAON, a massage treatment for Amorepacific employees, sixteen including multi-cultural families, defectors from North Korea, single mothers, and 20 by 20 Commitment visually impaired employees and two physically disabled employees are working as youth released from correctional facilities. The program provides technical education health providers. Amorepacific Group generated a matching fund to the service fees paid and mentoring sessions to bolster the competitiveness of its participants in the job at LAON, donating the fund to three organizations including the Korea Blind Union. For market. Makeup Artist on the Go is a mentorship program to train young students with those with disabilities, WeDream provides a wide range of welfare programs for better professional knowledge for makeup and hair, providing scholarships to support students communication and pleasant working environments. This helps them break free from becoming professionals in the field. being considered social minorities and take pride in their work as members of the society. Amorepacific Group’s efforts to beautify women’s lives are not only limited to Korea, but also reaching out to other countries like China, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Vietnam Donation through Laon in 2018 where its regional headquarters are located. We are strongly committed to supporting the UN-led ‘Every Woman Every Child1)’ movement, in order to share our vision with more 53,580,000KRW people and carry out our responsibility to the fullest as a global corporate citizen. 1) A global movement launched by the UN secretary general in 2010 which aims to improve the health and well-being of women, children and adolescents. 20 by 20 Commitment Performance(2018) Health and well-being of women Economic empowerment of women Number of beneficiaries Number of beneficiaries 284,084 persons 3,133 persons ‘WeDream’, Standard Workplaces for the Disabled 20 by 20 Commitment Performance(accumulate) 287,217persons Achieved 144% of goal *by supporting 200,000 women by December 2018 22 23 Creating a safer, healthier workplace 24 25 Circular Economy Our Path to Tackle the Climate Change Issue In October 2018, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) unanimously approved the Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C. According to the report, global temperatures should not rise more than 1.5°C in order to prevent countless environmental and social problems caused by climate change. To meet this goal, emissions of CO2 would need to fall by 45% from 2010 levels by 2030. Amorepacific Group aims to contribute to a circular economy through effective use of resources and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. We are joining in the global movement toward the resolution of climate change through conserving energy, and aims to adapt to climate change through resource efficiency enhancement and biodiversity conservation. Efforts to Reduce Energy Consumption Circular Economy Amorepacific Group’s Greenhouse gas emissions increased in 2018 compared to the previous year due to the expansion of the facilities for Daejeon Daily Beauty production site and the Shanghai Beauty Campus in China. We will endeavor to reduce the energy consumption and resulting greenhouse gas emissions by continuing the various challenges of expanding the use of renewable energy and energy-saving technologies in the production process. Solar Panels for Unused Spaces Small Changes, Big Results Solar energy is a more eco-friendly energy source which does not produce greenhouse gas. We use cosmetics everyday. But how are they produced? Different ingredients are mixed Amorepacific Group is actively using unused spaces in its buildings to generate electricity according to formulas and put into a kiln. In the kiln, the ingredients are melted and through solar panels. blended before they are cooled to a temperature of 4℃. The results of the process are the cosmetics as we know them today. In particular, the Osan Beauty Campus, a production facility where many of Amorepacific Group’s products are created uses solar energy for operating its production facilities. As such, would it be possible to use the cold outside air when cooling down such heated Through this process products are embedded with eco-friendly solar energy. Moreover, substances? Beauty Campus Osan realized the idea of using cold outside air for that solar energy is used for other diverse purposes at production facilities, including temperature purpose during a three-month period in winter, instead of operating rapid cooling and humidity control. More than 6% of the energy consumed at production facilities comes machines for eleven and half hours every day. from renewable energy sources. Amorepacific Group will continue to increase the use of As of 2019, an Energy Innovation Task Force is being installed to reduce the consumption solar energy in its various facilities and buildings in both Korea and abroad. of energy and greenhouse gas emissions throughout the group’s headquarters, R&D center, distribution center and production facilities. The task force examines the energy usage at each business site, discovers innovative ways to improve the situation and offers practical suggestions. Amorepacific Group plans to run a group-wide campaign to reduce the use of with all employees as well. A Further Step in Making Changes: An Energy-saving Emulsion Process Renewable Energy Capacity 1) Number of Products Unit: cases Once various materials are melted at high temperature, a cooling process is necessary since certain Global Headquarters 3,668kW materials are soluble in water or oil only at low temperatures. However, generating high temperatures Beauty Campus Osan 1,161kW and regulating the cooling process requires a lot of energy. Since 2014, Amorepacific Group has Daily Beauty Production Site (Daejeon) 151kW continued to investigate an energy-saving process technology through which different materials are Beauty Campus Shanghai 50kW melted and mixed at low temperatures. Each year, the number of facilities using this new process is 36 43 79 growing, and more products are increasingly produced with the new process. 1) The value of Global Headquarters is the sum of solar power, geothermal heat, solar heat generation, 2016 2017 2018 and the values of other business sites only include solar power generation. 28 29 Wise Ideas to Adapt to Climate Change Circular Economy Climate change is not just something that will happen in the future. It is the reality that we are facing today. Amorepacific Group is finding ways to wisely adapt to the worsening problems attributed to climate change. A more efficient use of water resources and preservation of biodiversity are some of the ways through which Amorepacific Group strives to adapt to the changing climate. Reusing Water Resources Research to Prevent Extinction and Sustain Diversity How much water is used when we eat, drink and clean every day? According to a United Nations report by futurologists, by 2025 half of the global population will suffer from a More Sustainable Palm Oil lack of water resources. Amorepacific Group is adapting to climate change by reducing One of the many problems caused by climate change is the extinction of different species. and reusing precious water resources, which once lost cannot be recovered. Many species which have failed to adapt to changes in climate within their habitats have become in danger of extinction. The entire ecosystem can be imperiled when a species becomes extinct, leaving In particular, Amorepacific Group strives to use water resources with maximum efficiency a ruinous effect on the food chain. Thus the preservation of biodiversity is an urgent task for all of us. at production facilities that require significant amounts of water. In 2017, Beauty Campus Since cosmetic products and household items produced by Amorepacific Group are also created from Osan tripled its rainwater storage facilities to increase rainwater use, adapting to changing raw materials from nature, Amorepacific Group strives to preserve biodiversity and discover its new rain patterns during the summer season. In 2018, thanks to the expansion of the rainwater values and uses in order to respond to the climate change. storage facilities in the previous year, the collected water was used for the primary stage of cleaning laundry items such as work uniforms after being purified. As a result, Beauty Palm oil is easy to produce at a large scale and remains viable for distribution over a long period, makCampus Osan reduced its water usage by 75%, decreasing from 400 tons to 100 tons. ing it a popular product throughout the world. One result of its popularity is the practice of burning rainforests in different regions for the sake of creating palm tree plantations. The destruction of these rainforests leads to the loss of habitat for various plants and animals, and reduces the amount of greenhouse gas emissions that can be absorbed by forests. In 2018, Amorepacific Group started ‘RSPO Non-certified Palm Oil FREE’ policy to prevent the loss of rainforests. RSPO certification is an international certification for sustainable palm oil produced without destroying rainforests. Amorepacific Group has prioritized purchasing RSPO-certified palm oil. In instances of purchasing palm oil lacking RSPO certification, the group exercised a Book & Claim supply option, counteracting the negative effect of using non-RSPO certified resource. As a result, Amorepacific Group acquired a 100% RSPO certification in 2018. Expansion of the rainwater storage facilities Usage of collected rainwater for the primary stage of cleaning laundry items Reduction of Surface Water Usage Reuse of Concentrated Water at Beauty Campus Osan at Daily Beauty Site in Daejeon 300tons/month 31,302tons/year 30 31 We develop new Circular Economy INTERVIEW “ green tea varieties to protect biodiversity. The Fruition of 15-year Research: Jangwon No. 2 & No. 3 Where Is Jangwon No. 1? The word ‘green tea’ usually reminds us of a warm cup of fine tea. In fact, in the history of about 5,000 “One might wonder the whereabouts of Jangwon No. 1, since Jangwon No. 2 and No. 3 were years since the beginning of B.C.2,700 when humankind first started drinking green tea, Green tea has successfully applied to cosmetic products in 2018. Developing a new green tea variety takes been improved, cultivated, processed and cultivated centering on uniformity of flavor, aroma and color. a long period of research and experimentation, Jangwon No. 1 was created in 2015 after Various green tea varieties with enhanced functionality of green tea have been naturally culled because a decade of research and experiments. However, it manifested inferior characteristics over of their poor competitiveness and diversity of green tea varieties is also being destroyed. generations. Researchers tried different cultivation methods, but they failed to prevent the manifestation of these inferior characteristics. In short, Jangwon No. 1 was a failure. Thus, Amorepacific Group is the only global beauty company with ownership of tea farms. The group has been Jangwon No. 2 and No. 3 represent more valuable outcomes which overcame the painful working hard to develop new varieties of green tea that are not only excellent for brewing tea but also hardships of Jangwon No. 1.” great as ingredients for cosmetic products. While it is said that developing a new plant species generally takes more than 20 years, AMOREPACIFIC Group has spent a lot of time experimenting and researching. As a result, new green tea varieties Jangwon No. 2 and Jangwon No. 3 were created, containing 1.5 Always with Green Tea to 2 times more amino acidswith moisturizing effect and Catechinwith anti-aging function. In 2018, these two green “With biodiversity threatened due to climate change, preserving the biodiversity of green tea tea varieties were used in innisfree Green Tea line products and AMOREPACIFIC Time Response Line is very important, especially since green tea is one of the heritage ingredients of Amorepacific products, proving the new value of green tea species and contributing to biodiversity. Group. After setting the goal of finding originality by preserving the biodiversity of green tea species, we went to look for places where green tea varieties with excellent genes were already growing. We visited Boseong, a county in South Korea that is well known for green tea farms. We acquired excellent genetic resources of green tea from Gimhae, Sacheon, Namhae, Hadong and different places around Korea. The list of places we have visited also includes countries outside Korea, including China, Japan and Sri Lanka. As a result, Osulloc Farm is now preserving the genetic resources of 20,000 green tea varieties from around the world. In other words, it is a treasure trove of the biodiversity of green tea. Jangwon No. 2 and No. 3 were borne of this effort.” Lee Min-Seok, OSULLOC Farm OSULLOC Research Team 32 33 Actively utilizing unused spaces in buildings to generate electricity through solar panels. 34 35 2020 Sustainability Commitments Sustainable Lifestyle Inclusive Growth Circular Economy Through the 2020 Sustainability Commitments, Amorepacific Group seeks to help its stakeholders realize “sustainable lifestyle” in their everyday lives, achieve “inclusive growth” All stakeholders involved in Amorepacific Group’s Amorepacific Group realizes inclusive growth by To preserve the nature and ecosystem for the future with economic and social communities, and contribute to the corporate activities are invited to understand creating a great working environment for employees, generations, Amorepacific Group seeks to reduce the “circular economy” for future generations. environmental and social values better and make a supporting business partners, and enhancing women’s greenhouse gas emission and become carbon-free by transition to “sustainable lifestyle.” Products and health, well-being, and economic capabilities. 2030. Resources will be used more efficiently in the The 2020 Sustainability Commitments are closely linked stores will incorporate environmental and social process of production, consumption, and recirculation. to 2030 Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs), adopted considerations. Various brand campaigns will propose by the United Nations General Assembly in 2015. Through a sustainable everyday life. the efforts to execute its 2020 Sustainability Commitments, Amorepacific Group seeks to help in the rising global issues and endeavor to create a more beautiful world. 1 4 7 Incorporate at least one benefit Create a great place to work by Reduce the CO2 emissions for the environment or society improving employees’ health by 30 percent per tonne of into more than 40 percent and welfare. production from a 2015 baseline. of new products. 2 5 8 Integrate environmental and Contribute to inclusive Improve the efficiency social considerations into the growth by supporting of the water resource and design and operation of stores the growth and development packaging materials by SDGs 5 Gender Equality and disclose improvements. of business partners. promoting reuse and recycle. 5.5 Women’s Health and Well-being 5.6 Women’s Economic Empowerment 3 6 Provide customers opportunities ‘20 by 20’ commitment to participate in value SDGs 12 Responsible Consumption and Production support the health, consumption and enhance well-being, and economic 12.2 More Sustainable Prodcts awareness of environmentally capabilities of 200,000 women. 12.5 GREENCYCLE Campaign and socially sustainable lifestyles. 12.8 Promoting Sustainable Lifestyle through the magazine <Beauty Inside> 36 37 Sustainable Lifestyle Inclusive Growth 2020 Targets 2018 Targets 2018 Performances 2019 Targets 2020 Targets 2018 Targets 2018 Performances 2019 Targets 4 Create a great place to work Enhance leadership capabilities Women leadership Operate ‘Women Council’ – a human 1 Incorporate environmentally 36.5% 38.1% 39.5% of women leaders development mentoring resource network for women or socially friendly elements into ·4 executive mentors & 8 mentees new products Enhance gender equality and Women in managing positions 29% network among women 2 Applying sustainable ARITAUM uses sustainable materials ARITAUM applied 3 types of Develop plastic bags packaging materials for its store packages FSC-certified shopping bags with sustainable materials ·Usage rate 26% ·Usage rate of sustainable Promote diversity of employees Local employees in overseas Promote diversity of employees materials for store Promote customer awareness branches 96.3% packaging 45% of FSC-certified paper innisfree uses sustainable Enhance employee’s job satisfaction Employee engagement 48.21% Enhance employee’s job satisfaction materials for its store innisfree applied sustainable promotion materials materials for store 5 Increase the percentage of 70% 70% 75% promotiona materials suppliers that meet the ‘good ·Sustainable print papers: performance’ sustainability target citrus paper, recycled paper ·Sustainable materials for store VMDs Implement the Good Jobs Provide career Mini sessions for stress relief during Enhance job satisfaction Strategy for beauty partners development opportunities regular education programs of beauty partners Enhance job satisfaction Use LED lighting in all new and 100% 100% 100% of beauty partners renovated stores in Korea (ARITAUM, ETUDE House, innisfree) 6 Number of beneficiaries of women’s 89,250 140,387 103,020 health and well-being programs Number of beneficiaries of women’s 1,280 1,450 1,348 3 Providing opportunities Sulwhasoo economic empowerment programs for value consumption Beauty from Your Culture Beauty from Your Culture Beauty from Your Culture Hold campaign in 5 countries Held campaign in 5 countries Expand participating countries ·Thailand ·Indonesia ·Singapore ·Malaysia ·China Circular Economy LANEIGE Hold Refill Me Campaign in Held Refill Me Campaign in Hold Refill Me Campaign and donate 2020 Targets 2018 Targets 2018 Performances 2019 Targets 9 countries and donate 9 countries and donated KRW sales proceeds sales proceeds 66 million of sales proceeds 7 Reduce CO2 emissions per tonne 1% reduction 10.6% increase 1.4% reduction of production1) ·45.0% reduction innisfree in overseas branches2) Hold Play Green Campaign Held Play Green Campaign 8 times Hold Play Green Campaign in 3 countries Apply renewable energy Beauty Campus Osan, 1,161kW at Beauty Campus Osan, Expand investment in renewable energy ·Korea x 1 time Beauty Campus Shanghai 151kW at Daily Beauty Production at Beauty Campus Osan and Daily ·China x 5 times Site in Daejeon, 50kW at Beauty Beauty Production Site in Daejeon ·Malaysia x 2 times Campus Shanghai primera 8 Reduce water use 15% reduction in Korea and 36 % 3.1% reduction in Korea and 40.1% 8% reduction in Korea and 40% Attract 45,000 participants to 77,000 customers participated in Attract 80,000 participants to Love per tonne of production1) in Mainland China reduction in Mainland China reduction in Mainland China Love the earth online campaign Love the earth online campaign the earth online campaign Develop Sustainable Packaging Development & application of Developed 26 product packages using Develop 100 product packages using Mamonde sustainable plastic materials sustainable plastic materials and 67 sustainable plastic materials Install the third1) Honeybee Garden Installed the third Honeybee Garden Install the fourth1) Honeybee Garden packages using bio-based plastics at Seoul Museum of Art 1) accumulate 1) Compared to 2015 2) Greenhouse gas emissions increased due to the expansion of the Daejeon Daily Beauty and the Shanghai Beauty campus in China. 38 39 Company Overview Brand Portfolio Relentlessly pioneering the world of beauty to respond to customer expectations and needs, our brands are quickly expanding their global presence and becoming symbols of Asian beauty across the globe. www.sulwhasoo.com Wisdom of Ages With deep understanding of the wisdom on women’s life cycle passed down through thousands of years, Sulwhasoo grafted modern skin science onto traditional and legendary herbal ingredients such as Korean ginseng to provide skin solutions that bring youthful beauty that radiates timelessly. www.laneige.com Luminous Beauty: A healthy, moisture-filled radiance with New beauty for a life full of luminous moments Hydration is the fundamental key to luminous skin for beauty that radiates within. LANEIGE specializes on skin’s moisturizing mechanism based on the idea that a well-hydrated skin is the solution for many skin problems. The mechanism involves the skin to create moisture, strengthen its barrier, and purify on itself to become more than a temporary shine. Rather, the mechanism brings Luminous Skin that is translucent and vibrant throughout time.This is ‘Luminous Beauty,’ a new perspective of skin hydration created by LANEIGE 42 43 www.mamonde.com Inspired by Flowers Mamonde studies nature’s wisdom within a single flower, and re-invents the beauty of women. After the first global launch in China in 2005, Exceptional Beauty IOPE is a lab-based functional Mamonde is expanding business in ASEAN countries and the US from SEOUL skin care brand as a Global Leading Masstige Brand. www.hera.com www.iope.com www.innisfree.com Natural Benefits from JEJU We offer innovative beauty solutions powered by the finest natural ingredients found on Korea’s pristine Jeju Island. Thanks to its volcanic Global Premium Hair care brand Sprout energy origins, this fertile oasis has a unique ecosystem with abundant resources made of Asian Wisdom for the prime moments to nurture beautiful skin. With the wonders of nature at the heart of and Beauty of Korea of skin vitality innisfree, we take great care to preserve and protect the environment in all that we do. www.ryo.com www.primera.co.kr www.etudehouse.com Life is sweet, Make today even sweeter! As the first-ever domestic makeup brand, Etude House provides every The beginning woman with an experience to discover and develop their own beauty. of healthy beauty, With extensive color palettes, quality you can trust, trendy design and affordable prices, we are being loved as a K-beauty makeup brand, The Artisanship of Beauty VITALBEAUTIE leading the trend. www.amorepacific.com www.vitalbeautie.com 44 45 Treat your whole body Happy Bath, head to toe, healing Containing natural a body care brand moisture infused with bubbles, micellar GOUTAL PARIS. A Traditional French HANYUL delivers benefits to your skin committed to indigenous Korean cleansing, Perfume House since 1981 inspired by the nature of Korea delivering happiness herbal ingredients fine dust POP! www.goutalparis.com www.hanyul.co.kr www.happybath.com Customized NATURAL Valuable relaxation Espoir, a brand to express yourself with Reasonable and sensuous prescription DENTAL provided by tea beauty crews – full of vibe. street trend beauty brand for my teeth CARE PLEASIA from Jeju www.espoir.com www.aritaum.com www.median433.co.kr www.osulloc.com Marine cosmetics deliver beauty based on CHANGE YOUR HAIR, Fashion Inspired, Life beauty device, Medi marine energy CHANGE YOUR LIFE Professional Touched makeon Becomes Beauty www.lirikos.com www.miseenscene.com www.amosprofessional.com www.makeonbeauty.co.kr www.aestura.com 46 47 Global Network Amorepacific Group’s Global Brands North America Europe and others 71.9 billion KRW 34.9 billion KRW 164 employees Korea 130 employees 3,967.6 billion KRW 7,596 employees Asia 2,003.7 billion KRW 5,142 employees Sales(billion KRW) Number of Employees Countries with Brand Launched Location of Headquarter and Subsidiaries Sales Employees 6,078.2 billion KRW 13,032 employees *Sales figures are based on the 2018 consolidated financial statement of Amorepacific Group 48 49 Corporate Vision AP WAY Amorepacific Group undertakes various innovative activities to achieve its “Vision 2025” of becoming Amorepacific Group has been following its path with the dream of changing the world through beauty. AP a Great Brand Company. In pursuing this vision we focus on expanding global market, developing WAY is the very path that Amorepacific Group has chosen. It is a way forward that we would like to pursue innovative products and implementing digital innovation in order to make the world a better together. AP WAY is Amorepacific Group’s unique system of values: ‘Our Vocation,’ which explains the reason and healthier place through Asian Beauty. Furthermore, we continue to accelerate our efforts in we exist; ‘Our Values,’ the standards by which we differentiate right and wrong; and ‘AP Minds,’ a code of attaining sustainability by minimizing our environmental footprint as well as maintaining mutually conduct to fulfill our vocation and realize our values. All members of Amorepacific Group will pursue the AP beneficial partnerships. WAY together, realizing our grand dream of changing the world through beauty. The reason we exist “We change the world through beauty.” Our Vocation Achieve 50% Global Top 3 of the Overall Sales Asia No. 1 from Overseas Markets Amorepacific Group GREAT GLOBAL seeks to become a Great Brand Company The standard of our action Vision 2025 through innovative Great Brand Openness, Integrity, Innovation, Proximity, Challenge products and digital Company innovation for a better Our Values “We widely open our hearts “We always look for new “We constantly push and minds to the world.” and better ways.” ourselves beyond our limits.” customer experience that Openness Innovation Challenge will surprise the world. “We make an earnest effort “We understand our customers with all our work.” and stand by them.” Integrity Proximity Strengthen Brand Singularity The guidelines for vocation and value implementation BRAND Ourselves People around us Our work AP Minds I am the pride of Amorepacific Give first, always The customer decides Who am I growing to be Build trust, be responsible Think more, question more I am the best of tomorrow Do it now, do it right I work and I am happy Strive to discover the new GREAT GLOBAL BRAND AP WAY Activities · Attain Qualitative Growth · Accelerate Global Growth Based · Strengthen Brand Identities and Values, · Innovate Production and Work Process on a Four-pillar Strategy and Developing Engine Products AP Pride AP Minds Communication AP Minds Awards · Strengthen Harmonious Relationships (Korea, China, ASEAN and North America) for Each Brand with Stakeholders · Explore New Global Markets · Enhance the Capacity of Our Retail Develop management program focusing on Companywide AP Minds program to Companywide voting to recognize and award (Middle East, Europe and Australia) and Digital Sales sharing contents about employees compliment employees the most exemplary cases of AP Minds · Strengthen Our Global Brand Portfolio practicing AP Minds 50 51 Financial Performance Amid uncertain macroeconomic conditions and rapidly changing business environment in 2018, Amorepacific Group enhanced its efforts to improve business structure and strengthen competitiveness by exploiting changes Domestic The Korean domestic market is rapidly diversifying due to demographic changes, shifts in consumer value led by Millennials and Generation Z, and innovation in the distribution channels. Amorepacific Group’s major beauty as a chance. Amorepacific Group has established the following major strategies to achieve its management Business Activities subsidiaries undertook efforts to respond to the changes through internal and external reforms and leveraged objectives and visions: Development of innovative products based on ‘Brand Singularity’, Improvement of the changes as an opportunity for growth. customer experiences to attract ‘Millennials’ and ‘Omni customers’, Digital innovation through data analysis and application, Expansion of global coverage through entering new markets and developing strategic hub countries, Preparation of future management in response to changing distribution paradigms, Development Amorepacific of Sustainable Management and human resources as responsible global corporate citizens. Amorepacific, the major subsidiary of Amorepacific Group, enhanced its brand appeal and expanded its customer base by launching innovative new products. Amorepacific also improved customer experiences by enriching experiential contents at online and offline stores as well as implementing In 2018, Amorepacific Group’s revenue increased by 0.8% YoY to KRW 6,078.2 billion and operating profit marketing campaigns which integrated every brand and distribution channel of Amorepacific Group. decreased by 24.9% YoY to KRW 549.5 billion. In addition, Amorepacific continued to secure its digital competitiveness by expanding investment in online platforms and diversifying digital marketing. As a result, domestic revenue of major brands such as Sulwhasoo, Vitalbeautie and Ryo increased. Amorepacific Group Financial Performance Unit: KRW billion Cosmetics division continued its efforts to find new demands through continuously launching new innovative products, expanding its distinguished brand experience spaces, and entering new Category 2016 2017 2018 distribution channels. Sulwhasoo hired its representative model for the first time, solidifying its status as a leading luxury beauty brand in Korea. HERA opened a flagship store to provide unique brand Revenue 6,697.6 6,029.1 6,078.2 experiences and professional beauty services. Vitalbeautie focused on expanding health supplement product categories for senior citizens. LANEIGE developed innovative categories and attractive makeup Operating Profit 1,082.8 731.5 549.5 products to attract young customers. IOPE reinvented its brand image as a ‘highly functional skincare Net Profit 811.5 489.5 376.3 brand developed at the specialized skincare laboratory’. Mamonde made efforts to enhance its brand appeal by launching new products and organizing brand experiential events. In addition, Amorepacific newly released the inner beauty brand ‘Cube Me’ and the fragrance brand Amorepacific Financial Performance Unit: KRW billion “Fradore” through internal corporate venture program in order to respond to more detailed and diversified customer needs and changing trends. Category 2016 2017 2018 Revenue 5,645.4 5,123.8 5,277.8 Daily Beauty and Osulloc divisions focused on strengthening their premium product categories while increasing investment in digital channels in response to changes in the distribution channel Operating Profit 848.1 596.4 482 environment. Ryo achieved solid revenue growth with its representative premium products. Other brands including Mise-en-scène, Illiyoon and Happy Bath reinforced competitiveness by concentrating Net Profit 645.7 398 334.8 on key products and categories. Osulloc’s overall revenue increased thanks to steady sales of blended tea as well as growing online sales by increasing digital marketing. innisfree innisfree declined in revenue and operating profit due to weak sales in roadshops while the revenue generated through online channels increased. The brand strengthened its product competitiveness by launching new products such as ‘My Foundation’, ‘Bija Cica Balm’, and promoting its main skin care lines such as ‘Green Tea Seed Serum’ and ‘Orchid Enriched Cream’. In addition, innisfree focused on enhancing brand appeal by launching distinctive brand campaigns such as ‘Eco Handkerchief Campaign’ and ‘#SkinFactCheck’, as well as introducing a new membership system geared toward customers of the Millennial generation. 52 53 Domestic ETUDE International Amorepacific Group’s overseas business continued sustainable growth with its five global champion brands ETUDE declined in revenue and operating profit due to decreased sales at roadshops, followed by the (Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, Mamonde, innisfree, and ETUDE House). Due to the expansion of brands and distribution Business Activities reduced number of the stores. Nevertheless, ETUDE diversified its product categories by launching Business Activities channels as well as increased sales of key products, it maintained solid growth in the existing markets. Revenue in new products including ‘Mini Two Match’, ‘Shine Chic Lip Lacquer’ and ‘Double Lasting Serum the Asian market increased through promoting diverse brand marketing, launching new offline and online stores Foundation’. At the same time, the brand focused on expanding customer experiences by renovating store spaces and launching ‘Color Factory’, a space that provides a personal color consulting service to and expanding investment in digital contents. In North America, solid revenue growth was maintained through customers. strengthening its skin care brand portfolio and capacity with LANEIGE and innisfree. In Europe, the company reestablished its competitiveness by renewing fragrance brand Goutal Paris. The company also accelerated to enter eSpoir new markets such as Australia, UAE, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and the Phillippines, seeking to share the core value of eSpoir saw a slight decline in revenue as a result of reducing the number of roadshops. However, the Asian Beauty with the customers in the world. brand enhanced its brand accessibility by entering multi-brand shops and operating pop-up stores in major commercial districts. eSpoir also focused on strengthening its digital marketing and expanding Sulwhasoo SNS communication in order to closely interact with millennial customers. Sulwhasoo maintained solid revenue growth through its steady sales of major products such as ‘First Care Activating Serum (Yoonjo Essense)’ and the launch of new products such as ‘Concentrated AESTURA Ginseng Renewing Water’, ‘Concentrated Ginseng Renewing Emulsion’ and ‘Concentrated Ginseng AESTURA declined in revenue and operating profit due to sale of its filler brand ‘Cleviel’ and decrease Essence.’ In addition, Sulwhasoo strengthened its brand competitiveness as Asia’s leading luxury in the production of pharmaceuticals, while its revenue of inner beauty products increased. AESTURA beauty brand by consistently launching online and offline stores in China and ASEAN countries and launched a new product line ‘AESTURA 365’ and diversified its points of sales for customers by successfully implementing the global brand campaigns. entering multi-brand shops. In addition, AESTURA has expanded its communications with customers through social media channels and YouTube. LANEIGE LANEIGE made an effort to enhance its brand appeal by expanding its product portfolio with an innovative new product ‘Layering Cover Cushion’ and launching the global brand campaign ‘Water AMOS professional Bar’ to strengthen communication with the global consumers. Along with expanding points of sales AMOS professional launched a variety of products including Color Genic It’s Glow, Perfect Renew in the North American market, the brand also entered new markets including Australia, India, and the Green Tea Active and Satin Pleasure Oil, boosting its product competitiveness and responsiveness Philippines, seeking to expand its global business. to premium trends. This led to the brand’s strong foothold as a professional hair brand. In addition, AMOS professional also strengthened its digital competitiveness by expanding AMOS Academy App, a Mamonde mobile hair salon platform, and investing in social media marketing. Mamonde focused on the growth at multi-brand shops and digital channels in China and ASEAN countries and reorganized its distribution channel portfolio, paving a road toward qualitative growth within the Asian region. At the same time, Mamonde entered the American market, diversifying its path for growth and strengthening brand competitiveness. innisfree innisfree focused on strengthening its brand appeal by renewal launching the major Jeju heritage product line (‘Green Tea’, ‘Volcanic Pore’) and expanding new innovative products including ‘My Foundation’. In addition, the brand strengthened its image as a natural beauty brand through the launch of diverse localized products and global brand marketing campaigns. innisfree continued its expansion of online and offline stores in the existing markets such as China, ASEAN, and the United States. The brand also accelerated its entry to the new markets (Japan, Australia, and the Philippines), focusing on global business expansion. Amorepacific Group Domestic Revenue Amorepacific Group Overseas Revenue ETUDE House 3,967.6 billion KRW 2,110.5 billion KRW ETUDE House strengthened customized consumer communication in different countries by increasing country-specific products, marketing, and personal color consulting services. In addition, the brand was well received in the new markets (UAE, Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia) and maintained solid revenue growth in the existing markets (Japan, Thailand, and Malaysia). Through such efforts, ETUDE House is strengthening its position as a global young makeup brand. Proportion of Domestic Revenue Proportion of Overseas Business Overseas Revenue by Region Unit: billion KRW Category 2016 2017 2018 65.3 % 34.7 % Asia North America 1,636.2 53.8 1,832.7 57.1 2,003.7 71.9 Europe and Others 110 34.5 34.9 54 55 R&D Innovation Strengthening Digital Capabilities Amorepacific Group aims to become a ‘Digital Beauty Company’ in the face of the on-life1) era. In 2018, Cream and Toner Formulation Amorepacific Group has developed a technology to combine cream and toner, resulting we created a new Digital Strategy Unit to secure organizational capacity for ‘Digital Transformation’. a light water-type product. The technology is successfully applied in Laneige’s ‘Cream Fusion Technology Skin. High-pressure Cream blending technology has made it possible to stabilize the cream-water-soluble product. Through this technology, Amorepacific Group have developed a water-type product that retains the nutritional and moisturizing properties of cream products while preserving the fresh feel of skin toner products. Biodiversity Conservation Amorepacific Group is continuing its efforts to innovate new varieties of green tea Establishing Digital Business Basis Amorepacific Group have focused on building big data to strengthen a digital business and research cultivation methods. In doing so, we conserve the diversity of green tea basis and provide differentiated customer experiences. By utilizing the various customer and Application species and enhance their value. In 2018, Amorepacific Group developed two green tea contact points of Amorepacific Group, we are securing differentiated customer data varieties: Jangwon No. 2, rich in Theanine and amino acids, and Jangwon No. 3, high in such as skin data of each customer and explore business opportunities such as custom EGCG and Catechin levels. Both varieties are used in Amorepacific products, conserving cosmetics and optimal product recommendations based on these data. The collected the diversity of green tea varieties. In addition, Amorepacific Group has developed the data is integrated on a platform basis, and we want to provide big data for each Ultimate shading cultivation, which increases the quantity of amino acids in green tea customer from off-line contacts such as visiting sales, department store, and road shop, by 300% by controlling the amount of photosynthesis during the cultivation process. and to enhance personalized target marketing. With Ulimate shading cultivation, the value of green tea as an ingredient for cosmetic products is maximized. Enhancing Digital Customer Experience In February 2019, innisfree launched a ‘self-store’ in accordance with the latest trend to shop alone without the help of store staff. In the self-store, customers can enjoy Development of Eco-friendly Amorepacific Group developed ‘Plant Water Mimetics,’ an eco-friendly technique that self-shopping through advanced smart devices guiding the product information and does not rely on an organic solvent. Instead, the technique extracts substances using location, recommending customized products for each customer, and helping with selfSubstance Extraction Technology a fluid that mimics the water found in plants. By extracting substances using an ecopayment. In addition, we introduced smart devices such as ‘seat pack bending machine’ friendly method, we are able to continue providing a sense of assurance to the customers. and ‘beauty stick mirror’ to more easily communicate product information to customers Moreover, we reduced CO2 emissions by omitting a concentration process that required and provide various digital interactive experiences and new purchasing experience. artificially generated heat. Roadshop brands innisfree, Aritaum and ETUDE House implemented an omnichannel Amorepacific’s R&D Performance synergy program that links online sales from headquarter and offline store sales. Category 2016 2017 2018 Through such an effort, Amoepacific Group will respond to the rapidly changing retail Number of Published Academic Papers(case) 51 54 66 environment and cooperate with our franchisees. Ratio of R&D Expenditure to Sales(%) 2.12 2.31 2.30 Sulwhasoo’s Sulin digital pop-up store ‘BLOOMSTAY’ has been designed to be implemented a digital platform, allowing many customers to meet ‘Sulin Cream’ products without any limitations in time and space. Not only in Korea, but also in China, Hong Kong, Malaysia. Our customers have been able to experience five different floors Protecting Intellectual Property Rights Amorepacific Group is developing innovative technologies through continuous research in the digital space as if they were actually visiting the offline pop-up store, experience and development. skin fatigue tips, skin fatigue checks, and more. Amorepacific Group’s Patent Application and Registration Unit: cases 1) The distinction between online and real life becomes increasingly fuzzy, making the distinction between the two areas disappear. Category 2016 2017 2018 Number of Patent Applications and Registrations 1,099 1,368 1,245 Amorepacific’s Patent Application and Registration Unit: cases Category 2016 2017 2018 Applications 360 357 279 Korea Registrations 148 285 281 Applications 466 495 467 Overseas Registrations 118 183 172 56 57 Major Management Activities of Subsidiaries AMOREPACIFIC Since its founding in 1945, Amorepacific has devoted itself to becoming the “Asian Beauty Creator” ETUDE ETUDE is a global makeup brand that promotes a fun, playful makeup culture, offering diverse with the mission of spreading the essence of Asian beauty to the rest of the world. Determined to win products and customer experiences so that every woman can discover her own beauty and become customer trust through technology and quality, it established Korea’s first cosmetics research institute more beautiful. With a rich spectrum of colors, credible quality, adorable design and reasonable and has created new beauty which embraces Asian wisdom with passion and unsparing investment pricing, ETUDE is a leader in makeup trends and enjoys tremendous popularity as the top K-beauty in heritage ingredients and dermatological research. Based on the extensive research and technology makeup brand in Korea and throughout Asia. accumulated during its seven decades of company history, Amorepacific has created global brands Innovating Offline Customer Experiences including Sulwhasoo, HERA, LANEIGE and Mamonde, quickly becoming one of the most loved and trusted companies not only in Asia but worldwide. A new shop identity emphasizing colors and experiences was introduced in both domestic and international stores to facilitate unique customer experiences. Developing Innovative Products through Open Innovation Digitalization of Customer Service In 2018, Amorepacific accelerated the pace of innovation through ‘AP Innovation Day,’ which engaged customers, ETUDE created a unique omni-channel experience by launching a shopping application which adapts to partner companies and influencers. Ideas generated through the event will be put to use in 18 products in 2019. each customer’s evolving purchasing journey. Accelerating Global Expansion Amorepacific is accelerating its global growth through overseas expansion and increasing its number of stores as well as launching new brands to global markets. ETUDE House Store in Chungjang-ro ETUDE House Shopping Application AP Innovation Day LANEIGE Flagship Store in the Philippines innisfree innisfree is a natural brand dedicated to conveying the purity and cleanliness of nature through its eSpoir eSpoir is a leading Asian high-quality professional makeup brand. eSpoir suggests makeup looks that products as well as advocating a green lifestyle to its customers. Since its official launch in 2000, will emphasize ‘me as myself’ through its foundation shades and textures, deep color spectrums and innisfree has grown into a sustainable brand that operates in 13 region outside Korea, enhancing its know-how of professional makeup artists, based on research in Asian skin tones. eSpoir’s beauty crews global competitiveness and developing inclusive, eco-friendly campaigns globally. find and provide makeup looks that will give customers the ability to express their authentic charm while avoiding stereotypical makeup formulas. Accelerating Global Expansion innisfree opened new stores in different regions around the world including North America, Australia and Japan. Distinguished Brand Service through Omni-experience ‘eSpoir Weekly Lipstick’ is a live performance where professional makeup artists present the process of mixing Developing Unique Customer Experiences trendy colors. In 2018, the performance was aired live on SNS and customers could purchase related products on innisfree created a unique global customer experience by offering experiential occasions such as the pop-up event eSpoir’s official shopping mall, augmenting the omni-experience of customers. to experience its major product, ‘Green Tea Seed Serum.’ Digitalizing Customer Experience eSpoir’s official online shopping mall was renewed with private makeup lesson preservation, online report, 1:1 consulting with makeup artists, and product recommendation. Innisfree flagship store, Lexington, Newyork GTSS New Hydration Station Pop-up Event in Singapore Weekly Lipstick Performance eSpoir Official Online Shopping Mall 58 59 DJSI Korea 지수 DJSI Korea 지수 CDP Korea 기후변화 8년 연속 편입 Major Awards and Recognitions 8년 연속 편입 탄소경영 섹터 위너 AMOS professional AMOS professional is a specialist hairstyling product manufacturer for hair salons offering its signature 필수 소비재 부문 우 다우존스 지속가능경영지수 DJSI 는다우존스 기업의 경지속가능경영지수 DJSI 는 기업의 경 brand AMOS professional and premium brand AYUNCHE. AMOS professional has provided optimized 더 아리따운 professional beauty solutions and leading trends in the hairstyling market. Through various partnership 주요 수상 내역 제, 환경, 사회적 측면을 종합적으로 글로벌 지속가능경영 평가 및 투자글로벌 환경, 사회적 측면을 종합적으로 평가하는 제,평가하는 SRI 표준으지속가능경영 평가 및 투자 SRI 표준으 CDP Carbon Disclosure Projec 동 및 성과에 관한 정보 and training programs, it supports the competitiveness and sustainability of Korean hair designers. Amorepacific Group discloses information on environmental, social and governanceESG in a transparent 로, 세계 최대 금융정보사인 S&P 다우존스 로, 세계 최대 인 금융정보사인 S&P 다우존스 인 의 투자 및 정부의 정책 세상을 위하여Launching of AMOS Academy manner based on its2020 and reliable아모레퍼시픽그룹은 Sustainability목표를 Commitments. 2020지속가능경영 중심으로 덱스와By 투명하고participating 신뢰할in수 지속가능경영 a있는 평가기관인variety ESGofEnvironmental, 덱스와global 로베코샘이 지속가능경영 Social and Governance 정보를 공개하고 있습니다. 평가기관인 로베코샘이 자료 등에 주요하게 활 sustainability 이를 initiatives, 바탕으로 Amorepacific 다양한 글로벌 Group has been recognized 지속가능경영 이니셔티브에 for공동 sustainability its참여하고 개발하였습니다.있으며, performance 책임투자를 아모레퍼시픽은 through 공동 비롯한 8년 연 국·내외 다양한 개발하였습니다. 아모레퍼시픽은 평가를 8년 통해연아모레퍼시픽그룹의 30여 개국에서 진행되 AMOS Academy is an education space for cultivating professional hair designers. The academy trains professionals domestic and global evaluations 지속가능성 성과를 인정받고 socially responsible investments including있습니다. 속 DJSISRIKorea에 . 편입되었습니다. 속 DJSI Korea에 편입되었습니다. 시픽은 CDP Korea 기후 through its courses on hair design techniques, trends and customer service. 아모레퍼시픽그룹은 터 위너스에 선정되었습 아모레퍼시픽그룹은 지속가능성을 Digitalization of Offline Sales향한 Support혁신과 지속가능성을도전을 향한 혁신과 도전을 FTSE4Good 지수 FTSE4Good 지수 한국에서 가장 존경 AYUNCHE-ON has been developed as a digital platform to support professional customers of AYUNCHE. With 쉼 없이 이어가겠습니다. 쉼 없이 이어가겠습니다. DJSI Korea 지수 7년 연속 편입 7년 연속 편입 CDP Korea 기후변화 대응2018 올스타 All Star 기 AYUNCHE-ON, customer contact is innovatively increased via diverse O2O services including a location-based store finder. 8년 연속 편입 탄소경영 섹터 위너스 화장품 산업 부문 1위 FTSE4Good 지수는 2001년부터 파이낸셜 FTSE4Good 타 지수는 2001년부터 파이낸셜 타 DJSI 임즈와 런던증권거래소가 공동으로 선정하고 필수 소비재 부문 우수 기업 다우존스 지속가능경영지수 임즈와 는 기업의 경 런던증권거래소가 공동으로 선정하고 ‘한국에서 가장 존경받 제, 환경, 사회적 측면을 종합적으로 있으며, 평가하는지속가능 투자 결정 시 중요한 있으며, 기준으 지속가능 투자 CDP 시 중요한 결정 Carbon 기준으 Disclosure Project 는 기후변화 및 주주, 직원,대응활 고객, 사회 Included in the DJSI Korea Index 글로벌 지속가능경영 Included평가 및로투자 in the SRI 표준으 활용되고 FTSE4Good 있습니다. IndexFTSE4Good for 로지수에 활용되고 있습니다. 편 Most 동 성과에지수에 FTSE4Good Admired 및 Companies 관한 정보를 in편Korea 2018 투자기관 수집하여 평가하여 All Star 30대 for 9 Consecutive Years 로, 세계 최대 8금융정보사인 S&P 입되기 Consecutive Years 다우존스 위해서는 인 윤리, 사회, 환경 입되기 기준을 위해서는 충족 윤리, 사회, 의 투자 환경 및 기준을 정부의 충족 정책 입안, 받는기업의1위벤치마킹 All Star Company and 1st Place 기업을 선정하 덱스와 지속가능경영 평가기관인 해야 로베코샘이 하며, 아모레퍼시픽은 7년 연속 해야지수에 하며, 아모레퍼시픽은 7년 연속 자료 Industry 등에 주요하게 지수에 활용되는시픽은 평가로,올스타전 세계 기업에 in Cosmetics 공동 개발하였습니다. 아모레퍼시픽은 편입되었습니다. 8년 연 편입되었습니다. 30여 개국에서 진행되고 있습니다. 라, 화장품 아모레퍼산업 부문 1 속 DJSI Korea에 편입되었습니다. 시픽은 CDP Korea 기후변화 대응 탄소경영 적 가치를 인정받고 섹 있습 The Dow Jones Sustainability IndexDJSI is an SRI An important standard in sustainability “KOREA’s Most Respected 터 위너스에 Companies” selects 30 선정되었습니다. 아모레퍼시픽그룹은 AMOS Academy AYUNCHE-ON investments, FTSE4Good Index companies have standards system evaluating the sustainability All Star companies and the top company in each 지속가능성을 향한 혁신과 도전을 performance of companies by comprehensively been jointly selected by the Financial Times industry, in consideration of their innovation *아모레 assessing their economic, environmentalFTSE4Good and and 지수London Stock Exchange since 2001. To be 한국에서 가장 efforts, shareholders, 존경받는 employees, 기업 and customer 쉼 없이 이어가겠습니다. 7년 연속 편입 social aspects, jointly developed by the world's included in the FTSE4Good Index, companies social values.2018 올스타 All Star 기업 및 AESTURA AESTURA is a democosmetic brand offering derma care solutions for hospitals and clinics. In pursuit of largest provider of financial market indices, must satisfy ethical, social and environmental healthful beauty and innovative products informed by pharmaceutical experience, AESTURA continues 화장품 산업 부문 1위 FTSE4Good 지수는 2001년부터 파이낸셜 타 S&P Dow Jones Indices and RobecoSam, an standards. Amorepacific has been included in Amorepacific was selected as an All Star Company its research efforts and expansion of its brand influence. In 2018, AESTURA broadened its distribution 임즈와 런던증권거래소가 공동으로 선정하고 ‘한국에서 가장 존경받는 기업’ 은 혁신능력 investment specialist focused exclusively on 지속가능 the Index for eight consecutive years. as well as the top company in the cosmetics 있으며, 투자 결정 시 중요한 기준으 및 주주, 직원, 고객, 사회가치 등을 종합적으로 channels from hospitals to include general customers, striving to deliver its brand value to a wider Sustainability Investing. Amorepacific로was 활용되고 있습니다. FTSE4Good 지수에 편 industry, proving its outstanding social value. 평가하여 All Star 30대 기업과 산업별로 존경 range of customers. included in the DJSI for eight consecutive years. 입되기 위해서는 윤리, 사회, 환경 기준을 충족 받는 1위 기업을 선정하고 있습니다. 아모레퍼 해야 하며, 아모레퍼시픽은 7년 연속 지수에 시픽은 올스타 기업에 선정되었을 뿐만 아니 Launching of AESTURA 365 Line 편입되었습니다. 라, 화장품 산업 부문 1위에 올라 기업의 사회 In addition to the professional recognition as a democosmetic brand for hospitals, AESTURA launched AESTURA 적 가치를 인정받고 있습니다. 365. The 365 line was established as a separate brand for general customers incorporating AESTURA’s distinguished professionalism. *아모레퍼시픽 수상·편입 내역임 AESTURA 365 64 64 Osulloc Farm Established in 1974, Osulloc Farm is a premium tea company specializing in tea cultivation, processing and sales, and which is committed to preserving traditional Korean tea culture and harvesting the best tea leaves grown in our soil. Osulloc Farm is both a leader in popularizing tea culture and a pioneer of the luxury green tea market with Osulloc tea grown on organic plantations in Jeju Island and Gangjin. “Each country has a unique tea, except Korea. No matter how big the sacrifice may be, I want to establish Korea’s traditional tea culture” Suh Sungwhan, the founder and former CEO of Amorepacific 64 60 61 Sustainability Management System Materiality Amorepacfic Group carried out a materiality analysis in order to gain an accurate understanding of stakeholder interests and business impact and use it to better achieve our sustainability goals. In compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Analysis Standards on reporting topics, the analysis included topics including perspectives of internal and external stakeholders including media, domestic and global economy, social changes and key issues in the cosmetics industry. Materiality Analysis Prioritization HIGH Identification of of Material Sustainability Issues Issues Business Impact Business Impact Stakeholder Interest Configuring recently Researching Analysis of Analysis of internal Media research Reviewing opinions of 1 sustainability issues ESG issues in the international standard strategies and risks external experts and 2 (Stakeholder-proposed issues, cosmetics industry requirements government policies 10 political issues and regulations, industry characteristics, etc.) 3 companies chosen by GRI Standards Business risks and Analysis of Experts’ opinions 5 DJSI World and DJSI issues related to economic, social and about the sustainability Determined 7 International standards and SRI 6 advanced companies ISO 26000 2020 Sustainability environmental issues activities of a total of 6 (Social Responsible Investing) in the same industry UNGC Commitments from approximately Amorepacific Group 11 material 4 assessment criteria analysis SASB 3,785 articles and policy trends issues 11 3 Media research (Issues with regard to 8 9 Amorepacific Group and the cosmetics industry) Business Impact We carried out an analysis of major sustainability reporting issues in the same industry, international standards, Amorepacific Group’s internal strategies, and business risks. As a result of the analysis, we identified the following as core issues: response to climate change, promotion of resource circulation, strengthening of product sustainability, water resource management, respect for human rights and diversity, and enhancement of health and quality of life of employees. Stakeholder Interest To understand the stakeholder interest, we analyzed media coverage, government policy trends, and experts’ opinions related to Amorepacific Group. Our analysis of 3,785 media articles on the Group published between January 1 and December 31, 2018 identified several key issues including CSR activities such as ‘20 by 20 Commitment,’ economic outcomes, and Stakeholder Interest HIGH innovative sustainable technologies. This Sustainability Report presents issues drew from various media coverages as well as NO Material Issue Cost Benefit Risk Strategic Orientation GRI Topic Page Number(s) our activities in response to government policies and demands made by external experts. 1 Implementing sustainable technology Sustainable lifestyle 8~10, 38 ○ ○ innovation and investment 2 Strengthening product safety Sustainable lifestyle 81 ○ Customer health and safety 3 Strengthening product sustainability Sustainable lifestyle 8~10, 38 ○ 4 Enhancing human rights and diversity Inclusive growth Human rights assessment 22~23, 86 ○ of employees 5 Enhancing employee health and Inclusive growth 18, 86~88 ○ quality of life 6 Expanding safety culture throughout the Inclusive growth 19, 21, 95~96 value chain ○ Supplier environmental 7 Supporting suppliers’ sustainable Inclusive growth 96~98 ○ assessment, supplier social management practice and enhancement assessment 8 Supporting suppliers’ growth Inclusive growth 19~20, 96~98 ○ and development 9 Carrying out strategic CSR activities aligned Inclusive growth Indirect economic impacts, 22, 99~102 ○ Local communities with our businesses 10 Promoting circulation of resources Contribution to sustainable lifestyle Water, effluents and waste 30, 92~94 ○ ○ circular economy 11 Minimizing the impact on global warming Contribution to circular economy Energy, emmissions 28~29, 90~92 ○ by corporate activities 64 65 Stakeholder Amorepacific Group defines stakeholders as all parties, including customers, employees, shareholders, local communities, and business partners that directly and indirectly influence or are influenced by the company’s business activities. For each Governance Amorepacific Group implements a responsible management system for each business, focusing on the deliberative corporate governance structure of our holding company. Our efforts allow us to professionalize and reinforce our core competency and Engagement stakeholder group, we identify and reflect key issues in our business activities. We also gather their opinions and understand their expectations through various communication channels available on a permanent or regular basis. Furthermore, we Structure expertise in beauty and healthcare businesses, which include cosmetics, personal care, and healthcare products. In addition, our corporate governance structure contributes to generating sustainable values for all stakeholders, including strong draw key issues through communicating with stakeholders that are reported in our Sustainability Report transparently. shareholder returns and the diversification of management risks. Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency of Key Opinions Measures Taken Each Channel Board of Directors (BOD): As the highest decision-making body, the Board of DirectorsBOD of Amorepacific Group consists of six registered members as of March 2019. The BOD of Amorepacific consists of eight registered members. Pursuant to the Commercial Act of Korea and Composition and Authority the company’s Articles of Incorporation, all directors on both boards are obligated to faithfully exercise their fiduciary duties Customers ·Corporate and brand website, SNS ·On demand ·Reinforce product safety ·Expanded VOC sharing methods and subjects through CGAP digital exhibitions and fulfill their responsibilities as good managers to promote the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. ·CGAP enhancement activities ·On demand/ ·Strengthen customer services Once a year ·Introduction of automated service by incorporating AI ‘chatbot’ ·CGAP Exhibition ·On demand Amorepacific Group BOD As of March 2019 Category Name Position/Affiliation Major Responsibility Industry experience Committee Activities Employees ·Employee engagement survey ·Once a year ·Strengthen internal ·Workshops to enhance employee engagement in Executive Directors Suh Kyung-bae CEO Supervision of management Head of Planning and Coordination of Taepyeongyang Co., Ltd. Management Committee corporate communication each organization CEO of Taepyeongyang Co., Ltd. Risk Management Committee Current Chairman of Amorepacific Group ·Regularlabor-managementmeetings ·Once per quarter ·Expand opportunities of growth ·Employee communication programs for individuals Bae Dong-hyun President Supervision of management Chief Financial Officer of Amorepacific Management Committee Executive Vice President of Corporate Support Unit at Amorepacific Risk Management Committee ·In-house online community ·On demand ·Establish safe working environment Current President and CEO of Amorepacific Group Kim Seung-hwan Executive Vice President HR Senior Vice President of Planning Innovation at Strategy and Finance, Amorepacific Risk Management Committee Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning Division at Amorepacific Group Current Executive Vice President of Group HR Unit at Amorepacific Group Shareholders ·Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting ·Once a year ·Establish fair corporate value ·Quarterly and yearly earnings release ·Analyst Day ·Once a year ·Enhance shareholder values ·Shared midto long-term business strategies Executive Directors Shin Dong-youb Professor at Yonsei Audit Committee Member Deputy Director of Yonsei Sangnam Institute of Management Audit Committee ·Presented market trends and future outlook University School of Non-executive Director ·Conference calls ·Quarterly/ ·Promote corporate access Business Recommendation Committee On demand ·Expanded 1:1 meetings with shareholders and investors Choi Jung-il Audit Committee Member Ambassador to India Audit Committee ·IR website ·On demand Ambassador to Germany Non-executive Director ·Domestic /overseas ·On demand Recommendation Committee investor conferences Choi Jong-hag Professor at Seoul National Audit Committee Member Current Non-executive Director and Audit Committee Member of Pulmuone Co., Ltd. Audit Committee University Business School Current Director and member of Fund Management Committee of Seoul National Non-executive Director University Development Fund Recommendation Committee Local ·Local consultative meetings ·On demand ·Increase the community engagement ·Practiced problem-solving activities communities (off-line) ·Action plans for in local communities ·BOD meetings and websites ·Once a year ‘20 by 20’ commitment ·Discovered partners to solve issues in local of foundations communities (social enterprise, coop, ·Respond to local community social venture, etc.) Amorepacific BOD As of March 2019 ·On demand sponsorship request ·CSR portal site, SNS ·Promoted collaborative projects with local Category Name Position/Affiliation Major Responsibility Industry experience Committee Activities ·Once a year ·Expand a sharing culture businesses (i.e. collaborative education ·CSR seminar Executive Directors Suh Kyung-bae CEO Supervision of management Head of Planning and Coordination of Taepyeongyang Co., Ltd. Management Committee donation activities) ·Global CSR Roundtable ·Once a year CEO of Taepyeongyang Co., Ltd. Risk Management Committee ·Strengthened collaborations with major institutions Current Chairman of Amorepacific Group ·A MORE Beautiful Day ·Once a month in CSR sector (Sharing Campaign) Ahn Sae-hong President Supervision of management Senior Vice President of Amorepacific Market Sales Management Committee Vice President of innisfree Co., Ltd. Risk Management Committee Current President of Amorepacific Business ·Mutual growth general meetings ·Once a year ·Strengthen support for mutual growth ·Supported supplier funds and human resources partners (per sales channel) Lee Sang-mok Management support Audit Committee member Served at Samjeong KPMG, Deloitte Anjin LLC, and PWC Consulting Risk Management Committee ·Establish a culture of communication ·Conducted joint R&D projects with suppliers Senior Vice President of Finance at Amorepacific ·Win-Win practice seminar and ·Once a year ·Opened communication channels on a regular basis and participation Current Executive Vice President of Corporate Support Unit at Amorepacific general meeting ·Empower beauty partners and improve ·Carried out ‘Good Jobs Strategy’ Non-executive Eom Young-ho Audit Committee member Management support Economist at Federal Reserve Bank of New York Audit Committee ·Business partner satisfaction survey ·Once a year work environment for beauty partners Directors Chairman of Disciplinary Committee at Korea Exchange Non-executive Director President of Korea Derivatives Association Recommendation Committee Park Seung-ho Overall business Audit Committee member Head of Samsung Economic Research Institute Beijing Office management Professor Emeritus at China Europe International Business School (CEIBS) Kim Jin-yeong Audit Committee member Overall business CFO of Shinsegae Chosun Hotel Audit Committee management Director of Center for Creative Medicine at Severance Hospital , Non-executive Director Yonsei University Health System Recommendation Committee Kim Kyung-ja Overall business Audit Committee member Dean of the Office of International Affairs, Catholic University of Korea management Presdident of the Korean Society of Consumer Studies Lee Hwi-sung Senior Advisor of innovation Overall business CEO, IBM Korea Audit Committee enterprise ShallWe management Vice President of Strategy, IBM Headquarters Non-executive Director Recommendation Committee 66 67 Activities of the Amorepacific Group Board of Directors 2018 Independence of BOD and The BOD guarantees the independence of non-executive directors to actively state their opinions on overall management. The ratio of non-executive directors at Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific is maintained at 50% and 62.5%, respectively. Session Date Topic and Contents Attendance Rate Transparency of the BOD The independence of non-executive directors is guaranteed in accordance with the related laws and regulations. Election Process 1 January 31, 2018 Report 100% (6/6) Executive directors and non-executive directors are appointed by the approval of the General Shareholders’ Meeting upon A. Management status for 2017 recommendation by the BOD and nomination by the Non-executive Director Recommendation Committee, respectively. B. Operation and evaluation of internal accounting management system For recommendation of non-executive directors, Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific convene the Non-executive Director Agendas Recommendation Committee as a non-standing committee. The Nonexecutive Director Recommendation Committee 1. Matter of approving the 59th (2017) financial statements and sales report recommends candidates to the BOD based on an evaluation of their independence from the company and the largest 2. Establishment of Non-executive Director Recommendation Committee and appointment of a new member shareholder, and their professional expertise required by global companies. The BOD decides and submits the final candidate 3. Establishment of Risk Management Committee and appointment of a new member to the General Shareholders’ Meeting which then decides whether or not to elect the candidate in question. Prior to the 4. Matter of approving transactions between subsidiaries General Shareholders’ Meeting, personal information of the candidate is officially announced on the Data Analysis, Retrieval and TransferDART System of the Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr). 2 February 27, 2018 Agendas 100% (6/6) 1. Matter of convening the 59th (2017) regular General Shareholders’ Meeting and approving submitted agenda items 2. Matter of resolving the agenda of the 59th (2017) cash dividends Committees In order to faithfully fulfill the responsibilities and roles of the BOD, Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific have four committees under the BOD: Audit Committee, Management Committee, Non-executive Director Recommendation under BOD 3 March 16, 2018 Agendas 100% (6/6) Committee and Risk Management Committee. The Audit Committee and Non-executive Director Recommendation 1. Matter of appointing a new chairman Committee consist only of nonexecutive directors to assure fairness and transparency of management. 2. Matter of appointing new committee members of the BOD 3. Matter of acquiring stocks to increase capital of Cosvision 4. Matter of providing mortgage to subsidiaries Committees under the BOD As of March 2019 Committee Key Responsibilities and Activities 4 May 9, 2018 Report 83.3% (5/6) A. Reporting of management status for the first quarter of 2018 Audit Committee Performs audits on the company’s financial and business affairs in accordance with the laws and Agenda the regulations of the BOD 1. Matter of changing the mortgage provision for Pacificglas Co., Ltd. Management Committee Deliberates and resolves general managerial matters delegated by the BOD in accordance with 5 July 26, 2018 Report 100% (6/6) the purpose of the Committee which is to promote expertise and efficiency in decision-making in A. Reporting of management status for the first half of 2018 management Agenda Non-executive Director Recommends candidates to the BOD based on an evaluation of their independence from the 1. Matter of providing mortgage to subsidiaries Recommendation Committee company and the largest shareholder, and their professional expertise required by global companies. 6 October 29, 2018 Report 100% (6/6) Risk Management Discusses, evaluates and resolves general matters relating to management risks, including risk A. Management status for the third quarter of 2018 Committee prevention and management, post-management of actual risks B. Inspection outcome regarding compliance with compliance control standards Agendas 1. Matter of establishing a Corporate Governance Charter 2. Matter of partial amendment of Committee Charter Activities of BOD In 2018, Amorepacific Group convened six BOD meetings and decided on 14 items with 94.4% attendance rate for executive directors and 100% for non-executive directors. Amorepacific also convened six BOD meetings and decided on 15 items in 2018 with 92.9% attendance rate for executive directors and 96.0% for non-executive directors. Key resolutions made by the Board in 2018 were notified to shareholders and other stakeholders through official announcements of the Financial Supervisory Service and the Korea Exchange. 68 69 Activities of the Amorepacific Group Board of Directors 2018 Compensation Amorepacific Group performs annual evaluation of the composition, functions, responsibilities of the BOD and states the Session Date Topic and Contents Attendance Rate results in its Business Report. 1 January 31, 2018 Report 100% (6/6) 1. Management status for 2017 Compensation of Amorepacific Group Directors 2018 2. Operation and evaluation of internal accounting management system Number of Directors (persons) Total Compensation (million KRW) Average Compensation (million KRW) Agendas 1. Matter of approving the 12th (2017) financial statements and sales report 6 2,039 340 2. Matter of partial amendment of Committee Charter 3. Matter of partial amendment of provisions of Non-executive Director Recommendation Committee and appointment of new committee members Compensation of Amorepacific Directors 2018 4. Matter of establishing Risk Management Committee and appointing new committee members Number of Directors (persons) Total Compensation (million KRW) Average Compensation (million KRW) 5. Matter of approving changes in real estate property sales contract 6. Matter of approving transactions between subsidiaries 8 3,797 475 2 February 27, 2018 Agendas 100% (6/6) 1. Matter of convening the 12th (2017) regular General Shareholders’ Meeting and approving submitted agenda items 2. Matter of resolving the agenda of the 12th (2017) cash dividends Shareholders 3 March 16, 2018 Agendas 87.5% (7/8) Treasury stock Domestic Individual Investors Domestic Individual Investors Treasury stock 1. Matter of appointing a new chairman 2. Matter of appointing new committee members of the BOD 6.7% 3.0% 7.0% 0.1% Domestic Domestic Institutional Investors Institutional Investors 7.0% 12.4% 4 May 9, 2018 Report 85.7% (6/7) Major shareholder Management status for the first quarter of 2018 Foreign Major shareholder and and affiliated parties Investors affiliated parties Amorepacific Group Agenda Amorepacific Group 14.1% Amorepacific 1. Mattter of approving asset transaction between Amorepacific and Cosvision Co., Ltd. 20.4% 62.9% 35.4% Foreign Investors 5 July 26, 2018 Report 100% (7/7) 31.1% Reporting of management status for the first half of 2018 6 October 29, 2018 Report 100% (7/7) A. Management status for the third quarter of 2018 Amorepacific Group 2018 Amorepacific 2018 B. Inspection outcome regarding compliance with compliance control standards Agendas Category Proportion(%) Category Proportion(%) 1. Matter of establishing a Corporate Governance Charter Major shareholder and affiliated parties 62.9 Amorepacific Group 35.4 2. Matter of partial amendment of Committee Charter 3. Matter of approving transactions between subsidiaries Foreign Investors 20.4 Foreign Investors 31.1 4. Matter of appointing a compliance support officer Domestic Institutional Investors 7.0 Major shareholder and affiliated parties 14.1 Treasury stock 6.7 Domestic Institutional Investors 12.4 Domestic Individual Investors 3.0 Domestic Individual Investors 7.0 Total 100 Treasury stock 0.1 Total 100 70 71 Ethical Amorepacific Group conducts ethical management in an effort to spread its corporate ethics built on ‘integrity’, one of the core values of the AP WAY, to the overall business ecosystem. Management Sustainability In an effort to create A MORE Beautiful World, Amorepacific Group has set out three focus areassustainable lifestyle, inclusive growth, Establishment of Policies In 2017, Amorepacific Group revised the Code of Ethics. Since then, various rules of conduct for employees have been circular economy and eight commitments of the 2020 Sustainability Goals. Each year, we draw and implement new tasks toward established and applied to observe proper business principles, policies, and regulations. Management Committee and Regulations on Ethical achieving these goals. In 2018, the Group established the Sustainability Management Division to build more systematic strategies and strengthen working group activities with employees. Sharing the outcome of sustainability management with Management Major Activities of 2018 transparency, Amorepacific Group shares and spreads the value of sustainability. To realize this goal, the Group is operating Strengthening the system for group-wide protection of trade secrets the Sustainability Management Committee, the highest decision-making body that makes strategic decisions on sustainability management issues and monitors the implementation of core tasks. In 2018, the Committee was convened twice, enhancing Establishment and application of zero tolerance principle on sexual harassment the execution of sustainability management by reflecting key indexes on the performance evaluation of executives in charge. Establishment of a guideline of manners for suppliers and clients In 2019, Amorepacific Group will establish a ‘compliance operation regulations’ to emphasize and affirm the basic professional ethics. The regulations will reinforce the enhancement process of preventing recurrence of misbehaviors and improve the Code of Ethics, which will reflect the social responsibility of Amorepacific Group’s employees. CEO Improving Awareness Group-wide Survey of Ethical Awareness of Ethical Management Amorepacific Group is conducting group-wide surveys on ethical awareness in order to raise awareness of employees and recognition of social issues related to the changing business environment in recent years. Through the surveys, the Group is tracking responses of each organization and VOCs in various domains that include after-work dinners, sexual harassment, business manners, protection of trade secrets, and management of reputation. For potential issues and improvements, the Group provides education to employees as an activitiy to improve its ethical management. Sustainability Management Committee ㆍConsists of Amorepacific Group executive Number of participants to group-wide surveys on ethical awareness (persons): 3,729 ㆍHighest decision-making body for sustainability management Internal and External Campaigns and Public Relations Sustainability Management Division In each season, Amorepacific Group is running a variety of campaigns to employees, suppliers, and clients to improve the culture of after-work dinners, prevent sexual harassments, eliminate unnecessary exchange of gifts, and spread more ㆍCoordinator of sustainability management reasonable practices around personal events. In 2018, the Group operated the ‘Gentle AP Campaign’ to prevent power abuse ㆍEstablishes Amorepacific Group’s sustainability and harassment of its employees. In 2019, the Group will launch a course on ‘advanced business manners’ to improve the management strategies and draws relevant tasks ethical awareness of employees further. In addition, Amorepacific Group promotes the Code of Ethics in our suppliers and encourage reporting by utilizing the purchasing system, a channel for us to communicate and cooperate with our suppliers. When signing an electronic contract, the ethics pledge clearly states that suppliers are required to comply with the Code of Ethics of Amorepacific Group. Working Group on Sustainability Management Strategies Systemized Education For all employees of Amorepacific Group, we provide accessible online courses on corporate ethics. Along with the educational provisions, employees sign the pledge of compliance for business ethics. In addition, employees are required to complete off-line of Ethics courses on ethics at the HR Development Center when they are hired as new employees or promoted to higher positionsteam leaders ㆍDraws tasks for each job category as the implementing and promoted employees. The employees are provided with education courses to learn ethical issues in different positions. body of sustainability management ㆍOperates working groups on sustainable packaging, sustainable stores, SHE, mutual growth, etc Completion rate of online corporate ethics course: 93% Participation rate of the pledge of compliance for business ethics: 93% Reporting of Unethical Conduct by Stakeholder Groups Clients Suppliers Employees Customers Others Total 6 15 27 9 17 74 72 73 Risk Management Transparent Tax Payment Amorepacific Group pays its fair share of taxes transparently by complying with the Commercial Act and tax-related laws and Risk Management System Amorepacific Group has an effective risk management system to respond to various risks such as fast-changing domestic and regulations in Korea and all other jurisdictions in which it operates, and we are committed to fulfilling their obligations to pay global political and economic conditions, fluctuating business environments, increased influence of social media including tax. In particular, we adopt a reasonable transfer pricing policy in its global transactions with foreign companies, in accordance social networking services and blogs, and heightened expectations of stakeholder demands. The Risk Management Team with the domestic tax laws and the OECD Guidelines, and do not utilize the tax rate structure and tax system for tax avoidance communicates with subcommittees on each issue, undertakes potential risk prevention activities and forms early responses and do not transfer value created to low tax jurisdictions. In addition, pursuant to the Base Erosion and Profit ShiftingBEPS Action to actual risks. To allow prompt decision-making and stable business operations, we formed a group-wide risk-management Plans for the prevention of tax evasion of multinational companies, we submit the BEPS reportMaster file, Local file and Country-bycommittee consisting of C-level executives. Since the possibilities and impact of global risks continually continue to increase, country report to the Korean and other competent tax authorities. Through these activities, the headquarters and overseas offices Amorepcific Group established an advanced risk management system in its overseas branch in China in 2017. In 2018, are committed to fulfilling their obligations to pay tax in full compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. For important branches in Singapore and Thailand also set up the risk management system to assess and mange potential global risks. By matters regarding reporting tax affairs or any ambiguity in interpreting tax laws, the company receives consultation from upgrading the risk response systems of other overseas offices one-by-one, Amorepacific Group will build a solid basis for their professional service firms such as accounting firms in order to draw the most appropriate response measures and minimize taxsustainable growth. related risks in advance. Tax Payment Status1) Unit: billion KRW CEO Major Regions Amount Korea 251.26 Risk Management Committee Asia 45.37 Europe North America 0.11 CRO Compliance & Risk Management Division Other Regions 1) As of 2017 ㆍEstablish risk management ㆍEthics / Compliance Risk Management Team Compliance Team policies and standards ㆍAudit a risk management process ㆍMonitor operational risks Group Risk Management ㆍPerform risk assessments and Control Tower establish response measures Subcommittees for Each Type of Risk Subcommittee on Subcommittee Subcommittee on Subcommittee on Safety, Health and Subcommittee on on research and communication quality management Environment mutual growth development Executing Divisions (AP and Subsidiaries) *Under the guidance of the head of each division, responsible units collaborate with the Risk Management Team (Control Tower) and relevant subcommittees to effectively respond to and manage individual risks 74 75 Risk Management Process The risk management system of Amorepacific Group operates based on the following keywords: ‘Detect’, ‘Respond’ and ‘Prevent’. Managing Potential Risks Through regular analysis of internal and external environments and social changes, Amorepacific Group identifies long-term risks and implements countermeasures to effectively respond to those risks. Risk Detection and Prevention Based on an analysis of internal and external environments, we prioritize highimpact, high-potential risks and establish a detection system by which we can proactively respond to key risks by identifying their causes. Category Changes in the regulatory environment following Changes in the distribution and sales environment Increase in environmental risks due to the expansion of global businesses following the development of ICT1) climate change Risk Response Economic · Increase in the need to tap into new overseas markets due to · Continued growth in online and mobile markets due to · Continuous increase in the possibility of materialization and Risk managers in each business division monitor and report risks pertaining to their division. A unified system enables prompt and Social domestic market saturation ICT development impact of environmental risks, including abnormal climate, decision-making and immediate response in the case of risks. natural disasters and air pollution Environments · Segmentation and diversification of laws and regulations · Stronger regulations enforced by the Fair Trade Commission, in each country, such as environmental regulations, including the Act on the Fairness of Franchising Transactions · Changes in the cultivation areas of crops and difficulties in certifications, import requirements and regulations and the Fair Transactions in Agency Act, and increase in the sourcing natural materials for cosmetics RM Diagnosis and Prevention of Recurrence on raw materials demand for mutual growth According to risk scenarios and risk management policies, we minimize the impact of risks. We also prevent recurrence of · Strengthen safety, labor and human rights regulations for · Increase the influence of personal digital channels, employees in the new markets such as influencers those risks by analyzing their causes. The Risk Management Team provides trainings on the risk-management system on a regular basis and carries out various campaigns to establish a healthy and effective risk management culture throughout the company. Impact of · Strengthen safety, labor and human rights regulations for · Decline in sales through existing offline retail channels · Stronger regulations and monitoring by the government, Risks employees in the new martkets due to increase in online or mobile purchasing consumers and civil groups on the use of substances affecting the natural ecosystem · Financial impact such as fines and penalties for violation of · Impediment to achieving mutual growth following business laws and regulations, and negative impact on decline in franchises and agencies · A series of risks such as destruction of production facilities market expansion due to earthquakes and other natural disasters and corporate Risk Management To effectively manage risks, Amorepacific Group categorizes risks identified through its risk management process into the · Generate negative brand image through unproven paralysis following four categories, and separately manages factors that may potentially have a significant impact on the company’s personal digital channels Activities reputation as well as ethical and legal matters. Risk · Establishing processes for reputation risk management in · Innovating mobile services within existing retail channels · Conducting research and development to secure alternatives Prevention overseas offices such as ARITAUM’s O2O services, door-to-door beauty Q for ingredients difficult to obtain Market Risk Product Risk Supply Chain Risk Sales & Distribution Risk Activities · Conducting regular analysis of changes in local systems · Strengthening mutual growth and communication by · Participating in efforts of the international community in and regulations, and establishing response processes supporting the business activities of field sales offices preventing the pollution of ecosystem, including the reduction ㆍIncreased need for efficient for each issue and agencies of the use of plastics ㆍIncreased global regulations on ㆍIncreased importance of managing ㆍIncreased importance of demand safety and environment product safety and harmful prediction and supply management management attuned to each · Reinforcing due diligence for safety and labor when entering · Verificatating Influencers and Establishing Training · Developing and operating BCP (Business Continuity Planning) materials in accordance with changes in the country into new markets and dealing with business partners System for Education to maintain business continuity in case of disasters ㆍDiversification of customer needs market environment ㆍResponse to changes in regulatory or calamities ㆍMeasures to prevent recurrence of ㆍIncreased possibility of major customer claims ㆍExternal influences on supply chain environment of each sales and disasters and natural calamities and ensuring a robust supply chain distribution channel Future Plans · Preventing occurrence and recurrence of risks · Developing products considering the characteristics of online · Analyzing the effect of climate change on business activities for stable supply of raw materials by continuously improving the process of entering and offline markets and identifying potential risks on a regular basis into new markets · Increasing effectiveness by establishing a group-wide support · Developing innovative sustainable technology through for mutual growth collaboration of the government, industry, and stakeholders Reputational Risk · Establishing a Marketing Strategy System for Influencers · Examining supply chain CSR risks to prepare for unexpected disasters and risks, management of manuals, and securing alternative supply chain. 1) ICT, Information and Communications Technologies 76 77 Reporting of Sustainability Management Performance Customer Satisfaction Sustainable Consumption Customer Complaint CGAP Developing Products with Less Environmental Impact Management The CGAPCustomer Gift for Amorepacific is Amorepacific Group’s unique customer complaint handling system to practice prompt Sustainable Products Sustainable Paper Packaging collection, response, and improvement issues raised by customers. Amorepacific Group understands customer complaints Amorepacifc Group uses a variety of sustainable papers, such as FSC-certified papers made of wood from sustainable forests, as a gift from customers for product improvement and handles them as promptly as possible. Through CGAP, customer papers made from plant by-products, and recycled papers. The papers are used in manufacture product containers.1) In 2018, satisfaction is increasing every year in Korea. In particular, customer complaint resolution rate in China stands at 91.9% and Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, Mamonde, HERA, primera, IOPE, and HANYUL used FSC-certified papers in 573 new products. In 99.3 points in customer satisfaction in counseling services. particular, primera used FSC-certified papers in product containers for all of its products. In addition, Amorepacific Group is actively using papers made of plant by-products such as tangerine peelings or seaweed. They are mixed with recycled pulp to produce eco-friendly papers. innisfree used tangerine papers in product containers of 153 new products. Lirikos used seaweed 2018 CGAP Exhibition papers in product containers of 9 new products. Amorepacific Group has been holding an annual CGAP exhibition to deliver various VOCs to employees and communicate with Lirikos Deep Sea Waterfall Cream 1) Applied to products sold in Korea only. customers. In 2018, a digital exhibition was held without any limitation of space and time. The exhibition was organized in five Applied seaweed paper exhibition halls that focused on themes such as products, services, events, and personal information. Amorepacific Group will continue its effort to stay as a beloved company once again, consistently sharing the voices of its customers with employees. Improving the Resource Efficiency of Packaging Materials In order to replace the protective packaging made of plastic, which is mostly discarded after a single use, Amorepacific Group Customer Communication Performance1) applied a new protective packaging that contains bio-mineral materials. By mixing bio-mineral materials with plastic in a proportion between 30 and 40 %, the material quality of packaging was enhanced while reducing the use of plastic. Category 2016 2017 2018 mise-en-scène In addition, Amorepacific Group is promoting the use of recycled packaging materials that partially include recycled materials Customer Complaint Resolution Rate (%) 99.1 99.3 99.6 Super Botnical Shampoo Applied Biomass plastic as well as biomass plastic made of plant-based materials instead of oil-based materials in depletion. In 2018, the Group applied Customer Satisfaction2) 54.4 61.4 66.8 in the product packaging biomass plastic in 67 new products. ETUDE House applied recycled plastic in 27 new products, improving the resource efficiency. 1) Calculation scope based on Amorepacific’s domestic businesses. Minimizing Residual Product Content in Containers 2) Indicated NPS (Net Promoter Score) Amorepacific Group is enhancing the design of product containers to reduce resource waste and environmental damage by minimizing product waste thrown away with used containers. In 2018, illiyoon applied airless pumps and dual structured containers that reduce the residual product under 5 % in Ceramide Ato Lotion and Ultra Repair Lotion. Protecting Customer Safe Protection of Digitalized Personal Information Illiyoon Ceramide Ato Lotion Applied containers that minimize Information Amorepacific Group protects customers’ personal information very carefully. As the industry is rapidly digitalized in recent the remaining amount of contents Using Naturally Derived and Organic Ingredients years, the methods and types of using customer information are also becoming diverse. In 2018, the Group examined and In addition to enhance sustainability of packaging materials, Amorepacific Group is also striving to improve the sustainability enhanced its IT system that using personal information in addition to the existing security measures. According to the lifecycle of its cosmetic products. The four products in innisfree’s Natural Room Water line improve their environmental impact of collecting, storing, using, and disposing of information, any potential legal violation or technical issue was reviewed. by using naturally derived ingredients for more than 99 %. O’sulloc’s Samdayeon and other twelve new tea products use Amorepacific Group also built a platform for the safe management of customer information in cases such as marketing events ingredients with organic farming certification, contributing to the preservation of environment through their eco-friendly where the information is used for short durations. production process. innisfree Natural Room Water Personal Information Protection in Overseas Offices Used naturally derived ingredients Reviving Discarded Plant Resources for more than 99% innisfree collaborated with Anthracite Jeju to revive discarded coffee bean peels into ingredients for coffee oil and scrub Amorepacific Group has been continuing its activities to protect customer information from various threats and comply powder, developing an upcycle product specialized in exfoliating skin. The new product contributed to solving the issue of related laws and regulations to customer information protection in Korea and overseas. In 2018, the Group assessed the coffee waste created caused by the increasing coffee consumption. security level and established plans for enhancement in overseas offices in Asia and Europe including offices in China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. A 24/7 is in operation in key countries to protect and manage the entire system including B2C and e-commerce sites. Amorepacific Group is also planning to expand its security activities since a number of countries are recently strengthening and establishing laws and regulations on customer information protection and cyber security in recent years. primera Mango Butter Products with More Social Impact Comforting Body Lotion Used raw materials Using Raw Materials from Beautiful Fair Trade from Beautiful Fair Trade Amorepacific Group pursues mutual growth with local communities by using raw materials purchased through Beautiful Fair Trade and creating products with locally produced ingredients. Amorepacific’s Moisture Bound Rejuvenating Crème and another new product use bamboo trees of Sacheon region in Korea. primera had donated mango trees to Jamui region in India through ‘Let’s Love Campaign’ supporting young girls in the region. Fruits from the donated trees are purchased in fair prices and used as an ingredient for Mango Butter Comforting Body Lotion and another product. Developing Universal Design Containers mise-en-scène Smooth and Amorepacific Group is expanding the application of universal design to our product containers so that anyone, regardless Silky Moisture Shampoo of their age or physical disability, can easily use our products. In 2018, 33 new products by Ryo, mise-en-scène, and illiyoon Applied braille letters on the product packaging applied braille or raised letters. 80 81 Good Workplace Developing Social Contribution Products HERA is a major sponsor of ‘Pink Ribbon Campaign,’ a campaign to promote awareness of early assessment and examination Employee Status Employment Status of breast cancer and deliver the message of positive self-affirmation and love. HERA also launched Pink Ribbon Limited The total number of employees directly employed by Amorepacific Group in 2018 was 13,032, an increase of 5.5 % from the Edition and continues to launch updated editions every year. In 2018, HERA renewed product packages of its steady seller previous year. The number of employees in Korea was slightly decreased compared to the previous year. Both Amorepacific Group items – Magic Starter, Rouge Holic, and Sensual Tint – with pink ribbon designs. The brand donated part of its sales proceeds and Amorepacific maintain over 60% ratio of women employees within the age group of over 30 and under 50 accounting for the to the Korea Breast Cancer Foundation. highest number of employees. Amorepacific Group is also increasing employment of social minorities through ‘special hiring of people with disabilities’ and ‘additional points for applicants from the marginalized groups’. Employment Status Unit: Persons Category 2016 2017 2018 Total 11,867 12,348 13,032 Domestic 7,718 7,703 7,596 Overseas 4,149 4,645 5,436 innisfree × Anthracite Upcycling Coffe series 2018 HERA Pink Ribbon Edition Domestic Employment Status Unit: Persons Amorepacific Group Amorepacifc Category Making Our Stores Applying Eco-friendly Interior Materials 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Sustainable Amorepacific Group strives to create eco-friendly stores by using materials with eco-certificates and high-efficiency lighting Employment Permanent 7,189 7,375 7,195 5,726 5,871 5,773 when launching new stores and renewing the existing stores. Status Temporary 529 328 401 484 265 318 ARITAUM replaced lighting in 370 or its 1,321 stores with LED lighting. Since June 2016, the brand made it mandatory for all Gender Men 2,758 2,790 2,717 1,881 1,932 1,926 new stores to use LED lighting according to its interior design manual. ETUDE House also made it mandatory to use materials Women 4,960 4,913 4,879 4,329 4,204 4,165 with eco-certificates in its interior design manual. As of December 2018, 258 of 381 ETUDE House stores are built with ecofriendly materials. In 2018, innisfree used eco-certified materialsgypsum plaster board and paint in its 65 new roadshops. Age Group Under 30 3,236 2,948 2,578 2,715 2,408 2,101 30-49 4,263 4,522 4,760 3,342 3,558 3,809 Promoting Sustainable Consumption 50 or higher 219 233 258 153 170 181 Amorepacific Group is spreading the culture of sustainable consumption by applying eco-friendly materials in store supplies Employees with Disabilities1) 59 56 76 54 52 70 and sharing sustainability information of products with customers. 1) Including the number of employees with disabilities hired by Amorepacific subsidiary WeDream ARITAUM is using FSC-certified papers in five items including paper bags, shopping bags, and shopping bags for perfume products. Innisfree is issuing smart receipts that enable customers to check their payment details. Employment Status in Overseas Offices Since 2018, the smart receipt became a default option for customers who installed the innisfree application, reducing the Category 2016 2017 2018 amount of paper waste. Number of Total 4,019 4,515 5,286 Locally Hired ETUDE House has more than sustainable 70 products that use eco-friendly materials including recycled plastic and FSC-certified Asia2) 3,761 4,270 5,009 Employees(persons) product containers. The brand is also promoting awareness of eco-friendliness of its products through promotional materials at Europe and others 163 118 124 its stores. North America 95 127 153 Applied Eco-friendly Interior Materials Ratio of Locally Hired Employees(%) 96.9 97.2 97.2 Ratio of Locally Hired Women Employees(%) 85.9 85.3 85.2 Ratio of Locally Hired Managers(%) 68.3 65.4 65.1 Ratio of Locally Hired Women Managers(%) 66.7 68.6 74.1 2) Overseas office in Australia is counted as Asia 82 83 Recruit and Turnover Fostering Talent Amorepacific Group fosters ‘Creative Masters’ that change the world to a more beautiful place based on the five core values of Amorepacific Group solidifies the basis of its human resources and creates jobs through new hiring. In 2018, Amorepacific openness, integrity, innovation, proximity and challenge set forth by its value structure, also known as the ‘AP WAY’. Group and Amorepacific hired 731 and 549 persons, respectively. Key Talent Fostering Activities Turnover rate of Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific in 2018 was 7.1% and 6.8%, showing a slight increase from the previous year. Amorepacific Group will take various measures, including improving employee welfare and corporate culture, Managing Corporate Culture Cultivating Leaders Training Creative Masters to increase employee satisfaction and reduce turnover rate. ·Developing and operating professional job training courses ·Managing changes based on AP Minds ·Strengthening leadership development for executives based on job training system New Employees (Domestic) ·Advancing Engagement Survey and operating programs ·Leadership workshops, Leaders’ Agora, executive coaching, ·Promoting digital-based talent cultivation systems for reinforcing organizational capacity executive on-boarding, SNU E-MBA program and fostering professionals Amorepacific Group Amorepacifc Category 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Fostering Talent Fostering Global Talent Strengthening the Capacity of Beauty Partners Number of New 1,496 996 731 1,218 756 549 ·Developing and operating global standardized leadership ·Developing and providing video contents on Employees(persons) new products and beauty ·Establishing an autonomous / continuous learning culture programs (5 ASEAN countries, Amorepacific China office, by introducing new learning systems Amorepacific Hong Kong office) ·Strengthening capacity of beauty partners and managers ·Defining and strengthening capacity of local new hires and leaders ·Supporting future beauty talents through academic-industrial MOUs Turnover (Domestic) Employee Education and Training Status Amorepacific Group Amorepacifc Category Amorepacific Group offers a variety of educational programs to enhance the competency of all its employees. Despite the 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 slight decrease in the average educational expense and hours per employee in comparison to the previous year due to the Turnover Rate(%) 4.5 6.6 7.1 4.3 6.1 6.8 reorganization of education programs, we will continue to carry out various programs to strengthen leadership, secure global competitiveness, promote our corporate culture and reinforce professional job competency. Securing Women Leadership Education & Training Cost and Hours per Person Amorepacific Group is committed to securing women leadership in line with the characteristic of the cosmetics industry where the majority of consumers are women. The Group has established a number of policies and developed diverse cultural Amorepacific Group Amorepacifc activities to foster a work environment where employees can demonstrate their leadership. Accordingly, Amorepacific Group Category 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 is creating a corporate culture where all employees, regardless of gender, act considerately toward each other. As a policy to ensure the maximum efficiency of work and find a balance between work and life, the Group introduced flex-time working. Education & Training Cost per Person1) 145.4 119.3 103.3 154.8 122.2 102.9 Education & Training Hours per Person (Hours) 82.7 76.4 66.1 81.1 82.8 69.3 The ratio of women employees of all employees at Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific is 64.2% and 68.4%, respectively, 1) Unit: KRW 10,000 and the ratio of women managers is on the increase in both companies in three consecutive years. Amorepacific Group will continue fostering women leadership and use it as a drive of growth in the global business environment. Women’s Leadership Cultivation Programs As the importance of women leadership is increasing for Amorepacific Group to become a global beauty company, the Group is Women Employees and Managers operating an internal mentoring program (ABC Mentoring). ‘ABC Mentoring’ is a program where women employees share their experiences and know-hows to newly promoted women team leaders and other women employees, leading employees to perform Amorepacific Group Amorepacifc Category their professional roles and lead the organizational culture. In 2018, four executive mentors were matched with eight mentees. 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Ratio of Women Employees(%) 64.3 63.8 64.2 69.7 68.5 68.4 Fostering Global Talent Ratio of Women Managers(%) 24.7 27.1 29.2 26.5 29.1 31.0 ‘Hyecho’ program is a global talent management program, established in 2011 to act preemptively on the demand of global talent. As of 2018, 208 employees have been sent to 27 countries and gained knowledge and experience in the respective countries.The program is operated in conjunction with Amorepacific Group’s business strategy. The program is composed of ‘City Hyecho’ and ‘Theme Hyecho,’ which respectively sends employees to new markets to establish grounds for Amorepacific brands to enter and to developed and advanced markets to discover and learn from the growth engine for the future in accordance with the era of the fourth Industrial Revolution. In 2018, seven employees were sent to Peru, Poland, Myanmar, and India as part of ‘City Hyeho’ program to analyze markets through activities focusing on customers and business sites. 84 85 Through the analysis of consumption channels and trade locations, strategies for Amorepacific brands to enter the markets provide active support to improve labor-management relations. As of the end of 2018, the Amorepacific Labor Union has were set. In addition, R&D, digital, makeup artist teams were respectively sent to advanced countries in their fields as part 2,947 members, which accounts for 51.3% of all employees. Employees are entitled to freely decide to join or withdraw of ‘Theme Hyecho’ program. In 2019, three teams from R&D and SCM sections will be sent to overseas as part of ‘Theme from the union and the biennial collective agreement applies to all employees. Amorepacific labor-management meeting is Hyecho’ program. The Group will appoint two groups of ‘Theme Hyecho’ program and one group of ‘City Hyecho’ program. held each quarter as a place to discuss employee welfare, grievance handling, safety management and other ways to achieve In addition, Amorepacific Group organizes regular meetings and study groups of previous ‘City Hyecho’ participants to mutual growth. Furthermore, we promote active communication between labor and management through various channels maintain the professionalism and interest in the countries they have visited and discover tasks to be completed. This will including management seminars, sharing business plans and meeting with union members. encourage them to play the role of a think tank. Human Rights Human Rights Management Principles ‘We care’ Program In order to create an organizational culture in which its members can enjoy their work and be creative, Amorepacific Group conducts annual Engagement Surveys. Since 2017, the assessment model was improved by revising certain criteria and Management Amorepacific Group endorsed the UN Global CompactUNGC in 2007 and fully respects the Universal Declaration of Human for Good Workplace specifying the definition of engagement to understand the level of employees’ engagement more practically. Through the Rights and the recommendations of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea. We have also established and publicly assessment, Amorepacific Group comprehends the direction of improvements and reflect them in overall business activities. announced our own human rights policies reflecting our commitment toward respect for human rights, while promoting the In 2018, the engagement ratio of Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific was 48.2% and 45.1%, respectively. implementation of human rights management not only in our subsidiaries but the overall value chain. Engagement Survey Results Identifying Human Rights Risks and Areas of Improvement Amorepacific Group Amorepacific Amorepacific Group identifies potential human rights issues not only in its supply chain including subsidiaries but throughout Category its overall business activities. The Group comprehensively considers past incidents and frequency of human rights issues Amorepacific 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 and the seriousness. The human rights assessment focuses on weak areas based on the characteristics of business of each Engagement1) (%) 57.0 46.6 48.2 55.9 42.0 45.1 subsidiary and local laws and regulations. Once potential issues to be improved are discovered, the Group takes action to 1) The engagement score in 2016 was converted by applying the new measuring standard implemented in 2017. correct them in order to prevent recurrence of issues. ‘Shared Office’ – A New Space for Working Together Human Rights Assessment A ‘shared office’ is launched on the 21st floor of Amorepacific Group global headquarters to support free collaboration and creative Human Rights Risk Assessment work. The shared office is composed of four different spaces. ‘Chang Young-Sil’ is a co-working space that can accommodate up to (Analysis of observation of Human Rights Risk Identification Universal Declaration of Human Rights Inspection Implementation and Management two hundred employees while providing an active and comfortable atmosphere. ‘Jibhyeondang’ is a new kind of unmanned library (for employees, supply chain, Human Rights and APG (On-site inspection and of Improvement (Correctional where employees can study and debate in an open space. ‘Hyeum’ is an ideation space for future projects. ‘Hwajaengdae’ is a space and customers) human rights policy, self-inspection) requests and monitoring) for discussions and debates, which can accommodate up to ninety people. analysis of violation of labor related laws) The shared office is a futuristic co-working space that will contribute to fostering employees’ creativity and collaboration. On-site Assessment of Human Rights Amorepacific Group conducts self-inspections of human rights status in all of its 11 subsidiaries including Amorepacific, and evaluates their compliance with laws and regulations on labor and human rights such as the Labor Standards Act as well as wage standards and the non-discrimination principle. In 2018, five items for improvement were found in three subsidiaries and corrective measures have been requested for potential improvements. Subsidiaries that received such requests initiated plans for improvements, which will be monitored by corresponding departments in charge of inspection. Each year, Amorepacific inspects the human rights status of its suppliers through third-party assessment agencies, identifying and requiring corrective actions for areas of improvement such as providing education and training to employees and ensuring their freedom of association. Shared Office / AP Thematic Lectures Sexual Harassment Prevention Education Good Workplace Programs Amorepacific Group undertakes sexual harassment prevention education to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace. In July 2018, the Group ran the first regular online courses on sexual harassment. In December, additional courses were held for In-house Clubs 458 employees in 20 in-house clubs new employees and those who had not complete their courses. Thematic Lectures Four lectures by invited experts throughout the year to strengthen humanistic literacy Establishing a Trust-based Labor-Management Relationship Hope Tree A wish-come-true program for employees who want to share hope with For the past 27 years, Amorepacific has maintained a dispute-free labor-management relationship by building mutual trust their colleagues and families and communication. We carry out self-inspections of work conditions at least once a year to ensure full compliance with labor-related laws and regulations at Amorepacific and all affiliates. Labor-management Cooperation Team and HR Team 86 87 SHE Amorepacific Group is putting effort in protecting employees from various risk factors related to SHE (Safety, Health, Environment) and observe its responsibilities and duties. In particular, Amorepacific Group has established a task force to respond and adapt to the climate change through greenhouse gas(GHG) mitigation. In addition, the Group enhanced its efficiency of water resource usage and Management expanded the recirculation of water, reducing the overall usage of water. In addition, Amorepacific Group has a deep concern with the recent national issue of recycling waste and strives to take an environmental responsibility on a global level by actively taking measures to realize a circular economy. For example, Amorepacific Group created product and packaging designs that minimize waste from the production process and reconsidered materials used in products for better recycling. In addition, the Group is making efforts to support and improve suppliers to enhance SHE management in the supply chain. Maternity and Parental Leave Amorepacific Group strives to foster a working environment where work and family are in harmony and balance. The Group offers a ‘Care for Expectant Moms’ program in an effort to create a women-friendly working environment for expectant mothers. The Advanced SHE Response as Preemptive Measures program promotes flex-time work, prenatal testing during work hours and no overtime, in addition to raising an awareness among SHE Management Amorepacific Group introduced advanced group-wide management standards in order to manage global SHE risks and respond team members to be considerate toward their pregnant colleagues. to different regulations. By establishing the group-wide SHE standards and SHE audit system, Amorepacific Group proposed the minimum standard of management and built a system to monitor, assess, maintain, and improve. The program also provides ergonomic chairs, foot rests and blankets to help relieve physical discomfort as well as stretch mark creams and supplements to stay healthy during pregnancy. In particular, Amorepacific Group established 31 management items that are related to SHE issues and operate the entire PDCA structure as the Group SHE standard from the perspective of SHE administrator. The Group operates SHE risk-based audit system Furthermore, expectant mothers are encouraged to use parental leave to encourage a balance between work and childcare after and continuously manage quantified SHE performances. Also, high-risk issues are given higher priorities when establishing giving birth. The company also allows flex-time work for childcare and operates an on-site daycare center. improve measures. In 2018, the number of employees using parental leave remained at a similar number from the previous year in both Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific. One-year retention rate after parental leave is maintained at over 80%. Management System Parental Leave Status Management System Working Group Amorepacific Group Amorepacific Category 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Objective Management of group-wide SHE vision and mid-to long-term tasks Number of Employees Using Parental Leave (persons) 260 289 289 237 259 248 Members CEO, Executives, presidents of subsidiaries Return-to-work Rate After Parental Leave (%) 97.3 99.0 92.4 97.5 98.8 92.3 CEO Role The final decision-making body for safety environment management Cycle Six months One-year Retention Rate After Returning to Work (%) 88.9 84.3 84.9 88.0 84.6 83.1 Performing collaborative tasks Improvement of Employees’ Health Integrate employee activities Objective Performing safety and environmental management strategies Secure sustainability of involved employees Type Key Programs and managing short-term tasks Safety and Environment Members Division directors and team leaders Subcommittee System for self-discovery of issues Stress Management ·Stress assessment through autonomous nervous system examination and mental health clinic at AP-Severance Clinic Role Decision-making body of respective working groups ·Happy life consulting: Face-to-face/phone/bulletin board counseling and weekly visiting consultation Cycle Quarterly and responsive to major issues Bottom-up issue discovery Creating synergy of tasks ·Emotional Labor Manual: Customer response manual to protect emotional laborers and consulation sessions Healthy Working Environment ·Management of lighting, noise, air quality, humidity and temperature to create an ergonomic working environment Objective Performance and management of strategic tasks Members Employees and managers in charge of respective tasks Safety and Environment Physical Health ·Fitness facilities and healing (sleeping) spaces Role Performing and communicating body of commitments Management Team Cycle Monthly and on demand Health and Nutrition ·Health fund, no-smoking fund, health exam follow-up program for diagnosed workers Success rate of health fund in 2018: 40.3%, Success rate of anti-smoking fund in 2018: 63% Participation rate of follow-up program for diagnosed workers in 2018: 22.5% Objective Performance and management of detailed strategic tasks ·Nutrition consulting at AP-Severance Clinic for employees requiring health exam follow-ups (high blood pressure, Sharing information about safety Members Employees in charge of the respective tasks / teams responsible hyperlipidemia, diabetes, etc.) CFT/Responsible Teams for performing the tasks environment management and performing ·Nutritionally balanced meal program Role Performing detailed tasks by working groups the role of decision-making body ·Offering massage service through LAON, an in-house massage center: Cycle Biweeily and on demand 16 health keepers (certified visually impaired massagers) promotes physical and mental health of employees. The benefit made Enhancing professionalism through through LAON is donated as a matching fund to two organizations for the visually impaired and Korea Childhood Leukemia Foundation. In 2018, a total of 53,580,000 KRW was donated through LAON. working groups specialized in climate change, chemical substance, resource Childcare Support ·Daycare centers at the global headquarters, Beauty Campus Osan and Yongin R&D Center circulation, and pollution ·Kindergarten and tuition support: Tuition support for kindergarten, domestic middle/high school or university Maternity and Parental Leave ·Compliance with regional laws on maternity and parental leave ·Programs to promote maternity and parental leave ·Maternity protection system: Flex-time during pregnancy, no overtime, prenatal examination ·Care for Expectant Moms program: Supplies for pregnant employees at offices (anti-electromagnetic blanket, foot rest, dedicated chair, and celebratory cake) 88 89 GHG Reduction Activities in Distribution Activities Response to As a responsible global corporate citizen, Amorepacific Group is aware of the seriousness and urgency of climate change. Accordingly, the Group strives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout all processes of production and overall business Amorepacific Group’s central distribution center replaced lighting with high-efficiency LED lighting and optimized the operation of Climate Change heating and cooling facilities. In 2018, distribution centers in Osan and Gimcheon enhanced energy efficiency by improving filters of activities by introducing renewable energy and improving efficiency of energy consumption. heating and cooling units and installing shades over outdoor heat exchangers, reducing 191 tonnes of GHG emissions. Ratio of Renewable Energy Generation Amorepacific is continuously investing in renewable energy and introducing it with a goal to expand the energy generation by Energy Consumption and GHG Emissions renewable energy in the long term. In 2018, the domestic energy generation by renewable energy reached 3,881MWh, twentyAmorepacific Group Energy Consumption five times bigger than the previous year. 12% of energy used at the new headquarters building and 4.4% of energy consumed by Category 2016 2017 2018 Amorepacific business sites were from renewable energy sources. Amorepacific Group will keep expanding the ratio of renewable Total Energy Consumption (TOE) 32,536 31,882 44,602 energy in the future. Amorepacific (Domestic) 11,215 10,881 23,589 Renewable Energy Capacity Amorepacific (Overseas) 1,955 2,199 2,508 Pacificglas 11,561 10,508 11,155 Site Capacity (kW) Pacificpackage 2,477 2,180 2,246 Beauty Solar panels at the distribution building (x 1) 202 Cosvison 1,757 2,892 2,339 Solar panels (x 2) 959 Aestura 2,438 2,206 1,548 Osulloc Farm 1,133 1,017 1,217 Daily Beauty Solar panels 151 Total Consumption Electricity 23,066 22,698 33,201 Global Headquarters Solar panels 365 by Fuel Types (TOE) LNG 5,613 5,649 8,319 Geothermal power 3,165 Bunker-C Oil 2,993 2,753 1,950 Others 864 782 1,132 Solar thermal power 138 Energy Intensity (TOE/tonnes of production) 0.244 0.265 0.357 Shanghai Solar panel (business site 2) 50 Eco-friendly Headquarters Building Energy Consumption by Amorepacific (Domestic) The global headquarters of Amorepacific Group is certified as the first grade of G-SEEDGreen Standard for Energy and. Environmental Category 2016 2017 2018 Design, the first grade of energy efficiency, and gold grade of LEEDLeadership in Energy and Environmental Design by various Korean Total Energy Consumption (TOE) 11,215 10,881 23,589 organizations and standards. The building is designed to consume 37.6% less energy than its energy demand projection. Total Consumption Electricity 9,270 8,884 19,494 by Fuel Types (TOE) LNG 1,931 1,983 3,930 The global headquarters building is operating renewable energy facilities (solar panels, geothermal and solar power), heat Diesel 14 13 43 recovery ventilation system, high-efficiency transformers and motors, power factor correction capacitors, and 100% LED Others 0 0 122 lighting. Moreover, the building is equipped with DALI (Digital Addressable Lighting Interface) system that senses the natural Energy Intensity (TOE/tonnes of production) 0.126 0.134 0.282 level of light and automatically adjusts brightness of the interior of the building. Since Amorepacific Group employees moved in on December 2017, employees are also participating in energy saving activities by adjusting operation hours of lighting and heaters at offices and using power outlets that automatically block standby power. GHG Emissions by Amorepacific Group Category 2016 2017 2018 GHG Reduction Activities at Production Sites Total GHG Emissions (tCO2eq) 87,208 87,627 100,496 Amorepacific Group continuously identifies and implements tasks to reduce GHG emissions in our production sites. Although the Amorepacific(Domestic) 34,106 35,163 48,881 GHG emissions increased by 7.4% in 2018 due to the expansion of FnC building at Daily Beauty sites and construction of the second Amorepacific(Overseas) 6,022 6,739 7,643 site in Shanghai, a total of 1,880 tonnes of GHG emissions were reduced thanks to 43 GHG reduction measures including cold water Pacificglas 30,085 27,332 28,090 production facility using the natural temperature during the winter, AI-powered lighting system for corridors, and installation of Pacificpackage 5,123 4,510 4,645 heat recovery instrument of air pollution prevention facilities. Moreover, we share a notable energy reduction case through our Cosvison 3,652 6,057 4,880 internal cross-functional task force on climate change. Aestura 5,153 4,670 3,263 Osulloc Farm 3,066 3,156 3,094 Major Reduction of Energy Consumption Type Direct (Scope 1) 29,460 29,558 30,892 Indirect (Scope 2) 57,748 58,070 69,604 Item Amount of Energy Reduced (kWh) Amount of Expense Reduced GHG Emissions Intensity (tCO2eq/tonnes of production) 0.653 0.729 0.805 (Unit: million KRW) Solar panel 778,345 119.8 High-efficiency LED lighting 655,427 83.2 Insulation of packaging facility 39,085 7.3 90 91 Total GHG Emissions (tCO2eq) (Domestic) Wastewater Discharge Amorepacific Group tries to minimize the impact of effluent water discharged from its business sites on adjacent ecosystems. Category 2016 2017 2018 In particular, the Group reuses wastewater such as cleaning water for landscaping and introduces a wastewater recycle system Total GHG Emissions (tCO2eq) 1) 34,106 35,163 48,881 and Reuse by replacing filtering system at wastewater processing facilities, inspecting toxic chemical processing facilities, and expanding Type Direct (Scope 1) 6,306 7,356 9,620 automation systems. In 2019, Amorepacific Group will increase the use and application of rainwater as well as dry processing Indirect (Scope 2) 27,799 27,807 39,261 in production and manufacturing processes. Other indirect (Scope 3) 3,348 3,531 3,757 GHG Emissions Intensity (tCO2eq/tonnes of production) 0.382 0.434 0.584 Amorepacific Group Wastewater Discharge and Reuse 1) Other indirect (Scope 3) excluded Category 2016 2017 2018 Reuse of Wastewater 32,604 22,191 41,046 (Tonne) Amorepacific 32,604 18,544 36,880 Pacificglas 0 3,647 4,166 Discharge (Tonne) 424,561 431,070 481,520 Water Resource Amorepacific Group is deeply aware of the need for efficient use of water resource, optimizing its water consumption under Amorepacific 274,154 268,702 305,530 the principle of 3R – Reduce, Recycle, and Reuse. On a 2015 baseline, Amorepacific Group aims to reduce water consumption Management Pacificglas 94,986 88,359 94,754 per tonne of production by 22% in Korea and 41% overseas by 2020. Pacificpackage 140 153 152 In 2018, water consumption was increased as the Group increased the number of product cleansing to achieve higher Cosvison 40,221 60,232 61,946 quality standards. However, a number of counter-measures were taken, including the use of rainwater as water for Others 15,060 13,624 19,138 laundry, examination of water leakage during holidays, adjustment of the flow rate of cooling water of vacuum pumps, and COD (Tonne) 20.2 23.4 26.4 improving the production and cleansing processes. Amorepacific 16.0 17.3 20.3 Pacificglas 0.8 0.9 0.8 Pacificpackage 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amorepacific Group Water Consumption Cosvison 3.3 4.6 5.0 Category 2016 2017 2018 Others 0.1 0.6 0.3 Total Water Consumption (Tonne) 988,697 950,707 1,049,919 Amorepacific 530,837 470,539 518,426 Pacificglas 99,651 89,597 96,070 Pacificpackage 23,965 26,059 35,555 Cosvison 49,340 81,914 80,586 Waste and Recycling Amorepacific Group seeks to contribute to building a circular economy by minimizing waste generated in production sites and Others 284,904 282,598 319,282 promoting recycling. Waste generated in each production site is categorized by types and traits, while optimal recycling measures Water Consumption Municipal water (tap water) 628,431 602,364 670,923 are implemented for each type of waste. In 2018, Amorepacific Group reduced 5,448 tonnes of waste compared to the previous by Source of Water Industrial water year. The recycle rate also increased by 22%. Moreover, the Group is increasing the number of products that are designed to be 53,854 43,134 36,962 (Tonne) recycled from the initial production stage. In 2019, waste compressors will be installed for optimal management of waste. Ground water 270,411 268,794 295,524 Rainwater 36,001 36,415 46,510 Amorepacific Group Waste Generation and Recycling Intensity of Water Consumption (tonne/tonnes of production) 7.402 7.907 8.413 Category 2016 2017 2018 Waste Generation (Tonne) 13,472 18,483 13,035 Amorepacific Water Consumption Amorepacific 10,952 15,516 9,822 Pacificglas 1,856 1,671 1,706 Category 2016 2017 2018 Pacificpackage 179 207 373 Total Water Consumption (Tonne) 530,837 470,539 518,426 Cosvison 210 714 820 Water Consumption Municipal water (tap water) 432,546 384,799 440,432 by Source of Water Industrial water Others 276 376 314 48,322 42,309 31,484 (Tonne) Recycling (Tonne) 11,208 10,663 10,465 Ground water 13,968 7,016 0 Rate of Recycling (%) 83 58 80 Rainwater 36,001 36,415 46,510 Waste Amount by Non-hazardous waste 11,853 16,293 11,226 Intensity of Water Consumption (tonne/tonnes of production) 5.662 5.475 5.727 Disposal Methods Landfill 407 395 132 (Tonne) Incineration 1,259 6,899 1,829 Recycling 10,187 8,999 9,159 Others 0 0 107 Hazardous waste 1,619 2,189 1,808 Landfill 54 34 41 Incineration 544 491 461 Recycling 1,021 1,664 1,306 92 93 Safety and Health Amorepacific Group is making the best efforts to create safe and healthy working environment, based on seven principles of SHE standards. Amorepacific Waste Generation and Recycling Amorepacific Group’s Seven Principles on Safety and Health Category 2016 2017 2018 Awareness Behavior Check Waste Generation (Tonne) 10,952 15,516 9,822 ·Safety management of facilities and equipment Recycling (Tonne) 9,560 8,633 8,488 ·Safety and health training ·Safety management of hazardous ·Measurement and monitoring Rate of Recycling (%) 87 56 86 and dangerous work ·Expertise management ·Auditing and corrective actions Waste Amount by Non9,768 13,965 8,612 ·Preparation for and response to hazardous emergency situations Disposal Methods Landfill 399 339 97 (Tonne) waste Incineration 822 6,418 1,097 Recycling 8,547 7,209 7,387 Third-party Assessment Groups (SHE Audit, compliance to Chinese laws and regulations) Others 0 0 31 As continued business expansion entailed safety risks both inside and outside the company, Amorepacific Group established Hazardous 1,184 1,550 1,210 SHE standard in 2017 in accordance with specific characteristics of different business sites. In 2018, the Group reviewed waste Landfill 6 7 9 compliance to the standard in each business site and came up with directions for improvement. Group SHE Audits were Incineration 165 118 101 performed at 14 business sites in Korea with a total of 404 questions to inspect compliance to internal corporate regulations. Recycling 1,013 1,425 1,101 In China, production, distribution, and research sites in Shanghai were inspected according to their compliance to the local laws and regulations. For each issue discovered by the inspection, Amorepacific Group is taking actions according to its plans for improvements. Strengthening Safety Management of Suppliers Emission of Air Pollutants Amorepacific Group strives to reduce the emissions of air pollutants. The Group regularly inspects facilities through SHE Audit Amorepacific Group is expanding its safety management to suppliers, improving health and safety of suppliers and reducing sessions. Furthermore, the Group regularly monitors the emission of air pollutants at each production site in order to minimize industrial disasters. In 2018, various safety promotion activities were done through supplier safety management programs, the impact upon local communities. In addition, the standard environmental impact assessment process enforces investigation, assessing risk of business sites and providing safety information and safety gears. In addition, the Group improved suppliers’ capacity projection, and assessment of the environmental impact of new business sites, eliminating or reducing harmful impact on the of self-management by supporting the establishment of safety and health and helped seventeen internal companies and one environment. Environmental impact assessment is performed and audited in accordance with the standard process. external company assess risks at their business sites. Through the program, Beauty Campus Osan acquired an A grade in safety and health coexistence and collaboration program. Amorepacific Group Emission of Air Pollutants Safety Leadership Tour Category 2016 2017 2018 Amorepacific Group runs ‘Safety Leadership Program’ to foster the safety culture at business sites. It is a safety assessment program Dust (Tonne) 3.0 3.7 4.3 directed by employees in charge of management of business sites. The goal of the program is establishment of safe working Amorepacific 2.8 2.7 3.0 environment by enhancing the level of safety and health management and improving awareness of employees. The program is Pacificglas 0.2 0.3 0.5 based on Amorepacific Group’s SHE standard and related laws and regulations and inspects working environment, health and Others 0.7 0.8 sanitation, education management, emergency response, chemical substance management, and supplier management. In 2018, Sox (Tonne) 20.7 18.8 19.5 seventeen tours were performed at ten production, manufacture, and distribution business sites in Korea. Amorepacific 2.1 1.6 0 Pacificglas 18.6 17.2 19.5 Industrial Safety and Health NOx (Tonne) 26.1 24.8 30.2 Amorepacific Group convenes the Industrial Safety and Health Committee in each business site on a quarterly basis, creating a Amorepacific 12.0 10.4 14.5 safety culture through the collaboration of labor and management. The Committee consists of an equal representation of labor and Pacificglas 14.2 14.3 15.7 management, including union representatives and heads of each business site. Amorepacific Group Industrial Safety and Health Category 2016 2017 2018 In 2018, Amorepacific Group greatly increased investment in environmental operations and investments in order to preserve the Environmental Investment Accident Rate (%) 0.103 0.042 0.116 environment through various eco-friendly processing technologies and product development. Amorepacific Group invested KRW 5.39 billion in environmental operations and investments. There have been no violations of environmental regulations and no penalties. Amorepacific Industrial Safety and Health Amorepacific Group Environmental Operations and Investments Category 2016 2017 2018 Category 2016 2017 2018 Accident rate (%) 0.086 0.032 0.097 Total Cost (KRW100 million) 47.3 55.1 53.9 Domestic Injury frequency rate (%) 0.450 0.166 0.504 Amorepacific 30.3 37.0 35.5 Occupational disease rate (%) 0.000 0.000 0.000 Pacificglas 7.9 11.4 10.2 Accident rate (%) 0.201 0.119 0.286 Others 9.2 6.6 8.2 Overseas (Mainland Injury frequency rate (%) 1.045 0.617 1.490 China) Occupational disease rate (%) 0.000 0.000 0.000 94 95 Mutual growth Category 2016 2018 Ratio of new suppliers that have undergone assessment of social and environmental impact (%) 100 Ratio of suppliers that have undergone independent assurance on their social and Mutual growth Strategy environmental impact in the past three years (%) 100 / 100 Ratio of key suppliers that have undergone independent assurance on their social and environmental impact in the past three years (%) 99 Strategic Directions Fair business relations based on trust Supporting growth and innovation Providing sustainability to our partners Supplier Sustainability Assessment Results in 2018 Through supplier sustainability assessment, Amorepacific Group identifies potential risks and requires suppliers to take Financial support Technical innovation support Growth infrastructure support corrective measures. Through the 2018 sustainability assessment, all suppliers found potential improvements. In cases where suppliers did not meet our standard or had critical violations, we applied follow-up measures such as reduction of business ·KRW 24 billion of low interest rate loan fund ·9% improvement in the capacity evaluation score ·6 companies participaed in overseas exhibitions with suppliers that have been found to have significant violations or performance under a certain level, while providing ·KRW 330 million of Mutual Growth of companies participating in Business Partner ·1,495 persons participated support programs for those suppliers in need of building capacity of sustainability. Activities Investment Fund Study Group on Innovation in the HRD Consortium program ·100% cash payment within ten days ·35 projects of benefit sharing initiative ·10 suppliers received support for of receiving an invoice with mutual growth projects for suppliers implemented improving safety environment Low Performance Areas and Corrective Action Requests agreements ·14 technical support cases for suppliers Low Category Risk Level Corrective Corrective action Performance Areas action plan establishment request rate rate Cases of illegal detachment of workers High 100% 100% Sustainable Supply Supplier Status Human Rights Chain Management Amorepacific Group designates and manages ‘key supplier’ in consideration of their impact on our business, the scope of and Labor Potential violation of the minimum wage law due to Middle 100% 100% business transactions and their business capacity, categorized by types of purchasing. As of the end of 2018, out of 431 the practice of blanket wage system suppliers, Amorepacific Group categorized 52 as key suppliers, of which 22 supply packaging materials, 17 supply raw Violation of regulations on toxic chemical substance materials and 13 provide ODM products. The Group purchased a total of KRW 979.3 billion from its suppliers, while Safety and Health Middle 100% 100% management (absence of MSDS) promoting local purchasing to share our business performance with local communities. Prolonged storage of specified waste High 100% 100% Environment Category 2016 2017 2018 Inadequate management of GHG emissions Low 100% 100% Number of Suppliers (Companies) 475 456 431 Corporate Ethics Lack of CSR activities for local communities Low 100% 100% Number of Key Suppliers (Companies) 54 52 52 Total Purchasing Amount (KRW 100 million) 12,115 10,387 9,793 Purchasing Amount from Key Suppliers (KRW 100 million) 6,907 5,872 4,250 Support programs for enhancing sustainable management of suppliers Local Purchasing Rate in Overseas Business Sites (%) 65.4 69.6 70.0 CSR coaching General education programs on corporate social responsibility, including issues such as labor and human rights, health and safety, environment, Supplier Selection Policy in the Purchasing Process and corporate ethics. Amorepacific Group conducts business transactions only with those suppliers that satisfy the minimum sustainability requirements Safety/environment Legal risk assessment of safety/environment of business sites and provision at the point of executing the business contract. The Group undertakes a sustainability assessment of all new suppliers reviewing assessment for suppliers of possible improvements. compliance with legal requirements regarding quality, product safety, labor standards, safety and health, and environment, which is a standard by which the Group decides whether to enter into a contract. When signing contracts, Amorepacific Group requires all suppliers to comply with the Amorepacific Group Code of Ethics and Supplier Sustainability Guidelines. Supporting the Growth Financial Support Supplier Sustainability Assessment and Innovation Amorepacific Group provide loans to its suppliers at low interest rates using the KRW 18.9 billion Win-Win Partnership Fund, which Amorepacific Group has established, and requires all suppliers to comply with, the Supplier Sustainability Guidelines, which provides direct assistance to suppliers. Amorepacific Group added KRW 1 billion to the existing KRW 4 billion of Mutual Growth set out 34 items on human rights and labor, health and safety, environmental protection, ethical management, and other of Suppliers Fund. The Group also runs a KRW 390 million Mutual Growth Investment Fund to enhance the capacity of its suppliers. areas that need to be considered in order to fulfill their social responsibilities. The Group has also prepared a manual on how to translate the guidelines into actions, publishing it on Amorepacific Group website. Amorepacific Group conducts In April 2016, Amorepacific Group revised its payment policy to ensure that all payments to small and mediumsized suppliers annual sustainability assessment of key suppliers, reflecting the results in supplier assessment. Based on the results of under the Mutual growth agreement are made 100% in cash within ten days of receiving an invoice. In November 2018, the supplier assessment, the Group offers incentives such as giving priority to receiving support for inclusive growth programs payment method was expanded to 56 additional suppliers. In addition, Amorepacific Group runs mutual growth partnership or in allocating the quantity of goods supplied. Over the past three years, 99 suppliers including all of the key suppliers and loan and cash payment monitoring system and promote mutual growth agreement between the first and second tier suppliers, new suppliers have undergone sustainability assessment by an independent third party. Suppliers that have been found to spreading the culture of mutual growth. have significant social or environmental risks are required to take actions to handle the risks and follow up with measures to confirm that such risks have been dealt with. 96 97 CSR Amorepacific Group operates diverse CSR programs in order to contribute to the realization of gender equality and responsible consumption and production, which are respectively the 5th and 12nd goals among UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). Supporting Technological Innovation CSR Activities by Amorepacific Group In 2018, six suppliers participated in the Business Partner Study Group on Innovation, a community for innovative activities Category 2016 2017 2018 that support suppliers who fall behind in areas of cost reduction, production, product quality, distribution, production Social Contribution Amount of Expenditure(KRW million) 23,994 20,600 22,644 technology, and equipment management. Through the activities, the participating suppliers came up with improvement tasks Expenditure Ratio Compared to Sales(%) 0.36 0.34 0.37 in quality, scheduling, and distribution. Amorepacific Group provided support to their voluntary improvement. As a result, the participating suppliers showed a 9% improvement (average of four suppliers) in the capacity assessment result. Employee Volunteer Participation Rate(%) 88.7 80.8 74.7 Activities Average Hours of Volunteer (hours) 10.9 9.2 8.8 Through a support program for MES (Manufacturing Execution System) building, which is launched in 2018, eight suppliers shortened the manufacturing lead time and enhanced delivery rate by improving the overall process of order-purchaseAmorepacific Foundation (KRW million) 741 923 1,275 production-inventory-distribution management. Public Foundation Amorepacific Welfare Foundation (KRW million) 560 650 792 Disbursement Korea Breast Cancer Foundation (KRW million) 2,7171) 2,761 2,839 With regards to collaborative research and development tasks such as benefit sharing between Amorepacific Group and suppliers with innovative tasks, there were 35 projects with KRW 650 million funding for research and development. innisfree Moeum Foundation (KRW million) 358 926 885 1) Amended due to duplication of execution amount Strengthening the Infrastructures Since 2015, Amorepacific has provided both manpower and financial support for participating in exhibitions held overseas Value of CSR Activities by Amorepacific Unit: KRW million with the goal of securing a global market for 5~6 small and medium sized suppliers. Suppliers that participated in Cosmoprof in Hong Kong between 2017 and 2018 signed ten new export contracts. Category 2017 2018 Cash Contribution 12,390 12,962 In 2018, Amorepacific Group increased KRW 450 million as payments for suppliers that had signed the mutual growth agreement. The measure was taken as a proactive response to the pressure of labor cost after the increase of minimum wage In-kind Giving: product or services donations, projects/partnerships or similar 1,008 1,013 in January 2018 and readjustment of supply prices to a realistic level. Management Overhead 4,206 5,475 Through the Consortium for HRD Ability Magnified Program, established to provide training courses to employees of smalland medium-sized suppliers and facilitating human resource management, Amorepacific Group launched 80 training courses and provided cosmetics industry-related education to 1,495 employees of 313 suppliers in 2018. 20 by 20 Commitment The ‘20 by 20’ Commitment is Amorepacific Group’s promise that we will beautify women’s lives by supporting the health, well-being, and economic empowerment of 200,000 women by 2020. As a company that has been growing with women, we believe that making women’s lives more beautiful is a way to make a more beautiful world. Beauty Partner and Omnichannel Synergy Program: A Mutual Growth Agreement of innisfree and ARITAUM with Store Owners In other countries with Amorepacific Group’s overseas offices, such as China, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Vietnam, and Mutual Growth in Sales innisfree and ARITAUM signed a mutual growth agreement with the council of store owners at the Amorepacific Group Thailand, the Group is striving to make women’s lives more beautiful. The Group’s participation in UN’s global movement, headquarters to observe Omnichannel Synergy Program. The program is a mutual growth business model responding to a ‘Every Woman Every Child,’ is another activity to share its vision with more people and take responsibility as a global corporate change in customer experience to the online. While innisfree and ARITAUM are based on off-line business model, there is citizen. a consensus about the need to build a new business model based on the digital and create unique customer values. When customers of the two brands register a specific off-line store as ‘my shop’ on official online shopping malls, any purchase As of December 2018, Amorepacific Group supported 287,180 women, accomplishing 144% of the initial objective of ’20 by made on the websites is registered as the sales of the registered store. 20’ Commitment. Omnichannel Synergy Program will provide opportunities for store owners to make additional sales and revenue. For Number of Beneficiaries of 20 by 20 Commitment (2018) Amorepacific Group, the program will prevent attrition of active customers and establish a ground for various marketing Category Beneficiaries (persons) Expenditure (KRW) activities to maintain the sales of innisfree and ARITAUM. The program will contribute to a mutual growth of the company and affiliated stores. Women’s Health and Well-being Support 140,387 5,042.5 Enhancement of Women’s Economic Capacity 1,450 3,088.1 Support for Growth of Beauty Partners AMOS Professional offers specialized training to Beauty Masters who are salespersons for the brand’s authorized retail stores. The training program covers a wide range of topics from professional calling as Beauty Masters and cultivation of their sense of pride for sales activities to practical know-hows of store operations. By systemizing training programs, AMOS Professional hopes to grow with Beauty Masters and build win-win relationships with them. Beauty Partners are prone to suffer from musculoskeletal disorders since they stand up all day while working at innisfree stores. To improve the working conditions of store employees and help them relieve fatigue, innisfree provides ‘Green Us Well-being Kit’ to Green Us, the Beauty Partners of Innisfree. Launched in 2013 with leg massagers dedicated to Green Us employees, the well-being kit is updated each year with items wanted by store employees through annual surveys. Foot pads, leg gel, back massager, and neck massager have been supplied to Green Us employees. In 2018, innisfree supplied hand massagers to more than 1,600 Green Us employees, helping them care their hands. 98 99 Pink Ribbon Campaign Global Performance (2018) In 2000, Amorepacific Group funded and established the Korea Breast Cancer Foundation, a non-profit public organization Region Program Beneficiaries (persons) Expenditure (KRW) for breast health. Since then, the Group is running Pink Ribbon Campaign to support women in all ages to take interest Korea makeup your Life, Pink Ribbon Campaign, 49,031 5,834.3 in their bodies and lead healthy lives. Key programs of Pink Ribbon Campaign are ‘Pink Run,’ a running festival to raise Hope Store, Beautiful Life, Makeup ARTIST awareness on early examination of breast cancer, and ‘Pink Tour,’ an education program about breast self-exams. on the Go Mainland China makeup your Life, MORI Run, Screening for 92,561 2,170.2 Key Achievements of Pink Ribbon Campaigns Breast/Cervical Cancer Category 2016 2017 2018 Taiwan makeup your Life 100 107.8 Expenditure (KRW million) 3,848 3,9591) 4,084 Hong Kong makeup your Life 61 9.4 Pink Run Korea 24,105 24,279 24,209 Singapore makeup your Life 44 3.4 Promote Awareness (persons) MORI Run Mainland China 3,200 3,600 4,500 Thailand makeup your Life 40 5.5 Pink Tour Korea 39,612 41,900 45,450 Support for Education (persons) Education in Mainland China 43,500 80,000 72,300 makeup your Life Korea 1,081 1,505 798 Support the Screening (persons) Launched in 2008, makeup your Life Campaign is designed to support women’s cancer patients overcome emotional stress Mainland China 12,078 18,526 20,055 caused by the changes in their physical appearance due to their illness. The campaign does not promote patients to beautify Support for Surgery (persons) Korea 71 111 90 how they look. Rather, it helps them have the basic life they enjoyed before by managing their appearance through activities 1) Amended due to partial omissions of activities in mainland China in 2017 such as skincare and makeup. In 2018, makeup your Life Campaign was held in six countries and regions (Korea, China, Taiwan, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Taiwan) with 899 volunteers (2,697 hours) and 1,694 patients. Pink Ribbon Campaign is held in Mainland China, too. In 2018, Amorepacific Group China successfully held ‘MORI Run’ at In 2018, makeup your Life Campaign was held for the first time in Thailand in partnership with Queen Sirikit Centre for Shanghai Oriental Sports Center, raising awareness of breast and cervical cancer. Held since 2016, the event is a global rendition makeup your Life, Thailand Breast Cancer at Chulalongkorn University, providing skincare and makeup lessons to 40 patients. of the annual ‘Pink Run’ that promotes awareness of breast health. It is also an activity to keep the promise to empower 200,000 women by 2020. Held in collaboration with China Women’s Development Foundation, ‘MORI Run’ provided an opportunity to In China, the campaign was held in a government hospital for patients with mobility issues. In Hong Kong, the number of think about the importance of women’s health through a healthy way of running with more than 4,500 participants. participants was increased to 61 patients thanks to additional partnerships that enabled more engagement. In Taiwan, medical specialists explained changes in patients’ skin and how to deal with such changes. The campaign was also held in Since August 2018, Amorepacific Group also started working with China Women’s Development Foundation to provide free Singapore with 44 participants. MORI RUN 2018 breast and cervical cancer exams. The free cancer exams were provided to 20,055 underprivileged women in ten counties in three provinces including Heilongjiang, Guizhou, and Ninxia as well as 72,300 women who had participated in health seminars. Key Achievements of ‘makeup your Life’ Campagin Region 2016 2017 2018 Hope Store Korea 1,049 1,264 1,243 Hope Store is a ‘micro credit’ program that supports single mother households to launch businesses, making positive changes to the lives of their families. It was started by ‘Heemang Seed Money,’ a fund donated by family members of Jangwon Suh Mainland China 180 200 206 Sungwhan, the founder of Amorepacific Group, on June 30, 2016 to commemorate his efforts to support welfare of women Hong Kong 24 61 and children. Hope Store seeks to help single mother households to achieve the stabilization of livelihood by supporting single Number of Taiwan 101 100 mothers to launch new businesses in various fields from food, beauty, service, retail and wholesale manufacture, and education. Beneficiaries (persons) Since the launch of the first ‘hope store’ in 2004, the program saw the launch of 100th store in 2011 and the 200th store in Singapore 45 44 2013. As of December 2018, a total of 366 businesses have been launched with support of Hope Store. Thailand 40 Vietnam1) 25 46 In 2018, Hope Store provided an additional support by organizing ‘business succession support’ through which beneficiaries of the program can learn business know-hows from previous beneficiaries who have been successfully operating their businesses Korea 697 769 797 for more than five years. Through this support program in its second year, new beneficiaries in Seoul, Gyeonggi, and Incheon Mainland China 42 50 36 opened ‘hope stores’ after learning from previous beneficiaries who founded a stew restaurantDongjak-gu, Seoul and a car cleaning Hong Kong 9 5 shopGeumcheon-gu, Seoul. Number of Volunteers Taiwan 24 19 (persons) Singapore 25 23 Thailand 19 Vietnam 1) 11 17 1) No activities in Vietnam in 2018 100 101 Beautiful Life Brand CSR Sulwhasoo Beautiful Life is a corporate social responsibility program launched in 2008 in partnership with the Community Chest of Beauty from Your Culture Korea through a designated donation made by Amorepacific Group. The program helps underprivileged womenimmigrants, North Korean defectors, single mothers, elderly women, youths from correctional facilities, etc. to achieve economic autonomy, providing support for them In 2017, Sulwhasoo expanded its traditional culture preservation activity ‘Sulwha Cultural Exhibition,’ which has been to find new jobs. held since 2006 in Korea, into a global CSR campaign ‘Beauty from Your Culture.’ As practicality and aesthetics of Korean traditional culture have been revaluated through Sulwhasoo’s products, Sulwhasoo hopes to preserve and continue the Along with support programs through designated contributions, Beautiful Life also organizes open calls to extend traditional culture of countries around Asia. beneficiaries such as small organizations helping women in need. The results are promising. In 2018, 474 women received education for job seeking and license acquisition. Among the beneficiaries of Beautiful Life 2017, 60.1% of women who 2018 Sulwha Cultural Exhibition ‘Fortune Land – Gold Leaf’ presented the beauty of Korean tradition and its significance received designated contribution and 29% of women who received support through open call found employment, through traditional ‘gold leaf’ art in a modern perspective. Diverse gold leaf artworks, created not only by a gold leaf artisan who is registered as an intangible cultural asset to contemporary artists, were presented through a concept of a theme park. A variety of participatory classes and events were provided in order to make traditional culture more accessible to the public. Makeup & Hair Artist on the Go Makeup & Hair Artist on the Go is a corporate social responsibility program that provides career mentoring to future makeup Sulwhasoo also launched Beauty from Your Culture Limited Edition, consisting of its bestselling First Care Activating artists and empowers underprivileged women by providing them makeup sessions. The program is held in partnership with Serum EX and Perfecting Cushion, inviting customers in Korea and overseas to take part in Sulwhasoo’s Mecenat activities schools, facilities, and organizations with youths who want to become makeuphair artists. In 2018, the program was held by encouraging purchase of the limited edition products. In Korea, the sales proceeds of the limited edition products was every month, supporting a total of 808 beneficiaries. provided to traditional artisans as previous years. In China, the sales proceeds were used to restore intangible cultural assets, while the sales proceeds from Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, and Thailand, were donated to cultural heritage preservation. In addition, a scholarship of KRW 50,000,000 was provided to 18 beneficiaries8 people for makeup, 10 people for hair design to foster Makeup & Hair Artist on the Go future makeup and hair artists. LANEIGE Refill Me Promoting Responsible As a consumer goods company, Amorepacific Group is implementing Responsible Consumption and ProductionSDG 12 Launched in 2016, ‘Refill Me’ is a campaign to support water deficit countries and conserve water resources. The campaign throughout its entire product lifecycle and is working to spread a responsible consumption culture with customers. provides ‘Refill Me Bottle’ to customers, inviting them to reduce thoughtless use of disposable items. ‘Refill Me’ campaign is Consumption suggested as an activity to fill one’s self, life, and environment. GREENCYCLE Campaign LANEIGE has been continuing the campaign through its key products. The sales proceeds of the products is donated to GREENCYCLE Campaign collects used cosmetics containers from customers, recycling them as a new resource or upcycling them to domestic NGOs, contributing to the global activities and emergency relief campaigns for clean drinking water. In 2017, two make artworks. Through the campaign, Amorepacific Group contributes to the circulation of resources and promote a culture of ground water pumps were installed in Tana River County in Kenya where access to clean drinking water is around 55%. In more responsible consumption. 2018, three additional pumps were installed thanks to efforts made by ‘Refill Me’ campaign. The campaign is also continuing in ASEAN countries where LANEIGE operates, donating part of the sales proceeds to local Used Container Collection by Channels Unit: Tonne NGOs. ‘Refill Me’ will expand its reach in the coming years. Category Total ARITAUM Large Department innisfree ETUDE House Retailers Stores Mamonde 2016 265.4 63.6 14.6 37.7 145.6 3.9 Bee Happy Day 2017 264.5 68.8 7.1 40.3 146 23 As a brand that studies the energy of flowers, Mamonde runs a campaign to prevent the extinction of bees that directly contributes to the breeding process of flowers. Since 2016, Mamonde has been building ‘Mamonde Honeybee Garden,’ an 2018 277.9 74.4 10.2 29.8 161.5 2 urban bee yard, in collaboration with a social enterprise Urban Bees Seoul. The first ‘Mamonde Honeybee Garden’ was installed on the rooftop of the Korea Scout Association building in Yeouido. In Beauty Inside Journal 2017, the second honeybee garden was installed in Seoul Forest Community Garden. In 2018, the third honeybee garden was Amorepacific Group strives to take its social responsibility by supporting more people to develop awareness on UN’s SDGs built at the Seoul Museum of Art to provide a habitat for endangered urban honeybees, reviving honeybees that provide one Sustainable Development Goals and take part in realizing them. As part of the effort, Amorepacific Group introduces minutes of UN third of water for flowers and contributing to ecology with positive impact. General Assembly that are not easily accessible to many people. The Group also delivers stories about activities to accomplish global goals and make various efforts to raise awareness of sustainable lifestyle by 2030. A special monthly journal presents themes that can be practiced in everyday life and ways to understand SDGs more easily, activating communication inside and outside the company. In 2019, ‘Beauty Inside Magazine’ will be published to introduce the details of the UN General Assembly week in 2018. The magazine will help more people understand SDGs. Sales proceeds of the magazine will be donated to WWFWorld Wildlife Federation in order to support ‘Life Below Water,’ the 14th goal of SDGs. 102 103 innisfree primera Eco Hankie Love the Earth Launched in 2010, Eco Hankie campaign is innisfree’s key global eco campaign that is held in every June. The campaign Taking the vitality of plants as the core value, primera supports the preservation of wetlands where the vitality of the Earth carries a message that using hankerchief instead of paper towels will reduce deforestation and further preserve the Earth. is accumulated. The brand has been running an eco-campaign since 2012 and established the theme of ‘preservation of wetlands’ in 2015 under the title ‘Love the Earth.’ Since 2017, primera started cooperating with the Ramsar Regional CenterThe Eco Hankie is updated with new designs every year. In 2018, under the slogan ‘Play Green Everywhere,’ the hankerchief East AsiaRRC-EA, borrowing their expertise to more directly engage in wetlands protection activities. By donating part of the presented a colorful illustration of ‘play-greeners’ who practice ‘play green’ in their own ways in the city, forest, and ocean. sales proceeds from campaign goods to RRC-EA, primera also contributes to wetlands preservation activities in Korea. The Eco Hankie was distributed in innisfree stores. In addition, customers who promised eco-friendly activities at festivals and various off-line stores were also provided with the hankerchief, participating in innisfree’s eco campaign with more pleasure. In 2018, primera organized travel events to visit the wetland in Suncheon Bay to foster support and customer experience. The event took the form of a fan meeting with well-known YouTubers, delivering the meaning of the campaign through the Green Forest experience of travelling together. innisfree has been running the ‘Green Forest Campaign’ since 2012. The campaign was initiated with an idea to returning what innisfree was given by the nature through the protection and fostering of forests. Let’s Love Every winter, primera launches the limited edition of Mango Butter Comforting Line, along with its Let’s Love campaign. innisfree is growing a number of forests around the world in places suffering from desertification, fire, typhoon, and loss of Launched in 2013, the campaign improves the living conditions of girls in Jamui, India, who have no access to education due soil. The campaign was held in Hong Kong, Thailand, Taiwan, and Malaysia. In 2018, it was also held in Indonesia, India, and to poverty and gender discrimination. Through Beautiful Fair Trade, primera uses mangoes grown in Jamui and donates ten the United States. As of 2018, 124,700 trees have been planted through Green Forest campaign. mango trees to families in Jamui using the proceeds from the sales of its Mango Butter products. In 2017, mangoes grown from these trees were harvested for the first time, thus realizing a donation system based on the circular economy beyond a Green Christmas single event. Green Christmas is innisfree’s annual campaign with Christmas Limited Edition products. The campaign was launched in 2010 with a motto, ‘Make my joy become warmth for someone.’ Each year, innisfree creates unique DIY kits for customers to As of 2018, primera donated 6,200 mango trees through six editions of Let’s Love campaign. make their own interior decorations while participating in a meaningful donation activity. mise-en-scène In 2018, Green Christmas campaign introduced a DIY Socks kit. Customers could freely attach ornaments to decorate their own Christmas socks. The kit could be purchased for KRW 2,000 along upon purchasing Chirstmas Limited Edition products. mise-en-scène Short Film Festival In conjunction with the DIY kit, innisfree also ran #GreenChristmas hashtag event. For each SNS posting with the hashtag, For the past 18 years since 2002, mise-en-scène has sponsored the mise-en-scène Short Film Festival to promote short films innisfree generated KRW 1,000 donation. As a result, KRW 53,000,000 was raised from the sales proceeds and donations by in Korea and discover emerging directors. While the corporate support for films are concentrated in big-budget films, the film customers, which was donated to Save the Children and used for providing school uniforms to teenagers. festival aims to contribute to the long-term development of the Korean film industry through continuous support of short films, a relatively less popular genre, and discovery of directors and films that bring unique visions. The 17th mise-en-scène Short Film Festival in 2018 had a record high of 1,189 entries, of which 58 films were shown at theaters with the highest ETUDE House number of submitted works and competition among short film festivals in Korea. Makeup Your Dream Launched in 2017, Makeup Your Dream is a corporate social responsibility campaign to support young people who feel insecure about their future. Through the campaign, ‘Youth Lecture’ was held in Seoul and Busan to provide empowerment and advices of ‘dream mentors,’ delivering messages of hope to many young people. Through a fund raised by the campaign, ‘Dream Scholarship’ was given to twenty university students from low-income families who strive to make their dreams come true. Dream Scholarship students of 2017 and installation artist Lee Hyo-yeol did an art campaign together, presenting an art performance and installing artworks in ten places around Seoul under the theme, ‘We might have bloomed already.’ Through the activity, a warm message was delivered to many people. 104 105 Public Foundations Amorepacific Foundation Amorepacific Welfare Foundation Amorepacific Foundation was established for the purpose of supporting academic, educational and cultural programs to Amorepacific Welfare Foundation was established in 1982 with the vision of building a beautiful and harmonious society explore the values of culture and communicate those values to the public. Since its establishment in 1973, Amorepacific by promoting the welfare of socially vulnerable women and enhancing the quality of their lives. For ‘improving well-being Foundation has been dedicated to supporting academic research on ‘Asian Beauty’ and ‘Women and Culture’ from a through spatial beauty,’ the foundation runs Space Design Improvement Project, Space Utilization Support Program, and multidisciplinary approach and using the research findings to communicate with the world and generate new values. Cleaning and Reorganization Consulting Project. The ultimate goal of these projects is not to simply improve a facility but help women in need of social protection enjoy a new life and find independence. Women and Culture Space Design Improvement Project Since 2007, the foundation has been supporting personal research of academics with doctoral degrees. ‘Women and Culture’ is a long-term research topic of Amorepacific Foundation. This support program is organized do discover excellent studies Space Design Improvement Project transforms facilities and space for women and non-profit organizations in poor condition in various research fields, helping complex research projects on the life and culture of women’s lives throughout different into space of caring and healing, fostering the change of women’s lives. Launched in 2005, the project celebrates its 10th space and time. Outstanding research results are published as books, raising public awareness of the topic and fostering anniversary in 2019. As of the end of 2018, a total of 196 facilities and non-profit organizations for women were transformed communication with the public. to safe and comfortable places. The project renovated offices with no sunlight, counseling rooms that have been storing office equipment, and outdated bathrooms into places for women to feel stable and happy. Asian Beauty Cleaning and Reorganization Consulting Project The research on ‘Asian Beauty’ has been continued since 2011, focusing on the Asian concept of beauty that values the beauty in everyday life and aesthetic experiences, which is different from the Western concept of art and the beauty of the human Cleaning and Reorganization Consulting Project was launched in 2016. Through the project, women with interrupted careers go body that centers around visual senses. The research results are published in a series entitled ‘Asian Beauty,’ which was first through a cleaning and reorganization consultant course and provide consulting to the beneficiaries of the project. The project published in 2014. The series is planned as an anthology of twenty books. As of 2018, eight books have been published. operates along with Space Design Improvement Project, improving satisfaction and work efficiency of facility users. Moreover, it contributes to the job creation for women with interrupted careers and empowers the women to lead their lives with more agency. Asian Beauty Lectures Space Utilization Support Program Asian Beuaty Lectures was launched in 2012 to share the research results of Asian Beauty program with the public. The lecture series focuses on the communication between experts from various fields and the participating audience. In 2018, Space Utilization Support Program provides various activities (programs) to women who use improved space, giving positive two lectures were held under the theme ‘beautiful people’ with more than 300 participating audiences. With Asian Beauty influence in the lives of underprivileged women. The program is not limited to a concept for improving the physical space. It provides Lectures, Amorepacific Foundation will continue the communication with the public with interesting and unique themes. active support to improve the quality of life by enhancing the self-esteem and capacity of women through various programs. 106 107 Korea Breast Cancer Foundation innisfree Moeum Foundation Korea Breast Cancer Foundation is Korea’s first non-profit organization dedicated to breast health, entirely funded by innisfree Moeum Foundation is a public foundation established in Jeju Island in 2015. The foundation is funded entirely by Amorepacific Group in 2000. The Foundation undertakes various initiatives on multiple fronts to raise awareness of the innisfree with a donation contract of KRW 10 billion. Under the slogan ‘Adding Value to Jeju,’ the foundation discovers and importance of breast health, which include the Pink Run, breast health lectures, financial support for low-income breast preserves the value of Jeju’s natural and cultural heritage, creating new values by combining nature and culture. Through the cancer patients, support for academic research, sponsorship of breast cancer patient associations, and activities to promote activities, the foundation also strives to foster future talents who will open the future of Jeju. breast health among unprivileged women including those from multicultural families. The Pink Ribbon Campaign, a joint initiative between Korea Breast Cancer Foundation and Amorepacific Group, has made a significant contribution to Preservation of Nature promoting women’s health by emphasizing the importance of breast health and encouraging early detection and treatment innisfree Moeum Foundation organizes ‘jeju-daumi,’ a program to preserve and promote the value of Jeju with university through self-exam. students. In 2018, the program installed eco-friendly coconut mats on trails to various sites of Oreum (small defunct volcano), a major ecological asset of Jeju. Previously, the trails were covered with rubber mats made of discarded tires. 80 university Pink Run students and 50 innisfree employees worked together to remove and install the mat, paving it in a 1,285-meter trail between Pink Run is an annual event organized by Amorepacific Group and Korea Breast Cancer Foundation. It is a running festival Dot-oreum and Doonji-oreum. held in five different cities throughout Korea to provide useful information about breast health and raise awareness of the importance of early cancer exam. The participation fee KRW 10,000 per person is donated to Korea Breast Cancer Foundation, Culture and Arts Support supporting cancer exams and operations of breast cancer patients. Between 2001 and 2018, more than 347,871 people The foundation held a ‘Clean House Design’ project to promote advanced waste separation and beautification of local participated in the event and raised approximately KRW 3,780,000,000, which was donated to Korea Breast Cancer communities. For the project, innisfree, innisfree Moeum Foundation, and Jeju Special Self-Governing Province formed a Foundation to promote the healthy culture of sharing. council. A design proposal was produced, reflecting opinions of different stakeholders while removing complexity to create harmony with environment. A pilot ‘Clean House’ was built in Nohyung-dong, Jeju. Pink Tour Pink Tour is a program promoting breast health by providing on-site education about breast self-exam for early diagnose. In 2018, the foundation also held the second Jeju Oreum Photo Contest to help preserve Oreums and promote their natural and Since 2001, more than 1,000 education sessions were given to over 330,000 people, making it one of the most well-known ecological value. Under the theme, ‘Jeju Oreum with Stories.’ 1,407 photos were submitted. 36 entries were awarded through breast health education program in Kroea. a strict examination of expert judges with a total of KRW 9,500,000 award money, KRW 3,000,000 for the grand prize. Support for Cancer Exam and Operation Fostering Future Talents By providing free breast cancer exam through visiting exam sessions, Korea Breast Cancer Foundation raises awareness of To foster digital influencers who understand issues of Jeju and spread them with participatory attitude, innisfree Moeum the importance of regular exam and early diagnose and provides financial support for operation and treatment of cancer Foundation appointed 18 social creators among university students in Jeju. For the duration of six months, the social creators underprivileged patients. In addition, the foundation is operating a variety of support programs for breast cancer patients and participated in education and mentoring programs on video production, editing, contents planning, and field investigation. academic research on breast health. They discovered issues of society in Jeju and tried to find solutions. As a result, the social creators produced videos about ‘Dongbaek Village,’ a local community that discovered and promoted the value of camellia in Jeju, and ‘Oreum,’ a core asset of nature and ecology of Jeju.’ They also organized ‘Recycling Project’ to solve the issue of ocean waste. In addition, innisfree Moeum Foundation awarded KRW 13,000,000 scholarship to nine outstanding students from an agricultural meister highschool in Jeju upon recommendations by the school principal and a dean of a university department related to the industry. The scholarship was provided in order to discover talents in Jeju tangerine industry and foster them to enhance competitiveness of tangerine agriculture industry. 108 109 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT PRJC-594654-2019-AST-KOR-E Introduction Amorepacific Group (“APG”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to Appendix undertake independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2018 (the “Report”). The directors of APG have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of APG in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. Scope and Basis of Based on non-financial data and sustainability activities and performance data of 2018 generated from APG, we have evaluated the adherence to GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) Standards Principles and assessed the quality of sustainability performance assurance information. We have reviewed that the Topic-specific disclosures of GRI Standards which are identified in the process for defining 1. Independent Assurance Statement report content; 2. Verification Statement GHG Inventory No. Material topic GRI Disclosure No. Material topic GRI Disclosure Implementing sustainable 416-1 7 Supporting suppliers’ sustainable 3. GRI Standards Index 1 technology innovation and management practice and investment enhancement 4. UNGC Communication on Progress Strengthening product safety 416-2 8 Supporting suppliers’ growth 2 and development 5. About This Report Strengthening product 416-1 9 Carrying out strategic CSR 203-1,2 / 413-1,2 3 sustainability activities aligned with our businesses Enhancing human rights and 412-1,2 10 Promoting circulation of 303-1,2,3 / 306-1,2,3,4,5 4 diversity of employees resources Enhancing employee health and 403-6 11 Minimizing the impact on global 302-1,2,3,4,5 / 5 quality of life warming by corporate activities 305-2,3,4,5,6,7 Expanding safety culture 414-1,2 6 throughout the value chain We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We applied the limited level of assurance. The verification was carried out in February and June 2019. The site visits were made to APG Head Office and Factories. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: • challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls; • interviewed representatives from the various departments; • conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; • reviewed the materiality assessment report. • site visit and test of data gathering process; Domestic: Beauty Campus in Osan Overseas: Amorepacific China office and Shanghai Beauty Campus in China 1) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL website. (www.dnvgl.com/assurance/reporting/verification.html) Limitations The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of APG’ subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. We did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as APG’s website (www.apgroup.com). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data forenvironmental and social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. 110 111 Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the adherence to the Principles in GRI Standards. The verification team has observed that there is general awareness of sustainability context across all different levels of the organization. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; VERIFICATION STATEMENT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) INVENTORY DNV GL BUSINESS ASSURANCE Stakeholder Inclusiveness Amorepacific Group NO.: AS_ PRJC-594292-2019-CCS-KOR_R1 APG has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, Employees, Shareholders, Local community and Business Partners. APG engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels. The Introduction DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”) was commissioned by AMOREPACIFIC Group to verify the AMOREPACIFIC examples of approaches to engagement with selected stakeholders are described in the Report. In the future, APG could engage Group’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report for the calendar year 2018 (“the report”) based upon a limited level of assurance. stakeholders in the region including China where APG does business more, address the reasonable expectations and interests of AMOREPACIFIC Group is responsible for the preparation of the GHG emissions data on the basis set out within the WRI/ stakeholders and report corresponding actions taken in the Report. WBCSD GHG protocol: 2004 and the principles set out in ISO 14064-1:2006. Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management of AMOREPACIFIC Group only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with them. DNV GL expressly Sustainability Context disclaims any liability or responsibility for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance statement. APG has stated the ‘2025 Vision’ and 2020 sustainability goals and objectives. In addition, APG is helping readers understanding how 2020 sustainability goals are linked to UN SDGs(Sustainable Development Goals). In particular, APG makes an effort to achieve gender equality through ‘20 by 20 Commitment’ activities aimed at promoting women's health, well-being and economic Scope of Assurance The emissions data covered by our examination comprise Direct emissions (Scope 1 emissions), Energy indirect emissions (Scope 2 competitiveness, and is leading responsible production and consumption through continuous improvement of environmentemissions) and Other indirect emissions (Scope 3 emissions) from AMOREPACIFIC Group boundary of the report; friendly products. APG has presented various performance indicators with which the performance and goals of sustainability •Organizational boundary for AMOREPACIFIC: HQ/Sale offices, Sites (Beauty 1 in Osan, Daejeon and Jincheon, Daejeon and management can be monitored. Jincheon), Distribution centers (Gangbuk, Gwangju, Gimcheon, Daejeon, Busan, Songtan, Incheon, Jincheon and Osan), R&D/HRD, •Local Business unit (Gwangju, Daegu, Daejwon and Busan), Delivery and transportation by centers (Other indirect emissions) Materiality • Organizational boundary for PACIFICPACKAGE: Cheonan • Organizational boundary for AESTURA: Ansung APG has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. ‘Business impact’ such as peer review, international • Organizational boundary for COSVISION: Daejeon standards, internal strategy and ‘stakeholder interest’ are considered during the materiality assessment, issue pools were used on • Organizational boundary for OSULLOC: Hannam, Premium factory, Seokwang, Dolsongi, and Wolchulsan (in Jeju, Republic ofKorea) internal and external stakeholder survey to rate the material topics and 11 material topics are prioritized accordingly. DNV GL has • Organizational boundary for AMOREPACIFIC SHANGHAI: Shanghai (China) reviewed material topics that could have a significant impact on the APG's economic, environmental and social impacts or affect the decision-making of stakeholders in assessing materiality. Completeness Verification Approach The verification has been conducted by DNV GL from 1st February through 23rd April 2019 and performed in accordance with the verification principles and tasks outlined in ISO 14064-3:2006. We planned and performed our work so as to obtain all the The Report has covered the sustainability strategy, management approach and sustainability performances of APG for the reporting information and explanations deemed necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence to provide a verification opinion with period. The reporting boundary has been set to include all affiliates in APG. Amorepacific, a major affiliate, includes not only 5% materiality level, concerning the completeness of the emission inventory as well as the reported emission figures in ton CO2 domestic sites but also some performances of overseas corporation. DNV GL has reviewed that the materiality assessment process equivalent. As part of the verification process; and confirms relevant material topics prioritized from the process are addressed completely in the Report. • We have reviewed and verified the SHEQM system of AMOREPACIFIC Group (activity data, GHG emission calculation results, emission factors, and other parameters) Further opinions with the principles of report quality of GRI Standards as follows; • We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions data Report quality: Accuracy, Balance, Clarity, Comparability, Reliability and Timeliness DNV GL has reviewed the quality of the report based on the 6 principles defined in the GRI Standards. DNV GL also has reviewed the reliability of the disclosure data water consumption, the amount of waste water discharge and recycling, waste generation and Conclusions Based on the above verification of core elements, it is the DNV GL’s opinion that nothing comes to our attention to suggest that GHG emissions are not properly calculated, and a significant uncertainty and error are included in the GHG Emissions of AMOREPACIFIC recycling, air pollution emissions, the verification team has interviewed the person-in-charge, reviewed the process of gathering Group for the year 2018 below; and processing data and information, and the supporting documents and records. APG could improve the data collection process and present the sustainability performance for the last 3 years to allow for comparability over time. Any errors or misstatements Greenhouse Gas Emissions of AMOREPACIFIC Group from Yr 2018 Unit: tCO2-eq identified during the assurance engagement were communicated and corrected prior to the Report being published. The AMOREPACIFIC Direct emissions Energy indirect emissions Other indirect emissions Total emissions information in the Report indicates the time period to which it relates. Group (Scope 1) (Scope 2) (Scope 3) AMOREPACIFIC 9,620 39,261 3,757 52,638 Competence and DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2011 PACIFICPACKAGE 385 4,260 4,645 Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly Independence maintains a comprehensive system of quality control, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with COSVISION 1,001 3,879 4,880 ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the DNV GL OSULLOC 1,977 1,117 3,094 Code of Conduct2) during the assurance engagement and maintain independence where required by relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out by an independent team of sustainability assurance professionals. DNV GL was not involved AESTURA 904 2,358 3,263 in the preparation of statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the assurance process. DNV GL have no other contract with APG and did not AMOREPACIFIC SHANGHAI 899 6,744 7,643 provide any services to APG in 2019 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. DNV GL has conducted ※ In order to report the GHG emissions as an integer, the rounded number on the statement might be different from the number on the system with ± 1 tCO2-eq. the verification of GHG emissions in 2019, which isn’t considered a conflict of interest in the report verification. ※ Total emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2 (Total emissions of AMOREPACIFIC include Scope 3 emissions) 2) DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com) Lee, Jang Sup Jang Sup Lee Country Representative June 2019 Country Representative 23rd April 2019 DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Seoul, Korea DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (23rd April 2019). Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy which may impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of AMOREPACIFIC Group is subsequently brought to our attention.In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in this statement between English version and Korean version, Korean shall be given precedent. 112 113 GRI Standards Index 1. General Disclosures 2. Material Topic-specific Disclosures Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 50 Economic Standards 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 42~49, 58~60 Direct EconomicImpacts 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 28~30, 90~91 102-3 Location of headquarters 42~49 Indirect EconomicImpacts MA 16 102-4 Location of operations 42~49 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 22, 99~101 102-5 Ownership and legal form 42~49 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 22, 99~101 102-6 Markets served 42~49 Environmental Standards 102-7 Scale of the organization 42~49 Energy MA 26 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 42~49, 83~84 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 28~29 ,90~92 102-9 Supply chain 96~98 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 28~29, 90~92 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 67~70 / 96~98 302-3 Energy intensity 25~27 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 77~79 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 28~29, 39, 90~92 102-12 External initiatives 61, 115 Water MA 26 102-13 Membership of associations 61, 115 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 30, 39, 92~93 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 1 303-2 Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water 30, 92~93 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior http://www.apgroup.com/int/ko/about-us/ethics-governance/code-of-ethics.html 303-3 Water recycled and reused 30, 92~93 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Biodiversity 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 31~33 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 67~70 Emissions MA 26 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 66 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 28~29, 90~92 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 86 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 28~29, 90~92 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 66 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 28~29, 90~92 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 66 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 28~29, 90~92 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 66 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 28~29, 90~92 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Amorepacific Group and Amorepacific Business Report 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 94 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 118 Effluents and Waste MA 6, 26 102-47 List of material topics 64~65 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 30, 93 102-48 Restatements of information 118 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 8~13, 93~94, 102 102-49 Changes in reporting 118 306-3 Significant spills There was no leakage 102-50 Reporting period 118 Social Standards 102-51 Date of most recent report 118 Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 18 102-52 Reporting cycle 118 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 22~23 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 119 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken There was no discrimination 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 51 Local Communities MA 16 102-55 GRI content index 114~116 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 22, 99~101 102-56 External assurance 111~113 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 34~36 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Reporting for each issue Customer Health and Safety MA 6 103-2 The management approach and its components Reporting for each issue 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services There was no violation of the applicable laws 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reporting for each issue Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 8~10, 81~82 *Amorepacific Group Business Report can be viewed on the following website. 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling There was no violation of the applicable laws http://dart.fss.or.kr/dsaf001/main.do?rcpNo=20180402002570 http://dart.fss.or.kr/dsaf001/main.do?rcpNo=20180402002570 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications There was no violation of the applicable laws 114 115 UNGC Communication on Progress 3.Non Material Topic-specific Disclosures Ten Principles of the UNGC and Amorepacific Group’s Activities Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Classification Amorepacific Group’s Principles and Activities Page Economic Standards Human Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection Amorepacific Group supports the Universal 86, 96~97 Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 52~55 Rights of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Declaration of Human Rights and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights; 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Amorepacific Group Business Report Ruggie Framework. 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Amorepacific Group Business Report Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human Market Presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 83 rights abuses. Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 96 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 73 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 73 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Amorepacific Group supports the employees’ right to 86 and the effective recognition of the right to collective join and leave the labor union and build trust between 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 73 bargaining; the management and the employees through Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices There was no violation of the applicable laws communication. Environmental Standards Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced Amorepacific Group strictly prohibits any form of child 86, 96~97 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations There was no violation of the laws and compulsory labour; labor, involuntary or forced labor and discrimination Supplier Environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 96 throughout its entire business process, and conducts Assessment annual on-site reviews of the company and its 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 96~97 suppliers. Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Social Standards Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 84 401-3 Parental leave 88 Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 86 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 95 employment and occupation. 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 95 and number of work-related fatalities Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Amorepacific Group is committed to reducing 26~33, 90~94 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 95 approach to environmental challenges; greenhouse gas emissions and water consumption 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 95 intensity, introducing renewable energy and Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 85 developing a sustainable package by 2020 as part of environmental protection and circular economy 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 85 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater strategy. environmental responsibility; and 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 100% Freedom of Association and 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 86, 96~97 Collective Bargaining collective bargaining may be at risk Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 86, 96~97 environmentally friendly technologies. Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 86, 96~97 Human Rights Assessment MA 86, 96 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 encourage the development and diffusion of morepacific Group puts “Integrity” as the top priority 73 Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 86, 96~97 environmentally friendly technologies. of the AP WAY values to promote ethical practice and 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 73, 86 raise awareness throughout the corporate MA 96 eco-system. Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 96~97 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 96~97 Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions “There was no political donation *Amorepacific's expenditure for industry associations and tax-free organizations is listed below” Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data There was no material case Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area There was no material case Expenditure(for 3years) : 1,105 million won(in 2018), 837 million won(in 2017), and 858 million won (in 2016). Major Expenditures : Korea foundation for cooperation of large&small business, rural affairs 329 million won, Korea Cosmetic Association 266 million won, Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry 130 million won, Korea direct selling industry association 85 million won, The Korea Employers Federation 62 million won 116 117 About This Report Purpose of the Report This report was created to disclose Amorepacific Group’s sustainability management activities to stakeholders transparently and collect various opinions to reflect them in management. The scope of the Amorepacific Sustainability Report, which has been issued annually since 2009, was expanded in 2015 to be issued as Amorepacific Group Sustainability Report with the aim of expanding communication with stakeholders. Scope and Boundary The scope of this report covers Amorepacific Group and all its subsidiaries (Amorepacific, innisfree, ETUDE, etc.).In the case of Amorepacific, the domestic production sites (headquarters in Seoul, R&D Center, HR Development Center, Regional BU, and Beauty of the Report Campus Osan, Daily Beauty production site and Osulloc production site) were mainly under review, and, in some cases, includes performances of overseas offices. Reporting Period The reporting period is from January 1 to December 31, 2017 and data from 2015 and 2016 were included for comparative purposes. Data regarding performance from the first half of 2018 were reflected in some cases. Third Party Assurance In order to enhance the accuracy and reliability of this report, the content was verified by an independent verification institution, DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. Based on VeriSustain, the content was verified to a limited level of assurance and a reliability assessment was conducted regarding environmental performance. Reporting Standards This report was prepared in accordance with the sustainability reporting guideline standards (Core Option) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and is based on major agenda of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Amorepacific Group's internal reporting guidelines. 118 Date of Publication May 24, 2019 Publisher Suh Kyung-bae Publishing Organization Amorepacific Group Production Sustainability Management Team, Sustainability Management Division, Amorepacific Group Design Planning Corporate Design Team, Design Center Design Double-D Hangangdaero 100, Yongsan-gu, Seoul, Korea 04386 Tel. +82 2 6040 5406 Fax. +82 2 6040 5209 E-mail csr@amorepacific.com www.apgroup.com
