Sustainability Report 2018 Contents Foreword 4 Our company 6 Global footprint 7 2018 Sustainability highlights 8 Sustainability objectives 10 Our organisation 12 Our Board 12 Our Executive Committee 14 Stakeholder engagement 16 Core values 18 Corporate governance 20 Awards and rankings 24 Financial performance 26 People 28 Employee demographics 28 Remuneration 29 Employee benefits 30 Health and wellbeing 30 Gender diversity 31 Career development 32 Community 36 Human rights 36 Community development 38 Sustainability and Environment 40 Appendix A: Scope of the report 46 Appendix B: Associated and controlled entities 48 Appendix C: Company memberships 50 Appendix D: EIA scale 52 Appendix E: GRI Index 54 Canberra Metro Consortium ACT Foreword Welcome to our ninth annual Sustainability Report which outlines our progress towards our sustainability objectives and the environmental outcomes we influence through our projects and services. Sustainability is top of mind and a topic of much We bring this approach to life by taking We also implemented several initiatives Our combination of engineering and a long-term view in everything we do to ensure a more diverse, satisfying and environmental skills enables us to discussion for many organisations. For SMEC, and ensuring that as an organisation we rewarding work environment for our effectively help our clients achieve Sustainability at SMEC is a sustainability is about continuity and resilience. operate sustainably and make a positive people. These include increased paid sustainable outcomes. We have journey. As we gain a greater impact on our communities. We are parental leave, global leadership training successfully delivered over 31,000 MW passionate about collaborating with our programs, the launch of our Safety Culture of hydropower over the last 15 years, understanding of issues, clients and partners to build effective Action Plan and the development of and our specialists have taken a leading or identify opportunities to and sustainable solutions. our Phase 2 Reconciliation Action Plan, role in landmark energy projects worldwide. which formalises our commitment to the In 2018, SMEC Australia’s Power & Energy progress, we adapt our priorities Our commitment to sustainability is formalised through the three pillars of our protection and advancement of indigenous team contributed to over 4500MW of and evolve our approach. Hari Poologasundram rights in Australia. renewable generation projects, including CEO SMEC & CEO International Surbana Jurong Corporate Social Responsibility framework: solar and wind power. We are constantly People, Community, and Sustainability and Sustainability is a priority for SMEC both Environment. The purpose of this report is in terms of the services we offer and how redefining sustainability across project The world is facing significant design and delivery, incorporating to measure our performance in providing we operate as a business. sustainability at every stage of the challenges to sustainability, a safe and healthy working environment for our people, actively contributing to SMEC’s capabilities, and the projects project lifecycle. and while we don’t have all and solutions we deliver, put us in a development in the communities where we unique position to build sustainable As an organisation, our company policies the answers yet, we are taking live and work and embedding sustainable and procedures have been set up to outcomes across our global organisation communities. We have a long and proud support our commitment to sustainability. steady, consistent steps towards history dating back to the iconic Snowy and broad project portfolio. As in previous Mountains Hydroelectric Scheme in For example, a number of our offices building a sustainable future. years, this report has been prepared to set and achieve annual energy efficiency 1949. One of the largest and most align with the Sustainability Standards of targets. Waste is consciously recycled, Hari Poologasundram complex hydroelectric schemes in the the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). and office supplies are purchased with CEO SMEC & CEO International Surbana Jurong world, the project’s leading-edge design environment-friendliness in mind. As CEO In 2018 we established a global and build practices highlight SMEC's I am particularly proud that many of these Compliance Committee and made key earliest commitment to sustainability in initiatives are developed and led by our improvements to our business integrity relation to Australia’s renewable energy employees in support of local suppliers program, including the launch of a global sources and water security. and communities. I would like to take this communication and awareness campaign opportunity to thank all our employees to ensure that we are managing risk, for their passion and energy in driving providing ethical and safe working sustainable solutions. conditions and building a strong compliance culture. 4 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 5 Our company From origins on the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Scheme in New South Wales, Australia, SMEC is a global Our global 40+ footprint Countries engineering, management and development consultancy delivering technical excellence, advanced engineering and 120+ Offices design innovation to our clients, partners and communities. 16,000+ Employees Combining our specialist As a member of the Surbana Jurong SMEC is recognised for delivering Group, SMEC draws on a talent pool of technical excellence, advanced technical strengths in 16,000 employees across 120 offices engineering and design innovation in engineering and major in over 40 countries throughout Asia, the urban development, infrastructure projects with a deep Australasia, Africa, the UK, Middle East and management services industries. understanding of existing and the Americas. Leveraging specialist Aligning global experience with local Europe and emerging technology, capabilities from our parent knowledge, we collaborate with our and sister companies, we provide we deliver sustainable clients and partners to enhance value expertise in global markets either solutions on complex urban, independently or as combined entities. and maximise outcomes across the North Asia full project lifecycle, from concept industrial and infrastructure Our integrated services model covers to completion. projects worldwide. the full lifecycle of a project, from initial Our specialist technical strengths in concept, feasibility, planning and design South East Asia engineering and major projects, through to construction, commissioning, combined with emerging technology Americas and operation and maintenance. and data-driven services, enable us South Asia & Collaborating with our clients and Africa Middle Eats to provide innovative solutions to partners, we shape innovative solutions clients worldwide. across a range of industry sectors with core strengths in water and transport infrastructure, built environment, energy Australia & New Zealand and resources, and management advisory. #25 ENR’s Top 225 International Design Firms 2018 6 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 7 2018 Sustainability highlights In 2018 we made significant progress in strengthening corporate governance and advancing our focus areas of People, Community, Sustainability and Environment. Our organisation People Community Sustainability and Environment Optimising project management Increased employee benefits Projection and advancement of Indigenous rights Leading in renewable energy and sustainability A Project Management Steering Committee was established for SMEC increased the Paid Parental Leave offered to the primary }}In 2018 we continued to implement Phase 1 of our }}In Australia, SMEC contributed to over 4500MW of renewable ongoing oversight and stronger governance of project management carer of a new child to 14 weeks, in addition to their annual leave, Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), which was endorsed by generation projects, including solar and wind power generation. systems and processes. Given the nature of SMEC’s services, we long service leave and government-funded entitlements. Reconciliation Australia in January 2017. This formalises our }}An internal Sustainability Technical Networking Group was set have a continued focus on enhancing our project management commitment to implement and measure practical actions that up to support collaboration and knowledge sharing among approach in order to achieve greater quality. Building an inclusive culture create opportunities for, and build respectful relationships with, sustainability professionals on a national level. More than 50 middle managers completed Champions of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. Our focus for }}SMEC Australia attained membership to the Infrastructure Enhanced business integrity Change and Creating Gender Inclusive Cultures workshops Innovate Phase 2 will be to implement a strategy to help attract, recruit and retain Indigenous employees. Sustainability Council of Australia (ISCA) and the Australian Led by a global Compliance Committee, our Integrity Compliance Contaminated Land Consultants Association (ACLCA). Program was benchmarked against the requirements of the World Developing capability and careers }}Based on employee nominations, three Aboriginal and Torres }}SMEC New Zealand was appointed to the New Zealand Bank Integrity Compliance Guidelines. In addition to enhancing }}The first global Leadership Development Program in partnership Strait Islander charities in Australia were selected to receive funding from the SMEC Foundation. Ministry of Foreign Affairs & Trade (MFAT) Energy Services business compliance across our systems, policies and processes, with our parent company Surbana Jurong was held in Singapore. Panel, which supports planning and delivery of MFAT’s we launched We Comply, an ongoing global communication and }}Leadership Training Programs were rolled out to SMEC Community development renewable energy portfolio and international development stakeholder engagement program relating to business integrity. teams in South Asia, Southeast Asia and Africa. activities in the energy sector. With support from the SMEC Foundation and Divisional CSR Safety first Committees, employees participated in many inspiring community Based on the results of a workforce safety culture survey and development projects around the world, with a focus on the areas analysis, SMEC ANZ launched the Safety Culture Action Plan of health, education, environment and emergency relief. in October 2018. Several initiatives are underway, and some have already been completed, including the integration of safety skills and knowledge into our Graduate Development and Leadership Development Programs, and the launch of our Safety Champion Program to encourage employee involvement in developing and implementing our safety initiatives. Ensuring a mentally healthy workplace In 2018, participants in SMEC’s Leadership Development Program developed a mental health strategy which was approved by the Executive Committee and aligns with best practice. This strategy will be implemented in 2019, including awareness campaigns, communication and mental health first aid training. 8 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 9 Sustainability objectives Our commitment to sustainability is highlighted through this report which measures our performance in providing a safe and healthy working environment for our people, actively contributing to development in the communities where we live and work and embedding sustainable outcomes across our global organisation and broad project portfolio. Sustainability is a priority for People Community Sustainability SMEC in terms of the services Our commitment Our commitment & environment we offer, how we operate as a Create a rewarding, inclusive workplace Support community and charitable Our commitment business, and our commitment for our people by encouraging personal programs that provide long-term solutions. Eliminate or minimise any adverse impacts to supporting the communities development, recognising good that SMEC’s office activities and projects we live and work in. performance, fostering equal opportunities Our objectives have on the environment. Raise employee, and ensuring employee health, safety }}To deliver the best possible social and client and community awareness of the and wellbeing. development outcomes for people in importance of environmental sustainability. need through small-scale grant support Our objectives provided by the SMEC Foundation. Our objectives }}To provide and maintain a satisfying }}To protect and uphold internationally }}To operate energy efficient offices and rewarding work environment proclaimed human rights, particularly and reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) for all employees. in the areas of child abuse and forced emissions generated by SMEC’s }}To achieve and maintain cultural and compulsory labour. operations. gender balance and increase awareness }}To support and encourage employee }}To provide long-term environmentally of the importance of diversity. participation in local communities, sustainable project advice to clients. }}To provide employees with personal particularly charity work. }}To educate employees, clients, partners and career development opportunities and contractors about the importance and clear career paths. of environmental sustainability. }}To eliminate or manage hazards and practices that could cause accidents, injuries or illness. 10 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 11 Our organisation Our Board The SMEC Board is responsible for formulating SMEC’s strategic direction and maintaining corporate governance. The board comprises senior leadership from both Surbana Jurong and SMEC, bringing together a diverse range of experience and expertise to help guide SMEC’s strategic journey. Max Findlay Wong Heang Fine Group CEO, Surbana Jurong Group Teo Eng Cheong CEO International, Surbana Jurong Group “We are continually strengthening our Chairman BEc, FAICD BSc (Eng)Mech, MSc (Eng)Production & Management BSc (Economics) MSc (Economics). Fellow with governance and compliance systems, the Lien Ying Chow Legacy Fellowship. Wong Heang Fine is Group CEO of Surbana as well as building a culture of honesty, Jurong Private Limited and was appointed Eng Cheong was appointed to the SMEC to the SMEC Board in 2016 following the Board in 2016 following the acquisition transparency and openness, to ensure acquisition of SMEC by Surbana Jurong. of SMEC by Surbana Jurong. Before Max was appointed Chairman of SMEC in 2016, He is also Chairman of Sino-Sun Architects joining the private sector, Eng Cheong we are operating to the highest after serving as Deputy Chairman since 2014, and & Engineers, as well as Director of AETOS was a senior government official with the standards of integrity and compliance. Holdings Pte Ltd. Heang Fine has held many Singapore Administrative Service, and Non-Executive Director since 2010. Max serves on the Boards of several organisations including key leadership positions across a number of industries over the last 35 years. Most has previously held several leadership positions in the Singapore Government. Integrity represents not only the the Royal Children’s Hospital and listed company recently, he was the CEO of CapitaLand principles we stand for, but also how Singapore Limited (Residential) and Skilled Group Ltd. Max holds a Bachelor of CapitaLand GCC Holdings. we go about our daily work and deliver Economics (Politics) from Monash University to our clients.” and a Postgraduate Qualification in Accounting Hari Poologasundram Loh Yan Hui from Swinburne University. Max is a Fellow of the CEO SMEC & CEO International Surbana Jurong CEO and Global Lead, Aviation, Max Findlay Australian Institute of Company Directors. MSc (Civil Eng), BSc(Civil) Surbana Jurong Group Chairman MSc (Civil) Hari was appointed Chief Executive Officer of SMEC in 2018, after serving as CEO of Yan Hui is responsible for developing the SMEC’s Australia and New Zealand (ANZ) aviation business globally, including delivering operations since 2017. Prior to this Hari held on Surbana Jurong’s Changi Airport Terminal 5 the role of Chief Operating Officer ANZ and related projects. He was appointed to the guided the performance and strategic growth SMEC Holdings Board in 2016 following the of SMEC’s ANZ operations. Hari has 30 acquisition of SMEC by Surbana Jurong. years’ experience in the planning, design and Yan Hui has more than 38 years’ experience management of infrastructure projects and 15 in the infrastructure industry and has been a years’ operational management experience. registered Professional Engineer (Singapore) since 1990. 12 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 13 Our organisation Our Executive Committee Hari Poologasundram Chief Executive Officer SMEC Allan Teo Chief Operating Officer South East Asia SMEC are leaders in hydropower, solar farms Chief Executive Officer International Surbana Jurong Allan was appointed as Chief Operating and renewable energy, as well as environment Officer for the Southeast Asia Division Hari was appointed Chief Executive Officer of SMEC in 2018, after serving as CEO of SMEC’s in 2018. In addition, Allan is Managing and waste management. We have Accredited Australia and New Zealand (ANZ) operations Director of KTP Consultants Pte Ltd and KTP Civil & Structural Sdn Bhd. Allan has Hydropower and Dam Sustainability Assessors since 2017. Prior to this Hari held the role of Chief Operating Officer ANZ and guided the 30 years’ experience in domestic and and Infrastructure Sustainability Accredited performance and strategic growth of SMEC’s international architectural / engineering ANZ operations. Hari has 30 years’ experience consultancy businesses. Professionals who are constantly redefining in the planning, design and management of infrastructure projects and 15 years’ sustainability across project design and delivery, operational management experience. incorporating sustainability at every stage of James Phillis Thomas Hynes the project lifecycle. Chief Executive Officer, Australia and New Zealand Chief Operating Officer, Asset Management James joined SMEC in 2014 and was appointed Thomas joined SMEC in February 2010 and James Phillis Chief Executive Officer ANZ in August 2018 after was appointed Chief Operating Officer Asset Chief Executive Officer, Australia and New Zealand serving as Chief Operating Officer ANZ since Management (Global) in 2017. Tom has over 2017. James is an engineer with over 30 years’ 25 years’ experience leading and managing experience leading large international engineering consulting businesses for the delivery of businesses with operations in Australia, NZ, Asia, Asset Management services. China, Europe, North America and the Middle East. Tom Marshall Andy Atkin Chief Operating Officer Africa Group Chief Financial Officer, Surbana Jurong Group Tom joined SMEC in 2012 as Chief Operating Officer Africa and has over 30 years’ experience Andy joined SMEC in 2007 as General Manager in civil engineering design, construction supervision Finance for the SMEC Group. In February 2017 and management of multidisciplinary engineering Andy relocated to Singapore to become the teams throughout Southern Africa. Tom joined Global Group Financial Controller of SMEC’s SMEC’s Executive Committee in 2012 with the parent company, the Surbana Jurong Group. addition of Vela VKE to the SMEC Group. In October 2018, Andy was promoted to Group Chief Financial Officer. Dr Uma Maheswaran Angus Macpherson Chief Operating Officer, South Asia Middle East Director of Operations Dr Uma was appointed Chief Operating Officer Angus joined SMEC in 1993 and was appointed South Asia Middle East in 2016, having previously Director of Operations in 2017 after serving as held the role of Chief Executive Officer and Director of Corporate Affairs since 2010. Managing Director, India for the Surbana Jurong Angus is also a member of the SMEC Foundation Group. Dr Uma has over 10 years’ management Board and has over 20 years’ experience in the experience across large scale organisations. management of large multidisciplinary projects. George Lasek George Simic Chief Operating Officer Americas Director, Strategy | Growth | M&A George joined SMEC in 2011, and was appointed Africa | Americas | ANZ | SAME Chief Operating Officer Americas in 2017 after George is currently a Director of SMEC serving as Chief Operating Officer South Asia Australia and ANZ Group Director for the Urban Middle East since 2015. George has over 30 Development Group. With a background in urban years’ experience in both the private and public planning and design, George has over 30 years’ sectors and has proven ability to operate at leadership experience in the urban development, operational and strategic levels within complex urban regeneration and buildings industries. business environments. 14 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 Our organisation Stakeholder engagement Our stakeholders SMEC’s stakeholders are identified as any person, group or organisation that has an interest or concern in the Company. SMEC interacts with a wide range of stakeholders, from local community members and contractors to employees, clients, industry bodies and opinion leaders. Our primary stakeholder groups are employees and clients, and we Employees have developed policies and procedures to ensure we are engaging Our people are the at the core of who we are and what we 2018 highlights accomplish. SMEC’s management has an ‘open door’ philosophy, regularly, safely and effectively. This engagement feeds directly In 2018 we implemented two programs to collate and whereby all employees may feel comfortable approaching into the ongoing development of SMEC’s business practices. management to discuss any issue or idea. At a group level, analyse client feedback. This information is essential to Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) framework has been employees receive regular updates from senior leaders via ensure we are listening to our stakeholders and identifying developed to formalise engagement with other key stakeholders email, intranet, video and office roadshows. In ANZ, we publish required improvements. such as communities and partners. a monthly staff newsletter as well as a monthly publication for 1. SMEC partnered with a research firm to conduct senior leadership cascade. in-depth interviews with key clients in Australia relating to how they perceive SMEC’s performance We adopt a localised approach to staff engagement at a regional in several key areas. and local level, utilising a range of communication methods and channels that best suit the environment. 2. As part of our refreshed client relationship management framework, SMEC launched the Voice In 2018 we relaunched our global enterprise social network, of Client program, which uses industry recognised Yammer, which enables employees, regardless of level or location, measures such as Net Promoter Score and Customer to freely engage and share content on any topic of interest to them. Satisfaction to assess performance and understand client sentiment. Results are being used to improve our Clients client planning, communications and project delivery. We see our clients as our partners and are dedicated to understanding their needs, drivers, resources and concerns, and proactively responding to their requirements. Our approach to client engagement includes: }}Industry participation: SMEC is an active member of key industry and trade organisations, and staff often participate in speaking engagements and industry forums. }}Quarterly newsletter: SMEC NEWS is a quarterly client newsletter through which we share key updates. }}Face to face engagement: Many client events are held each year, providing an opportunity for in-person feedback and interaction. 16 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 17 Our organisation Core values Our core values of Integrity, People, Professionalism, Partnership and Purpose are part of our DNA, representing what we stand for, what we expect from employees, what we deliver to our clients, and how we aim to conduct our daily work. We are committed to leading by example and continuing to build a values-led global culture. Our values Integrity People Professionalism Partnership Purpose We act responsibly and conduct our We value our global and diverse talent by We act in the best interests of our clients We build trusted and enduring relationships We are passionate and committed to business with the highest ethical standards, creating a safe, inclusive and supportive and deliver innovative solutions with high with clients, partners and colleagues to making meaningful impacts on people, accountability and transparency. environment where our people can thrive. standards of excellence. achieve win-win outcomes. environment and communities. At the core of our business is what we call ‘The SMEC Spirit’ which is evident in our people, values and culture. ‘The SMEC Spirit’ captures a strong sense of identity which drives performance, technical excellence, and an innovative and determined approach to exceptional service delivery. 18 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 19 Our organisation Corporate governance Code of Conduct SMEC’s Code of Conduct seeks to guide the actions and behaviour of employees in a way that is consistent with SMEC’s company values. The Code requires that all employees act with honesty, integrity and in compliance with the law, perform their duties to the best of their abilities, be accountable for their performance, and work collaboratively with their colleagues. The Code encourages employees to report any unethical, dishonest or unlawful practices and ensure the safety of themselves and those around them. SMEC employees are expected Equal employment opportunity Risk management SMEC seeks to improve risk to comply with this Code, along procedure The Board of Directors is responsible for management through: Board of Directors Remuneration and Nominations Committee In addition to the Code of Conduct, ensuring there are adequate organisational with all other SMEC policies and }}appropriate charters for the Board The SMEC Board (see pages 12-13) has a The Remuneration and Nominations SMEC has an Equal Employment arrangements for designing, implementing, and management groups (including written charter outlining its responsibilities Committee works to ensure that SMEC procedures, and any legislation Opportunity Procedure to promote a monitoring, reviewing and improving risk and governance framework. All Directors secures, motivates and retains highly skilled their responsibilities to their various applicable to their role. positive work environment for all employees management throughout SMEC. stakeholders) are required to retire at the fourth Annual and diverse senior executives and employees. General Meeting following their appointment, The Remuneration and Nominations and clients. SMEC is committed to except for the Managing Director. Committee must have at least three SMEC is committed to: }}a Code of Conduct recognising SMEC’s It is management’s responsibility to promoting an inclusive organisational members, consist only of Non‑Executive responsibilities to all stakeholders Board Committees demonstrate, through their actions, the culture and strives to provide a safe and }}maintaining an appropriate system Directors, have a majority of independent of governance and risk management }}promotion of workplace culture, The Board has two permanent committees Directors, and have an independent Chair. importance of this Code, and promote the flexible workplace where employees and applicable to all the Company’s practices and behaviours which value – the Audit and Risk Committee and the highest ethical standards across all areas clients are treated with dignity, respect Executive Committee and reflect honesty, integrity and Remuneration and Nominations Committee. of the business. In addition, managers are and consideration at all times. locations, business units and Each has written terms of reference and is The Executive Committee (EC, page 14) functional groups professionalism expected to develop a positive working subject to annual review by the Board. is not considered a Board committee but SMEC does not condone any behaviour consists of senior executives appointed environment, provide ongoing support }}implementing a Risk Management }}the identification and management of which may be perceived as bullying, Audit and Risk Committee by the CEO. The EC has primary authority and feedback to employees, and take System conforming to International risks, issues and opportunities at team, intimidation, discrimination, or any form The Audit and Risk Committee assists the for the management and monitoring appropriate action if a breach of the Code Standard ISO 31000 project, business unit, subsidiary and of the Company’s operations, and the of sexual or workplace harassment. Board with financial reporting, managing (or breach of any other SMEC policies and corporate levels SMEC’s material risks and ensuring that implementation of the Company Strategy }}clarifying the roles and responsibilities As such, SMEC encourages the subject to policies and procedures procedures) may have occurred. of management and boards }}alignment of controls with the SMEC financial information is accurate and timely. development of an inclusive and diverse The Audit and Risk Committee must have approved by the Board of Directors. SMEC’s governance and risk management CEO is the Chair of the Committee and is workforce and believes that diversity is }}identifying, assessing and managing at least three members, consist only of policy and framework Non‑Executive Directors, have a majority responsible for all matters not reserved for a strength for our people, our clients, significant risks and opportunities }}the application of policies, controls, of independent Directors, and have an the Board or individual Directors. The EC’s our partners and our communities. }}maintaining the integrity of SMEC’s terms of reference and authority are independent Chair (who is not the Chair and review processes to all business approved by the Board. SMEC is committed to attracting the assets, people and reporting, and of the Board). units and subsidiaries. best talent and engages in recruitment }}complying with legal obligations in all and selection processes that are jurisdictions in which SMEC operates. based on merit. SMEC’s recruitment activities are undertaken free of bias or discrimination, and in compliance with all relevant local legislation. 20 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 21 Our organisation Corporate governance Quality management Business integrity We Comply – communication SMEC’s Quality Management System In 2018, SMEC established the and awareness program Developed to meet the requirements of Compliance Committee to strengthen In 2018, SMEC’s Compliance Committee 2018 highlights AS/NZs ISO 9001:2016, SMEC’s Quality governance and oversight of our global launched We Comply, a robust During the reporting period, SMEC Management System (QMS) enables Integrity Compliance Program, which was communication and engagement program maintained certification to ISO 9001 systematic control and optimisation of benchmarked against the requirements driven by SMEC’s most senior leaders (Quality Management), ISO 14001 business activities, as well as review of the World Bank Integrity Compliance including the Board, Chairman and CEO. (Environmental Management) and processes to monitor and measure Guidelines. During this process, we Each month, various communication AS/NZ 4801 (OHS Management) in performance and identify improvements. made a number of key improvements activities including email, infographics, all major Australian offices from third across policies, systems, processes videos and Frequently Asked Questions party certifier, Global-Mark. SMEC’s QMS covers all stages of the and communication, including: are used to ensure staff are aware of project lifecycle, from inception through SMEC Group requires that its business }}Development compliance obligations and relevant to handover, and provides a formalised of a dedicated Business partners observe equivalent standards Integrity Risk Register. policies and procedures, and understand and structured approach to project of integrity and ethical behaviour that it how to apply these processes to their quality management. }}The creation of a new Integrity prescribes for itself. A key initiative in everyday activities. Compliance Manager role and the 2018 was improving procedures and The QMS ensures: appointment of Divisional systems around supplier management Looking to 2019 }}development of project quality Compliance Delegates. These through ongoing training, communication In addition to continuing the above objectives incorporating client Delegates strengthen relationships and structured reporting. operability, maintainability and programs in 2019, SMEC is currently between the group-level corporate preparing for ISO37001 certification SMEC also established a Project delivery requirements governance team and geographically to further strengthen our anti-bribery Management Steering Committee }}quantification of project risks through dispersed divisions, particularly for management system. for ongoing oversight and stronger assessment the purposes of reporting to and governance of Project Management oversight by SMEC’s Board Audit }}implementation of design management systems and processes. SMEC’s and Risk Committee. and review processes to manage critical Project Managers are regularly trained }}Updating SMEC’s Business Integrity design quality aspects and assessed against SMEC’s Project Policy and creating or updating several }}communication of risks and Management System requirements. relevant Procedures, Work Instructions responsibilities through planning and Guidelines to more clearly workshops articulate restrictions, the roles and }}development of risk auditing regimes. responsibilities of employees at various levels, reporting obligations and frameworks, and protection against retaliation. }}Establishment of a standardised reporting framework including procedures for gifts and entertainment, probity, organisational conflicts of interest and supplier due diligence to ensure and monitor compliance with relevant policies. 22 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 23 Our organisation Awards and rankings ENR’s 2018 Top International Design Firms Increased ENR Global Design South Africa Institute of Civil Engineers Australia Engineering Firm Rankings Engineering (SAICE) Durban Branch Excellence Award SMEC, as part of the Surbana Jurong Award for Technical Excellence in SMEC Australia won the Sydney Group, has significantly increased its Construction Engineering Excellence Award for rankings in the Engineering News Record SMEC South Africa won the Technical the Sydney Metro Cable-Stayed Bridge. (ENR)’s 2018 annual design lists. Excellence in Construction category The Group is ranked at number 25 in the for the Mount Edgecombe Interchange Australian Institute of Landscape 2018 Top 225 International Design Firms Upgrade, currently the largest interchange Architects Awards list, an increase of 10 places from 2017. project in South Africa. Palmwoods New Town Square in Queensland, Australia was recognised ENR 2018 Project of the Year and South Africa Institute of Civil with a 2018 National Landscape 2018 Global Best Rail Project Engineering (SAICE) Cape Town Architecture Award from the Australian SMEC was recognised for its role as Lead Award for Best International Project Institute of Landscape Architects Design firm on the Sydney Metro Northwest The Sydney Metro Cable-Stayed Bridge, (AILA). SMEC provided urban design, Surface and Viaduct Civil Works (SVC) part of the Sydney Metro Northwest planting design and landscape services project a 4.5 kilometre elevated skytrain Surface and Viaduct Civil Works (SVC) on the project. “I am pleased to write this letter in recognition of the services performed by SMEC and its viaduct that was awarded 2018 Project of project, was named the winner in the associated sub-consultants. In sometimes difficult circumstances SMEC has continually the Year and 2018 Global Best Rail Project International Projects category at SAICE’s by Engineering News-Record (ENR). Cape Town Branch Awards. supported me and my staff... SMEC’s work has been of a high standard, well planned and implemented through the initial design work, assisting the Client with administration Construction Industry Business Consulting Engineers South Africa Excellence Awards Aon Engineering Excellence Awards procurement issues and then with construction management and supervision tasks.” For the third year in a row, SMEC South Designed by SMEC’s South Africa team, Africa received the Top Engineering the Sydney Metro Cable-Stayed Bridge Suranto, Ministry of Transportation Consultant Award in three categories: was named the winner in the 2018 Directorate General Railway International Projects category at the Civil Consulting Engineers; Structural Consulting Engineers; and Combined Consulting Engineers South Africa (CESA) Civil & Structural Consulting Engineers. Aon Engineering Excellence Awards. Image Mt Edgecombe South Africa 24 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 25 Our organisation Financial performance SMEC has solid work-in-hand for the year ahead (and subsequent Figure 1: Economic value generated in Australia (all figures are in A$'000) years), and the Australian business is expected to perform Generated Southern Central Northern Australia Financial highlights particularly well with the help of major transport infrastructure }}Fee revenue increased by 5.4% to AUD 476.4 million projects in key Australian states. Revenue 107,650 143,441 89,058 340,149 }}Substantial work-in-hand for FY19 and beyond With near record levels of work-in-hand, strategic partnerships Net operating profit after tax 28,024 and a focus on attracting and retaining strong technical talent, the outlook for the 2019 financial year is very positive. Company performance Economic value generated and distributed Figure 2: Economic value generated in Australia (all figures are in A$'000) SMEC continued to grow steadily during the 2018 financial year, During the reporting period, revenue in Australia increased to AUD 340.1 million. SMEC’s net operating profit after tax in Distributed Southern Central Northern Australia maintaining our sound financial position, with revenue and other income increasing from AUD 640.5 million to AUD 648.1 million. Australia increased to AUD 28 million. SMEC’s operating Operating costs (9,679) (12,896) (8,007) (30,582) costs increased by 8% to AUD 30.6 million, with employee Our financial performance is the result of our continued focus compensation increasing by 17% to AUD 261.5 million. Employee compensation (82,750) (110,262) (68,458) (261,470) on sustainable growth, a significant increase in infrastructure development around the world, and collaboration with our parent Remuneration of Directors Payments to providers of capital dividend (7,340) and sister companies to leverage our global capabilities and Non-Executive Directors are paid annual fees, which in total fall Government (Tax) (12,733) provide better value to our clients. within the fixed amount, currently set at AUD 1 million. During the 2017–2018 financial year, remuneration of Non-Executive Directors TOTAL (312,125) totalled AUD 153,000. Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses or incentive schemes, and only statutory retirement benefits are payable. Figure 3: Economic Value Generated internationally (all figures are in A$'000) South East South Asia Generated North Asia Africa Americas International Asia Middle East Revenue 10,692 55,619 102,288 116,605 15,641 300,845 Net operating profit after tax 30 Figure 4: Economic Value Generated internationally (all figures are in A$'000) South East South Asia Distributed North Asia Africa Americas International Asia Middle East Operating costs (2,118) (11,018) (20,263) (23,099) (1,591) (58,089) Employee compensation (8,217) (42,745) (78,612) (89,615) (12,960) (232,149) Payments to providers of capital dividend Government (Tax) (10,577) TOTAL (300,815) 26 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 27 People Our commitment To ensure that SMEC is a place where employees can make an impact and shape their career through a progressive organisation of innovative team players, coupled with a leadership team that genuinely supports flexibility and diversity. Our objectives Employee demographics Remuneration Turnover }}To provide and maintain a satisfying and rewarding As at 31 December 2018, SMEC, as part of the Surbana Jurong SMEC has different levels of consulting professionals, described in The overall turnover for ANZ employees during the reporting work environment for all employees Group had over 16,000 employees across 120 offices in over SMEC’s Career Pathways Guidelines, being Graduate, Professional, period was 12.60%, down from 15.27% in 2017. This is }}To achieve and maintain cultural and gender balance 40 countries. Of these employees, 1,810 were based in the Experienced, Senior, Associate, Senior Associate & Principal. comprised of 12.28% voluntary turnover (resignation or retirement) and increase awareness of the importance of diversity Australia and New Zealand (ANZ) division. and 0.31% involuntary turnover (dismissal, redundancy or demise). As part of our commitment to inclusion and diversity, SMEC A breakdown of the reason for employee turnover in ANZ is }}To provide employees with personal and career The majority of employees from SMEC’s ANZ Division (76%) undertook a gender parity analysis and report for the ANZ Division displayed in Figure 7. Figure 8 shows the breakdown of development opportunities and clear career paths are contracted on a full-time basis, followed by casual (16%), in November 2018. After analysis of the remuneration offered employee turnover by age and gender. }}To eliminate or manage hazards and practices that part time (6%), and fixed term (2%) as displayed in Figure 5. to males and females in similar roles, there was no evidence to could cause accidents, injuries or illness. suggest that SMEC has pay parity issues relating to gender, or Figure 7: Reason for employee turnover (ANZ) Figure 5: Employment type a gender pay gap across the ANZ business. Business unit Full time Part time Casual Fixed term Total Figure 6 provides a comparison of actual remuneration at each professional level (with gender breakdown) in comparison with Infrastructure 951 65 237 19 1272 the average industry benchmark. Remuneration benchmarks are 1% Redundancy based on Aon Hewitt’s Consult Australia Remuneration Report. Urban 223 15 40 1 279 1% Retirement Development Figure 6: Remuneration benchmark results 2% Dismissal Managed 66 3 10 1 80 Professionals % Difference Female % Difference Services 96% Resignation (ENG PLN ARC SCI) to benchmark Male to benchmark Office of CEO 35 6 1 0 42 Principal 104% 103% Office of COO 50 9 7 4 70 Senior Associate 104% 104% Corporate 56 5 2 4 67 Associate 101% 99% Services Figure 8: Employee turnover breakdown by age and gender Senior 106% 110% 45 Total 1381 103 297 29 1810 Male 40 Experienced 100% 99% Female 35 Graduates 109% 110% 30 (0–4 years) 25 Number of Employees 20 15 10 5 0 17-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55-64 65+ Age in years 28 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 29 People Objective To provide and maintain a satisfying and rewarding work environment for all employees Employee benefits Health and wellbeing Gender diversity Flexible Working Arrangements Employee assistance program SMEC is committed to promoting gender diversity, establishing an inclusive working environment and promoting female 2018 highlights Introduced in 2012, SMEC’s Flexible Working Arrangements SMEC’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is provided by participation in engineering through active industry representation In 2018, SMEC's ANZ Division continued to achieve progress (FWA) procedure supports employees in balancing their work and Benestar, a leading national provider of employee assistance, and participation. SMEC continues to implement programs to towards gender diversity and an inclusive culture by: personal commitments through options to vary work hours, work corporate psychology, critical incident training, and health and from home and job share. In 2018, we conducted a comprehensive wellbeing services. increase awareness of gender diversity, and to create cultural }}Conducting a Gender Diversity survey and implementing review of the FWA procedure, with the goal of normalising agile change by aligning work practices, processes and systems an Inclusion and Diversity Committee to drive progress. Through the EAP, SMEC employees, and their families, can access with diversity initiatives. work and introducing a “Making it Work” and “Work Anywhere” }}Revising policy to provide Flexible Working Arrangements short-term confidential counselling and advice on a broad range of philosophy and culture. SMEC encourages a gender-diverse workforce by: for all employees including options to vary work hours, personal, financial and work-related issues. In 2018, SMEC had a work from home and job share. There are currently 42 employees who utilise a FWA across utilisation rate of 5.7%, showing an increase of 2.9% from 2017. }}developing strategies to attract and retain female employees ANZ of which 62% are female. A comparison of SMEC’s utilisation rate against the industry }}Increasing the level of Paid Parental Leave available }}measuring progress in gender diverse recruitment average is displayed in Figure 9. to staff. Leave benefits }}encouraging the development of high-potential employees }}Providing Champions of Change and Creating Gender SMEC offers a range of leave benefits in addition to statutory Figure 9: EAP Annualised utilisation to establish a pipeline of female managers and leaders, and Annualised Utilisation Inclusive Cultures workshops to 50+ middle managers. leave entitlements, including: }}providing training to raise awareness of gender diversity and 5.7% }}Undertaking a gender parity report to identify any parity }}Purchased Additional Annual Leave – Employees can salary equal employment opportunity in the workplace. issues relating to gender or a gender pay gap across package an additional four weeks of annual leave per year, Australian workplace gender equality compliance the ANZ business. on top of their normal annual leave entitlement. In 2018, 286 4% 3.8% Following the submission of our annual public report to the }}Several senior SMEC executives participated in industry employees took advantage of purchased additional annual 3.4% 3.6% leave, an increase of 79% compared to 2017. 3.1% 3.2% Australian Workplace Gender Equality Agency, SMEC has been and trade groups which advocate for gender diversity verified as compliant with the Australian Workplace Gender in their sectors. For example, James Phillis, ANZ CEO, }}Increased Parental Leave In August 2018, SMEC increased 2% Equality Act 2012. This report responds to a set of predetermined joined the Consult Australia Male Champions of the Paid Parental Leave offered to the primary carer of a new gender quality indicators, including gender composition; equal Change group. child to 14 weeks, in addition to their annual leave, long Sep 2017 Dec 2017 Mar 2018 Jun 2018 Sep 2018 Dec 2018 remuneration between women and men; availability and uptake of service leave and government-funded entitlements. During SMEC Industry All Customers Flexible Working Arrangements; and consultation with employees the reporting period, 67 employees commenced a period of on gender equality issues. As part of the company-wide review paid parental leave undertaken to prepare this report, we plan to introduce new }}Australian Defence Force (ADF) Leave SMEC provides strategies in recruitment, retention and succession planning to up to 10 days ADF leave annually. support gender diversity at SMEC and increase the representation Corporate health plan of females at management levels. SMEC offers employees a Corporate Health Plan through Bupa, which includes benefits such as discounted health cover, waived In Australia and New Zealand, 24% of SMEC’s workforce is female. waiting periods and cover for certain specialist consultations and Of these female employees, the majority are aged between 25-34 optical packages. During 2018, 225 employees took advantage years (33%) followed by 35-44 years (31%). of SMEC’s corporate health plan through Bupa. Figure 10: Employee breakdown by gender and age As in previous years, in 2018 SMEC partnered with Bupa to offer Australia-based employees a range of Health and Wellbeing 450 Initiatives including individual health consultations and interactive Male 400 group sessions, ranging from skin checks and ergonomic Female 350 assessments to wellbeing seminars, yoga, massages and boxing 300 classes. Over 900 employees participated in these initiatives, an 250 Number of Employees increase of almost 50% in participation compared with 2017. 200 150 100 50 0 17-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55-64 65+ Age in years 30 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 31 People Objective To provide employees with personal and career development opportunities and clear career paths Career development People Management Development Program Performance and development review Chartership Support Program Tertiary education assistance The People Management Development Program (PMDP) is SMEC conducts annual Performance Reviews for all permanent SMEC supports employees in their professional development Subject to eligibility criteria, employees can apply for Tertiary designed to enhance the effectiveness of managers by equipping employees through a new Performance Appraisal System (PAS) through sponsorship of attaining chartership through Engineers Education Assistance in support of their continued professional them with the skills to lead and manage their people towards a in which employees are assessed against agreed upon goals and Australia, including funding the cost of registration and ongoing development. SMEC will reimburse participants 50% of course performance-driven culture. The PMDP focuses on developing KPIs, as well as SMEC’s values. This new approach allows a review assessment fees. Managers are required to monitor employees’ fees, up to a maximum of AUD 10,000 per calendar year. During essential managerial competencies through a blended learning not only of what our employees achieve, but how they achieve it, progress, provide development opportunities, offer mentoring the reporting period, five employees took advantage of SMEC’s approach and involves multiple touchpoints over 3-6 months to and will drive a focus on encouraging and exhibiting values-based and guidance, and encourage the submission of Engineering Tertiary Education Assistance Program. Since the Program’s promote sustained learning and application. behaviours throughout the organisation. Competency Claims. During 2018, nine employees applied for inception in 2009, SMEC has supported more than 40 employees chartered status through Engineers Australia. In 2018, PMDP sessions were held in SMEC's Brisbane, The objective of PAS is to review employee performance and set to achieve qualifications ranging from Certificate IV to postgraduate Melbourne and Sydney offices with a total of 67 participants, future objectives by aligning individual performance, core values, degrees in a broad range of study fields. Graduate Development Program 27% of whom were female. This brings the total number of development needs and aspirations with SMEC’s business plan. program graduates to 127. In 2018 we revised our Graduate Development Program to align The training and development needs of employees are also Career pathways with a new ANZ-wide curriculum designed to equip our graduates reviewed twice annually as part of PAS. SMEC provides employees with clear career pathways within its with not only industry accreditation and experience but also the Project management training global business, as well as targeted learning and development In 2018, 74% of employees who participated in PAS were leadership, communication, safety, and business skills they need Given the nature of SMEC’s services, project management skills programs and an equitable reward and recognition framework. male and 6% were female. to succeed in their careers. During the reporting period, 161 are essential to the organisation and its clients. During the reporting In 2019, SMEC plans to increase its investment in training as graduates participated in the Graduate Development Program. period, SMEC continued to roll out Project Management training part of its overall workforce planning and management strategy. including induction training, refresher sessions, and accredited Talent management Project Management training programs. SMEC’s Talent Management System combines talent identification The accredited training has been developed in conjunction (individuals identified for fast-tracked development) and succession with Engineers Education Australia. In 2018, there were 35 planning (to establish a leadership pipeline). This system is participants in the program, 23% of whom were female. reinforced by open conversations between employees and Industry recognition managers that foster trust, promote transparency and support Equal Employment Opportunity training the Company’s development decisions. SMEC's Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) framework Award highlights Industry appointments Following a review of the Succession Planning Program, promotes a safe, inclusive and flexible work environment for all Kresen Manicum Dorte Ekelund Succession Plans are being developed for roles identified as critical employees and clients. This comprehensive framework covers Technologist of the Year Chair of Committee positions. In 2018, SMEC continued to support employees and training, policy development and review, and is designed to South African Institution of Civil Engineering (SAICE) Awards Sydney Smart Cities Taskforce, Australia managers to engage in career coaching conversations in line with encourage mutual respect in the workplace and reinforce SMEC’s company values. EEO training is a compulsory part of SMEC’s Prisantha Dissanayake Carolina Isfer SMEC’s Performance Appraisal Process. online induction process in Australia and New Zealand. Highly Commended Female Champions of Change award Member, Women in Property Committee Leadership Development Program Consult Australia Awards Urban Development Institute of Victoria, Australia As at 31 December 2018, the ANZ division has 72 Leadership Derrick Hitchins Development Program alumni. Launched in 2015, this tailored President, Queensland Branch Program combines face-to face training, executive coaching, Australian Institute of Transport Planners and Managers action-based learning techniques and the latest developments in leadership research and approaches. During the reporting Anwar Syed period 18 participants were enrolled in the Leadership Executive Board Member Institute of Transportation Engineers, Development Program; 33% of whom were female. Australia and New Zealand In 2018, SMEC rolled out the Leadership Training Program to Aidan Symons international teams in South Asia, Southeast Asia and Africa. Chair, National Young Water Professional’s Taskforce Australian Water Association 32 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 33 People Objective To eliminate or manage hazards and practices that could cause accidents, injuries or illness. Work health and safety Zero Harm culture Safety in design SMEC invests in its people to enhance their knowledge and Health and safety commitment SMEC has implemented policies, procedures, guidelines, work 2018 highlights instructions and reporting tools to measure progress towards encourage the implementation of safety principles in the design Our commitment to safety is demonstrated through a fullyBased on the results of a workforce safety culture Zero Harm objectives: and delivery of projects. We work closely with clients to ensure integrated Health and Safety Management System and a survey and analysis, SMEC ANZ launched the Safety that the safety needs of their projects are well documented within companywide Strategic Plan. }}zero incidents that cause a fatality Culture Action Plan in October 2018. Several initiatives Scope of Works and Project Management Plans. SMEC facilitates To provide safe and healthy working conditions for all employees, }}zero incidents that cause a permanent disability are underway, and some have already been completed, Safety in Design training and awareness programs to educate contractors, visitors and the public, SMEC: including the integration of safety skills and knowledge into }}zero incidents that cause permanent health issues employees and clients on local legislation requirements; potential our Graduate Development and Leadership Development }}Maintains a safe work environment (including work conditions, }}zero long-term psychological injury due to the work environment cost savings; and the ability to eliminate or reduce hazards. Programs, and the launch of our Safety Champion Program practices and procedures) }}zero long-term detrimental impact on the environment 2018 Year in review – Australia and New Zealand division to encourage employee involvement in developing and }}Ensures full compliance with all applicable statutory and implementing our safety initiatives. }}year-on-year reductions in workplace injuries. In 2018, SMEC continued to improve proactive health and safety licensing requirements initiatives, including regular Safety Talks in all Australian and New SMEC's Zero Harm objectives are embedded in SMEC’s SMEC’s support of the annual Australia National Safe }}Undertakes proactive reporting of near misses, hazards, Zealand offices. company culture through: Work Month continued in 2018 with a variety of employee drills and inspections to ensure that all incidents are accurately Proactive reporting accounted for 85% of all Work Health and engagement initiatives. reported, recorded and lessons learnt are shared }}Training and development: All SMEC employees complete Safety reporting during the period, with 53 hazard reports received. }}Involves all employees and management in health and a mandatory company induction, which includes a Health Looking to 2019 We also conducted 201 safety talks and issued 37 safety alerts or safety management through consultation and Safety module. All employees receive ongoing training news items. As part of our Safety Culture Action Plan, we plan to deliver as required. }}Develops safety awareness throughout the Company the ‘Leading Safety’ training program to all managers of Figures 11 and 12 display a breakdown of incidents by region via formal and informal training }}Management commitment: Lead by example, eliminate people and projects in 2019. This initiative aims to create and activity. In ANZ, the Lost Time Injury (LTI) frequency rate (LTIs unsafe work practices, and recognise that healthy workers a step-change in how our leaders and managers think and }}Minimises or eliminates hazards within the workplace through per million hours worked) decreased to 0.88 from 2.66 in 2017. are productive workers. engage with staff about safety and risk. risk identification, assessment, control and monitoring. }}Monitoring and evaluating performance: Encourage a culture Figure 11: Safety incidents by activity type We also aim to increase the number of qualified first of openness and proactive reporting amongst all employees. 35 aid staff. }}Rehabilitation and return to work services: Ensure employees 30 SMEC recognises that in a mentally healthy workplace, can return to work as soon as possible. 25 people at all levels have a shared vision of, and }}Effective consultation: Involve stakeholders in workplace commitment to, positive mental health. In 2018, 20 Number of incidents safety decisions. participants in SMEC’s Leadership Development Program 15 developed a mental health strategy which was approved 10 by the Executive Committee and aligns with best practice. 5 This strategy will be implemented in 2019, including awareness campaigns, communication and mental health 0 LTI MTI First aid Near miss Hazard first aid training. 201 safety talks Qld/NT Vic/Tas NSW/ACT SA/WA SMEC is also an active member of the Consult Australia Mental Health Working Group and contributed to its 2018 report Striving for Mentally Healthy Workplaces. Figure 12: Safety incidents by location type 85% proactive 80 70 60 Qld/NT NSW/ACT WHS Reporting 50 Vic/Tas SA/WA 40 Number of incidents NZ 30 20 10 0 Office Project site Travel Activity 34 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 35 Community Our commitment Human rights Child Protection Policy Indigenous rights Support community and Through a broad range of policies, procedures and frameworks, SMEC fully supports and advocates for the protection of SMEC maintains a zero-tolerance policy in relation to child exploitation and In 2018 we continued to implement Phase 1 of our Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), 2018 highlights Our commitment to the protection charitable programs that internationally proclaimed human rights. abuse. Child Protection Policy training is mandatory for all SMEC employees, as which was endorsed by Reconciliation Australia in January 2017. This formalises and advancement of Indigenous provide long-term solutions. Corruption and bribery SMEC has a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption, fraud or well as police checks for those working with children. We continue to review our our commitment to implement and measure practical actions that create rights is embedded throughout our policies, procedures and everyday Child Protection Policy and associated opportunities for, and build respectful business practices. bribery of any form, as set out in our Code of Conduct, Business Integrity Policy, standard commercial agreement templates and processes and practices to ensure relationships with, Aboriginal and Torres 1. Based on employee nominations, Our objectives other business instruments. Anti-bribery and corruption training rigorous compliance with the standards Strait Islander peoples. Our focus for three Aboriginal and Torres Strait }}To deliver the best possible social and development outcomes is mandatory for all SMEC employees. set out by the Australian Department of Innovate Phase 2 will be to implement a Islander charities were selected for people in need through small-scale grant support provided to receive funding from the Foreign Affairs and Trade. strategy to help attract, recruit and retain by the SMEC Foundation. Beginning in late 2017, we have been extensively reviewing and SMEC Foundation. Indigenous employees. }}To protect and uphold internationally proclaimed human updating our global compliance program to ensure that we are Forced and compulsory labour 2. Observed National Reconciliation building a strong culture of compliance and providing ethical and A dedicated working group is responsible rights, particularly in the areas of child abuse and forced SMEC is committed to the elimination of Week and NAIDOC Week 2018 safe conditions for our employees, partners and communities. for the implementation of SMEC’s RAP, compulsory labour. all forced and compulsory labour, complies with employee events in all our SMEC is currently preparing to apply for ISO37001 certification. including representatives from SMEC’s }}To support and encourage employee participation in their with all national employment legislation, Australian Management Committee, offices across Australia. For more details see page 22. local community, particularly charity work. and ensures the highest standards of Human Resources, Marketing and 3. Partnered with the Wurundjeri Council protection for employees. Our Code of Communications and the wider business. to complete an engineering design Conduct ensures that ethical employment for rock protection works on the and labour practices are implemented Arundel Creek, known as Murrup across our organisation. Tamboore, or ‘Spirit’s Waterhole’, in the Wurundjeri tribe’s traditional language, Woi wurrung. The works were required to protect an area designated as high archaeological importance due to the discovery of a cranium and many artefacts, as well as megafauna remains. ““As a member of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community, Looking to 2019 In 2019 we will review and address I have really enjoyed being part of SMEC’s RAP. I have observed a real cultural awareness training needs at interest by SMEC’s leaders to participate and implement many of the SMEC, increase the representation of Indigenous businesses in our supply initiatives we have put forward. I’ve noticed a positive change in the chain and continue to work closely ways we’ve been able to communicate to our employees and business with our clients to ensure the rights and heritage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait partners that reconciliation is a pathway to an enlightened understanding Islander peoples are protected in the of Traditional Owners. planning and execution of projects. Anthony Ralph, Technical Principal Rail Systems and Safety Assurance 36 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 37 Community Objective To support and encourage employee participation in local communities, particularly charity work. To deliver the best possible social and development outcomes for people in need through small-scale grant support provided by the SMEC Foundation. Community development Divisional CSR programs Established in each of SMEC’s operating divisions, divisional CSR The SMEC Foundation committees are responsible for nominating and implementing Founded in 2001, the SMEC Foundation provides small-scale divisional CSR programs, funded by SMEC with additional grant support to a range of development projects around financial support from the SMEC Foundation. the world with a focus on Health, Education, Environment, Community Development and Emergency Relief. This decentralised approach has been very successful. It has enabled us to minimise overhead and administration costs associated with community development activities, meaning we are operating more sustainably and maximising our impact. It has also enabled our staff to be more agile and respond quickly to natural disasters in their areas, and to strengthen their ties with the communities where we operate. During the 2018 reporting period, AUD 69,700 was donated Supporting disaster preparedness in Fiji Building homes for women in need Habitat for Humanity is grateful for SMEC’s directly through the SMEC Foundation. In addition, SMEC’s Disaster preparedness was the focus of an AUD 30,000 donation Ten of our SMEC employees participated in an International support, allowing us to preposition emergency Divisional CSR Committees donated approximately AUD 119,000 to Habitat for Humanity in Fiji. The funding was used to purchase Women’s Day build, coordinated by our SMEC Foundation across several projects with SMEC employees participating in many tarpaulins and coils of rope to prepare 300 emergency kits ahead charity partner Habitat for Humanity. This build included shelter kits in advance of natural disasters inspiring activities around the world, underpinning our commitment of the November-April cyclone season. The emergency kits will painting and refurbishing to provide a safe home for women in the Pacific. We will be able to reach more to community development. SMEC has once again committed help keep people in temporary shelters when displaced by a in Sydney escaping domestic violence. funding for the Divisional CSR Committees in 2019. natural disaster. people and provide shelter to disaster affected Supporting community development through divisional CSR communities in time. committees means that employees can participate in the localised causes they are passionate about. For example, an employee nomination process was held to select which charities the ANZ Habitat for Humanity Australia divisional committee would partner with in 2018. Supporting disaster preparedness in Fiji Employees often contribute their time as volunteers in community development activities or organise fundraising initiatives in response to natural disasters. These initiatives are fully supported by SMEC management with the amount raised often being matched dollar for dollar by additional funding from the SMEC Foundation. Funding education for underprivileged children Support for post-disaster recovery in Indonesia Two schools for underprivileged children in the slums of Dhaka, To aid victims of the magnitude 7.5 earthquake in Sulawesi, Bangladesh, received much needed funding to pay rental Indonesia last September, SMEC donated AUD 10,000 to costs, purchase computers and provide their students with Aksi Cepat Tanggap (ACT), Indonesia’s largest humanitarian healthy lunches. renew rental contracts, purchase computers. non-profit organisation. The funding will be used to provide Run entirely on donations, these schools aim to equip children food and clean water, which are still the most urgent needs with basic education and technical skills, enabling them to of affected communities. gain employment as adults. 38 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 39 Sustainability and Environment Our commitment Our objectives }}To operate energy efficient offices Eliminate or minimise any adverse and reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) impacts that SMEC’s office activities emissions generated by SMEC’s operations and projects have on the environment }}To provide long-term environmentally sustainable project advice to clients and raise awareness of the importance }}To educate employees, clients, partners of environmental sustainability. and contractors about the importance of environmental sustainability. Environmental Management framework Environmental Impact Assessment Scale SMEC’s companywide Environmental Management Policy SMEC has controls in place to manage and, where possible, and Environmental Management System (EMS) formalise reduce potential environmental impacts resulting from project our commitment to environmental responsibility. and office activities. Project Managers and Regional Managers are responsible for determining the potential consequences of Environmental Management Policy environmental impacts, using SMEC’s Environmental Impact SMEC operates under a detailed Environmental Management Assessment Scale (as displayed in Appendix D). Policy which is reviewed and reaffirmed annually by SMEC’s Chief Executive Officer. SMEC is committed to operating in Where the environmental impact rating is above eight, SMEC an environmentally responsible manner by: employees are required to develop an Environmental Management Plan (EMP), outlining appropriate risk treatments, targets, }}Implementing and improving environmental management objectives, controls and responsibilities. systems, in accordance with ISO 14001 Where a risk rating is identified as above 15, the hazard is assigned }}Complying with legal requirements to senior management for review. Where a risk rating is identified }}Implementing environmental management programs as 20 or above, the hazard is assigned to executive management. to achieve environmental objectives and targets It is management’s responsibility to ensure the risk is managed in }}Conducting all activities in an environmentally responsible an appropriate manner across the Company’s operations. manner to minimise the potential for adverse Project Managers must develop and document environmental environmental impacts objectives and targets for each project during the planning }}Preventing pollution associated with SMEC’s activities stage. Achievements against these set objectives and targets }}Providing environmentally responsible, sustainable are measured annually for long-term projects, and upon project and practical solutions to clients completion for short-term projects. }}Monitoring, reviewing and auditing SMEC’s Sustainable Procurement Procedure environmental performance. SMEC implements a Sustainable Procurement Procedure, whereby Environmental Management System (EMS) employees who undertake procurement of items valued over SMEC’s Environmental Management System complies with A$150,000 (capital works, fleet and office supplies) must complete the requirements of ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) an Environmental Sustainability and Social Equity Questionnaire. and provides a systematic and methodical approach to This Questionnaire determines whether purchases minimise waste planning, implementing and reviewing SMEC’s environmental disposal, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, maximise resource performance. Effective implementation of the EMS supports efficiency, conserve and improve biodiversity, incorporate ethical a company culture focused on incorporating sustainable considerations, or have a low carbon footprint. practices into everyday business decisions. 40 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 41 Sustainability and Environment Objective To operate energy efficient offices and reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions generated by SMEC’s operations Sustainable offices City Switch Environmental Management Plans SMEC has committed all Australian offices to the CitySwitch Green During the reporting period, SMEC’s major offices in Australia Office Program. CitySwitch is a national tenancy energy efficiency and New Zealand continued to comply with and update their program that supports organisations in improving their National Environmental Management Plans (EMPs). These plans assess Australian Built Environmental Rating System (NABERS) office and provide guidelines to manage the environmental impacts energy ratings. associated with each office in the areas of procurement, waste NABERS is an Australian rating system that measures the generation, electricity, transport and water. Objectives, targets, environmental performance (energy efficiency, water usage, actions, procedures and processes are outlined for each aspect, waste management and indoor environmental quality) of buildings, with timelines and responsibilities identified to ensure accountability. tenancies, offices and homes. NABERS utilises a zero to six-star In addition to established energy efficiency, water usage and waste rating scale (with one star indicating very poor performance and management programs, SMEC offices implemented a range of six stars representing market leading performance) to measure sustainability initiatives during the reporting period including the the environmental performance of a building against other use of recycled paper products for office supplies, installing comparable buildings in a similar location. sensor-operated lighting and using an electronic visitor sign in All SMEC’s Australian offices are working towards achieving an system where possible to avoid printing name tags. accredited four-star NABERS energy rating by reducing energy consumption, lowering carbon impacts, and improving the sustainability of operations. NABERS Energy ratings In 2018, 15 Australian offices completed a CitySwitch Energy Audit, with results showing an average NABERS energy rating of 3.4 stars. Nine of the 15 offices reached or exceeded the target energy rating of four stars. Energy performance by office (Top performers shown) Adelaide 2018 Brisbane 2018 Campbelltown 2018 Gold Coast 2018 Grafton 2018 Parramatta 2018 Perth 2018 Sydney 2018 Traralgon 2018 42 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 43 Sustainability and Environment Services and projects Objective To provide long-term environmentally sustainable project advice to clients With engineering and environmental skills built on deep technical expertise, SMEC is in a unique position to help our clients build sustainable communities. We offer our clients environmentally sustainable services for complex infrastructure projects and a comprehensive suite of environment management services. SMEC are leaders in hydropower, solar farms and renewable energy, as well as environment and waste management. Sustainability and Environment services Sydney Metro Northwest, Australia Environmental Management of Lake Shore Development, }}Environment planning, auditing and assessment }}Marine infrastructure development SMEC was engaged as Lead Design firm to design the permanent Rwanda }}Ecological structures and civil works on the Sydney Metro Northwest, part SMEC was appointed in 2018 by the Rwanda Environment assessments }}Coastal zone management of Australia’s largest public transport project. The works included Management Authority (REMA) to prepare rational management }}Water resources and groundwater protection }}Flora and fauna surveys a four km elevated skytrain viaduct and a 270 m long, 45 m high guidelines for development of lake shores in Rwanda. }}Feasibility, concept, design and grid connection }}Water quality monitoring (ground, surface and drinking water) cable-stayed bridge over Windsor Road carrying a twin track The five lakes within the scope of the project are Lakes Kivu, for renewable energy projects }}Acid sulphate soils assessment metro line. Muhazi, Rweru, Burera and Mugesera. SMEC will identify and }}Climate risk, vulnerability and adaptation assessments categorise zones that are ecologically sensitive and zones in }}Sustainability management and assessment The project has been recognised for its design sustainability }}Wetland and waterway rehabilitation and use of innovative construction methods including launching which special authorisations for land use and development may }}Community and stakeholder engagement technology. The completed project was awarded a Leading Design be considered; develop guidelines and procedures for the utilisation }}Waste to energy conversion }}Social analysis of lakeshore resources and establish an institutional framework for and a Leading As Built rating – the highest possible score for }}Hydrogeological and hydrological investigations }}Energy advisory services sustainability – from the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of sustainable management of the 50m lake shore zone. }}Contaminated site assessment and management Australia for its environmentally sustainable design. Our global team of environmental 2018 highlights: planners, scientists, ecologists }}SMEC attained membership to the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia (ISCA) and the Australian and engineers have an in-depth Contaminated Land Consultants Association (ACLCA). understanding of environmental issues, }}We established an internal Sustainability Technical Networking Group to support collaboration and with industry-accredited professionals knowledge-sharing among sustainability professionals in a wide range of areas including on a national level. hydropower and dam sustainability, }}In Australia, SMEC contributed to over 4500MW of renewable generation projects, including solar Baime Hydropower Project, Papua New Guinea Mai Po Nature Reserve Infrastructure Upgrade, Hong Kong infrastructure sustainability, biodiversity and wind power generation. SMEC is undertaking tender design for the next phase of the 12 Located on the north-western corner of Hong Kong, the Mai assessment, vegetation quality }}SMEC New Zealand was appointed to the New Zealand MW Baime Hydropower project in Papua New Guinea (PNG), Po and Inner Deep Bay wetlands is recognized as a 'Wetland of assessments and protected Ministry of Foreign Affairs & Trade (MFAT) Energy Services having previously completed the pre-feasibility study in 2014, and International Importance' under the Ramsar Convention. SMEC Panel, which supports planning and delivery of MFAT’s the feasibility study and environmental social impact assessment undertook an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) as part of a plant surveys. renewable energy portfolio and international development in 2017. With a net head of 415m, the hydropower plant will be three-year infrastructure upgrade within the Mai Po Nature Reserve. activities in the energy sector. able to produce 11.4MW peak power and 80GWh of energy per The EIA focused on key issues related to the ecological impacts of year. In addition to increasing power supply and reliability in PNG, the proposed upgrade on this site of environmental significance. the project is also significant from an environmental viewpoint as it replaces fossil fuel and diesel-generated power. 44 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 45 Appendix A Scope of this report This is SMEC’s ninth annual Sustainability Report, covering its economic, social and environmental performance from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. The information in this report Material aspects and boundaries Defining Report Content Sustainability context Figure 13: Material Aspects contained within this report pertains to SMEC’s Australian To determine the material aspects, In compiling this report, SMEC has adhered This report presents SMEC’s company boundaries and content of this report, to the Reporting Principles for Defining performance within the wider context Social Economic operations and various SMEC completed a four-step process Report Content. These principles are: of sustainability, and explores the ways international operations only. of identification, prioritisation, validation in which SMEC contributes to the Labour Practices and Decent Work Economic Performance }}stakeholder inclusiveness It does not include SMEC’s and review. This process ensured all improvement of economic, environmental Employment Indirect Economic Impacts }}sustainability context joint ventures or any other aspects identified were material to SMEC and social conditions on a local, regional }}materiality Labour/Management Relations controlled entities. For a and provided a structured approach for and global level. implementation of the Reporting Principles complete list of SMEC’s }}completeness Occupational Health and Safety Environmental for Defining Report Content. Materiality controlled and associated Implementation of these principles All material aspects identified in this report Training and Education Materials Material aspects defined in this report entities, please refer to ensures the content contained within are relevant and sufficiently important in are those aspects which reflect SMEC’s this report is relevant, accurate, Diversity and Equal Opportunity Energy Appendix B. significant economic, social and reflecting SMEC’s economic, social and meaningful and complete. environmental impacts. Aspects identified Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Water environmental impacts, or which as non material have not been reported. have a substantial influence on the Stakeholder inclusiveness SMEC has applied the Global Reporting Human Rights Biodiversity decisions of company stakeholders. Information in this report pertains to Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Completeness To determine the boundaries of each SMEC’s stakeholders and has been Non-discrimination Emissions Guidelines. Material aspects, scope, time and material aspect, consideration was compiled with reference to the The data in this report has been gathered boundaries contained within this report Freedom of Association and Collective Effluents and Waste made into the impacts of each, both expectations, needs, interests Bargaining using standard measurement techniques within and externally to SMEC. enable stakeholders to assess SMEC’s and information requirements of Compliance which conform to national or international performance during the reporting period. Child Labour Material aspects contained within this these stakeholders. guidelines or regulatory requirements. report are displayed in Figure 13. Forced or Compulsory Labour Specific calculations are referenced where All material aspects identified have an appropriate. All monetary figures are in Indigenous Rights impact both inside and outside of SMEC Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. and are relevant for all stakeholders Society For further information, please contact: outlined in Stakeholder Engagement sustainabilityreport@smec.com on pages 16 and 17. Anti-corruption Compliance 46 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 47 Appendix B Associated entities Controlled entities continued Entity Country of incorporation Entity Country of incorporation South Asia Leadrail Infra Solutions Pvt Ltd India Himalayan Green Energy Pvt Ltd India SMEC India Pvt Ltd India TT Energy Pvt Ltd India SMEC Central Asia LLP Kazakhstan Asia Pacific SMEC (Kenya) Limited Kenya P.T. SMEC Denka Indonesia Indonesia SMEC Macau Engineering Consulting Limited Macau SMEC Energy Sdn Bhd Malaysia SMEC International (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia SMEC Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia Energy Holdings Limited Mauritius Africa SMEC International (Africa) Ltd Mauritius LDLC Properties (Pty) Ltd South Africa SMEC Servicios De Ingenieria De Mexico Mexico Soilco Materials Investigations Pty Ltd South Africa SMEC Mongolia LLC Mongolia SMEC Myanmar Company Limited Myanmar VKE Namibia Consulting Engineers Pty Ltd Namibia Controlled entities Vincpro (Pty) Ltd Namibia Entity Country of incorporation SMEC New Zealand Ltd New Zealand SMEC Australia Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Nigeria Limited Nigeria SMEC International Pty Ltd Australia South Asia Middle East Management Company LLC Oman SMEC Services Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Oil and Gas (Pvt) Limited1 Pakistan SMEC Foundation Ltd Australia Engineering General Consultants (ECG) Ltd Pakistan Brisbane City Enterprises Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Pakistan Pvt Ltd Pakistan Global Maintenance Consulting Pty Ltd Australia SMEC PNG Ltd Papua New Guinea SMEC Testing Services Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Philippines Inc Philippines SMECTS Holdings Pty Ltd Australia ECCL Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore STS Geoenvironmental Pty Ltd Australia Global Maintenance Consulting Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore PDR Engineers Pty Ltd Australia GMC Global Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa ACE Consulting Ltd Bangladesh SMEC South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa SMEC Bangladesh Ltd Bangladesh Soillab Pty Ltd South Africa Engineering Consultants Underwriters Ltd Bermuda SMEC International (Africa) (Pty) Ltd2 South Africa VKE Botswana Pty Ltd Botswana Robow Investments No. 52 (Pty) Ltd South Africa SMEC International (Canada) Inc Canada Ocyana Consultants Pvt Ltd Sri Lanka Global Maintenance Consulting (Chile) Limited Chile SMEC (Tanzania) Limited Tanzania SMEC Asia Ltd Hong Kong SMEC Uganda Limited Uganda Global Maintenance Consulting America, Inc. United States of America SMEC Vietnam JSC Vietnam ¹ Formerly CEIS ² Formerly known as Global Maintenance Consulting (Canada) Inc 48 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 49 Appendix C Company memberships Association of Consulting Engineers Botswana Council of Engineering Consultants of the Philippines Papua New Guinea Chamber Mines and Petroleum Association of Consulting Engineers Malaysia Delhi Chamber of Commerce Petroleum Authority of Uganda Association of Consulting Engineers Zambia Engineering Institution of Zambia Philippine Water Works Association Association of Land Development Engineers Engineers Registration Board, Tanzania Property Council of Australia Association of Tanzania Employers Federation of Kenya Employers Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada Australasian Corrosion Association Ghana Institution of Engineers Register of Providers Secretariat, Uganda Australia Mining Chambers (Indonesia) Green Building Council of South Africa Roads Australia Australia Myanmar Chamber of Commerce Indonesia Australia Business Chambers SAAMA (South Africa Asset Management Association) Australia Papua New Guinea Business Council Infrastructure Partnerships Australia Soil Science Society of Nigeria Australian National Committee on Large Dams Institute of Municipal Engineering of Southern Africa South African Institute of Mining Australian New Zealand Chamber of Commerce, Philippines International Union of Soil Sciences, Nigeria South African Oil & Gas Association Australian Water Association Myanmar Oil and Gas Service Society Committee for Sydney (Australia) Board of Engineers, Malaysia National Construction Industry Council, Malawi Urban Development Institute of Australia Built Environment Professions Export Council, Africa National Environmental Standard & Regulations Enforcement Agency of Nigeria Waste Management and Resource Recovery Association of Australia Consult Australia Nigeria Institute of Soil Science Water Industry Alliance Consulting Engineering Association of India New South Wales Business Chamber (Australia) Consulting Engineers South Africa Pakistan Engineering Council 50 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 51 Appendix D Environmental Impact Assessment Scale Rating Treatment 1–6 Manage aspects via safe operating procedure. 8–12 Process decisions and treatments or controls are assigned specific responsibilities within the process. 15–16 Process decisions and treatments or controls are escalated to senior management for review. 20–25 Process decisions and treatments or controls are escalated to executive level management for review. Impact 1 2 3 4 5 Major, Insignificant Minor Moderate but reversible Catastrophic 5 Almost certain 5 10 15 20 25 4 Above average 4 8 12 16 20 Likelihood 3 Moderate 3 6 9 12 15 2 Rare 2 4 6 8 10 1 Very rare 1 2 3 4 5 52 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 53 Appendix E GRI Index GRI GRI Indicator Description Comments Page Number Indicator Description Comments Page Number 1.1/G4-1 Statement from the CEO. 4-5 4.1/G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation. 12-14, 21-22 Strategy Description of key impacts, risks and 4.2 Chair of the highest governing body. 4-5, 12-14 1.2/G4-2 4-5, 8-9, 26-27 opportunities. Independent and non-executive board 4.3 12-13 2.1/G4-3 Name of the organisation. SMEC Holdings Limited members. Feasibility studies, detailed design, tender Mechanisms to provide recommendations 4.4 21-23 and contract management, construction to the highest governing body. 2.2 /G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. 6 supervision, operation and maintenance, 4.5 Compensation and performance. 26-27 training and project management. 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interests. 20-22 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. 8, 20-23 Process for determining qualifications 4.7 21-23 Organisational Profile Collins Square, Tower 4, Level 20, 727 Collins and expertise. 2.4/G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Governance, Commitments and Engagements St, Melbourne, VIC, 3008, Australia 4.8/G4-56 Mission, values and code of conduct. 18-20 Number of countries where the 2.5/G4-6 40+ 12-13 Processes for management of company organisation operates. 4.9 20-23 performance. 2.6/G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 12-13, 20-21 Processes for evaluating the performance Urban development, Infrastructure, 4.10 20-23 2.7/G4-8 Markets served. 6 of the highest governing body. Management Advisory. 4.11/G4-14 Precautionary principle addressed. 4-5, 20-21 2.8/G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation. 6-7, 26-27 Externally developed economic, 4.12/G4-15 16-17, 25, 50-51 Significant changes to size, structure or environmental and social charters. 2.9/G4-13 Nil. ownership during the reporting period. 4.13/G4-16 Memberships in associations. 50-51 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 24-25 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 4.14/G4-24 16-17 3.1/G4-28 Reporting period. 1 January 2018 31 December 2018. 46 organisation. 3.2/G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. March 2018. Basis for identification and selection of 4.15/G4-25 16-17, 46-47 stakeholders. 3.3/G4-30 Reporting cycle. Annual. 46 4.16/G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 16-17, 46-47 3.4/G4-31 Contact point for report. sustainabilityreport@smec.com 46 4.17/G4-27 Key stakeholder topics and concerns. 16-17, 46-47 3.5 Process for defining report content. 46-47 G4-38 Composition of the highest governing body. 12-14, 20-21 3.6 Boundary of the report. 46-47 Report Parameters Explain whether the Chair of the highest Limitations on the scope or boundary G4-39 12-14, 20-21 3.7 46-47 governing body is also an executive officer. of the report. Remuneration policies for the highest Basis for reporting on joint ventures and G4-51 26 3.8/G4-17 46-47 governing body. other entities. G4-10 Breakdown of employee demographics. 7, 28-35 3.9 Data measurement techniques. 46-47 Percentage of employees covered by 3.10/G4-22 Explanation of restatements. Nil. G4-11 Nil. bargaining agreements. Additional General Disclosures Significant changes in scope and boundary G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain. 6 3.11/G4-23 Nil. during the reporting period. Explain the process for defining report Table identifying location of Standard G4-18 46-47 3.12/G4-32 GRI Index. 54-55 content and Aspect Boundaries. Disclosures. List all Material Aspects identified for 3.13/G4-33 External assurance. Not used for this report. G4-19 46-47 defining report content. For each Material Aspect, report the Aspect G4-20 46-47 Boundary within the organisation. For each Material Aspect, report the Aspect G4-21 46-47 Boundary outside the organisation. 54 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 55 Appendix E GRI Index GRI GRI Indicator Description Comments Page Number Indicator Description Comments Page Number G4-56 Values, principles, standards and behaviour. 18-21 G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour. Nil. Internal mechanisms for advice on unlawful Society G4-57 20-23 G4-SO8 Non-compliance with laws and regulations. Nil. Ethics behaviour. G4-PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety laws. Nil. Product Responsibility Internal mechanisms for reporting concerns on G4-58 20-23 unlawful behaviour. G4-PR4 Non-compliance with information laws. Nil. G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 26-27 G4-PR7 Non-compliance with marketing laws. Nil. Economic G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government. Nil. G4-PR8 Breaches of client privacy. Nil. G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts. 36-43 G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance. Nil. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation. 40-45 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation. 40-45 This report applies the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines to a self-assessed Level B. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 40-45 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 40-45 G4-EN10 Water recycled and reused. 40-45 Environmental G4-EN12 Impact on areas of high biodiversity value. 40-45 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 40-45 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. 40-45 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. Nil. G4-EN25 Weight of transported waste. Nil. G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts. 40-45 G4-EN29 Non-compliance with environmental laws. Nil. G4-LA1 New hires and turnover by age, gender and region. 28-29 Labour Practices and Decent Work G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full time employees. 30-33 G4-LA6 Rates of injury and lost days. 34-35 G4-LA10 Skills management and lifelong learning programs. 32-33 G4-LA11 Regular performance reviews. 32-33 G4-LA12 Workforce diversity. 29,31 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of women to men. 29 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination. Nil. Human Rights G4-HR4 Rights to freedom of association. All employees are entitled to join unions. G4-HR5 Risks to child labour. 37 G4-HR8 Incidents involving indigenous people. Nil. 56 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 SMEC Sustainability Report 2018 57 www.smec.com
