COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT About Banque BEMO 4 Statement of Chairman of the Board and Vice-Chairman & General Manager 10 Human Rights 14 a. Corporate Governance b. Deontology & Ethics c. Human Capital d. Safe, Healthy & Happy Environment Labor 30 a. Recruitment & On-boarding b. Learning & Development TABLE OF c. Employment Engagement & Satisfaction d. Employee Volunteerism Environment 40 CONTENTS a. Carbon Footprint b. Green Loans c. Reforestation Initiative d. Paperless Environment e. Recycling Anti-Corruption 46 a. Anti-Bribery & Corruption b. Whistle Blowing c. Training & Awareness CSR Activities Breakdown 52 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T ABOUT BANQUE BEMO ABOUT BANQUE BEMO Banque BEMO sal is a commercial bank whose services and activities cover both • Commitment to providing an exclusive experience to clients: through attention the Lebanese and regional markets. to detail and anticipation of needs, Banque BEMO strives to understand True to its long history and culture of prudence and conservative approach to stakeholders’ perspective and ensure that they get more than their fair share of serving its clients, the Bank remains focused on its core expertise, namely Private expectation and Corporate Banking while aiming to build strong relationships, based on trust, with its selected clients. • Commitment to develop expertise/knowledge/proficiency: based on the existing broad offering of financial services, through the Bank and its sister entities, The Bank is known for its competency in delivering high quality services and Banque BEMO recognizes this as a core competency and is committed to grow products, and for its customer centricity orientation. Products and services target skills and remain proficient in the latest banking techniques large corporations and high net worth individuals. • Commitment to Transparency: In line with the Group’s motto “Business With Faithful to its tradition of investing efforts first and foremost in its clients’ trust, Ethics”, Banque BEMO recognizes that transparency fosters discipline and Banque BEMO committed to abide by the following four principles, which strengthens the processes. Therefore, the Bank commits to transparency with represent the source of past achievements and the foundation on which to plan its stakeholders and earn their trust. future development: Banque BEMO has joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) as a • Commitment to Customer Centricity: whereby the client is considered as a core signatory member and has therefore pledged to show progress on the following asset, around whom the Bank build its endeavors, and where each decision is Sustainable Development Goals: Good Health & Well Being (SDG 3) and Quality weighed on how to improve client satisfaction Education (SDG 4), Decent Work & Economic Growth (SDG 8), Climate Action (SDG 13). In addition, in April 2019, Banque BEMO has renewed its membership as signatory for the Investors for Governance & Integrity (IGI) Declaration. Banque BEMO COP REPORT 6 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 7 ABOUT BANQUE BEMO Vision CSR Vision “To be the reference in Private and Corporate Banking” To understand the current and future implications of its actions by focusing on Mission Statement the economic, social and environmental impacts of its business and developing “Live our values while achieving high return on equity sustainable practices to meet the needs and offering our customers outstanding quality“ of present and future generations. Values Family spirit CSR Mission Statement Professionalism Conservatism We aim to move toward a higher CSR Honesty maturity level by fostering a strong sense of corporate responsibility and creating Positioning Statement value to the business and the society. “Consolidating traditional values with a contemporary approach; offering services that are personal in delivery and global in scope.” Banque BEMO COP REPORT 8 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 9 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T STATEMENT OF CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND VICE-CHAIRMAN & GENERAL MANAGER STATEMENT OF CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND VICE-CHAIRMAN Dear Stakeholders, &GENERAL MANAGER We are pleased to confirm that Banque BEMO reaffirms its continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are proudly sharing our second Communication on Progress report whereby we are demonstrating our aspirations as well as the progress made in the areas of Environmental, Social and Governance; and the actions taken to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our strategy, culture and operations. We are committed to continuously improving the practices adopted in relation to our engagement with our communities, shareholders, partners, workforce and clients. This is also derived from the Board of Directors’ particular awareness on the importance of developing the communities and the significance of preserving the natural resources and healthy surroundings. We are also committed to share this report with all stakeholders on the Bank’s digital channels and its website under the Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility section. Dr. Riad B. Obegi Mr. Samih H. Saadeh Yours Sincerely, Chairman of the Board Vice-Chairman & General Manager Dr. Riad B. Obegi Mr. Samih H. Saadeh Chairman of the Board Vice-Chairman & General Manager Banque BEMO COP REPORT 12 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 13 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T Human Rights HUMAN RIGHTS a. Corporate Governance: Board Strategy and Objectives As the banking sector remains at a stage full of substantial changes that carry Clients’ satisfaction has rather been a major powerful force that urges the Board considerable challenges and, possibly, opportunities arising from the circumstances to set the strategy which main aim is to attract and retain those individual clients that the country is going through, the Board of Directors (the Board) at Banque and institutions who wish to partner with the Bank, while preserving the Bank’s BEMO s.a.l. (the Bank) remained persistently determined to safeguard and reputation, goodwill and ability to build trust. Consequently, the Management, in enhance long-term shareholder value. Accordingly, the Board has set a goalsturn, upholds the Board’s objectives and addresses the evolving views of both the specifying strategy and a governance framework which defines responsibilities Board and the stakeholders through aligning between strategy, expectations and and accountabilities that are consistent with the prevailing situation, as well as the performance. Accordingly, reports are regularly submitted to the Board, in that Bank’s culture, values, priorities, and stakeholders’ expectations. respect, in order to keep the Directors updated on the corresponding progress in line with the various anticipations, thus, supporting the Board’s strategic Culture and Commitment guidelines. The Bank has always emphasized the interests of all the stakeholders through promoting a culture based on trust and transparency, while abiding by good Investor Relations governance practices in conformity with the regulatory requirements. In turn, the Inspired by the Bank’s slogan, Relationships are Built, Trust is Earned, the Board Board of Directors ensures that the Bank performance is consistently reviewed; aimed at developing positive engagement with the Bank’s shareholders. The risk is recurrently assessed; strategic challenges and objectives are regularly Chairman was keen to promote effective and constructive investor relations in reconsidered; and the relationship with shareholders and other stakeholders are order to further engage shareholders in exercising their voting rights, primarily, often enhanced and developed. with regard to monitoring the performance of the Board of Directors, who in turn, Thus, the Board has committed to working on issues that are material to Banque aims at creating sustainable investor value. The Board, on the other hand, remains BEMO’s vision, mission and values. In that respect, the Board remains continuously accountable to shareholders for ensuring that the Bank is being properly managed focused on the consideration of the Bank’s priorities. and its strategic goals are achieved. Banque BEMO COP REPORT 16 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 17 HUMAN RIGHTS Environmental Social Governance Bank’s “Code of Deontology and Professional Ethics” is updated on an annual Guided by the Bank’s values in order to achieve the Bank’s vision, To Be the basis and published on the Bank Internal Communication Site accessible to all Reference in Private and Corporate Banking , the Board emphasizes the required employees who are required to read and sign the document upon every update. persistence, resilience and wisdom as the Management has to consider not In addition, Banque BEMO’s employees share a responsibility to protect the Bank’s only the financial aspects of the business, but also the social and environmental reputation for integrity by always demonstrating their commitment to the highest features. For this reason, the Board necessitates engaging with stakeholders standards of ethics and professional behavior when dealing with colleagues, to improve their environmental and social influence where and when possible clients, shareholders and the community. Therefore, Banque BEMO’s Code through accentuating community issues and needs. This is also derived from the of Conduct’s objective is to state the requirements for best business practices Board’s particular awareness of the importance of contributing in developing the and professional conduct. The Code of Conduct is updated on an annual basis community and the significance of being an environment-friendly institution that and published on the bank’s Internal Communication Site and is available to all helps preserve the natural resources and the healthy surroundings. employees who are required to read and sign the document upon every update. Furthermore, Banque BEMO has always taken pride of its ethical approach to b. Deontology & Ethics business. The ethical approach of all matters, whether important or small, is embedded in the Bank's culture. Deontology and Ethics are the major foundations of Banque BEMO’s principles Therefore, as part of the Obegi Group's motto “Doing business with ethics” and and guidelines, whereby all business activities are conducted in an honest, to further promote ethics in the front line, the name of the Board Audit Committee legal and ethical manner, providing state-of-the-art services to all stakeholders, was changed to “Board Audit and Ethics Committee”; and an Ethics Ambassador preserving their interests and achieving the Bank’s vision and quest for excellence. has been appointed at Banque BEMO. Moral obligations, duties, and right actions are the main pillars for Banque BEMO’s operating environment, and the Bank’s Code of Deontology is the driving force for all employees who follow high standards of conduct at all times. Hence, the Banque BEMO COP REPORT 18 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 19 HUMAN RIGHTS The main responsibilities of the Ethics Ambassador is to raise awareness through On the other hand, Banque BEMO put at the disposal of all clients the list of rights regular trainings/workshops/awareness campaigns and to enhance employee and duties governing their relationship with the Bank, as well as the responsibilities knowledge, acceptance and implementation of the ethics program and the values of the Bank in serving them fairly. The collection of clients’ signatures on the of the organization. As such, the role is to be a point of contact for employees and “Rights & Duties” showed an effective 95% as at 31.07.2019. management in all matters related to ethics. As the Bank’s aim is to be the reference in Private and Corporate Banking, this vision The Ethics Ambassador will also facilitate conversations on ethics and identify and ambition is achieved through a commitment to deliver outstanding quality ways to solve ethical issues when they arise in an absolute confidentiality; as in the offered products, services and clients relationship management. For this well as responsible for the follow-up on all ethical matters brought and assist in purpose, the Quality Management exerts needed efforts to maintain high quality investigations if needed. standards across its products, services and operations, as well as streamline and improve the processes in order to reach a better customer experience. However, On the other hand, within the scope of business ethics and clients protection, the quality cannot be measured from one angle only. Consequently, the Bank's “Voice Bank's Complaints Management policy provides guidance on the effective and of the Client” program aims to see the Bank through the eyes of its clients. All efficient complaints handling process while aiming to ensure client satisfaction, opinions voiced are analyzed by the Quality Management in order to meet clients maintaining loyalty, encouraging clients' feedback and recognizing their rights to expectations and optimize their satisfaction. make a complaint, and resolving in an equitable, objective and impartial manner. Therefore. complaints are subject to a Quality Circle held on a quarterly basis in order to share the lessons learned and identify the areas of improvement. Banque BEMO COP REPORT 20 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 21 HUMAN RIGHTS c. Human Capital Paternity Number of fathers 3 HRM Vision HRM Mission HRM Principles Leave Number of hours taken 104 Number of mothers 8 “To become ”Optimizing the Bank ”Equity Maternity the EMPLOYER results through Clients Dignity Leave Number of hours taken 4,480 of choice for Satisfaction Fairness Family Number of staff 66 EMPLOYEES, the Credibility Medical Enhancing existing Number of hours taken 1,296 CLIENTS want to Transparency Leave and creating new HR work with” Confidentiality“ processes Providing an engaging Number of employees 237 work and culture of development and growth“ Distribution Female by Gender 126 111 The Human Resources Management (HRM) plays an important role to create a 53% 47% Male balance between promoting the Bank culture of ethical standards, maintaining the professionalism of the employees while being well prepared to embrace industry challenges and future orientations, as well as preserving their well-being 20-25 yrs 13 5 Total: 18 in a healthy environment. 26-35 yrs 27 50 Total: 77 Distribution 36-45 yrs In that respect, the Human Resources team focused their activities during per Age 31 39 Total: 70 the reported period around two main axes: Working environment and 46-55 yrs 21 22 Total: 43 Female professionalism, as well as Agility and being prepared for the future. >55 yrs 19 10 Total: 29 Male Banque BEMO COP REPORT 22 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 23 HUMAN RIGHTS Distribution per Corporate Title D. Safe, Healthy & Happy Environment Safe Environment Senior Female Management 100% 3 The HRM organized three sessions of “First Aid” training in collaboration with the Male Lebanese Red Cross, dedicated to the 36 assigned fire marshals of the Bank. 3 Total The main purpose of the training was to complement the knowledge of concerned employees on essential and initial steps to take during an emergency, F 57% 43% 14 therefore several topics were covered such as but not limited to treatment of unconsciousness, choking, artificial respiration/CPR, bleeding, burns and others, Cadres E 55% 45% 22 (Grade D, E, F) noting that theoretical information were supported by practical exercises. Our fire marshals were certified as First Aiders ready to ensure a safe environment D 37% 63% 38 if and whenever a need arises. 74 C 31% 69%22 64 Technicians B 46% 54% 67 (Grade A, B, C) A 79% 21% 29 160 Healthy Environment • As we do believe in the importance of health and well-being of our employees, the HRM and appointed Chief of Happiness jointly organized several group Grade specifications from “A” to “F” follow the grading structure of Association of Banks in Lebanon awareness sessions on Physical Health in the workplace were organized and as per Collective Labor Agreement. conducted by a physiotherapist in order to provide the employees with the Banque BEMO COP REPORT 24 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 25 HUMAN RIGHTS best practices of a healthy posture while at or outside the work. 48 participants attended the session, representing 20% of the bank’s total workforce. Happy Environment • The Chief of Happiness launched “In the Shoes of” initiative. This initiative was based on a set of arrangements to exchange job positions between Banque • Banque BEMO’s Chief of Happiness in collaboration with the Communication BEMO’s employees and their respective managers, for one full day. Participants Department organized the “BEMO’s Got Talent” staff exhibition whereby were selected based on a drawing lot initiated by each manager and 17 job employees and their children exhibited paintings, handcrafts, as well as homepositions were switched where the person acting for a certain position had made pastries, cakes, crepes, drinks and music. The opening ceremony was the chance to replace his/her manager and act under his/her guidance. This inaugurated by the Chairman of the Board and the Vice-Chairman and General program proved to be beneficial on many levels, enhancing the interaction Manager as well as all employees who enjoyed the event in a relaxed and fun and understanding between all parties, having a clearer idea about others’ atmosphere, further highlighting one of the Bank’s core values: Family Spirit. responsibilities, tasks and obstacles leading to an increased appreciation of each other’s work. Banque BEMO COP REPORT 26 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 27 HUMAN RIGHTS • Banque BEMO’s Chief of Happiness in collaboration with the Communication • The newly appointed Chief of Happiness has introduced several new practices Department organized an “Egg Hunt” event whereby employees shared games, in collaboration with the Human Resources Management (HRM), namely for food and drinks with a nice music ambiance. mothers and fathers to benefit from an early leave on Mothers' Day and Fathers' The Bank's Vice-Chairman and General Manager attended the event and Day. Moreover, all employees benefit from an early leave on their birthday. participated in the celebration with the winning group, further highlighting one of the Bank’s core values: Family Spirit. Mother’s Day early leave: Fathers’ Day early leave: Birthdays early leave: 120 employees 51 employees 169 employees Banque BEMO COP REPORT 28 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 29 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T Labor LABOR a. Recruitment & On-Boarding  The job rotation program helped employees getting to know each other better, removing some existing boundaries, understanding and facilitating the exchange of During 2018, we looked at attracting and hiring talented employees who fit the information between fellow employees. bank orientation and the future directions. Our selection took into consideration This program was also extended to new joiners as part of their induction program to those who have the creativity and ability to make a difference in the digitally and help them adapt faster to the job. rapidly changing environment. The job rotation program is initiated by series of presentations conducted by each Our doors were open to a large number of potential candidates who applied business owner to existing and new employees to describe the main activities of each through our Bank website or LinkedIn page. business line and their influence on the overall banking activity. Successful candidates were hired and joined our one year induction program that ensures a proper integration of new recruits in the work environment. Training Breakdown 2018 80% b. Learning & Development 73% 70% The Learning and Development unit used different learning methods this year to support 56% 60% its people personal and professional development. It provided technical and soft skills trainings through indoor, outdoor and abroad sessions as well as BEMO E-learning 50% solution. Subjects covered were diversified and aligned with the employees need based 37% 40% on the gap analysis related to the competencies required. On another hand, HR Management emphasizes on regulatory requirements, and invests 30% 22% in the employees developments in this area, enabling the Bank to remain compliant with 20% local and international authorities’ recommendations. 5% 7% 10% • The Job Rotation program is another important tool that HRM continued to apply, and 0% touched the entire workforce. The purpose was to expose employees to different Indoor Outdoor Abroad aspects of the banking activities, and understand the impact of their jobs on other departments and vice versa. Hours of training Investment Banque BEMO COP REPORT 32 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 33 LABOR • BEMO E-Learning took a great part of our learnings being an easy accessible This new digital learning initiative consists of sharing learning acquired by an digitalized solution. A personalized plan is assigned to every employee based on employee during outdoor trainings with other colleagues who have interest in work requirements and related competencies, beside other tools such as AML/ gaining the same information through an online live session of interaction, questions and answers. CFT and Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) libraries. On another hand, the HRM department introduced an in-house tailor made 2017 2018 animated video on the Bank induction program within the scope of our Onboarding strategy, including all activities that the new recruit is expected to undertake within 207 220 his first year on the job. With an engagement rate of HRM works continuously on updating its e-learning solution by introducing new 90% 84% tools and creating a brand image for its platform. • The “Reflective Minds” initiative launched by the HRM department to create Number of users opportunities of exposure and ongoing development took place again this year, whereby 35 participants engaged in two debates around the topics of “Thinking Ahead, Imagining Ahead” and “Best Ways to Empower People in the Workplace”. Both debates were facilitated by members of the Senior Management who The sessions consist of open discussions, brainstorming and sharing of new ideas shared their own experience and ideas for improvement. in line with the Bank strategic orientation. Participants were encouraged to give their point of views, and new ideas emerged such as transfer of knowledge which was already in the process of being implemented through our E-learning platform In addition to the personal effort required by every employee to complete his/ her plan for the year, the HR Management department upgraded the platform by introducing a new component the “Transfer Knowledge Community”. Banque BEMO COP REPORT 34 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 35 LABOR • The Future Generation – Staff Children Coaching program is a continuous program c. Employment Engagement & Satisfaction that aims at educating and preparing the children of our employees to face the challenges of the future.This year, 13 young adults were able to assess their • The HRM built on the Employee Engagement and Satisfaction Survey conducted strengths and areas of development, as well as identify their opportunities and previously that aimed at enhancing the internal working environment in order to threats for a structured career choice. Additionally, a gathering was organized in better focus on our clients’ service and needs. Accordingly, the HRM took the the presence of the Chairman of the Board, Vice Chairman and General Manager initiative to follow on the results by forming two focus groups, each responsible and Executive Committee members to celebrate and award the staff children to debate and come-up with suggestion of improvement related to one topic out with honor grades in their scholastic year. of the two that had the least level of satisfactory ratings.  roups’ action plans and recommendations were discussed at the Executive G Committee meeting who carried forward and approved the implementation of two proposed initiatives, namely: the e-calendar which was designed to enhance internal communication across the organization as well as the Thank You program which aimed to create a wider culture of appreciation and recognition. • In line with our HRM mission “Providing an engaging work and culture of development and growth”, this year, we enlarged our hosting capacity and provided internship opportunities for 17 students referred by our clients, employees or top universities. Each intern was enrolled in a rotation program across departments followed by a specific project in an area relevant to his studies. This program aims at providing students with a broad insight of banking activities and aids them in assessing their future career decisions. Not to mention that everyone involved in mentoring during the internships period, strived to ensure that all students have an engaging and fruitful experience. Banque BEMO COP REPORT 36 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 37 LABOR d. Employee Volunteerism • Further to the Executive Committee decision in April 2019, the new pioneering initiative of “Telecommuting” has been launched at Banque BEMO. The volunteerism initiative is an important element of the Corporate Social This initiative gives the privilege and flexibility to the employees, depending on Responsibility framework and further fosters Banque BEMO as a socially their job profile and according to specific eligibility criteria, to work remotely from responsible business. The implementation of the Employee Volunteerism Program is based on a survey home, once every two weeks, while having the adequate setup and accesses conducted last year targeting all employees about their humanitarian interests and needed enabling them to perform properly. community involvement. The Telecommuting aims to promote flexibility and embrace entrepreneurial spirit, 22 employees have volunteered for different causes, namely: health, music and develop the sense of responsibility, raise the feeling of belonging and optimize social, for a total of 79 hours. productivity and output of work. The volunteerism initiated in support of the Children Cancer Center Lebanon (CCCL) was marked by the surprise visit and active participation of the Bank's Vice•The new Thank You program launched, aims to instill a positive environment in which Chairman & General Manager who inspired the proud volunteers and motivated employees feel valued for going the extra mile and appreciated for going above and others to enroll in this program. beyond the usual activities to offer exceptional assistance to colleagues within same department or between departments. A dedicated box and special “Thank You” cards were installed in all premises and branches enabling employees to provide instant and spontaneous recognition for exemplary and outstanding achievement. After two months since the initiation of the program, the outcome of the extraction of the “thank you” cards from the respective boxes in all premises and branches was shared during the Annual Gathering whereby colleagues who got the highest number of “thank you” cards were announced by the Vice Chairman and General Manager. Banque BEMO COP REPORT 38 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 39 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T Environment Banque BEMO COP REPORT 40 ENVIRONMENT a. Carbon Footprint Management results will be used as the bank’s GHG baseline and will be used for future reduction strategies. As part of its commitment to United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Goal 13, The bank commits to continue monitoring its GHG emissions, also to engage and to improve its resilience towards climate change, Banque BEMO conducted all departments in setting adequate mitigation actions, and its employees/ a Greenhouse Gas audit using an online certified tool with the “Built on GHG stakeholders in the Bank’s climate resilience strategy. Protocol” mark and ISO 14064-1. Compared to 2016, the 2017 GHG report included extra sources and covered all the bank’s facilities in Lebanon; It covered the bank’s direct GHG emissions from its operation, Scope 1 (i.e. locally produced electricity, Paper consumption lubricant oils, owned fleet vehicles, refrigerant gases); as well as its indirect 1.2% Flights Travels emissions, Scope 2 (i.e. purchased electricity from local authorities (EDL) and 2.9% Car Fleet from shared generators) and Scope 3 (i.e. paper consumption, flight trips); which 1.4% are related to the bank’s operation. The total GHG emissions were expressed in OG Lubricant Oil tCO2e, in tCO2e/m2 and in tCO2e/employee. 10.6% 0.1% In 2017, Banque BEMO’s total GHG was equal to 1,578.7 tCO2e, equivalent to Shared Refrigerants 0.2 tCO2e/m2 and 6.7 tCO2e/employee. Scope 2, (purchased electricity) was the 13.4% Generator main contributor in the bank’s total GHG emissions accounting for 70.4%, while 33.1% Scope 1 (direct emissions) and Scope 3 were responsible of 25.5% and 4.1%, EDL respectively. Figure 1 shows the sources’ contribution in the total GHG emissions 37.3% in 2017. To recognize its efforts in computing its GHG emissions Banque BEMO obtained a Certificate of Acknowledgment from the Lebanese Ministry of Environment. Figure 1. Contribution of the different sources in the total GHG of Banque BEMO Due to the completeness of the 2017 GHG audit, it was agreed that the above Banque BEMO COP REPORT 42 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 43 ENVIRONMENT d. Paperless Environment Banque BEMO maintained its commitment for a paperless environment and showed progress by reducing the number of printed papers as follows: 440,000 68,400 63,830 7,200 End of Day reports Annual Report E-statement Newsletter b. Green Loans 579,430 papers saved Green Loans, subsidized by the Central Bank of Lebanon, were granted for the amount of 7,966,000 aiming at financing the green part related to a mixed use building, comprising of retail/commercial area offices and apartments as well as e. Recycling financing the Green Headquarters of a large Corporation. Banque BEMO has signed a memorandum of understanding with arcenciel, a c. Reforestation Initiative Lebanese NGO whose main goal is to work with every person in need by generating profit while preserving natural resources. Hence, Banque BEMO has partnered up Banque BEMO has inaugurated the BEMO Cedar Forest on the occasion of its with arcenciel for its recycling program consisting in recycling plastic, paper and 25th Anniversary whereby a challenging reforestation initiative was launched in metal in all of its premises. The full program will be launched in August 2019. partnership with Jouzour Loubnan on a 24,000 sqm mountainous arid land. The 625 cedar trees were adopted on behalf of the Bank's clients. This initiative further fosters Banque BEMO as a corporate responsible organization, committed to the 12.20 In the reported period, 12.20 Tons protection of the environment as one of its core Sustainable Development Goals. tons of paper have been recycled. *Jouzour Loubnan is a reforestation organization that mainly plants in arid mountainous regions. Banque BEMO COP REPORT 44 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 45 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T Anti-Corruption ANTICORRUPTION a. Anti-Bribery & Corruption b. Whistle Blowing Since its inception, Banque BEMO is committed to embed high ethical standards The Whistle Blowing policy has been designed to promote a culture of open and anti-corruption practices in the day-to-day business activities. The Anticommunication that enables emplyees to voice their concerns at the earliest Bribery & Corruption policy and manual draw together the Bank’s principles on opportunity, while preserving the confidentiality of the employees disclosing the anti-Bribery and Corruption. Furthermore, it is designed to reduce the risk of the malpractice. The policy allows the employees to raise their concerns directly to Bank, employees, or persons associated with the Bank from offering, receiving or the Compliance Officer, if they feel unable to raise them to their direct manager. extorting bribes, or conducting an act of corruption, either directly or by proxy, and Moreover, the policy states that the Bank will not tolerate any victimization or thereby mitigate the risk of the Bank being subject to legal or regulatory sanctions harassment of a whistleblower and will take appropriate measures to protect the and reputational damage. whistleblower against any retaliation, discrimination, and any other type of unfair The e-Learning platform includes a dedicated module covering the Anti-Money treatment. Furthermore, the Bank shall protect the personal information of the Laundering in order to provide all employees with general knowledge and updated alleged wrongdoer in the same manner as the whistleblower. information in the field of money laundering and the measures to fight against it. Employees are encouraged to complete this module as an additional library on top c. Training & Awareness of their respective e-Learning plan. Training sessions covering Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Financing of Terrorism as well as Anti-Bribery & Corruption were conducted during the reported period as follows: Banque BEMO COP REPORT 48 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 49 ANTICORRUPTION Subject Number of Participants Number of participants per type of session: GDPR awareness session 39 Indoor Training 70 GDPR readiness workshop 17 GDPR Groupthink session 2 Outdoor 8th Annual Forum for heads of AML/CFT Training 27 units at Arab Banks and Financial Institutions 1 FATCA related certifications 2 4th international Compliance Forum 2 Anti-Money Laundering & Combating Financing Terrorism 3 GDPR & The Data Privacy Transformation Journey in the Middle East Region 2 FATCA and CRS Tax Due Diligence & Reporting 1 4th Anti-Cybercrime Forum 4 AML updates: the 4th and the 5th AML Directive Seminar 3 Investigating Suspicious Money Laundering Operations AML Case Studies 4 DDML & FATCA/CRS 14 Compliance Measures on fighting Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 1 The 6th Annual Cypriot Forum: AML/CFT Compliance with International Regulations & Adopting MONEYVAL Principles & Recommendations 2 Total 97 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 50 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 51 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T CSR Activities Breakdown CSR ACTIVITIES BREAKDOWN CSR Budget Breakdown a. Cultural activities 2% Exhibitions 9% • In its constant support to Art, Banque BEMO organized a 4-day private tour to a group of 7% clients in Art Basel. The visit submerged its participants in a rich and exciting cultural adventure, with a full program of artworld talks, 10% 45% exhibitions and events offered in Basel and its surrounding area. •Beirut Art Center with the support of Banque BEMO hosted the preview opening of its new spaces with an exceptional exhibition entitled “Touché! Gesture, 27% Movement, Action” which showcased a line-up of local and international artists. Culture Education Health Environment Social Sports Banque BEMO COP REPORT 54 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 55 CSR BUDGET BREAKDOWN • As a fervent supporter to Art, and on the occasion of Beirut Art Fair 2018, Banque exposing them to the history of the fair itself as well as that of their country BEMO was the proud official and exclusive sponsor of the Art Collectors Special while also introducing them to a palette of international artists, who presented a Preview. The Art Fair offered an exceptional program whereby guests were selection of produced works reflecting on the past, present and future of human, invited to this special preview of Modern and Contemporary art that brought natural and political cycles. together art galleries, art institutions, museums and art foundations. Cultural Events • “Cycles of Collapsing Progress” by Oscar Niemeyer took place at the International Fair – Tripoli. This exhibition was organized by BeMA (Beirut Museum of Art) with •B  anque BEMO was the proud sponsor the support of Banque BEMO who was the proud supporting sponsor of the of a fundraising event organized by “Space Museum”, a work by Joana Hadjithomas and Khalil Joreige. Fondation Liban cinema: the AvantPremière of the French film “Celle que  The exhibition presented 12 newly commissioned works, revolving around vous croyez” by director Safy Nebbou the notions of cycles, cyclical time and the destruction and reconstruction of and soundtrack composer Ibrahim civilizations. It brought together people from different socio-cultural backgrounds, Maalouf. The screening was followed by a  discussion between Safy Nebbou and Ibrahim Maalouf and a live musical performance on the piano by Ibrahim Maalouf. •B  anque BEMO organized the signing ceremony of the book “Au NON de Dieu” written by Mr. Armand Pharès in its Ashrafieh premises. A lively and passionate debate animated by the featured keynotes speakers marked this event. Banque BEMO COP REPORT 56 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 57 CSR BUDGET BREAKDOWN • Banque BEMO teamed up with L’Institut • Les Musicales de Baabdath with the support of Banque BEMO, hosted the Français for the third consecutive year “Chamber Music Concert” at Mar Gerges Church in Baabdat. The concert aimed of La Nuit des Idées under the theme at promoting musical culture and featured Arata Yumi, the winner of the Aoyama “Facing the Present: Frontlines” Music Award Kyoto, and the successful young violinist Johanna Ruppert on Violin, the founder and director of the Molaeb Festival for Chamber Music and Fine Arts whereby three round tables and one Ribal Molaeb on Viola, and the Laureate of Queen Elizabeth Competition Maciej literary café were organized as well as Kulakowski on Cello. artistic performances and a concert. Festival and Concerts • Banque BEMO was the proud sponsor of a concert held in honor of Mr. Gabriel Yared; celebrating 50 years of music, and accompanied by the Lebanese Philharmonic Orchestra as well as the choir of Notre-Dame University of Louaizé, under the conduction of Dirk Brosse at St Joseph Church in Beirut. Special guests appearances included soprano Marie-José Matar, pianist Georges Daccache and last but not least singer and lyricist Yasmina Joumblat. Banque BEMO COP REPORT 58 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 59 CSR BUDGET BREAKDOWN •  A concert by the Antonine University b. Educational Activities Classical Arabic Music Ensemble under the direction of Nidaa Abou Mrad was held at Financial Inclusion the Sursock Museum in collaboration with Banque BEMO. In line with Banque BEMO commitment to show progress on the Sustainable In its continuous support to Music, Banque Development Goal SDG 8 “Decent Work and Economic Growth”, and as part of BEMO invited underprivileged children the Bank’s digital transformation journey, the following initiatives were undertaken/ through the related NGOs to attend the planned for a group of youth aging between 18 and 30 years old with the main concert; thus, aiming to make the music accessible to everyone. objective to educate and increase their awareness on financial products and services: • For its third consecutive year, Banque • A storytelling session entitled “Share Your Story to Inspire” featuring young BEMO was one of the main sponsors of entrepreneurs who relayed their success stories consisting of converting an Al Bustan Festival “Crescendo Celebrating idea into a winning start-up, namely, Synkers – an online peer-to-peer education Italian music” which showcased 20 live platform, Myki – management of all passwords into one application, Clarity performances. The Bank proudly sponsored Money – an online application to help take control of individual’s personal finances, three concerts; namely: the “Paganini Violin Concertos Nos. 6,3,1” and “La Traviata all the organization , Souq.com – an online retail application. This interactive session way” as well as “Camarena sings Rossini. has been attended by a group of 50 youth, included advices and guidelines on the emerging technological solutions. • With the support of Banque BEMO, the Lebanese Band Association for the Promotion of Music (LeBAM) held its annual summer concert in Beiteddine featuring a varied program including music especially arranged for LeBAM with a special appearance by Mrs. Oumeima EL Khalil. Banque BEMO COP REPORT 60 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 61 CSR BUDGET BREAKDOWN •A new innovative department the “Real Estate Advisory” has been instituted Conferences in the Bank whose role is to provide real estate advisory and propose scientific potential solutions. • With the support of Banque BEMO and as part of the series “Débats d’idées” • The “Global Investment Outlook” organized by Institut Français, two conferences were held. The first one featuring conference, organized for a large the Chairman of the Board on Financial Innovation as a Vector of Globalization group of clients, aimed to provide as well as Mr. François Bourguignon, economics professor and ex Vice President an overview on the global economic and Chief Economist of the World Bank on Mutations of Globalization ; and outlook, economic growth rates and the second one was a talk, held at the Sursock Museum, with the art critic Mr. monetary policies which are key to Nicolas Bourriaud on the theme “L’Artiste: Anthropologue et Sauvage” whereby extend the current economic cycles the following themes were tackled: the anthropologist and immersion, the and the stability of the financial anthropologist and the political gain, Art as a signal and finally, the dichotomy markets. between nature and culture. • The newly established “Organizations & Institutions Business Development” department aims at raising awareness of NGOs, municipalities, universities, schools, and other Institutional Organizations on public governance and providing advisory solutions. • A FinTech session was conducted for a group of 70 youth, with the main objective to raise their awareness on Financial Technology as a new innovative technology and emerging industry to deliver financial services and improve the use of these financial services. Banque BEMO COP REPORT 62 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 63 CSR BUDGET BREAKDOWN • Banque BEMO sponsored the event Internationalization of French Businesses • Banque BEMO was the proud sponsor in the scope of the Francophone Days of Family Business which highlighted of RDCL World’s lunch debate which the success stories of family businesses in Lebanon working hand in hand featured honorable guests: Mr. Ferid with family businesses in Switzerland, Belgium and the Luxembourg. Hence, Belhaj, Vice-President of the World Bank our Chairman Dr. Riad B. Obegi, shared his experience as well as his family's Middle East & North Africa and Mr. journey during the panel “Internationalization of Family Businesses: International Saroj Kumar Jha, Regional Director for journeys of Family Businesses”. the Mashreq. The debate emphasized on the current economic situation in Lebanon. • Banque BEMO held a conference on the “Essentials for Long-Term Success of Family Businesses” with special guest and keynote speaker, – CEO of CDS Management Consulting.  he T presentation, covered the importance of family businesses and their contribution to the global economy, both in terms of GDP and employment. As well as the process to be followed by the family businesses to sustain themselves and maintain their success. Banque BEMO COP REPORT 64 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 65 CSR BUDGET BREAKDOWN • Banque BEMO supported the breast cancer awareness month’s cause by • In support of the Children’s Cancer Center of Lebanon cause (CCCL), Banque displaying a related flyer and pink ribbons in all its premises Furthermore, the pink BEMO team visited the center and spent a wonderful time with the children. ribbon was displayed on the bank’s website and Internal Communication Site The visit aimed at drawing smiles on the children’s faces, in an effort to spread and Banque BEMO employees showed solidarity to this cause by wearing pink positivity, hope and courage in their fight against cancer. bracelets during the month of October. Additionally, the Bank raised awareness A magic show was organized, followed by a visit from Santa Claus and the on World Cancer Day and World Disability Day on its social media platforms and distribution of gifts to all patients. International Communication Site. • In light of sharing the Christmas spirit with unfortunate children, and within the scope of employees volunteerism, Banque BEMO distributed 150 gifts to orphans living in two Convents located in Broummana and Ajaltoun. Banque BEMO COP REPORT 66 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 67 CSR BUDGET BREAKDOWN for running and finishing the 42 Kms in 6th place in the respective category. • Banque BEMO was the proud bronze sponsor of Myschoolpulse's 9th edition Finally, the high level of participation further highlight the Bank’s commitment to of the Pulse 5K – 1K marathon. BEMO’s family spirit came together once support social and community well-being. more as 58 participants comprised of employees and their families and friends participated in the race, thus enabling 102 children to continue their schooling in their hospital beds during one full academic year. • An employee from the Private Banking– Foreign Clients unit, climbed the Himalaya to reach the Annapurna Base • Banque BEMO’s colleagues and family members participated in the 16th edition Camp and she is planning to climb of Beirut Marathon under the theme “We Fill the Heart of Beirut”; a celebration of the seven summits and this was the peace, health, perseverance and commitment. start up of her journey. She decided to A  gain, in this year’s edition, the Bank scored a high level of participation whereby dedicate her first expedition to Banque 138 employees and their families ran in support of Children Cancer Center (CCCL), BEMO whereby she raised the Bank’s a pioneer center in treating children with cancer, and Middle East Eating Disorders flag on the base camp summit at an Association (MEEDA), an association that raises awareness on healthy lifestyle. altitude of 4,130m/13,550ft. The Bank's contribution marked an outstanding achievement by one of its colleagues Banque BEMO COP REPORT 68 Banque BEMO COP REPORT 69 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS WWW.BEMOBANK.COM
