C O M M U N I C A T I COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS O N 2019 O F P R O G R E S S Company Name: Multiple Development Number of employees: 20 Services (MDS) Contact name: Emmanuel Chidiebere Date: October, 2019 Contact Position: Group head, Address: 17 Akingbola Street, Oregun, Training/HSE Ikeja, Lagos Contact telephone Number: Membership date: October, 2017 08028964515 Country: Nigeria Sector: Consultancy (Health, Safety & Environment) Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to confirm that Multiple Development Services Limited supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Multiple Development Services Limited will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the UN Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the Ten Principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the UN Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the UN Global Compact COP policy. Signature Position Chief Operating Officer (COO) Who We Are MDS was incorporated in the year 2003, and as a wholly-owned indigenous firm, has the cutting edge to aid responsible corporate organizations to creatively seek ways that better align them with the future expectations of the society. Our focus is helping private and public clients to improve their health, safety and environmental performance, operational effectiveness and competitiveness as well as reducing social risk by working closely with our growing clientele in building unique strategies. The practice of the organization is the application of integrated and multidisciplinary approaches in solving essentially, social, health, safety and environmental problems for our treasured clienteles. What We Do Our services include: Training, Capacity building & Manpower Development, Environmental studies (such as ESIA, EIA, EER and EA), Resettlement Action Plans Preparation and Implementation, Environment-Oriented Cost Management (EoCM), Development and implementation of Environmental Information systems (environmental data bank establishment), Environmental economics and planning, Social impact and risk assessment, Land use and Geographic Information System (GIS), Environmental Resources management; among others, Waste Management Consultancy, Management Systems such as ISO standards, Community Relations/Consultation, Site Assessment, Reclamation and Remediation, etc. Over the years, MDS has demonstrated professional effectiveness and strong knowledge in Safeguard Issues and Management (sustainability issues) across various sectors of the economy, a number of which is supported by different Development Partners such as the World Bank, African Development Bank, CIDA, DFID, etc. Our Laurels A Recipient of Award Winner of the West African Most Outstanding HSE Management Company Award, 2012 & African Order of Merit Award in HSE Consultancy 2011 as well as a Technical Partner to SON on ISO 26000 Guidance Standard on Social Responsibility. This makes us an established Safeguard Specialists organization. Our Vision We envision the promotion of self-sufficiency, problems analysis, critical thinking and problem solving for our esteemed clienteles Our Mission Working closely with our clients to build safeguard strategies with a view to achieving high performance, operational, effectiveness and competitiveness in the highest professional manner through excellent service. Our Team MDS prides herself of very competent professionals with extensive and diverse experiences, working at the forefront of social, health, safety and environmental management. This places her on a pedestal that enables her take up highly technical and professional jobs/projects, completing them within schedule. We seamlessly align our structure and capabilities to our strategy thereby providing solutions to our clienteles and the community where we operate. Clientele Motivated Approach We have built strong response to understand our clienteles needs. This is a strong performance driving force in our operations to ensure satisfaction for service given and sustainable environment for all-inclusive growth. Our Values • Sustainable growth • Innovation • Supportive • Resilience • Clientele satisfaction Scope of this COP This COP report covers our internal operational procedures as they relate to our clienteles, staff, contractors and the community where we operate in consonance with the four main sections of the UN Global Compact (Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anticorruption) Principles. This covers our financial period for 2018/2019 H UMAN RIGHTS UN Global Compact principles covered: • Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our Commitment We remain committed to run an all-inclusive business environment where personnel are given the privilege and opportunity to thrive and be productive. Employees are driven to “own” the job responsibility. This strategy has given each employee equal opportunity to excel at work. Our employee training policy is applicable to all employees, regardless of contractual status, that is including employees on permanent and fixed term contracts and students working their in-service (intern) period. A brief description of our Processes Our training is organized around the following key focus areas: • Optimizing individual and collective performance and supporting growth, by incorporating: diversity of professional expertise; the international dimension of the business; • Ensuring the convergence of needs and skills between the various sectors of the company and employees' individual aptitudes; • Preparing employees' development in their current and future assignments and thereby encouraging their mobility; • Supporting or anticipating change, particularly in the following sectors: technology; organization, management, and circular economy • Encouraging knowledge sharing within Multiple Development Services through: the capitalization and dissemination of knowledge and expertise; the sharing of methodologies. Within Multiple Development Services, all managers are involved in ensuring the best definition of the training required by their teams. Similarly, employees are encouraged to suggest training to enable them to develop. The actions are organized locally, regionally or company-wide. The pooling of training approaches within the company is a priority in order to optimize resources and be able to rely on proven initiatives, particularly in the field of management, training and process development for ALL employee. Actions implemented in the last year/planned for next year Employees are encouraged to further their education and is eligible to apply for financial assistance to meet the cost of the studies, which includes all fees and examination fees, and any materials required (for example for scientific courses). Measurable Results • Annual Safety Award, Safe Worker of the Month & Board of Directors Award planned for the end-of-the year retreat 2019 • Safety & Health Week to be conducted in the last quarter of the year 2019 • Continuous In-house training for staff • Improved commitment to HSE Communication through posters and verbal communication • A functional and effective 5-man HSSE Committee comprising management representative, safety representative, first aiders and a fire warden • Occupational Safety and Health Performance: Number of fatalities, no Lost Time Injuries (LTI), no Fatality Injury Incidence (FII) and Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) in the last year Target for Future Years • Improved equal right for roles and responsibilities among the workforce • Continuous support and respect by the business to the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Improvement on the workplace protection of persons in avoiding sexual harassment at work in any form L ABOUR UN Global Compact principles covered: • Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour • Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour • Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our Commitment We have developed a functional policy for our operations, with both national and global inclination, for optimal support of our workforce. We adhere strictly with available laws and regulations against force labour and zero tolerance for gender, race, colour, political or religious discriminations. For health-related concerns, we also run a zero-tolerance discrimination for HIV status in relation to employment and promotion at work. A brief description of our Processes Our recruitment process is structured and has a documented policy which strives to maintain diversity through gender, skills, race, values, attributes, and characteristics while offering equal opportunity to all potential candidates. This is also evidence in our system as we do not recruit minors (under 18 years) which is a violation of children rights into our workforce. Our compensation policy ensures employees are entitled to additional benefits to their salary. Applicable allowances, relating to duties executed within the State and beyond are remunerated with outstation allowances/estacode as the case may be. Our stride towards ensuring a holistic training and development opportunity among employees reflects in our process of providing equal opportunity for employee’s continuous growth both professionally and academically. This has helped to provide the system with effective and efficient workforce, which relationally has created mutual benefits between employer and the employees Actions implemented in the last year/planned for next year Our reward system, regardless of employment status, to encourage the entire workforce for more productive outcomes, has spurred employees to put in more individual drive to “own their roles”, which is a benefit to all employees within the year in view. Recognizing that training is an integral part of our services and that our employees are the most important element in the success of these trainings as well as other services rendered by our company and that they are also the source of sustainable competitive advantage, our Directors and Management have renewed their commitment to the training and development of all our employees. Measurable Results • We have maintained a balance in the gender percentage for the labour force over the year in view. This has subsequently improved healthy work relationship within the organization. • We have improved the pay-pack of staff within the year in view by 50% • Sustained staff welfare support at all levels Target for Future Years In a bid to encourage and reward our long-serving employees, THE LONG SERVICE AWARD is planned for year ending 2019, to reward our employees who have distinguished themselves in meritorious service in years and accomplishments. Also, to ensure work balance life compulsory enforcement of leave shall be introduced. E NVIRONMENT UN Global Compact principles covered: • Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our Commitment We are committed to ensuring that good health, safety and environmental performance is achieved, this being the integral part of an efficient and effective services through pursuing the goal of no harm to people and the environment. MDS is committed to continuous update of her activities in order to ensure minimal or no waste generation vis-à-vis the prevention of the environmental pollution. We are equally committed to the review at intervals, her health, safety and environmental policy to reflect the reality of the current situations. A brief description of our Processes We are guided by basic principles in our operations. This includes: • Making Health, Safety and Environmental considerations of top priority in her planning and activities. • Operating her business in compliance with relevant environmental standards and legislation in Nigeria and elsewhere as well as reviewing at predetermined intervals, her Health, Safety and Environmental policy to show the true picture of prevailing legislations and conditions. • Ensuring the protection of the environment within her operation base. • Making sure that any negative impact of her activities on all stakeholders, community, and the environment are minimized. • Contributing to Sustainable Development through efficient utilization and conservation of resources, waste minimization strategies, adoption of pollution prevention programmes and energy management systems. • Ensure the regular training of employees that will sustain the acquisition of adequate competencies in terms of getting requisite HSE information to be able to act responsibly when the need arise. We also believe that: ➢ Environmental problems know no frontiers. ➢ All injuries and occupational illness can be prevented. ➢ Safety is everyone’s responsibility. ➢ All operating procedures can be reasonably safeguarded. ➢ Preventing injuries and incidents contributes to business success. ➢ Working safely is a condition of employment. Activities implemented in the last year • Renewal of all environmentally related consultancy certifications • Improved compliance status to all statutory environmental requirement Measurable Results • We have maintained a zero regulatory fine within year of consideration, 2019 • 100% compliance to regulatory requirements operations as environmental consultants • Zero lost time injuries as a result of workplace accident • Zero communal unrest as a result of workplace operation (office and off-site) • Reduced reputational, legal and other business riks Targets • Continue to ensure that all activities are conducted in accordance with the company’s HSE policy, clients’ HSE policy/instructions and other relevant rules and regulations. • Maintain the prevention of injuries through the identification and elimination of injury causes and unsafe acts and conditions within work environment. • Maintain zero Lost Time Injuries at work A NTI-CORRUPTION UN Global Compact principles covered: • Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our Commitment We are committed to work against any form of corruption, within or outside the office. A brief description of our Processes We have sustained the practice of subjecting all expenses accrued to projects are scrutinized by the Accounts Department. Employees MUST retire all expenses in line with cash provided for projects. All expenses are receipted to ensure accountability of funds released. Contractors are recruited based on professionalism and hands-on-experience for each specific project. Department heads confirms all budgets for projects and approves such as prepared by the employee executing the project. The COO gives final approval for disbursement of fund after checks by the Accounts Department. On completion of project, employee responsible for the execution of project retires all expenses made with adequate receipt for expenses. Activities implemented in the last year As part of our drive for excellence and ensuring best international standards in our operations, MDS joined the UNGC to implement its principles into her operations, with particular interest in anti-corruption drive. Measurement Result We have developed measures to ensure best practices in relation to client’s operation to improve our financial relationship with our clients and work against any form of corruption. We have introduced our fraud policy/procedures into induction programmes for existing and new employees, sub-contractors, and sub-consultants to minimize incidences of any form of corrupt businesses Targets We remain committed to improving transparency with regards to selection of consultants for projects, expression of interest for projects and extensive training for our account’s officers in financial management and integration of best financial Code of Conduct into business operations. Company Name: Multiple Development Services Limited (MDS) Date: October, 2019 Address: 17 Akingbola Street, Oregun, Ikeja, Lagos Membership date: October, 2017 Country: Nigeria Number of employees: 20 Contact name: Emmanuel Chidiebere Contact Position: Group Head, Training/HSE Contact telephone Number: 08028964515 Sector: Consultancy (Health, Safety & Environment)
