UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS STICKS'N'SUSHI Period covered: July 11th 2018 -June 20th 2019 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Copenhagen, June 20th 2019 To whom it may concern, Sticks'n'Sushi is a group of restaurants founded in 1994. We operate 23 restaurants, hereof 12 in Copenhagen, 8 in the UK, where another one in SOHO is about to open soon, and 1 in Berlin. In Sticks'n'Sushi, we take pride in being a socially responsible company, and sustainability is an important part of our ONA that is naturally interlinked with our core values. We believe in the triple bottom line; People, Planet and Profit and a holistic approach to CSR. We want to serve sublime food without compromising the well-being of animals or the environment. But a meal at Sticks'n'Sushi is not the most direct route to sainthood. We have both the angelic and the wicked on our menu. Our overall environmental approach is that we are continually optimizing and improving ourselves, but at the same time we recognize our sins and are not afraid of showing them. In the period covered in this COP, we have continued to focus on our efforts on one significant sustainability project: The REGA [Restaurateurs' Guarantee Scheme] industry cooperation. This will therefore also make up the majority of our COP. We are proud to be part of the REGA initiative, which is based on the UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, and is the first industry-initiative in the world to stringently apply the standard. With this, I hereby reaffirm that we still strongly support the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Best regards, Rod McKie, CED Sticks'n'Sushi A/S Nansensgade 49 DK-1366 Copenhagen +45 331170 30 sticks@sushi.dk sushi.dk DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS: HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR, ENVIRONMENT 8 ANTICORRUPTION Introduction Sticks'n'Sushi have joined the recently established industry-cooperation REGA [Restaurateurs' Guarantee Scheme]. REGA is an initiative that was launched by the trade association DRC (Denmark's' Restaurants & Cafes) with the overall aim of lifting the level and reputation of the restaurant business. At present time, 17 Danish restaurant companies have signed up for REGA, which was in the UN-city in Copenhagen. For now, REGA is a Danish based initiative, but hopefully it can grow to take on an international scope in the future. What is REGA? In short, REGA is a guarantee for prioritizing corporate responsibility and for implementing a management system for responsible operation defined by the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. More specifically, REGA is a set of regulations that frame the participating restaurateurs' common understanding of responsible operation in the restaurant industry. By signing the REGA charter, the participating companies aim to ensure a high standard in the restaurant industry and to contribute to develop and implement the obligations that have been defined by the UN Global Compact from 2000. As a community of restaurateurs, REGA also provides a platform for exchange of experience. With this, REGA aims to be a seal of approval that guarantees a high standard and brings the restaurant industry to the front, when it comes to CSR. Requirements for REGA participants All REGA participants are obliged to work with the framework for sustainability in the UN GlobaI Compact and to comply with the minimum standard for responsible corporate behaviour defined by the UN and OECD's guidelines. The aim is to inspire the industry to identify areas where they can make an extra effort to contribute to sustainable development. To do so, all REGA companies commit to joining the UN Global Compact as well as to: 1) Adopting a policy for commitment to social responsibility that complies with the UN and OECD guidelines. 2) Showing due diligence by carrying out regular impact-analysis that document the company's work with assessing how they can identify, prevent and take action against possible negative impacts on social, environmental and economic sustainability. 3) Offering employees and others who experience negative impacts access to remedy. 4) Measuring the effects of the company’s actions and communicating the results hereof. The participation in REGA is supported by a CSR-function assigned to the project, but requires active contribution from the company and dedication of resources to the project as well as an annual fee of joining the cooperation. See more on: www.regadk.dk Sticks'n'Sushi A/S Nansensgade 49 DK-1366 Copenhagen +45 331170 30 sticks@sushi.dk sushi.dk MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR, ENVIRONMENT & ANTI-CORRUPTION Policy for commitment to CSR As a part of our REGA engagement. We have adopted a policy for commitment to CSR (see appendix 1), which complies with the UN and OECD guidelines. Impact-analysis As mentioned above, another part of our REGA commitment is to conduct impact-analysis, where we identify, prevent or mitigate potential adverse impacts on the international principles for social, environmental and economic sustainability within the framework of UN/OECD, that we may cause or contribute to. When actual impacts occur, we will provide access to remedy. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS: ENVIRONMENT Revised menu card with green focus I addition to the REGA project, we have continued our focus on sustainable products and food in the past year. In June 2018, we launched a new menu card with a general focus on CSR. We have chosen a greener balance with more vegan options and we have cut out a lot of beef. Animal welfare is a priority and organic products are natural companion. Finally, we have decided to focus more on our takeaway packaging going forward. We currently use PET plastic, but we have decided to gradually phase it out, in order to make a total stop before the year 2022. We are currently working with a packaging manufacturer, who has invented a new, plastic-free solution with help from the Danish Technological Institute. It is still in its early stages, but with the right backing, it could be a revolution in sustainable packaging made from renewable resources. Furthermore, as part of REGA, we are in the early stages of a DKK 4,7 million, three-year project funded by The Danish Industry Foundation, and backed by Global Compact Network Denmark and Denmark’s Restaurants & Cafés. The goal of the project is to find sustainability issues that has yet to be solved. Together with our competitors – but at the same time fellow REGA-members – we have chosen to tackle food waste and packaging. The next step in the project is a joint workshop to find the challenges we cannot solve individually and find out where to focus our joint efforts. Description of Actions: Labour We have a continuous focus on building our culture along the principles of worthwhile work, strong leadership and creating a pleasant and inspiring work environment. We have surveyed our teams and are clear about what it means to work at Sticks N Sushi, what our employees can expect from us and what we should expect from them. We are committed to providing excellent leadership, flexible work patterns and career opportunities for those who want them. We are currently focused on developing future managers and ensuring their success in eventual restaurant management roles. Sticks'n'Sushi A/S Nansensgade 49 DK-1366 Copenhagen +45 331170 30 sticks@sushi.dk sushi.dk my department and the I feel that my salary is 6,1 3,8 fitting for my work efforts work they do My development is We respect each other in regularly evaluated 6,1 4,7 my department together with my manager We generally talk nicely to each other in my I can influence what 6,1 5,1 department (tone trumps tasks I get abilities) We hold our employee Fish Tank forums on a quarterly basis and underpin this with an annual I am treated with respect employee I feel that my tasks are by managers infeedback my survey. 6,1 5,1 department varied enough Description of1 Outcomes 2 3 :4 Labour5 6 7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 The 2018 Happy People survey results were published in January 2019 Theme overview The numbers show the average score for each theme 7 5,9 6 5,7 5,5 5,2 5,1 5 4 3 2 view 1 Motivation and commitment Work assignments Personal and professional Colleagues & Cooperation The management in my development department and commitment ation and commitment Motivation & commitment of our employees Sticks'n'Sushi 2018 4 3 5 4 Page 6 3 5 2 6 2 6 1 7 Totally disagree Totally agree 1 7 Totally disagree Totally agree Sticks'n'Sushi 2018 (5,5) Sticks'n'Sushi 2018 (5,5) The level is not satisfying. Improvements should be made. The level is satisfying. However, improvements could be made. The level The level is very is not satisfying. Improvements should be made. satisfying. The level is satisfying. However, improvements could be made. The level is very satisfying. Sticks'n'Sushi A/S Nansensgade 49 DK-1366 Copenhagen +45 331170 30 sticks@sushi.dk sushi.dk and commitment | Questions 5,5 ation and commitment | Questions 5,5
