Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT: C O M M U N I CAT I O N O N P R O G R ES S (C O P,) 20 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1 On behalf of Dhiraagu, it is my pleasure to Reuse” advocating against the use of present the “Communication on Progress” single-use plastic. (COP) Report for the year 2018 to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We remain committed to the 10 principles of the Global Compact in the core areas We continued to support the United of Human Rights, Labour, Environment Nations Sustainable Development Goals and Anti-Corruption. Through this report, and during the year various programmes we are pleased to communicate our to support children, empower youth and to policies, actions and how we implement protect the environment were carried out. these principles. Key highlights include Dhiraagu Maldives Road Race, a platform for local NGOs to The report will be available on our create awareness and raise funds and website dhiraagu.com.mv Dhiraagu Special Sports Festival, the only sports festival for children with disabilities. Sincerely, Dhiraagu Apprenticeship Programme also celebrated its 10th anniversary and enrolled 28 new apprentices during the year. Under our flagship CSR campaign Ismail Rasheed to care for the oceans, we launched a Chief Executive Officer & focused campaign “Rethink. Reduce. Managing Director Statement by the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2 Introduction DHIRAAGU became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in December 2012 and this report is the seventh Communication on Progress (COP) Report issued by the company. The reporting period is for the year 2018, from January – December. The report is divided into two parts; Section 1 Section 2 Provides an overview Describes our policies, about our business and implementation and outcomes our approach to corporate in relation to the specific social responsibility. Global Compact Principles. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3 SECTION 1 Our Business Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4 Our Business Our Vision Our Mission Enrich lives through To lead the market digital services through excellence in customer experience Our Values Collaborate Serve Innovate Inspire We work together to We keep our customer We constantly innovate We empower people, offer our customers a at the heart of all we to provide our customers and never lose sight of seamless experience do, because we win with the latest and best the bigger picture of when they do in digital services nation-building and growth Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5 Who We Are We are the leading telecommunications company in the Maldives, offering a full range of digital and communication services. Our business is to inspire and empower our customers to Our Products ‘take on tomorrow’ and thrive in the digital future. Our customers include individual consumers, small to medium businesses, corporate and government institutions. & Services Our Presence With telecommunications being an We overcome geographic barriers and stay We provide total solutions and cater to specific enabler in our increasingly connected close to our customers through the nation’s needs ranging from simple telephone services society, our portfolio includes an array largest retail and distribution network of to complex integrated private networking of mobile, internet, data, IPTV, mobile 73 partners, 31 wholesalers, 279 agents, 8 solutions for global corporate customers. money and fixed services specially overseas agents and over 3,800 retailers. With over 500,000 customers and employing tailored to cater for the needs of both 99% trained qualified Maldivians present in consumer and business segments. We provide the widest coverage in 10 strategically located operating centres Maldives, which includes all of the across the country, we remain the largest We ensure reliable international country’s 199 inhabited islands, all resort telecommunications provider in the Maldives. connectivity and maintain our network islands and all major industrial islands. resilience to deliver full coverage within With 30 years of working together to know the Maldives. We provide enterprise We have linked the Maldives from North and serve our customers better than anyone and government customers with fully to South through a 1,253 km long fibre else, we continue to lead by consistently integrated end-to end solutions. optic submarine cable network which delivering the latest and best experience supports the nation’s largest 3G and 4G digital technology has to offer. LTE and fixed broadband network. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 6 Corporate Social Responsibility THE 3 PILLARS IN OUR CSR STRATEGY Our Our Our People Community Environment Our work is motivated by the principles of society, which is why we remain committed and is represented by senior management from good corporate citizenship. We seek to set an to programes that protect and preserve the various departments. We remain committed to example for the rest of society by adhering to sanctity of children, provide development our obligations under the United Nations Global the highest levels of integrity, sound ethics, opportunities for young people and foster Compact, the largest voluntary CSR initiative in the transparency and accountability. We actively a culture of learning within the community. world, and remain steadfast in our commitment reinforce our ties to the Maldivian community As one of the most climate vulnerable to promote the key areas of Human Rights, by contributing to nation building and societal countries in the world, we are committed Labour, the Environment and AntiCorruption. development. Which is why our CSR initiatives to ensuring environmental protection and are strategically programmed to have maximum building a more climate-resilient country in Key focus areas impact and ensure sustainability. We have three the Maldives. We are committed to protecting under our Community pillar; key pillars of focus for our CSR initiatives our our oceans and reduce our carbon footprint people, our community and our environment. by remaining as one of the largest utilisers of renewable energy in the Maldives. Our people refers to the Dhiraagu family of staff, whose welfare and wellbeing remain a principal Our CSR actions are informed by our CSR concern of ours. Likewise, we are a distinctly strategy and guided by Dhiraagu CSR Maldivian company who play an important Committee. The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director • Child Protection • Empowerment role in strengthening the social fabric of our and Support of Youth Corporate Social Responsibility Report 7 Our Community Care for Children We continued to support various • Over 350 children participated in Dhiraagu • We donated 10% of the proceeds from our NGOs working for children’s rights Special Sports Festival 2018, an annual sports Roadha Special Data bundles (amounting as well as programmes designed event organized and driven by Dhiraagu for to MVR 411,068) to the local NGO, Tiny to empower young people. children with disabilities in collaboration Hearts of Maldives who work to support with 11 schools and 4 local NGOs. children with congenital heart disease. Our initiatives under the Community pillar support the United Nations Sustainable • MVR 600,000 was contributed to local • On Children’s Day, we contributed resources Development Goals on Reduced NGOS working in the area of child protection to help establish a Children’s Thalassemia Inequalities (SDG 10), Good Health and and support through Dhiraagu Maldives Ward in Laamu Gan Regional Hospital. Wellbeing (SDG 3), Decent Work and Road Race 2018, the largest run in the Economic Growth (SDG 8) and Industry, Maldives with over 3000 participants. • On World Autism Awareness Day, we pledged Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG 9) to help establish a children’s playground at the Maldives Autism Association. • As part of our Eid Al Fitr celebrations, staff from our Head Office and Regional Operation Centres volunteered to distribute Eid Gifts to children across the Maldives. • We supported Cancer Society of Maldives to launch a campaign on childhood cancer on the common warning signs and symptoms to create awareness amongst parents, teachers and the wider public. • We provided Dhiraagu TV services for the children at Kudakudhinge Hiyaa and we continued our support by sponsoring teachers at the orphanage. • We continued to be a member of the GSMA Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse Content which blocks child sexual abuse content from our network. Dhiraagu was the first and is the only operator from Maldives to have joined this alliance along with other leading telecom operators from around the world. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 8 Over 350 children participated in Dhiraagu Special Sports Festival 2018 Over 350 children participated in Dhiraagu Special Sports Festival 2018 MVR 600,000 was contributed to local NGOS working in the area of child protection On Children’s Day, we contributed resources to help establish a and support through Dhiraagu Maldives Road Race 2018 Children’s Thalassemia Ward in Laamu Gan Regional Hospital. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 9 Empowering • We launched ‘Film for Change 2018’ in collaboration with UNDP Maldives, to empower Disaster Relief Young People young people to explore social issues through smartphones and tablets. • Dhiraagu Apprenticeship Programme, our key The project consists of a training component and CSR initiative which provides structured training a post-production component where trainees and experience for young people celebrated produced short films that were inspired by the its 10th anniversary. 28 new apprentices were United Nations Sustainable Development Goals enrolled and 14 apprentices graduated from the on Quality Education, Gender Equality, Climate programme in 2018. Change and Life Below Water. Connecting Communities • We became a platinum corporate member of the Maldivian Red Crescent to support humanitarian efforts across Maldives. • We contributed MVR 200,000 to the National Disaster Management Centre to assist with the ongoing relief efforts following the Male’ flooding. • We place emphasis to support the startup Information under the pillars “Our People” and “Our culture and foster innovation. Together with our Environment” is detailed under Section 2 of the report local partner, Sparkhub, we organised Angelhack, under the respective Global Compact Principles. the first and the largest international hackathon in Maldives. • We continued to support the Blind and Visually • To inspire, educate and connect startup Impaired Society of Maldives, by providing a communities, the first Startup Grind X event for customized phone meeting service, a digital space young entrepreneurs in Maldives was also held to empower and connect over 200 members in partnership with Sparkhub. Startup Grind is across the country. the largest independent startup community, that nurtures startups through events featuring • We supported the Centre for Holy Quran by successful local founders, innovators, educators providing network solutions free of charge to and investors who share lessons learned on facilitate the Centre to conduct digital Quran the road to building great companies. classes. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 10 Dhiraagu Apprenticeship Programme provides structured training and experience To inspire, educate and connect startup communities, the first Startup Grind X event for for young people. 28 new apprentices were enrolled and 14 apprentices graduated from young entrepreneurs in Maldives was held in partnership with our local partner, Sparkhub. the programme in 2018. Together with Sparkhub, we organised Angelhack, the first and the We launched ‘Film for Change 2018’ in collaboration with UNDP Maldives, largest international hackathon in Maldives. to empower young people to explore social issues through smartphones and tablets. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 11 SECTION 2 Global Compact Principles Corporate Social Responsibility Report 12 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should Make sure that they support and respect the are not complicit in protection of internationally human rights abuses, proclaimed human rights Assessment, Policy and; and Goals Corporate Social Responsibility Report 13 Caring For Our People Our committed and talented people have always been the driving force behind our success. We closed the year with 597 permanent full-time employees, 99% of whom are Maldivian. Our initiatives for our people support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals on Good Health and Wellbeing (SDG 3), Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8) and Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG 9). Grievance Policy Whistle Blowing The Maldives is a signatory to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and we and Procedure and Fraud Reporting remain committed to comply with all local laws and regulations pertaining to it. A Grievance Policy and Procedure A Whistle Blowing and Fraud was implemented in 2015 setting Reporting policy and procedure out the mechanism for employees was established in 2014 to to raise any concerns regarding strengthen the human resource any work related matters. governance structures within the company, raising confidence of our colleagues and other stakeholders Medical Care in our systems and processes We have an in-house medical benefits scheme that offers more benefits and is more comprehensive than a basic health insurance scheme. The medical benefits scheme applies to all staff and to their dependents under age of 18. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 14 Retirement Care Health and Safety We continue to contribute 10% to the We are committed to ensuring the health employee pension fund, which is beyond and safety of all our staff. Apart from the 7% required by law. We have had a complying with local legislations, we Retirement and Redundancy Policy and work towards achieving international best a voluntary retirement benefit scheme in practices in relevant areas relating to our place, even before the establishment of industry and specific work environments. the national pension scheme in 2009. We have the following targets: Code of Conduct • To ensure that work activities are not We place great emphasis to conduct our harmful to the health of employees or to affairs in a fair and transparent manner the general public and are as safe as is by adopting the highest standards of reasonably practicable professionalism, honesty, integrity and ethical behavior. We have adopted internal policies • To provide and to maintain adequate which promote ethical and responsible measures to control health and safety conduct. These policies provide guidance to risks arising from work activities in order our Directors, management and employees to prevent accidents and cases or workon the standards of ethical business and related ill health personal conduct required of all employees in undertaking their daily business activities. • To provide staff with relevant information, instruction, training and supervision to We target for all our employees to become ensure health and safety at work familiar with our Ethics Policy and Code of Conduct. Our Ethics Policy, recognizes • To ensure that a conducive work that our success depends on the ability to environment is established for our staff establish and maintain positive relationships, both internally within employees and externally with our stakeholders. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 15 Implementation Employee Induction Health and Safety Programme implementation Our Health and Safety Policy is applicable to all The company implements the following Dhiraagu employees and contractors. All senior in accordance to the Health and Safety Policy managers are responsible to ensure that the Safety policy is implemented in their respective functions. • Ensure that safe systems of work are implemented and reviewed. As part of the Induction Programme, all staff are briefed with regard to safety procedures • Ensure that all personnel are given information, including fire and first aid procedures. instruction, training and supervision as appropriate in order to carry out their work safely. A Safety Committee with representatives from all The Ethics Policy together with the code departments and regional centres is in place and • Carry out assessments of risk to the health of conduct is communicated with all new employees as part of the Employee Induction a Safety Management Review is organised once a and safety of persons involved in or affected Programme and is shared on the online month in order to monitor and review the programme. by the operations of their departments employee portal for further reference • Arrange induction safety training for all new employees. Committee to Prevent • Ensure that all firefighting equipment is regularly Sexual Harassment at inspected and serviced. Workplace Our Committee to Prevent Sexual Harassment at the Workplace is primarily responsible for increasing awareness to prevent sexual harassment, conduct investigations regarding any complaints and to take necessary actions against any persons who is proved to have carried out an act of sexual harassment. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 16 Employee wellbeing Measurement of Outcomes Activities carried out to promote wellbeing off our people include: • Physical fitness education sessions held in collaboration with Absolute Fitness • A company-wide H1N1 influenza vaccine drive for our people and their families. • An awareness session conducted on World Cancer Day in partnership with the Cancer Society • A health Screening Programme conducted in association with Health Protection Agency (HPA) • The Induction Programme was conducted • First Aid training was provided for all new staff and the ethics policy, code of to 25 staff including new apprentices. conduct and safety procedures were briefed to ensure that employees are familiar with • Basic rigging with tower climbing training the policies from the very beginning. was carried out for all newly joined riggers. • Basic fire awareness training was • Dhiraagu staff Health Screening Programme provided for 115 employees. was conducted in association with Health Protection Agency (HPA) for 205 staff . • Fire safety inspections and awareness sessions were carried out at Dhiraagu Head Office • A company-wide campaign was carried and at all the Regional Operation Centres. out to provide vaccine against H1N1 influenza for staff and their families. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 17 Basic rigging with tower climbing training was carried out for all newly joined riggers. Basic rigging with tower climbing training was carried out for all newly joined riggers. Basic fire awareness training was provided for 115 employees. Fire safety inspections and awareness sessions were carried out at Dhiraagu Head Office and at all the Regional Operation Centres. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 18 United Nations Global Compact Labour Principles Principle 3 Principle 5 Businesses should uphold The effective abolition the freedom of association of child labor; and and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Principle 6 The elimination of all forms The elimination of of forced and compulsory discrimination in respect of labor; employment and occupation We ensure to comply with We also ensure to eliminate local employment laws in the discrimination with respect to Maldives. We do not engage employment in all our operations. or employ child and forced labour in any of our operations. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 19 Implementation HRD Board • Dhiraagu Employees Soccer Cup (DESCUP 2018) To periodically review human resource We believe in open, transparent • Annual Award night to recognise development plans, policies and procedures dialogue with regard to labor related and reward key innovators and the and recommend strategic directions, a Human issues within the organization. outstanding performers. Resources Board (HRD Board) is established and the committee convenes regularly. We adhere to the Maldives Employment Act to • A gala evening to mark our 30th ensure the elimination of all forms of forced and anniversary where long service contributions compulsory labour, the effective abolition of were appreciated and awarded. child labour, and the elimination of discrimination Legal Reviews in respect of employment and occupation. • Our teams also participated in the Club Maldives Cup, Inter-office Basket Tournament, Dhiraagu’s General Counsel regularly and the Inter Office TT Tournament gives legal advice on employment issues Employee Development to deal within the bounds of the Employment Our people are encouraged to be involved law and company procedures. We equip our people with the tools and trainings in the community. They contributed their required to foster a digital mindset and deliver time and efforts to a range of communityMeasurement increasingly responsive and customised services. based activities across the country: We also give importance to ensure that our people have the right skills and competencies of Outcomes • As part of our Eid Al Fitr celebrations, to further their own professional development. our people volunteered to distribute Eid gifts to children across the Maldives Our HR department actively creates learning • During the year, 585 employees received training and development opportunities for our people. • In collaboration with our partners; Parley in technical and non-technical programmes to Maldives and Maldives Airports Company enable them further their knowledge and skills. Staff Engagement Limited, we collected over 1.5 tonnes of ocean plastic on International Coastal Clean-up Day • The Long Service Awards and Annual Awards and Volunteerism function were held to appreciate long service • Our people also volunteered in SaafuRaajje, and recognize outstanding work performance, We seek to foster a healthy work life balance the Nationwide Clean-up programme leadership and teamwork. 74 employees for our staff and their families. During the organised by the Ministry of Environment received awards in different categories year, our HR Department together with the e-Club organised the following events: • Our employees joined the “Buddy Walk” to support the local NGO Beautiful Eyes Down • A Roadha Festival including Syndrome Association and contributed to a Quran and Madhaha competition for employees fundraising campaign “#meanddownsyndrome” • A futsal tournament to celebrate our 30th Anniversary Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20 Dhiraagu Employees Soccer Cup A gala evening to mark our 30th anniversary where long service (DESCUP 2018) contributions were appreciated and awarded. In collaboration with our partners; Parley Maldives and Maldives Airports Company Limited, As part of our Eid Al Fitr celebrations, our people volunteered we collected over 1.5 tonnes of ocean plastic on International Coastal Clean-up Day to distribute Eid gifts to children across the Maldives Corporate Social Responsibility Report 21 United Nations Global Compact Environment Principles Principle 7 Principle 9 Business should support a Business should encourage precautionary approach to the development and diffusion environmental challenges; of Environmentally friendly We place great importance in raising Goals on Affordable and Clean technologies awareness against single use plastic. Energy (SDG 7), Responsible Consumption and Production Principle 8 Advocating for the protection (SDG 12), Climate Action (SDG 13) Business should undertake and preservation our natural and Life Below Water (SDG 14) initiatives to promote environment and ensuring greater environmental environmental sustainability in our responsibility; and corporate practices is an important aspect of Dhiraagu’s CSR strategy. Our initiatives under our environment pillar support the United Nations Sustainable Development Corporate Social Responsibility Report 22 Implementation Renewable Energy Measurement Care for the Oceans of Outcomes • The energy saving features incorporated in Dhiraagu Head Office resulted in an annual reduction of approximately 390,228 kwh of electricity, which is also equivalent to 276 metric tons of CO2 or 636 barrels of oil. We remain committed to low emission carbon-resilient business practices and seek to reduce our carbon footprint through Under the flagship CSR campaign increasingly relying on renewable energy to “For the Oceans” Dhiraagu launched a focused power our various systems. We take great pride campaign “Rethink. Reduce. Reuse” advocating in our role as one the largest producers and against the use of single-use plastic. users of renewable energy in the country. We distributed our new ocean themed reusable As part of our continuous efforts to increase bags to all our staff and public through our the renewable energy footprint, we initiated Head Office, Regional Operational Centres and a project plan to install additional 709kWp of popular supermarkets on World Oceans Day. grid tied PV solar power systems in 15 islands across the country to be completed by 2020 Our volunteers in collaboration with Parley Maldives and Maldives Airports Company Energy Efficiency Limited collected over 1.5 tons of ocean plastic on International Coastal Cleanup Day and Our Head Office was designed with sustainable raised awareness against single use plastic. green features and provides significant energy efficiencies. All the lights used in the building, Together with our volunteers, we supported including emergency lights are 99% LED lights. the nationwide cleanup programme Saafu Raajje by the Ministry of Environment. We have motion sensors to switch off the lights in common areas to ensure lights are switched off when not in use. High heat reflective glass is used in building facade to minimise heat entering into the building. The office adopts central AC control, where airconditioning is centrally turned off at pre-set times and is limited to official working hours. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 23 Implementation United Nations Supplier Code Global Compact of Conduct Anti Corruption Principles From 2013 onwards, it was made mandatory for all our suppliers to sign the Supplier Code of conduct when entering into a contract with us. Principle 10 Business should work against This code of conduct addresses the commitment corruption in all its forms, to comply with applicable laws and regulations including extortion and bribery concerning bribery, corruption, fraud, and any other prohibited business practices. Policy and Goals always be proportionate and reasonable in terms of value and frequency. Measurement Dhiraagu’s Anti-Bribery Policy comprehensively addresses in detail with regard to the following; Gifts and hospitality should never be of Outcomes offered or accepted if it may be perceived • We do not tolerate bribery, and do not offer, as improperly influencing a business • ALL suppliers entering into a give or receive bribes or improper payments decision about or by us or impair contract with Dhiraagu signed the or participate in any kind of corrupt activity, independence or judgment about us. Supplier Code of Conduct. either directly or through a third party. • We do not make political contributions • We do not make facilitation payments either directly or indirectly to political and we do not allow others who work parties, causes or individuals for us to make them either. • We are committed to ensure that those • Any gifts or hospitality or promotional who act on our behalf as representatives, expenditure we receive or give in agents, consultants and other providers connection with our business should of services do not bribe on our behalf. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 24 Take on tomorrow
