CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 34 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Network Switzerland 2018 PROGRESS REPORT WE SUPPORT 1. DECLARATION OF SUPPORT FROM GROUP MANAGEMENT Interroll sets new standards worldwide with its mateBy joining the UN Global Compact in November rial flow solutions. We play a responsible role in creat2016, we underscored our global commitment for the ing new links between the physical and digital worlds. first time and also committed ourselves to documentOur principles make it easier for our customers and ing our progress in these areas transparently. employees to act responsibly in a complex environment on a daily basis. We combine economic success Our second progress report for financial year 2018 with sustainable, ecological awareness and social now highlights the key actions and achievements of responsibility – both in the short and long term. our ongoing commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. This underscores the relevance Principles towards sustainability of social responsibility for our corporate activities. –– We act sustainably and focus on long-term business success. We strive to achieve an appropriate balance At the same time, we are renewing our commitment as between ecological action, social responsibility and a member of the UN Global Compact for another year. economic success. –– We oblige business partners and suppliers to adhere 28 February 2019 to minimum principles. –– We commit our managers and employees to our Interroll Holding AG Code of Conduct. Our strategies and activities are based on universal principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Paul Zumbühl Daniel Bättig We also strive to advance social objectives. CEO CFO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 35 2. PRESENTATION OF PRACTICAL MEASURES AND MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS IN 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Principle 2 Support and respect international human rights Ensure that your company does not participate in your own sphere of influence. in human rights abuses. Self-commitment covered. For 2019, we aim to achieve this goal for all «Interroll does not tolerate discrimination, harassment companies worldwide. or unfair treatment based on gender, race, disability, ethnic or cultural origin, religion, belief, age or sexual Re 2: In order to ensure that our Code of Conduct conorientation.» With this sentence from the Interroll tinues to be lived, the managers of the Chinese, Danish Code of Conduct, the company commits itself and its and French companies were trained on the Code of employees to respect human rights and the relevant Conduct and compliance rules in 2018. This is planned laws. Interroll’s good reputation and the trust placed in for the companies in the USA in 2019. it by customers, suppliers, business partners, shareholders and the general public depend to a large extent Re 3: The Interroll Group’s Compliance Management on the responsible conduct of all employees. System (CMS) is based on the recommendations of the international standard ISO 19600 Compliance ManInterroll expects all suppliers and subcontractors to agement System. The risk-based approach is designed adhere to these principles, which are in line with Interto weight the severity of any possible breaches of laws roll’s corporate values. They are an important part of and obligations in terms of the achievement of corposupplier selection and evaluation. In addition, we rate objectives and the negative impact on the Group’s expect our suppliers to comply with these standards reputation, and to define appropriate priorities for throughout their supply chain. action. The Compliance Management System was further implemented and expanded in 2018. This included The guidelines explained in the Supplier Code of Conthe definition of responsibilities and the preparation of duct are intended to ensure compliance with all applia compliance manual. cable laws, regulations and ordinances and to ensure that processes along the Interroll supply chain meet Re 4: Every employee has the right to report violations social, ecological and economic requirements. of the rules of the Code of Conduct, a law or an obligation to his or her superior. If necessary, an anonymous Measures in 2018 whistleblower report can be made to the Chief Com1. Global roll-out of a Supplier Code of Conduct pliance Officer of the Interroll Group (in an initial 2. Prevention through training phase this is the CFO of the Interroll Group). Cooper3. Continued implementation and expansion ation between the Chief Compliance Officer and the of the Compliance Management System local officer was expanded in 2018. Coordination 4. Enhanced cooperation between the Chief meetings were held on a regular basis. Internal trainCompliance Officer and the local officer ing of compliance managers, including an examination, is planned for 2019. This is intended to ensure the Measurement of the results quality and further targeted optimisation of the ComRe 1: When selecting new suppliers, the obligation to pliance Management System. adhere to our principles is a mandatory prerequisite for a business relationship. The aim is also to oblige our most important current suppliers to comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct. By the end of 2018, 90% of all suppliers to European companies had already been CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 36 WORK STANDARDS Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 Principle 6 Respect freedom of Strive to eliminate Promote the Promote the association and the of all forms of abolition of elimination of effective recognition forced labour. child labour. discrimination of the right to in respect of collective bargaining. employment and occupation. Self-commitment Measurement of the results Interroll’s worldwide codes of conduct contain fundaRe 1 to 4: see section on human rights. mental internationally recognised labour standards such as freedom of association, the exclusion of forced Re 5: There were no reported cases of forced or child and child labour and a non-discriminatory working labour at Interroll or in the supply chain during the environment. Interroll and its suppliers do not tolerate year under review. discrimination against employees on the grounds of gender, race, disability, ethnic or cultural origin, reliRe 6: A Group-wide Employee Engagement Survey gion, belief, age or sexual orientation. conducted in 2017 showed very positive results. Interroll has a committed workforce that is ready to go the Measures in 2018 extra mile for the company at any time. The employees 1. Global roll-out of a Supplier Code of Conduct also clearly confirmed the quality and customer orien2. Prevention through training tation within the Group. For this reason, the next 3. Continued implementation and expansion Global Employee Survey will be conducted in 2019 to of the Compliance Management System check this consistency. 4. Enhanced cooperation between the Chief Compliance Officer and the local officer Re 7: The Interroll Academy is the driving force behind 5. Measurement of Key Performance Indicators (KPI) the transfer of knowledge relating to the flow of mate6. Employee involvement rials. With our strong commitment to the training and 7. Employee training further education of our employees and the exchange 8. Working conditions of know-how with customers and partners, we make an important contribution to the success of the company and the further development of our industry. We are convinced that good training is a prerequisite for motivated employees. That is why we train them with the aim of providing them with the specialist knowledge with which they can offer our customers valuable support. Our participants, who come from all areas of the company, therefore familiarise themselves not only with Interroll products, but also with the applications and problems of our customers. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 37 The successful graduates of Interroll’s leadership training. Our many training and development opportunities Interroll and its suppliers ensure the safety of all enable all employees to develop and use their talents in employees at the workplace and ensure a healthy the best possible way. With a blended learning combiworking environment that supports accident prevennation of classical instruction and new, Internet-based tion and exposes employees to as few health risks as training methods (e-learning offerings), internal hurpossible. dles are overcome and inquisitive employees who are not on-site are reached. New content (e.g. for new Interroll has an appropriate system for health and product developments) was added to the training prosafety at work. Workers should be adequately trained gramme in 2018. The Culture for Growth Leadership in their mother tongue on health and safety issues in Trainings, including individual coaching, will be conthe workplace. Healthand safety-relevant informatinued in 2019. tion must be clearly displayed in the facilities. Interroll also expects this from its suppliers. Re 8: Interroll and its suppliers comply with all applicable laws and regulations relating to working hours For 2018, the reduction of sick days and accident-free and rest periods. Overtime must always be worked days was pursued through health and safety managevoluntarily. It must be ensured that all employees ment at Interroll. To this end, an internal competition receive appropriate remuneration and the applicable was launched with prizes for the most creative ideas. national statutory minimum wage. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 38 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Support a precautionary Take initiatives to create a Encourage the development approach in dealing with greater sense of responsibility and diffusion of environmenenvironmental problems. for the environment. tally friendly technologies. Self-commitment Measures in 2018 The responsible use of resources and the protection of 1. Global roll-out of a Supplier Code of Conduct the environment and climate are core issues of social 2. Prevention through training responsibility and therefore also a central area of Inter3. Continued implementation and expansion roll’s strategy. of the Compliance Management System 4. Enhanced cooperation between the Chief Our basic principle «Inspired by Efficiency» does not Compliance Officer and the local officer just refer to the benefits that our customers can expect 5. Measurement of Key Performance Indicators (KPI) from Interroll solutions. With Interroll products and solutions, companies can increase their profits. They Measurement of the results reduce their ecological footprint and ensure sustainaRe 1 to 4: see section on human rights. ble growth. Interroll also attaches great importance to its own resource efficiency. For Interroll, the proper Re 5: Target values for 2018 were set after the KPIs were use of resources is the most important prerequisite for first recorded in 2017. A reduction of 10% in Groupmaintaining our technological and innovative market wide paper consumption was targeted and achieved. leadership position. This also benefits our customers. A further reduction by 10% is planned for 2019. Customers can increase their profits with Interroll products and solutions. They reduce their ecological footprint and ensure sustainable growth. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 39 PREVENTION OF CORRUPTION Principle 10 To work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Self-commitment granting, accepting or promoting an advantage in By preventing and sensitising our employees, we want return for an unlawful act or breach of trust. This to actively counter potential breaches of the rules in includes accepting benefits of material value in advance. Our employees receive extensive face-to-face exchange for a commercial, contractual, governmental and e-learning training on topics such as «antitrust or personal benefit. In accordance with our Code of law» or «gifts and invitations, conflicts of interest». Conduct, we conduct our business honestly and ethically. The anti-bribery guidelines introduced in 2016 are intended to establish control mechanisms to ensure We pursue a zero tolerance policy with regard to bribcompliance with all applicable anti-bribery and ery and corruption. We are committed to acting proanti-corruption regulations and to ensure that the fessionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business company conducts its business in a socially responsirelationships and to introducing, applying and enforcble manner. Bribery is defined as offering, promising, ing effective mechanisms to combat bribery. Measures in 2018 1. Global roll-out of a Supplier Code of Conduct 2. Prevention through training 3. Continued implementation and expansion of the Compliance Management System 4. Enhanced cooperation between the Chief Compliance Officer and the local officer 5. Controlling of the anti-bribery guidelines Measurement of the results Re 1 to 4: see section on human rights. Re 5: There were no reported forms of corruption, extortion or bribery at Interroll or in the supply chain in the year under review. Interroll contributes positively to industry associations in which it is member. In 2018, the general meeting of the Association of German Airport Technology & Equipment (GATE) took place at the Interroll Academy.
