SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATE 2020 ADDENDUM TO THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROTECTING AND SAVING LIVES. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 CONTENTS THIS REPORT COVERS THE FISCAL YEAR 2018/19 (JULY 2018 JUNE 2019) 01 Statement from Arnaud Vaissié Co-founder, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer 02 The world of International SOS 02 Our Mission 02 Our Vision 02 Our Values 04 The forces shaping our future 04 The health and wellness agenda is transforming rapidly 04 The impact of natural disasters on business and employees is increasing 05 Globalisation is increasing international mobility 05 Security threats can affect anyone 05 Geopolitical changes increase instability 05 Digitalisation is revolutionising services 06 Sustainability and us 06 Our philosophy 07 Sustainability governance 08 Our material topics 10 Our goals and progress 16 International SOS Foundation 18 UNGC Principles Index About our front cover image This image was developed with real International SOS people. It symbolises that we are at our clients, employees and partners’ fingertips. It also represents how we have touched the lives of many people. 2 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO, ARNAUD VAISSIÉ We are delighted by the great reception of our first sustainability report published at the beginning of 2019. We are now keen to give an update on the progress we have made in the last 12 months. As you would expect from an entrepreneurial and growing To help our clients with their own understanding, in the company like ours, we have not stood still and have further past year we developed a training course on Sustainability developed our engagement in the sustainability arena. Management & Reporting for the Occupational Health & As an organisation we have strengthened our governance Safety Practitioner. The course covers how to prepare an by establishing a Sustainability Advisory Board, supported organisation to manage OHS and wellbeing sustainably; by a Sustainability Committee. The Committee drives which metrics and initiatives to prioritise for sustainability our sustainability activities throughout the business and reporting. Following the overwhelming success of the pilot with all our key stakeholder groups. Our whole Corporate course with clients, we will formally launch and roll out the Social Responsibility agenda has been absorbed into this training in 2020. Committee and will be managed under the umbrella At International SOS, we care about our planet and the of sustainability. impact of our business on the environment. We have made Our sustainability activities are based on the outcomes of noticeable progress on recycling efforts, responsible energy our first materiality assessment and use the United Nations consumptions and lower carbon emission. As a further step Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as guidance. We we embarked on an effort to reduce single-use plastic at all have identified 17 material topics, relating to our people, our offices and will report on its progress next year. services, environment and governance, which we organised We are proud to have won two awards this year: Most into three reporting themes: Ethical Business Practices from Most Valued Business • Protection: protecting & saving lives and Best Business in Travel Management from the Forum • Productivity: keeping our clients productive through our for Expatriate Management (FEM). We were furthermore people & partners shortlisted for an SDG award for our work in the • Principles: living by our principles & practices prevention of NCDs (non-communicable diseases) and our sustainability report has been shortlisted for an award by I am pleased that we have delivered on many of the goals we the French Chamber of Great Britain. set out for 2019 and are committed to continue the progress with a set of new stretching goals for 2020 and beyond. We are looking forward to making further sustainability strides throughout our organisation in 2020 and beyond. We remain committed to following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards and to upholding the ten Yours sincerely, principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In recognition of our understanding, expertise and long-term commitment to sustainable business practices, we now Arnaud Vaissié have two members of our senior management team on Co-founder, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer GRI Board. Dr Olivier Lo committed his time to the review process of GRI 403 standards and Francesca Viliani has been voted onto the GRI Stakeholder Council. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 1 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 THE WORLD OF About International SOS INTERNATIONAL SOS The International SOS Group of Companies is in the business of saving lives, protecting our clients’ global workforces from health and security threats. Wherever our clients are, we deliver customised health, security risk management and wellbeing solutions to fuel their growth and productivity. In the event of extreme weather, an epidemic or a security incident, we provide an immediate response that brings peace of mind. Our innovative technology, medical and security expertise focus on prevention, offering real-time, actionable insights and on-the-ground quality delivery. We help our clients meet compliance reporting needs for good governance. By partnering with us, organisations can fulfil their Duty of Care responsibilities, while empowering business resilience, continuity and sustainability. Founded in 1985, the International SOS Group is privately owned and trusted by 11,000 client organisations, including nearly two-thirds of the Fortune Global 500, multinational corporate clients and mid-size enterprises, governments, educational institutions and NGOs. 10,000 employees stand with our clients to provide support and assistance from over 1,000 locations in 90 countries, 24/7, 365 days. Our headquarters are dually-located in London and Singapore. Our Mission To pioneer the international medical & security risk services sector. Our Vision To be the world’s leading medical & security risk services company. Our Values Passion We work with passion, entrepreneurial spirit and teamwork to serve our clients and people. Expertise We are committed to apply our professional expertise to deliver great quality services to our clients. Respect We treat all our global, diverse stakeholders with respect and deliver on our commitments with the highest integrity to earn trust. Care We care about the interest of our clients, members and employees and aim to make a real difference to their lives. 2 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 INTERNATIONAL SOS AT A GLANCE We care for clients across the globe, from more than 1 ,000 locations in 90 countries. OUR PEOPLE OUR CLIENTS QUALITY DISTINCTION 10,000 5,200 11,000 ISO/TS 13131 first organisation in the world certified employees medical global clients professionals for delivery of TeleHealth services Access to over 99 87% 66% ISO/IEC ISO 9001:2015 2,600 languages and of the Fortune of Fortune Global 27001:2013 for protecting for superior quality management security dialects spoken Global 100 500 companies specialists customer data process WE CARE FOR CLIENTS ACROSS THE GLOBE, FROM MORE THAN 1,000 LOCATIONS IN 90 COUNTRIES L FOOTPRI OBA 26 GL NT 77 ASSISTANCE CLINICS CENTRES 900 12,000 MEDICAL EVACUATION & REMOTE SITE REPATRIATION ACTIVITIES PROJECTS WITH 300 81,000 ACCREDITED PROVIDERS OFFSHORE IN OUR GLOBAL INSTALLATIONS ASSISTANCE NETWORK LO E C A L E X P E R T IS Hospitals, physicians, security specialists, ambulances, travel assistance and more. KEY ACTIVITIES STATISTICS INTELLIGENCE & TRACKING MEDICAL SERVICES Intelligence and analysis on 4.1 million 5,000 24,000 assistance calls 227 countries and 440 cities health checks cases 1 million 35,000 11 million 800 2,500 300,000 medical services security services people medical and medical medical kits protected by security reports evacuation delivered through TravelTracker produced per response plans MedSupply month WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 3 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 THE FORCES SHAPING OUR FUTURE In the complex and ever-changing world we evolve in, economic, social and environmental challenges are everywhere for organisations and communities. We operate and expand our business ensuring that our activities reflect our corporate values and strengthen our core capabilities. We make a real difference in today’s and tomorrow’s worlds. We are committed to meet these challenges in our daily operations and in the services we provide to our clients. To do so, it is crucial for us to be vigilant about and focus on the key trends affecting our business. This enables us to help our clients ensuring their employees’ wellbeing, and shape our own future as a successful business in a more sustainable world. 1. The health and wellness agenda is transforming rapidly Nowadays there are big expectations on businesses to At International SOS, our entire business is aimed at preserve and improve employee’s wellness. Benefits range motivating and inspiring our clients’ workers around the world from increased productivity, less injuries, enhanced safety to take charge of their health. We look after people not only and a reduction of healthcare costs. Non-communicable while they are on business premises, but in their travels and as diseases (NCDs) such as diabetes, heart disease and mental members of the local community to make a real difference in illness kill almost 40 million people globally every year. their lives. We work with our clients to understand the realities The recent increase in mental health awareness is a key of the modern workplace, providing solutions to manage opportunity to transform organisations’ capability to support work-related stress; injury and illness reporting; health policies, employees throughout their lives. Within the workplace, standards and procedures; health screening; drug testing; employee wellness programmes are clearly becoming an return-to work programmes and more. essential part of company culture.1 1 https://www.who.int/whr/2001/media_centre/press_release/en/ https://www.who.int/gho/ncd/mortality_morbidity/en/ https://www.internationalsos.com/medical-and-security-services/occupational-health 2. The impact of natural disasters on business and employees is increasing Russia Floods France Floods Europe Spain Asia Japan Floods Typhoons USA Greece Earthquakes Bahamas Floods Hurricanes Hurricanes Floods Wild Fires Cyprus Taiwan Haiti Typhoons Hurricanes Floods Middle East Philippines Mexico China Typhoons Puerto Rico Hurricanes Earthquakes Cuba Hurricanes Hurricanes Turkey Africa Typhoons Earthquake Floods Fiji Tanzania India Iraq Cyclones Floods Americas Earthquake Cyclone Cyclones Iran Vanuatu Malawi Earthquake Cyclones Cyclone Bangladesh Floods Cyclones Tonga Mozambique Floods Cyclones Cyclone Floods Indonesia Pacific Natural disasters and extreme weather events Zimbabwe Earthquakes where International SOS supported impacted Cyclone Floods organisations (2017-2019) Floods Australia Cyclones Floods Natural disasters are increasing in frequency and severity Our boots on the ground including our global network globally, affecting lives and businesses. They account for of Assistance Centres enable us to continuously monitor 43% of changed travel plans. We receive a high demand situations around the world, ready to assist our clients for services such as disaster planning, evacuation and wherever needed. We offer assistance in emergency situations emergency medical services due to unpredictable weather.2 and disasters and support people in remote and unfamiliar Businesses are now clearly considering the consequences of locations. With a strong focus on prevention, we help our natural hazards and looking for resilient ways of prevention. clients assess risks and prepare for them by educating their travellers and providing 24/7 access to local advice so that 2 https://www.internationalsos.com/topics/natural-disasters they avoid lost time while increasing productivity. https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/news/UpdatedCostliest.pdf https://www.ipsos.com/ipsos-mori/en-uk/perceptions-travel-risk 4 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 3. Globalisation is increasing 5. Geopolitical changes international mobility increase instability Global organisations are encouraging more and more The recent tensions in the Middle East and protests in Hong workers to travel, be it for business trips or international Kong and the Catalonia region of Spain are recent examples assignments. This requires flexibility and adaptability, showing the increase of challenging geopolitical situations, especially in high-risk locations and remote environments. with significant impacts on organisations in terms of business At the same time, mobile workers’ habits and preferences are continuity. These impacts can also reduce employees’ changing and new travelling trends are growing (e.g. peer-towillingness to travel and expose them to risk more if peer lodging, transport sharing) which might expose them unprepared. In order to mitigate risks and reduce impact on to new and higher risks. Many companies are insufficiently their mobile workforce, organisations need to understand the prepared to help their workers face these challenges. different challenges due to geopolitical instability. We offer tailor-made solutions to mobile workers that Our security team constantly monitors national and meet their growing needs and expectations while keeping geopolitical situations to enable our clients to make them safe in a changing world. We help our clients identify informed decisions about travel. As situations change, the issues associated with mobility, and manage them in we update our tools and provide advice to ensure mobile the context of their overall health and wellness policies, workers are confident and that they comply with local laws risk management tools and communications strategies. and regulations. Emphasis is put on educating and empowering their mobile workers about travel risks, and making access to assistance easy and clear. 6. Digitalisation is revolutionising services The rapid growth and application of digital technology, 4. Security threats can affect anyone including artificial intelligence, is driving businesses, transforming customer expectations and product Incidents of terrorism in western countries doubled in 2017 development. It is estimated that digital transformation compared to the previous year, and governments’ formal could deliver around US$100 trillion in value to business assessment of terrorism-related threat levels has remained and society over the next decade.5 It is already influencing elevated. Security threats are the most commonly reported the way we and our clients work, and offers exciting and reason for modified travel itineraries, presenting direct innovative ways for us to collaborate. impacts in terms of time, complexity and cost. Digitalisation creates opportunities to develop new services These risks affect our own employees, as well as our and systems that are increasingly flexible and sophisticated. clients who travel the world. We work with our clients to We are investing in new tools and technologies to ensure ensure they can prepare for these challenges, even those we remain world leaders, as our clients and their employees unforeseen. Our Travel Risk Map4, Pre-trip Advisories, come to expect more real-time, online and personalised expert-led medical and security intelligence in 227 countries user experiences. The growth of TeleMedicine brings new and 440 cities are invaluable resources for travel planning. opportunities to deliver advice and services to support and Our TravelTracker tool lets clients monitor where their promote employee wellbeing anytime, anywhere. We aim employees are and their safety. We can provide our clients to create positive experiences for the people while ensuring with the right response protocols for when threats occur, maximum compliance with data privacy rules. including evacuation plans. 5 http://reports.weforum.org/digital-transformation/wp-content/blogs.dir/94/mp/files/ pages/files/dti-executive-summary-20180510.pdf 4 Our Travel Risk Map is publically available, learn more about it here. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 5 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 SUSTAINABILITY AND US Our Philosophy WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. Everything we do is ultimately driven by our values. We believe our unrivalled expertise, professionalism Driven by our core principle, we deliver invaluable local and commitment to excellence enable us to contribute knowledge and expertise on a global scale through tailorto sustainable development, while assisting our clients made services to best meet our clients’ needs. in upholding their promises to their employees. Our Our purpose is to look after our clients and workers, to sustainability commitments set out our ambition and protect people and save lives. We achieve this through demonstrate how we are holding ourselves accountable for our highly trained network of staff, including medical our impact and performance. professionals, security and logistics specialists, and Our sustainability priorities are set by our Sustainability key partnerships in more than 90 countries around the Committee and Board focusing on the 17 material topics world. We pioneer a range of preventive programmes we determined in 2019, and are aligned with international strengthened by our in-country expertise, delivering initiatives and frameworks, including the Sustainable emergency assistance during critical illness, accident or Development Goals (SDGs) and the United Nations Global unrest. Our work is ultimately driven by our passion to Compact (UNGC). help clients mitigate risks to their people working remotely or overseas. We also support and contribute to the International SOS has been a signatory of the UNGC since International SOS Foundation, an independent, not-for2013 and we continue to firmly support the Ten Principles profit organisation that drives research, surveys and the with respect to human rights, labour, environment and development of best practice guidelines in health, safety anticorruption. Our own policies, operations and culture and wellbeing for a global workforce. are closely aligned with the UNGC Principles. We believe our unrivalled expertise, professionalism We are proud to support the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and our reporting is guided by their standards and commitment to – widely recognised as international best practice for excellence enable us to sustainability reporting. International SOS is a strong supporter of advancing the central role for health and contribute to sustainable wellbeing as part of the corporate responsibility and sustainability agenda. development, while assisting our clients in upholding their promises to their employees. 6 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 Sustainability governance Sustainability Advisory Board and Sustainability Committee Our Sustainability Committee meets regularly to advise Our strategy is to integrate sustainability, step by step, into on and set our priorities, these are then articulated in our all parts of our business and is based on International SOS’ sustainability plan. The work of the Committee includes a mission, vision and values. Our Sustainability Advisory broad range of activities affecting our workplace, markets, Board oversees the development and implementation of communities, human rights and environmental initiatives. our Sustainability Strategy in coordination with all our The Committee reports to our Advisory Board, who updates policies and commitments. Our philosophy for corporate our Group Executive Committee. citizenship focuses on healthcare and education to look Policies after the wellbeing of our employees and the communities As part of our on-going management approach, we develop where we operate. It also extends to ethical conduct in relevant policies, guidance and practice tools that help us our dealings with suppliers, clients and other stakeholders. bring our values and commitments to life. Our Sustainability Advisory Board Dr Myles Neri Greg Tanner Group Medical Director, Medical Services Group General Counsel Sydney Singapore Laurent Fourier Jennifer Gibb Group Director, Sales & Marketing Group Director, HR Geneva Singapore Our Sustainability Committee Members Kai Boschmann Samuel Chauffaille Kevina Takoordyal Chief Marketing & Communication Officer, GM, MedAire Asia Pacific Regional Head of Billing, Finance Co-chair of the Sustainability Committee Singapore Mauritius London Michael Whitlow Lizette Klingenberg Francesca Viliani Director, HR Europe Marketing Manager Director Public Health Europe Consulting, London Johannesburg Co-chair of the Sustainability Committee Mark Crawford Ronnie Purcell Copenhagen Group Deputy Director Quality Director of Business Relations & Amélie Chatelet & Compliance Development Nordic Region Senior Group Marketing Executive, General Sydney Stockholm Secretary of the Sustainability Committee Sune Svenningsen Lim Thau Khuan Barcelona CEO MedSupply International Group Compliance Manager Hien Thanh Dang Singapore Singapore Group Employer Branding Specialist Michael Hancock Franck Baron Singapore Group Deputy Director Operations Group GM, Risk Management Insurance Thierry Dardare London Singapore Group Finance Director, Financial Management James Wood Kelvin Wu Singapore Head of Security Solutions Risk & Insurance Senior Manager Rebecca Malzacher London Singapore Marketing Director Australasia Zelda Bezuidenhout Mark Troy Melbourne Assistance GM Corporate GAN Regional GM, MENA Dr Philippe Guibert Johannesburg Dubai Medical Director, Europe Consulting Sally Wang Natalie Piccari Paris VP Global Partnerships & Alliances Director of Real Estate, HR Karel Van De Pijpekamp Philadelphia Philadelphia Chief Executive Officer, Assistance Services Americas Jersey City WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 7 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 OUR MATERIAL TOPICS International SOS has carried out a materiality assessment to prioritise the economic, environmental and social topics that have a material impact on our business and that matter most to our key stakeholders. The process involved identification of relevant issues, prioritisation by our key stakeholders and validation by senior management. 1. Identification 2. Prioritisation 3. Validation of results In this first materiality assessment, To prioritise the identified issues, we The outcomes were reviewed we developed a list of relevant assessed their relative importance and approved by our Sustainability sustainability issues through a in relation to the business and Committee and Board to review of internal documentation, our key stakeholders. Each issue understand how they align with including risk registers, policies and was given two scores: impact on our organisation’s strategy. statements, our industry peers and the business and external impact. key influencers in our field, such The impact on our business was as multilateral organisations, trade determined by the views of our and industry associations and nonGroup Executive Committee, top governmental organisations. management and employees. The This process identified a long list external impact was assessed with of 22 issues. reference to the expectations and concerns of our clients, and refined by the view of our management and influencers in our field. We refined the list down to 17 topics shown in our materiality matrix – with our 12 material issues in the upper right quadrant. 8 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 Our materiality matrix CRITICAL Access to a skilled workforce Epidemics and public health Business continuity Data privacy & protection and cyber security HIGHEST Patient care, client Engagement Modern leadership satisfaction and with regulators and engaging work quality of assistance and stakeholders Business integrity, Mobility and evolving traveller behaviour transparency Extreme weather and ethics conditions Employee Community impact EXTERNAL IMPACT and engagement health, safety NCDs and and wellbeing mental Security and HIGHER health safety Relationship with assistance partners and suppliers Digitalisation of healthcare and assistance Environmental impacts of our operations HIGH HIGH HIGHER HIGHEST CRITICAL INTERNAL IMPACT Medical & Security People Governance Environment Services WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 9 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 New In Progress Ongoing Completed OUR GOALS AND PROGRESS Following the work we have done in identifying our 17 sustainability material topics, we have laid out our plans for the future based on the three reporting themes. These were described in our previous report and are updated below to reflect progress over the last twelve months. PROTECTION: PROTECTING & SAVING LIVES Goal Progress Activities SDGs* In the next FY1819 we aim Our TeleConsultation service is currently to drive utilisation of our available in 16 countries, up from 11 from last FY. TeleConsultation service in the locations already set up. We aim to increase the In FY1920, we increased the member global percentage of satisfaction of 1% to 89%. Promoters (Net Promoter Score rated) by three percentage points in the next three years. This applies to all case types: medical, security, and general assistance. Our current member satisfaction level is 88%. We will maintain this level for the coming year. By FY2021, we will We have been actively working with the support the introduction International Organization for Standardization of a new ISO certification (ISO), British Standards Institution (BSI) and the standard on travel standard will be available in autumn 2020. risk management. We aim to attain our A significant progress has been made in this MedSupply Corporate area. The team has prioritised key areas such Quality Management as product quality and patient safety to ensure System (CQMS) by that the suppliers and products sourced meet FY2021 – a set of standard the established quality standards. The final step quality management will be to integrate the QMS of the MedSupply system procedures based Fulfilment Centres with the Corporate CQMS, on the World Health which is also in-progress. Considering the high Organization’s (WHO) regulatory complexity and business continuity Model Quality Assurance implications, the requirements are included at System for Procurement the MedSupply Fulfilment Centres in a phased Agencies (MQAS), manner. and other applicable WHO guidelines. *Our efforts support several SDGs 10 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 New In Progress Ongoing Completed Goal Progress Activities SDGs* By FY19206, we will Our Assistance Centre teams collaborate with expand our mental Workplace Options on a daily basis, with 406 health service offerings clients subscribed to Enhanced Emotional to our clients through Support, and FY1819’s case count growing by over our collaboration with 85% from the previous year. Together we have Workplace Options developed Emotional Support programmes to (WPO). address the needs of different industry sectors, including specialised MedSea support for those aboard seafaring vessels. International SOS and WPO continue to partner on training programmes and traveller awareness of both stress triggers and solutions available to them. We will maintain our Our medical team has supported international commitment to improve meetings such as: the Chatham House Influenza Global Health Security Preparedness Stakeholder Conference in London throughout FY1920. January 2019, the International Conference on Global Health Security held in Sydney in June and signed the Sydney Statement. Additionally, we have convened our global crisis team and held regular update conference calls over the Ebola outbreak and have further developed the Enterprise Health Security Centre (used by us as well as clients). Finally, we continue to monitor health security threats around the clock – publishing hundreds of articles and alerts. We will maintain our We have been actively involved in an commitment to improve international survey regarding the use of HIA Community Health, in (Health Impact Assessment) and in the drafting partnership with other of a guidance document for project developers, stakeholders throughout governmental authorities and consultants. this year. In partnership with Newcrest Mining Limited, we have deployed a large scale health initiative aimed at controlling Yaws, a tropical disease in Papua New Guinea. In FY1819, all the inhabitants of a district (60,000 people) received treatment for the disease. Our indigenous partners are essential to International SOS’ growth and sustainability in all regions of Canada. For the FY1819 International SOS concentrated on four key efforts to mitigate daily struggles for our remote community indigenous partners. The key issues included poverty, unemployment, and dependence on government social programmes. In FY1819 International SOS had eight indigenous community partners with a total population of 3,500 people. International SOS annual man hours spent on these efforts were approximately 900 hours. 6 (FY1920) started on the 1st July 2019 and will end on the 30th June 2020. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 11 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 New In Progress Ongoing Completed PRODUCTIVITY: KEEPING OUR CLIENTS PRODUCTIVE THROUGH OUR PEOPLE & PARTNERS Goal Progress Activities SDGs* We will maintain our This year the group broke the record by commitment to raising ordering 7,000 malaria bracelets and raising awareness on Malaria almost $6,500. The proceeds were used to buy throughout this year. 3,500 mosquito nets protecting the lives of 7,000 people. In the past six years the group has bought 31,700 bracelets allowing us to buy 9,350 mosquito nets and give them to communities in Africa, protecting nearly 30,400 lives. The International SOS We will maintain our support for the Foundation received International SOS Foundation’s research efforts support for its research on Duty of Care, Sustainability, & Health, safety efforts on Duty of Care and wellbeing. & Sustainability, Health, Safety and Wellbeing. We will commit 50 The annual roster of volunteers can be found at: volunteers to support internationalsosfoundation.org/about-us the International SOS Foundation and its research efforts in Duty of Care: Health, Safety and Wellbeing annually. By the end of FY1819, Globally, we sponsored 55 talented female we will provide annual employees to participate in various external funding/scholarships leadership programmes. Employees chose for five to ten talented programmes, based on their personal and females to attend a professional development needs. leadership programme. By the end of FY1819, In January 2019, we launched the first global we will have a global mentoring programme for female employees. mentoring programme for The six-month programme aimed to equip female managers. our female, high-potential colleagues with the necessary skills, resources and internal network to leverage their career aspirations within the company. The first programme launch received 85% NPS score and positive recognition across the business. Out of 23 participants, five were promoted after completing the programme. We are also delighted to learn that two other participants were selected as winners of our FY1819 Elite Sales Club. We will expand our global Based on the success of the first programme mentoring programme, carried out in FY1819, we look forward to exclusively for female bringing the programme to more female managers. employees. *Our efforts support several SDGs 12 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 New In Progress Ongoing Completed Goal Progress Activities SDGs* We are committed to During FY1819 we hired 32 AIESEC interns from developing young talent, 20 different nationalities across the group. The through our Global Talent retention rate of the interns, taking on full-time Programme in longpositions increases every year and is currently standing partnership with averaging nearly 65%. AIESEC. From FY1920, all our We have developed an OH&S online module; it employees globally will is included in our Global Compliance eLearning be required to complete course, compulsory for all employees worldwide an Occupational Health & starting in FY1920. The module aims to help Safety (OH&S) eLearning employees identify potential hazards, know course as an annual what to do in the event of an OH&S incident and mandatory requirement. encourage positive workplace behaviours and This is part of our hygiene practices. continuing efforts in developing a culture of the highest level of safety and compliance across all our offices worldwide. We aim to attain a The Medical Service team is actively working on certification of ISO the certification. 45001:2018 Occupational Health and Safety management systems in Europe, Africa and Australasia by FY1920. We will make our We believe being well and healthy at work Employee Assistance is one of the key ingredients of productivity. Programme (EAP) and Leveraging on medical capabilities provided mental health support to clients, we launched 53 wellness and EAP available to our employees programs in 41 countries in FY1819. They globally. By FY2324, range from healthy daily habits (e.g. gym all International SOS access, onsite flu shots & nutrition), common employees are provided non-communicable diseases (e.g. cancer & with wellbeing support heart diseases) to mental health (e.g. stress from the company. management & autism awareness). Specific health needs for females are also addressed through tailored initiatives such as breast cancer awareness & check-up, facilities for nursing mothers and talks on gynaecological health. By the end of FY1920, The band structure will provide clear guidance on we aim to launch a job requirements for upward and lateral movements band structure globally, within the business, opening up opportunities for covering all functions our workforce and supporting them to develop and business lines across their careers at International SOS. different locations. In FY1920, we aim to International SOS Occupational Health Safety finalise our OH&S data (OH&S) Management System has been revised management system and updated to meet the ISO: 45001 as well as for our Medical Services GRI 403 Standard. Data collection system has business in line with the been put in place and we have started testing GRI 403 Standard. reliability and working on quality assurance of OH&S data. *Our efforts support several SDGs WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 13 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 New In Progress Ongoing Completed PRINCIPLES: LIVING BY OUR PRINCIPLES & PRACTICES Goal Progress Activities SDGs* We will maintain and We continue to review our Business Continuity expand, where practical, agenda. As part of this exercise we are in on our versatile trainings the process of developing cloud-based and globally. The versatile supported technologies allowing greater training enables our flexibility across our operational network. This is non-Assistance Centre supported by ongoing versatile training in our employees to be effective major Regional Centres. The versatile training in supporting our enables our ex-Assistance Centre employees operations in a crisis or/ to be effective in supporting our operations and when there is a huge and client communication agenda in a crisis or/ surge in cases. and when there is a surge in cases. In the past year we have run crisis team training exercises at eight locations and mobilised live internal and external crisis management for 13 regional events. We will embark on Our Assistance Centre, MedAire and Medical independent certification Services have been certified globally. of our compliance with Read the press release here. GDPR through Bureau Veritas. We aim to attain certification by end of FY1819. In FY1819, we will run The activities planned for the FY1819 were a cyber-attack breach executed and this led to the decision to cascade simulation at our next them across the Regions. Annual General Meeting for our top general management population. We will also run Crisis Management and Data Breach training in each of our Regional Crisis Management Control Centres, as well as basic crisis training in each Assistance Centre location. In FY1920, we will cascade We will also continue to run regular Crisis the group level cyberManagement training in each of our Regional attack breach simulation Crisis Management Control Centres and for our training from our top operations communities, as well as basic crisis general management training at country and location level. population to the regional crisis management teams. In FY1920, we will embark Our Sustainability Committee will create on a process of assessing a working group to map our current our environmental environmental initiatives and certifications footprint across the group to identify a corporate process to assess our footprint. We remain committed to align our sustainability disclosures with the GRI Standards in the future, and we’ve made progress over the year in harmonising our data management systems across the various businesses within the Group. *Our efforts support several SDGs 14 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 Our workforce profile7 Total number of employees by employment Female Male Non-disclosed Sum contract, by gender Permanent 4448 3974 276 8698 Temporary 441 471 27 939 Per diem 12 7 1 20 Locum 0 7 17 24 Total number of employees by employment Full time Part time Locum Per Diem type, by gender. Female 4598 291 0 12 Male 4271 174 7 7 Non-disclosed 296 7 17 1 Sum 9165 472 24 20 Total number of employees by employment Permanent Temporary Per Diem Locum contract, by region Africa 1007 27 0 0 Americas 2193 81 13 0 ANZ 171 17 3 0 Asia 1695 132 0 0 Europe 1092 42 0 0 IAS (Globally mobile employees) 660 57 0 23 MENA 507 4 0 1 Pacific 96 357 4 0 Russia & Kazakhstan 736 17 0 0 SEA 541 205 0 0 Sum 8698 939 20 24 Data correct as of 20 October 2019. 7 Information is collected on 20 October 2019 from our global HR system, which is updated on a daily basis. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 15 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 DUTY OF CARE: INTERNATIONAL SOS FOUNDATION The International SOS Foundation is a registered charity and was started with a grant from International SOS. It is a fully independent, not-for-profit organisation. Launched in March 2012, the Foundation has the goal of improving the safety, security, health and welfare of people working abroad or on remote assignments through the study, understanding and mitigation of potential risks. Key industry contributions Since its inception in 2012, the Foundation has partnered with several associations and organisations to bring to the public a wealth of health and safety information. Below are some of our key contributions: Sharing global best practices on Duty of Care Helping organisations advance their sustainability agenda Development of international guidance on the prevention In 2018, the Foundation launched a white paper titled, ‘What and mitigation of risks associated with working and will Occupational Health and Safety look like in 2030?’. travelling abroad. In collaboration with the Kingston The paper uncovers the most significant Occupational University of London and Affinity Health at Work Health and Safety changes that the HSE (Health, Safety & organisation, the International SOS Foundation recently Environment) community need to prepare for, and what published one of its key research whitepapers ‘Keeping their legacy impact will be by 2030. Business Travellers Happy, Healthy & Engaged, at Home and Read the paper here. Away’. The paper includes a groundbreaking study of how business travel impacts travelling executives. Sharing best practices on Road Safety Read the paper here. In 2012, The International SOS Foundation joined forces with GRSP. The Global Road Safety Partnership (GRSP) is A spotlight on managing risks in higher education a not-for-profit organisation hosted by the International To protect students, staff and faculty from medical and Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies security risks before and during outdoor learning activities, (IFRC) in Geneva, Switzerland. Its role is to create and the Foundation launched a robust new whitepaper entitled support multi-sector road safety partnerships that ‘Health and Travel Security Risks in the Education Sector: are engaged with front-line good practice road safety Field Trip Management’. It provides practical guidance for interventions in countries and communities throughout education institutions in order to better manage the risks the world. It plays a powerful role in capacity building and involved with overseas trips. training of road safety practitioners, engaging actively in advocacy at all levels, providing road safety programme ‘Managing new Risks in Higher Education’ is a new coordination at the global level. It is also a recognised whitepaper launched in 2019 which highlights the expert source of road safety knowledge and good practice. importance of mitigating safety, security, health and In 2019 the two organisations also launched a new white wellness risks for those students, staff and faculty visiting paper titled ‘Risks of the Road for the International Traveller: or going abroad. It explores the key mobility risks and The Leading Global Killer Often Overlooked in Duty of Care’. challenges faced by universities and higher education The paper provides insight on the many forms of risks on institutions as well as some of the solutions and best the road, including those when taking public and private practices. transport, self-driving and as a pedestrian. It also provides Read the paper here. risk mitigation practices for organisations and business travellers. Read the paper here. 16 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 Continuous education and training and institutions worldwide have signed Other courses include the Duty the declaration to support principles of Care training launched in 2017, of risk prevention with regard to ‘Safety, Health and Security for the work-related travel safety, health and Mobile Worker’. It aims to provide security and hence became Duty of occupational safety and health Care ambassadors. practitioners with the knowledge and Recognising organisations’ efforts in skills necessary to actively participate Duty of Care worldwide in the management of safe, healthy International SOS Foundation’s and secure travel for their mobile Duty of Care Summit & Awards is an workforce. The training programme is internationally recognised platform certified by Institution of Occupational designed to share best practice and Safety and Health (IOSH). celebrate organisations’ efforts in Duty Learn more about the training at: of Care. The Summit, a world-class internationalsosfoundation.org/dutyforum on protecting mobile workers of-care-training and mitigating risks, brings together industry leading experts for discussion Becoming Duty of Care Ambassador and debate, practical case studies and With an increase of global mobility invaluable networking. The Awards in an ever more challenging world, recognise outstanding achievements the prevention of work-related travel, in meeting high standards of health, health and security incidents has safety and security at work. It provides become crucial. On 3 September 2017, entrants with a chance to attain the International SOS Foundation, external recognition for their success in supported by the Ministry of protecting their people. The 2019 Duty Manpower Singapore, launched a of Care Summit & Awards took place in declaration during a Summit Meeting Shanghai, China on 17 October 2019. on the opening of the XXI World Congress on Safety and Health at For more information visit: Work in order to drive commitment dutyofcareawards.com to Duty of Care. To date, more than 400 individuals from organisations WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 17 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 UNGC PRINCIPLES INDEX Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Location Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support Business integrity, transparency and respect the protection of and ethics internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that Business integrity, transparency they are not complicit in human rights and ethics abuses Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the Business integrity, transparency freedom of association and the and ethics effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the Business integrity, transparency elimination of all forms of forced and and ethics compulsory labour Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the Business integrity, transparency effective abolition of child labour and ethics Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the Modern leadership and engaging elimination of discrimination work in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a About this report precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Businesses should undertake Environmental impacts initiatives to promote greater of our operations environmental responsibility Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the Digitalisation of healthcare development and diffusion of and assistance environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against Business integrity, transparency corruption in all its forms, including and ethics extortion and bribery For more information, please visit internationalsos.com/sustainability 18 internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 I am pleased that we have delivered on many of the goals we set out for 2019 and are committed to continue the progress with a set of new stretching goals for 2020 and beyond. — Arnaud Vaissié Co-founder, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer For comments and feedback, please write to: International SOS Sustainability Committee c/o Group Marketing Building 4 Chiswick Park, 566 Chiswick High Road W4 5YE, London e: group.marketing@internationalsos.com w: internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 19 internationalsos.com
