SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 TRIOPLAST PUBLISHES AN ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, WHICH SUMMARIZES THE SUSTAINABILITY WORK OF THE PREVIOUS YEAR. Transparent communication is important to us and our Sustainability Report includes the whole group’s sustainability progress and activities. We continuously work to provide a more sustainable product offering for all market requirements and focus particularly on recycling and reducing consumption of raw material. Sustainability is an integral part of what we do – we strive to achieve a minimal impact on the environment – We Are There. 2 CONTENTS 1. Statement from the CEO 4 8. Result 18 2. Executive summary 5 8:1 A true circular economy 19 3. About this report 7 8:2 Innovation and sustainability 19 4. About Trioplast 8 8:3 Standardization 19 4:1 Vision 9 8:4 Suppliers 20 4:2 Mission 9 8:5 Qualification of suppliers 20 4:3 CSR policy 9 8:6 Transport 20 4:4 Core values 9 8:7 Extended producer responsibilities (EPR) 20 4:5 Governance 10 8:8 Cooperation with the recycling industry 20 4:6 Organization 10 8:9 Certified management systems 21 4:7 Divisions 11 9. Objectives and action 22 4:8 Major investments 13 9:1 Occupational health and safety 22 6. Risks and Opportunities 14 9:2 Charity 22 7. Trioplast Sustainability Management 15 9:3 Environment 23 7:1 Stakeholder Analysis 16 9:4 Health and safety 24 7:2 Employee benefits 16 9:5 Safety activities 24 7:3 Society 16 9:6 Local community involvement 24 7:4 Number of employees 17 9:7 We are proud 25 7:5 Sustainability governance 17 9:8 Life cycle assessment (LCA) 25 7:6 EcoVadis 17 9:9 Energy consumption 26 7:7 SEDEX 17 9:10 Zero pellet loss 26 7:8 Memberships 17 9:11 UN Global Compact 26 10. GRI Standards 31 3 1. STATEMENT FROM THE CEO Our commitment to sustainability has never been more relevant than it is today when the world is facing various global environmental challenges. As a leading player in sustainable plastic solutions, I see real opportunities for Trioplast to partner up with customers, suppliers and colleagues in the business, to tackle these challenges together. We feel strongly that a movement is emerging. People are increasingly conAndreas Malmberg, President and CEO cerned and want to increase the speed in their environmental journey – and we are there to assist. WE HAVE DEMONSTRATED that sustainability post-consumer recycled content. is a very important driver for investments and I am excited by the year ahead when we will innovation – and contributes to the success introduce our updated sustainability strategy of our business. In recent years, Trioplast has with ambitions and commitments leading to invested in top-of-the-line equipment to be 2030. These steps are not just critical for the able to produce high-performance products future-proofing of our business – they are also with reduced consumption of raw material and what the world needs today. developed technologies to use recycled plastics to a very high degree. One example is the Andreas Malmberg, innovative sustainable carrier bag for groceries, President and CEO that we now sustainable produce with up to 92% 4 2. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Materiality assessment The materiality assessment has been conducted according to The following Sustainability Report satisfies the requirements GRI Standards and forms the basis for deciding which areas set out in the Annual Accounts Act. In addition, Trioplast has will be prioritized. We have used different sources in order to opted to prepare a separate Sustainability Report, which is identify relevant areas for our stakeholders, including media published on the Company’s website. monitoring, new laws and directives, political trends regarding our field of operations, sector organizations, environmental organizations, the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Sustainability information and our markets. Based on this analysis, Trioplast has opted During 2018, Trioplast continued to integrate sustainability to focus on external monitoring, involvement in groups relatas a key aspect of its operations. An innovation strategy in ed to the creation of regulatory frameworks, as well as standcombination with sustainability has been developed and will ardization within environmental aspects. be implemented during 2019 A more detailed presentation can be found in the separate Sustainability Report. Vision and mission Driven by our customers’ present and future needs, we constantly strive to be the obvious choice with regard to sustainable polyethylene film-based solutions. RESULTS OF THE CSR POLICY To promote a more sustainable society, we offer products and services where account is taken of ethical considerations, Health and safety the environment and human rights. • Health and safety are top of the agenda at all internal meetings. CSR policy • Enhanced safety awareness, among other things through Trioplast applies the Corporate Social Responsibility policy training programmes: Workshops, Better Work Environment in issues relating to sustainability. The policy can be • Follow-up and activities to reduce the number of accidents summarized as follows. Trioplast will: at the workplace. • Assume responsibility for the societal impact of our • A work environment audit at all units. operations. • Integrate human rights, environment, social responsibility Training of employees and ongoing improvements in and anti-corruption into our day-to-day operations. production processes are central if we are to achieve our • Evaluate, be innovative and develop our business model, goal of being a good, safe workplace products and services to ensure sustainable operations. • Ensure compliance with legislation and the UN Global Society Compact in our value chain. • We support a number of causes, including cancer research, • Work actively to be a long-term partner and employer. as part of our social responsibility, and we also sponsor local sports associations. Trioplast examines its sustainability work through a range of • We are a member of the United Nations Global Compact activities, including the use of the EcoVadis evaluation system initiative, and we ensure compliance with our Code of Conduct. for internal processes and evaluation of suppliers. Other examples are the self-evaluation form and membership of different organizations. Details of the examination process are presented in the separate Sustainability Report. 5 Environment • We work to ensure chemicals are handled safely, and we Key performance indicators carry out risk assessments for all chemicals. In order to assure our sustainability process, Trioplast has • We have a long-term plan for how we will develop sustainable, opted to measure and monitor the following areas. climate-smart product solutions. • We conduct environmental and sustainability training Key sustainability performance indicators programmes. 1. LTAR – Lost working time resulting from accidents at work • We carry out life cycle assessments, we measure carbon in relation to the time worked. dioxide emissions, and we focus on reducing energy use. 2. Energy consumption – Total energy consumption in • We have a leading role in the global development of standrelation to the volume of approved production. ards regarding mechanical and chemical recycling. In addition, we have a broad-based level of involvement in standardisation within environmental aspects. Key sustainability performance indicators 2018 2017 LTAR 5.4 5.6 At Trioplast, polyethylene waste is a valuable source of raw Energy consumption (kWh/kg) 0.89 0.89 material. All production waste generated in-house is recycled and used in the manufacturing of new products. We also purchase polyethylene waste externally to increase the reuse Key activities during the year of plastic. This offers both environmental and economic beneTrioplast has: fits by reducing the need to purchase new raw materials and • Continued to develop new, thinner products to reduce the reducing the emission of greenhouse gases. use of raw materials. • Developed products with a higher proportion of recycled Sustainable enterprise polyethylene. • Trioplast’s CSR information can be found on the Sedex and • Continued to optimize the sorting of purchased polyethylene EcoVadis websites. waste to improve reuse. • We establish sustainable, long-term relationships with our • Performed internal environmental and quality audits. customers. • Marketed pink and blue silage film to promote cancer • We constantly improve our level of service, quality and research. communication in our endeavour to be a long-term business • Run health and safety training programmes for employees partner. at all units. 6 3. ABOUT THIS REPORT This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. We have chosen to comply according to GRI Standards in order to be transparent in our sustainability work going forward. The report refers to the calendar year 2018 for Trioplast Industrier AB and its subsidiaries: Divisions STRETCH FILM INDUSTRIAL FILM HYGIENE FILM CARRIER BAGS • Pallet stretch film • FFS film • Embossed film • Plastic carrier bags for Product lines • Agricultural film • Stretch hoods • Breathable film food retailers • Refuse sacks • Shrink film • Laminates • Building and covering film • Forest industry film • Blown film • Refuse sacks • Film with high-quality printing • Bags and sacks • Bags for hygienic purposes • Trioplast AB • Trioplast Nyborg A/S • Trioplast Landskrona AB • Bengt Lundin AB • Trioplast France SAS • Trioplast Sifab AB • Trioplanex International AB • Trioplast Fjugesta AB • Trioplanex France SAS Units • Ekoplast Emballage AB • Mo Industri AB Sales companies (in addition to the sales offices at each factory) Trioplast OY Trioplast LTD Trioplast GMBH Trioplast AS Trioplast Lundin AS Finland UK Germany Norway Norway In 2015, we started work on the Trioplast sustainability stratBoundaries outside the organization: A selected group of egy with the intention of collecting and summarizing the stakeholders have participated creating the knowledge base Group’s various projects. for this Sustainability Report. Boundaries within the organizaIt also meant that in 2016 we produced a short Sustainability tion: Sales companies have been excluded. Report with the intention of communicating our CSR policy, Please contact Innovation, Sustainability & CSR Director vision and mission and our sustainability KPIs. We made an Kristin Geidenmark Olofsson (kristin.olofsson@trioplast.com) early decision to follow GRI G4 for the 2017 report. For the regarding questions about the Trioplast Sustainability Report. 2018 report, we have upgraded to follow GRI Standards. VERSION · 2019-06 The latest Sustainability Report was summarized in the Responsible publisher and contact person: annual report for the calendar year 2017 and was based on Andreas Malmberg CEO GRI G4. A summary of this report is included in the annual report for TRIOPLAST INDUSTRIER AB 2018. Box 143 · SE-333 23 Smålandsstenar +46 371-345 00 · trioplast.com 7 4. ABOUT TRIOPLAST Trioplast is an industrial group with approximately 1,000 employees and a turnover of SEK 4.3 billion. The Group is one of Europe’s leading players in innovative and costefficient packaging solutions based on polyethylene film. The company’s registered office is in Smålandsstenar in Sweden. It operates production facilities in Sweden, Denmark and France and sells its products to a global market. The principal owner of Trioplast is Altor Fund IV AB. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION AND MARKET Sales split (2016) OTHER 5,5% SWEDEN 24% REST OF EUROPE 70,5% Russia Japa n a nad Uk Ca rai ne A US o el Mex Isra ic ia ew HEADQUARTERS stral N Au an d al PRODUCTION/SALES COMPANY Ze SALES COMPANY 8 TRIOPLAST develops, produces and distributes film and packaging material for use in a variety of industries and busiRELIABLE nesses – agriculture, farming, hygiene and medical, construc•We are accessible and maintain a high level of service and tion, energy and waste handling to name only a few. expertise with local support for customers. Our market position today is mainly due to our long-term •We are experts in our fields and have an sharp focus on our relationships and active dialogue with customers and partners. partnerships with customers and other stakeholders. Quite simply, we grow together, and the result is a customer •We understand the importance of persisting until challenges offering that is not only adding value such as sustainable are resolved. optimized products, product quality and high service level, •We are honest and responsible and have an open and close but also provides new innovative solutions based on our dialogue with the customer in order to deliver the most funcmarket’s needs. tional and profitable solutions. Over the years, we have developed an competence base •We are aware of our environmental responsibility and thus in all our fields of application – thanks to being close to the focus on recycling and supporting ideas to create a circular markets we are active in. Our expertise enables us to create economy. efficient and customized solutions for our customers. Our •We always put work and product safety first, and make sure production units are spread around Europe, which means we no one is injured at their workplace through the use or delivery are often close to the customer. This creates good conditions of our products. for the relationship and exchange of knowledge that are so important for developing business, both for the customer and for Trioplast as a supplier. LONG-TERM •We create strong and long-term relationships with customers, 4:1. VISION employees and other stakeholders. •Our global approach means that while we are global in how Driven by our customers’ present and future needs, we we conduct business, we are on-site locally, near our customers constantly strive to be the first choice regarding sustainable in their markets. polyethylene film-based solutions. •We monitor the market and participate in, and lead, product development for the medium and premium segments. •Our goal is to be a long-term, financially strong and 4:2. MISSION independent cutting-edge company. •We are an attractive employer and we future-proof our We are an integral part of our customers’ competitive edge employees by constantly maintaining and improving their skills. We deliver sustainable superior products at the highest •We take corporate social responsibility now and in the future. service levels We do this through world-class manufacturing, best-in-class sourcing, and the industry’s best value-based sales and marketing ACTIVE We focus on our chosen core markets with our core products •We are active in everything we do; we constantly seek new information and welcome new knowledge. •We are flexible and take a fresh approach in order to be 4:3. TRIOPLAST CSR POLICY able to continuously present innovative solutions that entail improvements for our customers, our surroundings, and At Trioplast we will: ourselves. •Assume responsibility for the societal impact of our operations. •Our innovative capacity shall not only be evident in our •Integrate human rights, environment, social responsibility products, but also in how we market and sell them. and anti-corruption into our day-to-day operations. •Our communication is professional and creates value, and •Evaluate, be innovative and develop our business model, we market the company via the channels that are relevant products and services to ensure sustainable operations. for our target groups. We are proud innovators who show our •Ensure compliance with legislation and the UN Global ability and desire to continue to develop for a sustainable Compact in our value chain. future. •Work actively to be a long-term partner and employer. 4:4. CORE VALUES Reliable, Long-term and Active – shall run as a common theme though the organization to remind us of what we promise our customers. By incorporating added value into our brand, we ensure our own profitability and Trioplast’s future. 9 4:5. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES Trioplast’s Group Management Team is responsible for the loss and balance sheets. Synergies identified across divisional governance of the entire Trioplast group. Trioplast is run boundaries are captured through Councils, in which particithrough a decentralized organizational structure with four pants come from each division. divisions having full responsibility for their respective profit & STRETCH FILM INDUSTRIAL FILM HYGIENE FILM CARRIER BAGS COUNCIL Stretch Division President (Chair), Product Portfolio Management div Presidents and sales managers Industrial Division President (Chair), World Class Manufacturing div Heads of Operations PEand indirect sourcing, incl Reg & Waste CPO (Chair), commodity managers Net Working Capital CFO (Chair), div CFOs Finance/IT/Veritas CFO (Chair), div IT responsities 4:6. ORGANIZATION Trioplast is a group of four divisions: Stretch Film, Industrial Film, Hygiene Film, and Carrier Bags. We offer our customers value-adding products together with high-quality solutions, functionality and environmental awareness. Trioplast has close relations with its surrounding stakeholders – as suppliers and machine manufacturers, and through active research, we drive innovation and development within our markets. Each division has its own unique conditions in which to evolve and become financially sustainable in the long term. However, the common foundation for everything we do is still based on our fundamental core values: Reliable, Long-term and Active. 10 4:7. OUR DIVISIONS STRETCH FILM CARRIER BAGS – BENGT LUNDIN Manufactures and markets packaging stretch films for palManufactures and markets carrier bags and refuse bags for letizing and for agricultural applications such as bale wrap, the Nordic region. Functional, durable and eco-friendly carrier silage film and net replacement film. In addition, the Stretch bags are produced for grocery chains and retailers. Film division produces refuse bags made from recycled polyethylene (PCR). INDUSTRIAL FILM HYGIENE FILM Manufactures and markets packaging films, mainly for indusManufactures and markets cast extruded film, embossed trial and transport packaging. The product range includes a multilayer or breathable film, as well as blown film, that can number of industrial film products, including shrink film, FFS be supplied with 8-colour printing and bag converting. The (Form Fill Seal) and stretch hoods. In addition, the Industry division also offers lamination capability for non-woven appliDivision produce refuse bags made from recycled polyethylene. cations, including printing. Products range from hygiene and medical applications to diverse packaging for the hygiene and food segments. 11 TIMELINE THE JOURNEY FROM LOCAL TO GLOBAL ACTOR 2018 · Altor Fund IV to acquire Trioplast Industrier AB 2017 · New division structure in the Group for increased customer focus and clearer product offering 2016 · Divestment of Ekmans Jönköping AB, as part of focus on our core business 2015 · Divestment of shares in the joint venture company, Triomada, as part of focus on our core business 2007 · Acquisition of Ekoplast Emballage AB, Mo Industri AB and Extruding Pac i Glimåkra AB 1999 · Acquisition of Trioplast France 1997 · Acquisition of Trioplast Sifab AB and Trioplast Nyborg A/S 1995 · Acquisition of Trioplanex France SAS 1994 · Acquisition of Bengt Lundin AB 1993 · Acquisition of factory in Smålandsstenar (integrated into Trioplast AB) 1985 · Acquisition of Ekmans Jönköping AB 1984 · Trioplast Industrier AB is founded (the Group’s new parent company) 1980 · Trioplanex International AB is founded as a base for hygiene film operations 1978 · Acquisition of Trioplast Landskrona AB 1965 · Trioplast AB is founded by Vilhelm Larsson 1965 2018 12 5. MAJOR INVESTMENTS The group has made significant investments in recent years. Approximately SEK 690 million has been invested over the past five years, mainly in Stretch Film (for efficient material usage through downgauging) to achieve long-term, high-end production at our factories. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 TRIOPLAST AB: TRIOPLAST AB: TRIOPLAST AB: TRIOPLAST AB: TRIOPLAST NYBORG AS: • New building • 2 new IPS • Centralized • 2 refuse bags • Material handling blow lines packaging blow lines • New stretch system • New warehouse hood line • New agri blow line BENGT LUNDIN AB: • New blow line TRIOPLANEX INTERNATIONAL AB: • Upgraded cast line 13 6. RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES For the global development of the plastic industry in general, and for single-use products in particular, it is essential to monitor legislation and trends in order to be able to adapt. Through this, we have defined risks and opportunities. Topic Risk Opportunity Action Directive or fee-based Not having the products Develop portfolio in advance Define and implement influence to increase us developed to meet demand strategy of product portfolio of recycled material Regulatory demands Risk of losing business segAbility to be prepared Engagements in selected ments due to demands that through engagement associations we cannot meet Political and environmental Reduction of plastic through Define alternative business Define and implement legislation model strategy of product portfolio Health and safety Our employees’ health Create a safe work culture Safety week with continuous through broad engagement follow up Supply of raw material Lack of material in selected Being able to provide bestSecure long-term contracts areas in-class products in selected fields 14 7. TRIOPLAST SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 7:1. MATERIALITYAND STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS At Trioplast, we continuously monitor our stakeholders’ areas We have defined our stakeholders in accordance with the of interest and concerns, for example within environment, GRI Standards structure. work environment and energy consumption. In view of global For the 2018 Sustainability Report, we have identified two and local changes in political regulations for the plastic focus areas after input from our stakeholders: sustainable industry, we consider business intelligence as one of the most products and safety at work. important monitoring tasks going forward. We initiated more structured activities in this area in 2018. Internal stakeholders are defined as •owners •employees Customers Standardisation organisations Agents NGO’s Distrabutors Competitors Suppliers Media Local municipal contacts National Academia environmental Agencies National Trade unions chemical Agencies Partners Authorities Industry organisations 15 EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 7:2. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS At Trioplast, we continuously monitoring our stakeholder’s All companies in the Trioplast Group have signed and follow areas of interest and concerns, for example within environcollective agreements for employees. Most employee benefits ment, work environment and energy consumption. With the are governed by these central agreements and there are changes in the political regulations for the plastic industry several local collective agreements at each company that globally and regionally we consider business intelligence as regulate additional employee benefits. All companies have one of the most important tasks to monitor going forward. an agreement with an external corporate healthcare services During 2018 we initiated more structured activities in this company. field. Healthcare benefits are provided by most of the companies. Massage and recreational activities are subsidized. Work Our stakeholder analysis identified the following topics of footwear, computer glasses and medical examinations are high importance: paid for by the company. • Sustainable products • Safety at work • Circular plastics – recycling and renewable 7:3. SOCIETY • Plastics in the environment • Quality assurance We take social responsibility in several different ways. • Standardization within plastics and environmental aspects We actively sponsor research regarding breast, prostate • Regulations and legislation and childhood cancer through our campaigns with pink, blue and yellow bale wrap together with pink refuse bags • Research-based facts We also provide an annual contribution to the Swedish • Competence in selected areas such as regulations Childhood Cancer Foundation at Christmas instead of • Sustainability strategy with clear goals and policies Christmas gifts for our customers. 16 7:4. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES • 79% men and 21% women Country Number of employees 2017 Number of employees 2018 Sweden 663 663 UK 2 2 Finland 4 4 Denmark 169 165 Germany 9 9 France 171 166 Total 1018 1009 7:5. SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE The SEDEX system contains a self-evaluation, consisting of a comprehensive questionnaire, and a risk assessment tool. In order to ensure our sustainability process, Trioplast has The tool is based on an assessment of the risk data for the chosen to measure and follow up the following areas. country and industry in question and the responses from the self-evaluation. Sustainability KPIs: 1. LTAR – Lost working time resulting from accidents at work 7:8 MEMBERSHIPS : in relation to the time worked. 2. Energy consumption – Total energy consumption in • UN Global Compact relation to the volume of approved production. • IKEM (Innovation and Chemical Industries in Sweden) • IK (Industrievereinigung Kunststoffverpackungen e. V.) Sustainability review • Graphics Companies • SINF (Swedish Industrial Association) 7:6. ECOVADIS • • Normpack, Sweden EDANA (European Disposals and Nonwovens Association) EcoVadis is the leading system for evaluating suppliers’ envi• SIS (Swedish Standards Institute) ronmental aspects, working conditions, business responsibili• AFNOR (Association Française de Normalisation) ties and subcontractors. The system is used by multinational • CEN (Comité Européen de Normalisation) companies with high ethical ambitions to evaluate their • ISO (International Organization for Standardization). supply chains. Trioplast uses the EcoVadis sustainability rating platform for In addition to these, Trioplast has several local engagements the assessment and grading of our sustainability management. and memberships linked to certain sites. This is partly for ourselves, but also for our suppliers. The goal is to increase the average sustainability rating to Gold level. Today, we have the silver rating. EcoVadis uses recognized methods and standards such as Global Reporting Initiative, the UN Global Compact and ISO 26000 when evaluating companies. 7:7. SEDEX The database provided by SEDEX (Supply Ethical Data Exchange) has been implemented by Trioplast since 2012 for internal risk management and follow-up of the code of conduct. SEDEX members use the database to store, share and report information on working conditions, health and safety, the environment and business ethics. By sharing the information with customers, Trioplast makes procedures for workplace checks and audits more efficient while also increasing transparency. 17 8. RESULTS A TRUE CIRCULAR ECONOMY – TRIOPLAST FOCUSES ON RECYCLED MATERIAL At Trioplast, we think about the environment in everything we do. Every division, production unit and employee contribute to minimizing environmental impact. Remove, Reduce and Recycle are the keywords that remind us of our daily environmental tasks. REMOVE Using renewable raw material in our manufacturing of a product reduces our environmental impact significantly. Therefore, we are extra proud of our product Triogreen, which consists of renewable raw material. We are one of few com­panies in the world that can offer an alternative to the traditional polye­thylene film. That makes us proud. REDUCE Together with our customers we work to optimize the use of material, packaging solutions and transport to keep our shared environmental impact to a minimum. We develop thinner and stronger products and use more and more recycled materials. We optimize transports by having a high filling level on the trucks. In this way we do not compromise on quality, function or our environment. RECYCLE We enjoy recycling. Therefore, we make sure to recycle all material in our production that is not delivered to our custom­ers. We not only focus in recycling our own materials, we also recycle externally purchased material. It is our natural cycle. 18 8:1. SELECTED INITIATIVES FOR A 8:3. RECYCLING MORE SUSTAINABLE FUTURE In its Plastic Strategy, the EU Commission has defined standardization as one of the most important paths to a circular • Trioplast processes approx. 200,000 tons of polyethylene, economy. In order to stay informed and be able to influence of which more than 50,000 tons is based on recycled material. the future of our industry, Trioplast has a broad engagement • Recycled feed stock comes from both PCR (Post-Consumer in standardization of environmental aspects. Recycled) and PIR (Post Industrial Recycled) waste streams, Trioplast’s engagement is on all levels – local, regional and thereby significantly reducing the carbon footprint of the global. We participate as expert in a number of standardizabusiness. tion working groups, and are leading the international ISO • Trioplast partly uses CO2-neutral electricity in most of our group for Mechanical and Chemical Recycling. In our engagefactories. ment we strive to drive the development of new standards • Trioplast is constantly developing new technological soluin order to enable an increased circularity, with a focus on tions based on renewable alternatives such as the Triogreen recyling. brand, which makes Trioplast one of the very few companies globally that can offer polyethylene film manufactured using bio-based raw materials. • A ground-breaking product for the environment – the climateSWEDEN (SIS) smart carrier bag (up to 80% recycled material) – is available in the Nordic region. Plastic and environmental Aspects • Active engagement in local, regional and global environIn the working group on environmental aspects of plastic, mental aspects through standardization groups, covering standards are developed in the areas of bio-based plastics, areas such as recycled polyethylene, bio-based polymers and biodegradable plastics, carbon footprint and other environnomenclature. Convenor of the ISO standardization group, mental impacts, such as the characterization of plastic leakMechanical and Chemical Recycling. age (including microplastics), plastic recycling and resource efficiency (including circular economy). Engagement: This is the ticket to all other working groups. 8:2. INNOVATION AND SUSTAINABILITY – THE TRIOPLAST WAY EUROPE (CEN) The switch from a linear to circular economy is happening Characterization of degradability fast in the plastics industry. In 2018, as a way to address this Definition of terms, vocabulary and means of identification opportunity, Trioplast initiated, and to some extent impleregarding degradable plastics and the degradability of plastics. mented, a group-wide five-year strategic plan for innovation Standardization of test methods for the characterization of and sustainability. the degradability of plastics in various environments. Standardization of specifications for degradable plastics. The plan consists of several elements, with Engagement: To keep informed on developments in this clearly defined KPIs: material area. • Increased use of recycled material • Increased use of bio-based polyethylene Plastics recycling • Development of smart products Develop standards within plastic recycling. • Time to market Engagement: To direct the creation of relevant standards in Our efforts will make Trioplast contribute more to sustainaorder to increase the use of recycled plastics. bility, through true circularity and a reduced carbon footprint. Furthermore, our customers will also benefit through the Biopolymers Trioplast sustainable product offering. Develop standards within bio-based and biodegradable The review has been initiated and full implementation is polymers. planned for 2019. Engagement: To follow developments in this field. As a part of our sustainable responsibility action plan, we have a broad engagement in order to actively participate in decreasing the environmental footprint. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS: Strategic aspects and coordination of all standardization activities in the field of plastics relating to environmental aspects. The focus is on, but not limited to, bio-based plastics, biodegradability, carbon and environmental footprint, circular economy and resource efficiency, microplastics and plastics in the environment, recycling and waste management. Engagement: To direct the creation of relevant standards in order to increase the use of recycled plastics. 19 GLOBAL (ISO) 8:5. QUALIFICATION OF SUPPLIERS Environmental aspects: For raw material, new suppliers become qualified after All standardization activities in the field of plastics relating approved product tests and a review of their processes and to environmental and sustainability aspects. The focus is procedures through on-site audits. This is follow-up up in on, but not limited to, bio-based plastics, biodegradability, accordance with Trioplast’s supplier assessment procedure. environmental footprint (including carbon footprint), resource efficiency (including circular economy), characterization of plastics leaked into the environment (including microplastics), waste management (including organic, mechanical and 8:6. TRANSPORT chemical recycling). At Trioplast, we optimize packaging so that it can be doubleEngagement: To direct the creation of relevant standards in stacked. For some of our partners, we have developed special order to increase the use of recycled plastics pallets, which further optimize the load. We also run an innovation project in which we replace carton with polyethylene Vocabulary to minimize the amount of air in the package. Using this soluTerminology, classifications and general guidance tion, we can add another layer to the load in the vehicle. Our Engagement: To direct the creation of relevant standards in haulage contractors combine transportation to our customers order to increase the use of recycled plastics with the return of plastic waste to Trioplast. This plastic waste is used to produce new eco-friendly products. In 2017, one Biodegradability of our largest freight carriers has invested in a fossil-free (As the European group above) domestic mixed cargo system in which all approved vehicles Engagement: To keep informed on developments in this will switch in the first instance to HVO 100 fuel when access material area. and capacity are available, or otherwise use high-blend fuels. The supplier’s investment is expected to reduce CO2 emisBio-based plastics sions by 50% and their ultimate goal is to reach a 90% CO2 (As the European group above) reduction when market conditions are optimal. Engagement: To keep informed on developments in this material area Characterization of plastics leaked into the environment 8:7. EXTENDED PRODUCER (including microplastics) Standardization of plastic leaked into the environment RESPONSIBILITIES (EPR) Engagement: This will eventually affect our industry and we need to be informed Trioplast participates in a number of waste collection schemes across the regions and markets in which we are active. Most Mechanical and chemical recycling (Convenor) of the schemes concern the collection of agricultural plastic The working group addresses different types of recycling, waste. including the corresponding preparatory activities, with a Trioplast is actively participating in the start up of new focus on mechanical recycling and chemical and/or feedstock extended schemes, which in 2018 will include a scheme in recycling, but excluding biological and/or organic recycling, Spain, through APE. and energy recovery. Engagement: To direct the creation of relevant standards in order to increase the use of recycled plastics. 8:8. COOPERATION THE RECYCLING INDUSTRY 8:4. SUPPLIERS Trioplast protects the environment through our cooperation with the recycling industry, ensuring that the volume of Almost everything that we source is raw material for our re-granulate that we today cannot manufacture in our own products. It is also an area in which we can make an impact recycling plants will be produced by our partners. by improving the way we and our suppliers work. We have long-term cooperation with our recycling partners Trioplast sources from the global market. We source from and we have developed the material to suit the right applicasuppliers that help to develop, and take a great responsibility tion to ensure that we meet our high-quality standards and for, the efficient use of the Earth’s resources. reduce the carbon footprint for the product. We maintain our market leadership through our sustainable We continuously monitor the supplier market for developproducts by taking advantage of the strengths of our supplier ments in this field to secure the supply of post-consumer base. We focus on achieving results through deepened relarecycled material at the right quality for our products. tionships and close technical cooperation with key partners. 20 8:9. CERTIFIED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Certified management systems are considered to be one of the pillars of Trioplast sustainability management and the introduction of the new ISO has started at all sites. 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2017 2018 2019 2020 Units certified to ISO 9001 Units certified to ISO 14001 Units certified to ISO 22000 Units certified to ISO 50001 Units certified to ISO 18001 Reduction in the number of ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certificates in 2019 due to the merger of Trioplanex International AB and Trioplast Landskrona AB At Trioplast, we continuously update our management systems. All units were successfully certified in accordance with ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 in 2018. Ekoplast Emballage AB was successfully certified in accordance with ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 9001:2015 in 2018. In 2018, Trioplast AB in Smålandsstenar conducted an energy audit whose outcome will offer guidance for all Swedish sites. In the audit, areas with energy reduction potential were defined, to be used for future energy reduction. Examples of potential savings: • Energy-efficient extruder motors • Heat exchange from air compressors • Replacement of luminaries 21 9. OBJECTIVES AND ACTION 9:1. GRI TOPIC: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Trioplast objectives 2018 2019 Boundary Health and safety are at Sustainability work continues to Maintain the on-going health and Trioplast the top of the agenda in all prioritize health and safety in all safety communication in internal internal meetings. internal meetings. meetings. Enhanced safety awareness, All new employees will attend an Maintain awareness through contiTrioplast through training for example introductory safety course. nued communication, safety training and other activities. Follow-up and activities to Work environment reviews at all Work environment reviews at all Trioplast reduce the number of accisites. sites and follow up progress and dents in the workplace. processes. Training of employees and WCM – World Class Manufacturing Continued improvements as part of Trioplast improvements in production and LEAN, upgraded and modified WCM processes to achieve our version goal of being a good, safe workplace. 9:2. GRI TOPIC: CHARITY Trioplast Objectives 2018 2019 Boundary We contribute to a numTogether with distributors and end We will continue with the same Trioplast ber of activities in society, customers, Trioplast has donated activities as in 2018. customers including, but not limited SEK 2.0 million from sales of pink, to, cancer research. We blue and yellow agri stretch film also sponsor local sports plus SEK 110 thousand from sales associations. of pink refuse bags to fund cancer research. Local community involvement. We are a member of the UN Became a member of the UN An update on progress will be Trioplast Global Compact initiative Global Compact initiative in published in 2019. Relevant and we ensure compliance January 2017. Progress is reported Implementation of stakeholder stakeholders with our Code of Conduct. annually agreement to follow the Trioplast Code Of Conduct. 22 9:3. GRI TOPIC · ENVIRONMENT Trioplast Objectives 2018 2019 Boundary We installed filter traps to Operation Clean Sweep partly Continue implementation of filter Trioplast ensure that polyethylene implemented traps for granules granulate does not contaminate the surface water system. Develop sustainable, climateSetting sustainable innovative Implementation of sustainable Trioplast smart product solutions. strategy including use of renewable product platform, including Customers raw material, recycled polyethylene branded product portfolio, LCA and downgauging and full information package We conduct life cycle Investment in life cycle Added tool and LCA expertise Trioplast assessments. assessment tool. resource. Offer the service to Customers customers for their individual products Trioplast CSR information Trioplast Industrier AB is connected Continue reporting and raise Trioplast can be found on the SEDEX to EcoVadis and was graded at the EcoVadis grading to the Gold Customers and EcoVadis websites. Silver level for 2018. level. We establish sustainable, Extended communication with our In our sustainable product Trioplast long-term relationships with customer segment through WE portfolio package, we will offer Customers our customers. ARE magazine, news updates on customized cross-functional trioplast.com, and rolling out of sustainability training Trioplast Linkedin. 23 9:4. HEALTH AND SAFETY 9:6. LOCAL COMMUNITY A good work environment is the foundation for having INVOLVEMENT motivated and committed employees. We want an organiWe have a number of ongoing projects such as on-the-job zation in which employees develop and feel good. Therefore, training and introductory programs. One example is an initihealth and safety are at the top of the agenda in all internal ative at Trioplast Nyborg, where for several years employees meetings. We continuously increase safety awareness by with reduced working capacity have been hired for a range of training initiatives such as E-learning and BAM (Better Work less demanding roles. Nyborg also runs an on-the-job training Environment). We report LTAR and incidents, and follow up scheme in which Trioplast supports the municipality by the planned work environment activities. The Group has introproviding programs lasting for up to 13 weeks. duced a work environment audit as well as a Trioplast Safety School classes are always welcome to visit our production Award. units for introductory sessions and plant tours. Many people Providing information and training for employees, following visit us as part of their studies for degree projects or special up on activities, and continuous improvement of production projects. We also welcome companies for reference visits. processes are important for achieving our goal of having a Our sponsorships include Bladet Handicapidræt and Handicap safe and healthy work environment. This is done within the Posten in Denmark. We also sponsor an environmental framework of World Class Manufacturing. manual that is used in teaching at primary and lower secondary schools. We sponsor several local associations, especially those in 9:5. SAFETY ACTIVITIES which our employees and their families are engaged. Trioplast has a team of representatives from selected positions within the Group that conducts an annual work environment audit at each site. The results identify the best performing site, which is then awarded the Trioplast Safety Award. In 2018 an exception was made. Instead of a series of audits, a Safety Week was arranged at all sites. The Safety Week included all units in the Trioplast Group. The purpose was to raise awareness, achieve full engagement and get all employees involved in the improvement of our work environment. The week included both health and safety activities. Some of the activities were common to all the units, organized by the Group, while other activities were site-specific and organized locally. Common to all sites was the task of making “safety observations”. Instructions on how to make and discuss the observations were distributed and employees were encouraged to look out for anything that can improve safety for people working at Trioplast. The overall purpose of the safety observations was to create a safety culture in which employees talk about safety on a daily basis. Other activities included posters, educational meetings on different topics and watching educational films. 24 9:7. ‘WE ARE PROUD’ – PINK, BLUE AND YELLOW FOR INCREASED CANCER RESEARCH The idea for the colourful bales came originally from the Life cycle analyses and calculations of carbon footprint Trioplast distributor Agpac in New Zealand, where the In 2018 the decision was taken to invest in the software campaign started in 2014. The pink bales, which fund breast Sima-Pro to enable internal calculations of Life Cycle cancer research, and the blue bales, which support prostate Analysis. The goal is to: cancer research, were then introduced in large parts of Europe. • During product development being able to optimise the We are very proud of the cooperation with our distributors, environmental footprint farmers and entrepreneurs all over the world, which has • Provide comparative data between reference products and contributed a total of approximately SEK 6.8 million (excluding sustainable products refuse bags) to local charities. The pink bales have now been • Offer our customers Life Cycle Assessment of their specific supplemented with pink refuse bags, which also support products, according to agreement breast cancer research. The Swedish Breast Cancer Association (BRO) is one of Previously, life cycle assessments have been carried out on many organizations that receive part of the collected funds three different qualities of bale wrap: TRIOWRAP, TRIOPLUS from the pink bales and refuse bags. 2000 and TRIOPLUS HP. “We are happy and grateful for the commitment and contribution from Trioplast and the Swedish farmers. It increases our chances of helping those who are affected by breast cancer, among other things through grants for research, 9:7. LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT (LCA) rehabilitation efforts and, not least, support and advice for the affected people,” says Marit Jensen, Secretary General of BRO. In 2018, the decision was taken to invest in Sima-Pro The latest step in Trioplast’s charity work is yellow bales in software to enable internal calculations for life cycle assesssupport of childhood cancer research. The yellow plastic was ments. The goal is to: launched in Australia and New Zealand in 2017, and in • Enable optimization of the environmental footprint during Norway and Sweden during 2018. product development. Trioplast’s pink refuse bags generated a donation grant of • Provide comparative data between reference products and approximately SEK 110,000 in 2018. sustainable products. • Offer our customers life cycle assessment of their specific products, according to agreement. Previously, life cycle assessments have been conducted on three different qualities of bale wrap: TRIOWRAP, TRIOPLUS 2000 and TRIOPLUS HP. 25 9:8. ENERGY CONSUMPTION 9:9. ZERO PELLET LOSS As part of the aim to continuously reduce environmental As part of our CSR strategy, it was decided in November 2017 impact, Trioplast has partially switched to renewable energy that Trioplast should work towards the ‘zero pellet loss’ in the company’s production units. The conversion of plastic objective. To achieve this goal, Trioplast has chosen to products is a relatively energy-intensive activity, and the implement the Operation Clean Sweep program. change to renewable energy therefore has a very positive effect on the environment. This means that, first and foremost, we will: In addition to the fact that Trioplast directly reduces its 1. Assess Trioplast’s situation and needs environmental impact through actively choosing carbon• Completed in 2018. neutral energy, we are also proud to contribute to the devel2. Make required upgrades in facilities and equipment as opment and expansion of renewable energy, which in turn appropriate generates considerable benefits for the environment. • Implemented in some plants. Planned for the rest. Due to this decision, a proportion of the energy that Trioplast 3. Raise employee awareness and create accountability now uses comes from naturally renewed energy sources. • Action for 2018-2019 These include wind power, solar power derived from the sun’s 4. Follow up and ensure procedures are adhered to. radiation, and hydro power, which is renewed naturally via a closed system. Renewable energy is produced with as little As a first step, all Trioplast gullies in close proximity to pellet impact on the environment as possible, as it is not associated handling must be secured with sieves and pellet separators. with high carbon dioxide emissions. 9:10. UN GLOBAL COMPACT Trioplast is a part of the world’s largest sustainability initiative – the United Nations Global Compact program. The aim of the initiative is to create and promote the development of international principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Communication on Progress – How Trioplast applies the UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a sustainability initiative in which companies support and respect ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 26 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle Objective Description/ Target Results and progress verification 1 Businesses should Through our Code of Trioplast has the following Development of CSR policy support and respect Conduct goals for 2018-2020: and supplier audits. Signing of the protection of interAll employees shall underSupplier Code of Conduct by nationally proclaimed stand and comply with the suppliers has been initiated. human rights. Trioplast Code of Conduct. Establish supplier approval Code of Conduct 2 Make sure that process through updated All employees at Trioplast businesses are not supplier audit template shall know and understand the complicit in human with CSR, regulatory and guidelines in the code as well rights abuses. environmental information. as the core values that the code Suppliers with a purchase is based on. They shall follow volume over EUR 100,000 the code, help others to do the shall sign a Supplier Code same, and report deviations of Conduct or equivalent. from the code. The Trioplast Code of Conduct is based on internationally accepted principles and values. The Purchasing Process includes Approval and follow-up of our suppliers to ensure that they comply with our requirements for suppliers. 27 LABOUR Principle Objective Description/ Target Results verification 3 Businesses should All employees are All employees are entitled Continuing with freedom uphold the freedom covered by collective to be covered by collective of association. of association and the agreements in Sweden, agreements in Sweden, effective recognition France and Denmark. France and Denmark. of the right to collectiLocal trade unions are ve bargaining. present at all sites and are represented on company boards. 4 The elimination of all Every supplier with a At the end of 2019, all suppSome suppliers with a forms of forced and purchase volume over liers with a larger purchase purchase volume over compulsory labour EUR 1 million must sign a volume than EUR EUR 1 million have 5 The effective abolition Supplier Code of Conduct 1 million shall sign the signed the Trioplast of child labour Trioplast Supplier Code of Supplier Code of Conduct. Conduct. 6 The elimination of disWe comply with the Trioplast has the following Development of CSR crimination in respect current legislation of the goals for 2018-2020: policy, decision made of employment and countries in which we All employees shall underon group-wide sustaioccupation operate. stand and comply with the nability education and Though our Code of Trioplast Code of Conduct continuing with supplier Conduct, the Purchasing Establish supplier approval audits Process and freedom of process through updated association. supplier audit template with CSR, regulatory and environmental information. Suppliers with a purchase volume over Euro 1 million shall sign a ’Supplier Code of Conduct’ 28 ENVIRONMENT Principle Objective Description/ verification Target Results 7 Businesses should Trioplast is working to Trioplast has the following Development of support a precauensure that all units are goals for 2019-2020: CSR policy. tionary approach certified in accordance Group-wide sustainability Plan for life cycle to environmental with ISO 14001. Trioplast’s education with information assessment. challenges environmental policy is the about CSR policy as well as basis for our environmental overall environmental edu8 Undertake initiatives management work. The cation that will highlight our to promote greater work we do to ensure comenvironmental aspects. Launch environmental responpliance with REACH and sustainable product portfolio sibility. other relevant legislation. for all divisions, including LCAs We actively engage in the and information package collection of agricultural plastic waste through involvement in EPR systems. Through our environmental policy and CSR policy, and the decision to invest in LCA software. 9 Encourage the deveWe work on downgauTrioplast has the following Monthly follow up on lopment and spread ging and new sustainable goals for 2019-2023: set KPIs of environmentally materials in the form of KPIs for increased usage of friendly technologies re-granulates and renewa• recycled polyethylene ble raw materials • renewable-based polyThough our innovation ethylene projects together with our •downgauging in all divisions innovation and sustainability strategy 29 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle Objective Description/verification Target Result 10 Anti-corruption BusiThe Competition Compliance Trioplast has the Signed and agreed nesses should work policy and clarifying documents following goals for Competition against corruption in are reviewed annually and signed 2019-2020: Compliance policy for all its forms, including by employees involved in purchaAll affected employees relevant employees extortion and bribery. sing and sales, and those in the shall sign and follow company’s executive positions. the previously-mentioThis also applies to other staff ned policy. members who have regular external contacts. The process and the signed documents are handled by the managing directors of each Trioplast legal entity. Through our Competition Compliance policy. 30 10. GRI NUMBER DISCLOSURE GRI 101:Foundation 2018 and GRI 102: General Disclosures (Core) PART STANDARDS ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organisation 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 4 102-3 Location of headquaters 4 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4 102-6 Markets served 4 102-7 Scale of the organization 4 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 7:4 102-9 Supply chain 8:4 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 4:7 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 3 102-12 External initiatives 7:8 102-13 Membership of associations 7:8 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 1 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 4:3, 4:4 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 4:5 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 7:1 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 7:2 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 7:1 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 7:1 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 6 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 4 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 3 102-47 List of material topics 3 102-48 Restatements of information 9 102-49 Changes in reporting 3 102-50 Reporting period 3 102-51 Date of most recent report 3 102-52 Reporting cycle 3 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 3 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 10 102-55 GRI content index 10 102-56 External assurance * TRIOPLAST OWN TOPICS GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 6 climate change 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 8:7 301-2 Recycled input materials used 8:8 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 9:9 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 8:8 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 9:1 403-3 Occupational health services 7:2 403-4 ”Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 9:1 occupational health and safety” 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 9:1 403-9 Work-related injuries 9:4 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assess9:6 ments, and development programs * See separate financial report 31 TRIOPLAST INDUSTRIER AB Parkgatan 10, Box 143, SE-333 23, Smålandsstenar, Sweden Tel. +46 371 345 10 info.smt@trioplast.com · www.trioplast.com
