SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sidi Kerir Petrochemicals Co. (SIDPEC) We Consistently Demonstrate Business Excellence 2 In This Report CEO Message 3 SIDPEC Profile 5 Part ONE Human Right 17 Part TWO Labor 33 Part THREE Environment 38 Part FOUR Anti-corruption 47 Disclousres alignment with 49 UNGC Principles & SDGs 3 CEO Message Dr. Mosaad Elkasaby Chairman& CEO At the beginning of my word, I would like to welcome you and invite you to review the progress mentioned in our sustainability annual report 2018. SIDPEC commitment to sustainability begins with SIDPEC is keen to implement various and the policy statement, which is in line with the ten effective management systems by documenting principles of the UN Global Compact, as it includes procedures that enable it to make decisions on the continuous improvements towards performance, issues covered by the principles of the Global and commitment to meet the legal requirements, Compact, identify action plans, time frames, domestic legislation and international standards on responsibilities and resources to achieve human rights, labor, environment and antipredetermined improvements in line with the corruption covered by the principles of the Global sidpec's strategic directions. Compact. 4 CEO Message SIDPEC has set strategic objectives to implement its long-term vision and mission. Also, key success factors have been developed that can be quantified through periodically relevant key performance indicators as well as the implementation methods of annual and medium-term objectives and programs. We also have a way of prioritizing risks and opportunities for our current operations or when designing new processes or activities and assess our impact on issues covered by the principles of the Global Compact. We are monitoring our procedures to ensure that they are properly applied through internal audits of our management systems. SIDPEC is focusing to maintain the leadership of the local market and presence in the international markets through maximizing value added, preserving the assets and interest of interested parties. In 2018, and compared to 2017, we achieved an increase in net profit by 14.7%, and earnings per share by 14.5%. SIDPEC has taken in 2018 list of procedures to reach to our strategic objectives. On the economic level, the “new amine unit” has been successfully operated and its outputs have been utilized to feed the “Air Liquide's CO2 liquefaction unit” which had economic and environmental returns. Also, the acquisition of 20 % of the Petrochemicals logistics services-PLS (Alexandria Company for sodium carbonate Solvay ) to complete our needs of imported feed gases in conjunction with the continuation of the progress in the implementation of propylene and polypropylene projects. We are proceeding in the implementation studies of “process safety management system” and the “ORACLE ERP system”. On the environmental level, we participated in the “World Environment Day” and launched an initiative to invite scientific research bodies to participate in research to combat pollution caused by plastic. On the community level, we have a positive contribution to the development of local society in the fields of education, training, culture and infrastructure development. At the end, I would like to express my sincere thanks and appreciation to all stakeholders, especially our employees who have worked in the framework of team work, taking into account the achievement of excellence in every task they perform and adherence to the highest ethical standards in all their dealings. 5 SIDPEC PROFIL E Products Sales Revenue TON 218 TON 290 EGP 5.7 Thousand Thousand Billion Of polyethylene production Of petrochemicals sales Achieved during 2018 during 2018 during 2018 Net Profit GHGs Emissions Energy Consumption EGP 1.3 TCO2 5.1 MWH 9.5 Billion Thousand Thousand Achieved during 2018 Reduction in emissions of Saving in electrical energy polluted CO2 since 2015 consumption since 2015 Waste Water Accidents Local Community M3 1,038 HOUR 1.5 EGP 11.3 Thousand Million Million Treated industrial water Without any injuries during our social contribution during 2018 2018 during 2018 6 SIDPEC PROFIL E 7 SIDPEC PROFIL E Sustain leadership in the Vision Petrochemicals’ Industry Excellence in Staff development Justice and Integrity performance Core Values Team spirit Sustainability Maintain safety Effective monitoring of performance Increase the number of customers Updating supply chain and logistics Increase the production capacity Optimal utilization of resources Updating units and equipment systems Success Factors Maximize value added by increasing production capacity and adding new products Strategic Objectives Maintain assets and interest to interested parties 8 SIDPEC PROFIL E Our SWOT analysis provides a foundation for SIDPEC seeks to activate its role in developing strategy by the determination of strengths and weaknesses within SIDPEC as improving the quality of its services and well as external opportunities and threats. aligning them with the vision of “Egypt We establish annual targets, and their 2030” and its use of features and corresponding action plans to achieve the strategic objectives, a timeline for starting advantages and keeping up with the and ending the action, and how the outcome visions. will be measured and evaluated. The most important programs that implemented during last periods are stated below. Upgrading control systems; Implement no cost/low cost projects to reduce energy consumptions and GHGs emissions; Prepare for implementing process safety management; Prepare for implementing ORACLE and MAXIMO programs; Qualify the leadership cadres. 9 SIDPEC PROFIL E SIDPEC can produce Polyethylene (high-density & linear 1st Step low-density grades) using Ethylene which is produced by the processing of Ethane/Propane as a raw material. towards integration in SIDPEC utilizes the finest technologies in production petrochemicals’ industry in Egypt which are also environment-friendly and energy saving. Egyptene ® as the trade name of SIDPEC polymers, is one of the finest well-known products in polyethylene industry worldwide as well as the local market. Product and Applications Blow Injection Molding Molding Roto Film Molding Applications 10 SIDPEC PROFIL E SIDPEC accounting control adopted by corporate governance takes two directions: 1. Accountability from higher administrative levels SIDPEC keens through its corporate to lower administrative ones as: governance to achieve transparency and a) Different committees like Marketing, justice, grant the right of accountability to Energy management system, customer the management of the company, complain, safety committees….etc. considering the interests of labor and 2. Accountability that shared between the board of workers, developing investment, directors, shareholders and stakeholders as: maximize profits, create new jobs, a) The existence of audit committees which maintaining minority rights and small is one of the main entities for evaluating investors. the levels of governance applied in our business organization. b) Reporting of External auditors on their impartial technical opinion on the veracity and fairness of the prepared financial statements. c) General Assembly held annually. d) Our existence in stock market. 11 SIDPEC PROFIL E List of stakeholder groups engaged by SIDPEC who affect or can be affected by the sidpec's activities and services Identification and External selection of our stakeholders are Customers based on parameters: influence two Neighbor Companies Internal Government and dependability Authorities (both parameters range from 1-4) to Surrounded Community Service Board of Internal develop the Providers Directors Manpower Managers corresponding matrix Investors scale from 1-16. Suppliers/ Vendors External Engagement Internal Engagement •regularly engages in dialogue with stakeholders to Financial SIDPEC keep up-to-date Statements Ideas Bank with stakeholder expectations. Web Site Services Survey Sustainabilty Customer Awareness & •is reporting the key Feedback Measages topics and SIDPEC concerns that have been raised to its Sustainability Code of Conduct stakeholders Report HSE SIDPEC Policy Competitions 12 SIDPEC PROFIL E SIDPEC commits to encouraging a safe, supportive and reproductive work environment through cooperative and sustainable principles of conduct and ethical behavior. We envision added human rights and social value by incorporating Social Responsibility into our activities. Our approach is built upon a holistic view, transparency and an open dialogue with consideration to our stakeholders’ interests. We are accountable for our impact on society, the economy and the environment with respect to the rules of law and international norms of behavior. 1Governance: 2Human Rights: Our decisions are taken in pursuit of our objectives We believe that all employees deserve to work in an environment where they are treated with dignity and and are built upon factual Data. respect. We are committed to creating such an We gain credibility by adhering to our commitments, environment because it brings out the full potential displaying honesty and integrity and reaching in each one, which in turn, contributes directly to our business success. company goals solely through honorable conduct. We are an equal employment entity and are Management is responsible for demonstrating committed to providing a workplace that is free of through their actions, the importance of this code. discrimination of all types of abusiveness, offensiveness or harassing behavior. Any employee who feels harassed or discriminated against should report the incident to his or her supervisor or department manager. If the employee is not satisfied that the matter has been appropriately addressed, the employee should feel free to address this issue to the company’s Chairman. We oppose child labor in our premises and among our stakeholders. 13 SIDPEC PROFIL E 3Labor Practices: 4The environment: We endeavor to invest in our employees by We are committed to conserve the natural providing them with the best possible skills and environment, endorsing the principles of sustainable abilities in order to develop their individual potential use and minimum impact on the environment in full to the maximum, and thereby contribute to a compliance with the applicable laws and regulation. sustainable success and competitiveness of our Our stakeholders should be sensitive to the impact of enterprise. We provide specific training to the their operation on the local community and cultural employees as regards to technical aspects connected setting within which they work and minimize any with our processes and the field of health & safety at adverse effects. the workplace as well as other relevant aspects We encourage our stakeholders to develop their own, connected with the enterprise activities. and others’ understanding of the environment We strive to create working conditions that give our protection and the behaviors that can adversely affect employees the convenient environment to work it. considering the human aspects and particularly Within our decisions and activities, we adopt special without any risk for their health and industrial practices that take into consideration the direct and hygiene. indirect economic, social, health and environmental We have clear recruitment and promotion criteria for implications. all employees. Our grievance procedures are We envision ourselves in future as a zero liquid identified and we recognize the right for employees’ discharge, zero pollutants emission and zero wasted representation to participate in a transparent social energy company. dialogue. 14 SIDPEC PROFIL E 5Fair Operating Practices: 7Community Involvement and development: We prohibit corrupt or non-ethical practices. We consider ourselves as an integral partner of the We investigate all reported instances of questionable community in approaching educational development or unethical behavior and take appropriate actions projects. that prevent such unethical behavior in the future. We provide continuous contributions to the Our commitment to integrity begins with complying surrounding communities to promote higher levels of with laws, rules and regulations. well-being in these communities. We are dedicated to ethical, fair and vigorous We provide employment opportunities for our competition. We sell our products based on their surrounding community either directly through us or superior quality, functionality and competitive indirectly through our subcontractors. pricing. We never cease to invest tremendously on our We respect the property right of others. We do not community health care projects. acquire or seek to acquire improper means of a We support research and development projects in competitor’s proprietary or confidential information. cooperation with governmental institutions and universities. 6Consumer Issues: We are keen to provide products, which achieve our customers’ satisfaction. We provide our customers with fair and transparent “ information of our products. We review our customers’ complaints and improve practices in response to them. IT IS EASY TO SAY WHAT WE MUST DO, We offer adequate and efficient support and advice system for our customers. We always take adequate measures to protect our customer health, safety and business. BUT THE PROOF IS IN OUR ACTIONS ” 15 SIDPEC PROFIL E Strategic Plan refers to certain strategic objectives over the future. In order to achieve them, different goals shall be performed. Below is an account of the most important actions in 2018 and other going steps in 2019: Delayed In Progress Completed 2018 Actions 2018 Status 2019 Steps Establish new projects, transition EnMS Improve energy efficiency and performance into 2018 edition and train Energy team Upgrade the control system of equipment Complete 2018 action, upgrade others Achieve Zero mechanical failure which can Complete 2018 action cause total production loss Upgrade VSD of some equipment Implement 2018 actions Maximize the efficiency of civil preventive Complete 2018 action maintenance plan Enhance the performance of information Upgrading the data collection systems, system network Enhancing Web System information Implementation phase of Maximo and Implement EAM systems Oracle system Implement the new evaluation form Provide the require technical manpower regarding employees Provide training programs on sustainability Conduct series of other training programs Complete 2018 task, publish KPIs on Improve KPIs for all processes Power BI dashboard 16 SIDPEC PROFIL E Processes tie in with Feed the “Air Ethydco: Receive Value Operate “new amine Liquide's CO2 butadiene returns to Added unit . liquefaction unit LPG unit and send with 7,400 Ton/year C3/C4 and Butene-1 Acquisition of 20 % of the Acquisition of New logistics company for 20 % of Investment Petrochemicals Ethydco Tender to establish PDH project (500,000 Future Extention T/Y) and PP project (450,000 T/Y) Sidpec signed the final contract to purchase Alexandria Fiber 14.5%∆ Company’s land plot to expand its new PDH and PP 14.7%∆ projects. 15.7%∆ 17 Part ONE In This Section HEALTH AND SAFTEY 18 Health and Safety Systems. Protective Equipment and Training. Employee Involvement. EMPLOYMENT 22 Hours, Wages and Leave. Labor Practices. Training and Education. Medical Care. LOCAL COMMUNITY 26 Training and Education. Knowledge Sharing. Social Contribution. 18 Health and Safety Systems 49 Test SIDPEC is committed to provide a safe, suitable and work facilities to its employees and develops an emergency response procedure to measure the Of fire drills had been level of preparedness and response to emergency situations: performed during 2018 • Conduct training about the emergency response plan for all employees; • Perform fire drills for emergencies; • Identification of risks, environmental aspects and; • Formation of a committee to follow up and manage the crises. Issue “live saving rules” and publish it to all employees in additions to sharing educational videos about working in safe conditions. Preventive inspection is carried out on different sectors every three months to avoid accidents and injuries and to identify the risk areas. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 19 Protective Equipment and Training 474 SIDPEC keens to provide all employees with the protective equipment and conducts the necessary training required to perform their tasks safely: • Establish a “Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)” procedure designed Employees to create a barrier against workplace hazards and describes the methodology for ensuring proper selection, usage, storage and Had been trained on HSE maintenance of PPE. programs during 2018 • Training is carried out and, if appropriate, demonstrations in wearing/using PPE had been conducted in order to verify that each affected employee had received and understood the required PPE. There are series of work instructions had been developed like work permits, chemicals handling, ergonomics, and forklifts…etc. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 20 Employee Involvement SAFETY WEEK 335 Under the sponsorship of the Minster of Petroleum, SIDPEC organized an Event “Safety Week” from 2-4 December 2018. The program of this event contained: Employees • HSE introduction & Awareness for new employees; • Safety walk down in production and service sites conducted by CEO, top Participated in HSE managers and senior employees aimed to ensure the commitment of competition 2018 employees regarding safety rules and personal protective equipment (PPE); • Awards Ceremony regarding HSE competitions (Fire extinguisher; PPE) • Discuss the HSE survey submitted from employees; • Conduct an Ergonomics awareness; • Another Safety walk down conducted by safety sub-committees. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 21 Employee Involvement 1,499,304 SIDPEC actively involves workers in health and safety work as follow: • Provide a procedure and instructions for the Near miss report, which provides in a clear manner about the risks to which the workers may lead Hours to the occurrence of injuries or accidents; • Provide a procedure regarding incident investigation report in order to Without any injuries during record, investigate and analyze any incidents; hours lost as a result of 2018 injury or illness compared to total working hours; determine the week points and needs for corrective action and opportunities for improvement. • Accessibility to employee’ representative(s) to attend the periodical monthly safety committee and sub-committee meetings. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 22 Hours, Wages and Leave 1,060 SIDPEC keens to take the appropriate actions to maintain the rights of employees regarding working hours, wages and leave Employees according to the laws. Normal working hours are 40 per week (5 days/week) for staff working on daily basis, and 48 hours per week (4 days/week) for As work force in 2018 staff working on shift basis considered break time and taken into consideration the compensation of that time difference. Overtime if it is needed, is remunerated at premium rate. SIDPEC has a system to record and monitor hours worked by each employee, and it is appeared to each one on the intra information system. Employees are provided with a wage enough to living requirements and it paid regularly and it appeared in detail to each employee on the intra information system. Linking remuneration to performance & seniority & a degree of equitable distribution of variable pay tied to our business annual results. According to the laws, employees are granted of paid holiday leave per year, entitled to paid sick and females are entitled of paid maternity leave per child. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 human rights 23 Labor Practices 115 % All employees receive employment contracts before starting work and have a clear job description including their responsibilities towards assigned job of hiring plan was achieved and towards HSE and quality systems. in 2018 Each employee has access to all his personal data, including data concerning disciplinary decisions. Measurable contributions to HR performance including lower employee turnover, lower absenteeism, improved employee well-being and increase employee engagement. Career development policy aims to assist employees to focus on their skills and abilities and to identify future staffing needs. SIDPEC seeks employees, who are enthusiastic about their work and eager to make positive contributions that propel product innovation and improve business operation through their ideas, surveys and suggestions. The competitive retirement plans enhance employee’s involvement and belonging also increases retention and longer stays within the company: • Offering social insurance contribution that obtains the employee the highest pension grade when reaching retirement age. • Providing an additional pension benefit (supplementary pension); • Offering a life insurance policy subsidized by SIDPEC; • Qualified deferred compensation retirement plan offered to all employees; this plan provides a retirement reward at the age sixty. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 human rights 24 Training and Education 749 SIDPEC have invested heavily in training courses which promote understanding of how efforts made at the local level can improve Employees environment & quality of life. Our range of training & short courses provide opportunities for promoting sustainable development and social responsibility. Trained during 2018 SIDPEC have also launched several leadership development programs including advanced training for seasoned leaders & intensive rational programs for those early in their careers. SIDPEC offers training courses covering the areas of finance, operations, safety & marketing. The programs enable recent graduates & young leaders to accelerate their careers by gaining hands-on experience in multiple role. SIDPEC transfer valuable knowledge from the most experienced, high performing employees to others through internal training courses. When essential knowledge is captured & shared we touch an improved result across the range of cost saving, time on task, error rates and innovative solutions. SIDPEC organized two internal programs regarding new edition of EnMS (ISO 50001:2018) and risk management (ISO 31000:2018) guideline and awareness. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 human rights 25 Medical Care SIDPEC provides a Health Insurance Program for employees and their families through direct contracting with medical specialties (physicians, hospitals, laboratories, prosthetic devices, etc.). Employees enroll in and get their medical benefits from a Medical care plan, employees can only go to doctors, specialists, or hospitals that are part of the predetermined plan. SIDPEC health plan brochure explain how they coordinate benefits with Medical care, where are lists of all physicians, hospitals & laboratories which an employee and their family can choose. Also, there is a new mobile application had been launched. SIDPEC raised its contribution in the medical provision by renewal of medical regulation in addition to an advantage point has been added allowing employee’s parent to use the medical care employees program. SIDPEC participated in the “100 million healthy lives” campaign under the directive of the Egyptian President, which aims to eradicate hepatitis C across EGYPT as part of the strategic plan 2020. It also aims to stymie the growth of chronic diseases such as high blood pressure, diabetes and obesity. SIDPEC organized this campaign during November 2018. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 human rights 26 Training and Education 261 SIDPEC encourages the sharing of knowledge across the academic community and contributes in relating conferences organized or held by the Students faculties of science and engineering whether by monetary funds or papers and presentations prepared by volunteering employees. Trained in Sidpec during SIDPEC offers a wide range of internship opportunities for students and summer 2018 provide students with the opportunity to do “real work” alongside our talented full-time employees and to gain first-hand experience with a leading petrochemical company. Also, SIDPEC provided training on its processes for 14 students of E-JUST. SIDPEC provided technical support to other relevant petrochemicals companies in all fields of management system like EMS, EnMS and QMS. SIDPEC provided training on its processes for TWO employees of ECHEM. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 human rights 27 Knowledge Sharing 6 SIDPEC keens to share its knowledge and success story regarding EnMS and sustainability: • SIDPEC participated in the “Final Event for IEE project in EGYPT” Events organized in September 2018 by UNIDO. Our representatives have actively participated in two discussion panels to share its success story We shared our knowledge regarding EnMS in sidpec and peer to peer network in petrochemicals. and success story • SIDPEC participated in “1st Energy Efficiency conference” organized in May 2018 by Egypt’s Petroleum Sector Modernization, program (4B) Improve Energy Efficiency unit and submit its success story in EnMS. • SIDPEC participated in the “8th Egypt CSR forum” held in April 2019 under the patronage of several Egyptian ministries. SIDPEC representative participated in one of interaction panel to submit an open discussion regarding the benefits of GRI reporting of sustainability. SIDPEC participated in “HSE • SIDPEC participated in the “EU Climate Week Conference” held in Champion of the year” award September 2018 and submit its success story in EnMS. to highlights our contribution • SIDPEC participated in the “EE systems in industrial organization in Environment Protection by workshop” organized by Arab Industrial Development & Mining reducing Greenhouse Gases organization and submit its success story in EnMS with UNIDO. Emissions through the Energy Efficiency Improvement. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 human rights 28 Community Engagement SIDPEC keens to communicate with local communities before, during and after the start of activities to prevent, reduce and mitigate impacts. SIDPEC is taking steps to address the legitimate concerns of local communities regarding any adverse impacts of the Company's operations on access to resources or livelihoods. SIDPEC organized in June 2019 a “Community Consultation Session” regarding its future propylene and polypropylene projects. Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 29 Social Contribution Under the patronage of His Excellency the Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, the petroleum Sector initiative regarding “Blood Donation” was launched in June 2019 in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and organized by the Ministry of Petroleum and Egypt Oil & Gas. SIDPEC participated in this initiative by encouraging employees to donate blood, clarifying the importance of donating blood and the benefits to donors. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 human rights 30 Social Contribution 11.3 EGP SIDPEC realizes that its activity affecting on a better life provision. From this point, we contribute to building a flexible and healthy communities by providing our support to the local neighbor’s communities through the Million donations and charitable contributions. social contribution in 2018 One of the most important events is the “joint cooperation protocol” which is signed between the Petroleum Sector, represented by SIDPEC, ETHYDCO and GASCO and the water sector represented by the drinking water company in Alexandria to supply drinking water and Sewage system (12 Km length) to the FOUR disadvantaged areas and poor families in the El-Nahda district – Alexandria governorate. Lighting lamps were installed with an estimated cost of EGP 4 million for El-Nahda main road (5 Km) according to international standards. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 human rights 31 Social Contribution SIDPEC organize the “Orphan Day” attended by 1200 children from more than 30 associations and charitable organizations. SIDPEC keens to improve the quality of education in neighbor villages. Therefore, SIDPEC provided tuition fees for over 5000 students to prevent school dropouts. In addition, we have made a partnership with the government to develop “Donshowai School”. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 human rights 32 Social Contribution In the field of healthcare, SIDPEC has made a medical protocol with the local hospitals to pay the cost of surgeries and medication, as well as providing the needed medical devices to the general hospitals. In 2018, over 40 medical cases benefited from that medical protocol and we are looking forward to treat 400 cases by the end of 2019. SIDPEC collaborates with 84 local social organizations through charitable activities, events and giveaways. As our attention is focus on the women empowerment, SIDPEC have provided them with 3 workshops to insure them a better life style. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 human rights 33 Part TWO In This Section FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION 34 FORCED LABOUR 35 CHILD LABOUR 36 DISCRIMINATION 37 34 Employees Engagement 490 SIDPEC launched “SIDPEC Ideas Bank (SIB)” in 2014 on SIDPEC intranet, in which all employees can use it as a channel for demonstrate Suggestion their suggestions and ideas NOT ONLY regarding innovation, improvement but also subjects related to employee’ interests like medical posted in ideas bank till June 2019 care, transportation, periodical appraisal…etc. HSE survey is conducted in November 2018 by all employees to evaluate how SIDPEC concerns about HSE system affected on the employees. Our chairman keens to conduct periodical meeting whenever possible with employees to hear their suggestions and claims. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Principle 3 right to collective bargaining 35 SIDPEC ensures to avoid all forms of forced or compulsory labor: • We have a salary advancements committee, and has its fair regulation stated clearly to all. • All wages or bonuses paid on time and regularly. • The company does NOT keep any personal original copies owning the employees. • All employees are allowed to leave its location once they have finished their working time. Employees have access to leave during working time with a suitable permission. • Overtime is paid, voluntary and NOT forced by threat of wage deduction. • There is NO deductions from wages for disciplinary measures contrary to the law. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 36 SIDPEC does NOT use child labor internally or among its contractors or labourer. We are working in very dangerous industry, so each employee appointment is based on his/her competent, qualification and have a related certificate to the assigned job. This is illustrated in the job description. According to HR procedure, each employee submits his/her birth certificate, and ID card. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour 37 128 As mentioned in Code of Conduct, SIDPEC is committed to providing a workplace that is free of discrimination of all types of abusiveness, Women offensiveness or harassing behavior. Any employee who feels discriminated against should report the incident to either his/her supervisor or manager, or even to the chairman. honored during international SIDPEC ensures that the procedures regarding employment, remuneration, women’s day promotion, training, and termination are based solely on unbiased criteria and are not related to any of the discriminatory characteristics. Each task has its job description and maintained as documented information and showing the level of qualifications required. SIDPEC took the appropriate actions to enable persons with disabilities or health conditions to obtain employment opportunities in SIDPEC. International Women’s Day 55 Employees SIDPEC celebrated the “International Women's Day” in 128 March 2019, as It recognizes the women's achievements Women without considering any other divisions such as 73 nationalism, ethnicity, language, culture and the economic Services Labourers or political environment. SIDPEC honored all females who are working in SIDPEC either employees or external services. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 38 Part THREE In This Section PRECAUTION 39 Precautionary approach Emergency Response RESPONSIBILITY AND PERFORMANCE 41 Energy consumption and climate change Water and Waste Water Waste Management Air Emissions Noise Control TECHNOLOGY 46 Environmentally friendly technologies 39 Precautionary approach SIDPEC participated in “World Environment Day” ceremony organized in 2018 by The Arab Academy for Science, Technology and Maritime Transport (AASTM), which was held under the slogan Beat Plastic If you cannot reuse it, refuse to use it . SIDPEC submits a presentation regarding this topic. We demonstrate the importance of plastic in our life, comparison between plastics and other alternatives, its advantages and environmental effect. Also we outlined the most important researches in the production of biodegradable polyethylene. Our Initiative A Campaign #Beat Plastic Pollution We will do it our own way…. “Beat Plastic Pollution by Research and Innovation” This campaign submits an invitation to scientific researches to participate in research to combat pollution caused by plastic. We keen to maximize sustainable development, promote scientific research align with Egypt's 2030 strategy and establish a model for cooperation between industry and research institutions. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 40 Emergency Response 114 SIDPEC Policy aims to identify the environmental hazards arising from its activities, assess and control the associated risks and the impact of its operations which may have effect on the environment. Employees Results from identifying and ranking aspects and their impacts are directly associated other elements like objectives and targets, training/awareness, Trained on Waste management operational control, emergency preparedness, monitoring and measuring, and chemicals handling in 2018 corrective action and auditing. The objectives of established environmental aspects & impacts procedure are to define the process by which the environmental aspects are identified, assessed and controlled; and to identify the significant environmental aspects addressed. The Environmental Aspects register updated whenever a new and/or significant environmental aspect is identified or an existing one altered. Last update was in September 2018. Our new projects regarding PDH and PP have their Environmental impact assessment. • Fire Drill • Near Miss No. No. 49 55 6 12 • HSE • HSE Meassage Internal No. Audit No. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 41 Energy consumption and climate change 5.1 ktCO2 SIDPEC focuses its efforts significantly on improve its energy efficiency by aligning with the requirements of Energy management system (ISO 50001) GHGs emission reduction as a systematic approach in order to achieve sustainable development and meet the climate change mitigation goals (GHG emissions). Our success story starting from 2014 and continued till now. Within FOUR years, we achieved about 4.8 % savings in energy consumption equivalent to about 6.3 M EGP using no cost/low cost opportunities equivalent to reduction in GHGs emissions for about 5,162 tCO2. Our objective in 2019 is to perform a transition of our ISO 50001:2011 to new edition (ISO 50001:2018). Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 42 Water and Waste Water 1 M m3 SIDPEC keens to maintain and develop the operating conditions in order to fulfil the requirements of water and other utilities to all processes according Of treated industrial Water to the design specifications. The most important initiatives achieved during 2018 are: • Upgrade the control system regarding its operation; • Evaluate the efficiency of cooling towers by external party and develop a new cooling water treatment program; • Perform a performance test for raw water intake pumps; • Periodical cleaning and maintenance of clarifiers, effluent water sumps; • Renewal of boiler’ license. SIDPEC developed a “Quality procedure” to provide a system to control the operation of water treatment units and specifications of waste water produced from all processes according to the environmental law before discharge to external environment. SIDPEC participated in “Conservation of Water consumption initiative” launched in all organizations in EGYPT. We installed about 200 smart water saver and the estimated savings were about 50% of the amount of water. consumed. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 43 Waste Management 315 Ton According to the “Waste Management” procedure, the industrial solid wastes and oils produced from the production and maintenance processes had been Of disposed sludge (25 % controlled as follows: Conc.) during 2018 • Identify the types, sources and quantities of waste produced; • Conduct training for employees on the safe handling, and way of hazardous waste collection; • Determine area for storage of waste and who is responsible for; • Determine the contractors responsible for the transport of waste to the licensed area. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 44 Air Emissions According to the “Quality procedure”, the industrial air emissions produced from the production processes had been controlled as follows: • Identify the sources and quantities of air pollutants; • Control the flue gases by ensuring the specs of fuel used, complete the burning process and use the related detectors; • Review flue gases analysis compared with the environmental law; • Connect the boilers and cracker heaters’ stacks to the national network for monitoring industrial emissions of flue gases. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 45 Noise control 17 Reports SIDPEC established a “Noise control” procedure to prevent and/or reduce impacts on the surrounding environment from noise according to laws. Measure sources of noise This Procedure describes the minimum mandatory requirements for during 2018 managing noise hazards by: • Identifying noise hazards ( 112 measurement source) and eliminating it at the source, where practicable; • Minimizing risks associated with hearing loss; • Ensuring that the noise at the workplace does not exceed the exposure standard for noise. Noise limit measurements performed every three months to calculate the average exposure time to noise, determine the causes of noise to eliminate or reduce it and commit employees to use the suitable PPE. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 46 Environmentally friendly technologies 373 tCO2 All production plants in SIDPEC are designed to use environmentally friendly technologies and depending to recover thermal energy, reuse GHGs emission reduction by using LED lighting and Solar waste heat and recycle disposal treated water. One of evaluation criteria Cells since 2014 used when we study the offers of PDH/PP projects is to use latest technology in the design of production and products and to consider the energy efficiency. One of another way of using environmental friendly technologies when we are going to procure any motors or lighting fixtures, we are heading towards last technologies like IE3 or LED fixtures. Also, we installed solar cells during 2014 to reduce the emission of GHGs. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 47 Part FOUR In This Section CULTURE AND PROCEDURES 48 48 23 SIDPEC keens to appoint relevant departments to be responsible for dealing with contracts, submitting orders, receiving goods, processing invoices and making payments. internal All agreements with customers and consultants are fully documented in written and signed contracts. SIDPEC provides awareness about Social responsibilities ISO 26000 for Audits all employees including human right and anti-corruption. SIDPEC took advantage of the partnership with global compact network Egypt in attendance some workshops regarding governance and COP Conducted during 2018 reporting…. etc. SIDPEC developed an action plan about sharing a sustainability messages, including UNGC TEN principles, SDGs and our annual sustainability report. SIDPEC issued “Code of Job Ethics” for employees based on the principles of fairness, equality of opportunity, transparency and accountability, and the fight against ethical, administrative and financial corruption. SIDPEC conducts internal audits based on the review of all financial and administrative systems, the efficiency and economic use of the resources, extent of compliance with policies, regulations, laws and legislation to judge the strength of the supervisory system, the efficiency and effectiveness of performance. Number of observations are (86) resulted from (23) internal audit reports, about (57) observations and (10) reports have been responded. External auditors permitted to monitor and review all warnings and irregularities to be addressed by board of directors. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Principle 10 bribery 49 We are committed to 10 principles of UN global compact and aligned with the SDGs. Global Compact Principles Section Alignment UN SDGs Principle 1: Businesses should support HEALTH AND SAFTEY and respect the protection Health and Safety Systems of internationally proclaimed human rights P. 18 Principle 1: Businesses should support HEALTH AND SAFTEY and respect the protection Protective Equipment and of internationally proclaimed Training human rights P. 19 Principle 1: Businesses should support HEALTH AND SAFTEY and respect the protection Employee Involvement of internationally proclaimed human rights P. 20,21 Principle 1: Businesses should support EMPLOYMENT and respect the protection Hours, Wages and Leave of internationally proclaimed human rights P. 22 50 Global Compact Principles Section Alignment UN SDGs Principle 1: Businesses should support EMPLOYMENT and respect the protection Labor Practices of internationally proclaimed human rights P. 23 Principle 1: Businesses should support EMPLOYMENT and respect the protection of Training and Education internationally proclaimed human rights P. 24 Principle 1: Businesses should support EMPLOYMENT and respect the protection of Medical Care internationally proclaimed human rights P. 25 Principle 1: Businesses should support LOCAL COMMUNITY and respect the protection of Training and Education internationally proclaimed human rights P. 26 Principle 1: Businesses should support LOCAL COMMUNITY and respect the protection of Knowledge Sharing internationally proclaimed human rights P. 27 51 Global Compact Principles Section Alignment UN SDGs Principle 1: Businesses should support LOCAL COMMUNITY and respect the protection of Social Contribution internationally proclaimed P. 29,30,31,32 human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not LOCAL COMMUNITY complicit in human rights Community Engagement abuses P. 28 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold FREEDOM OF the freedom of association ASSOCIATION and the effective recognition Employees Engagement of the right to collective P. 34 bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms FORCED LABOUR of forced and compulsory labour P. 35 Principle 5: The effective abolition of CHILD LABOUR child labour P. 36 52 Global Compact Principles Section Alignment UN SDGs Principle 6: The elimination of DISCRIMINATION discrimination in respect of employment and occupation P. 37 Principle 7: Businesses should support a PRECAUTION precautionary approach to Precautionary approach environmental challenges P. 39 Principle 7: Businesses should support a PRECAUTION precautionary approach to Emergency Response environmental challenges P. 40 Principle 8: RESPONSIBILITY AND Undertake initiatives to PERFORMANCE promote greater Energy consumption and environmental responsibility climate change P. 41 Principle 8: RESPONSIBILITY AND Undertake initiatives to PERFORMANCE promote greater Water and Waste Water environmental responsibility P. 42 53 Global Compact Principles Section Alignment UN SDGs Principle 8: RESPONSIBILITY AND Undertake initiatives to PERFORMANCE promote greater Waste Management environmental responsibility P. 43 Principle 8: RESPONSIBILITY AND Undertake initiatives to PERFORMANCE promote greater Air Emissions environmental responsibility P. 44 Principle 8: RESPONSIBILITY AND Undertake initiatives to PERFORMANCE promote greater Noise Control environmental responsibility P. 45 Principle 9: Encourage the development TECHNOLOGY and diffusion of Environmentally friendly environmentally friendly technologies technologies. P. 46 Principle 10: Businesses should work CULTURE AND against corruption in all its PROCEDURES forms, including extortion P. 48 and bribery 54 About this Report This report includes SIDPEC sustainability activities KM 36 Alexandria/Cairo Desert Road El-Amerya starting from January 2018 to June 2019. El-Nahda Territory – Alexandria – Egypt info@sidpec.com This report is published on UN Global Compact web site in August 2019. (+203) 4770131 The preparation of this report depends on at what extent we commit to the ten principles through four pillars of UN Global Further information shall be available on the web site compact and their indicators. All disclosures mentioned in this report illustrate the alignment with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
