2018 Sustainability Report This Sustainability Report refers to Morris Profumi Group. The Group is also commercially known as Perfume Holding and for this reason the names “Perfume Holding” and “the Group” are used interchangeably in this Report, both referring to Morris Profumi Group. The Group logo has not changed. The reference “Morris Profumi S.p.A.” solely refers to the parent company. 2018 Sustainability Report Contents Chairman’s letter 6 1. About the Group 7 1.1 2018 Company Highlights 7 1.2 Our Sustainability Approach 8 1.3 Perfume Holding About the company 11 1.3.1 Corporate Governance 12 1.4 Perfume Holding’s priorities 13 2. Product stewardship 14 2.1 Products’ environmental responsibility 14 2.2 An integrated value chain 16 2.3 Product Innovation and R&D 18 2.4 Labeling and packaging 20 2.5 Quality and safety for customers 21 2.6 Complaints management 22 3. Creating value for people and society 24 3.1 Employees 24 3.1.1 Development and training 26 3.1.2 Health & Safety at work 27 3.2 Supporting the local community 28 3.3 Value creation 29 4. Respecting the environment 30 4.1 Energy and Emissions 30 4.2 Water 33 4.3 Waste 34 4.4 Materials 35 5. Performance Indicators 36 5.1 Human Resources indicators 36 5.2 Health and safety indicators 39 6. Note on Methodology 40 6.1 Explanation of the material topics, reporting boundaries and correlation with the GRI Standards 42 6.2 Correlation between UN Global Compact and GRI Standards 44 6.3 GRI Standards – Content Index 45 6 The commitment to opefull and productive emrate according to the prinployment and decent ciples of sustainable devework for all (SDG 8); achielopment continues to be a ve gender equality and priority for our group and empower all women and with this third Sustainabiligirls (SDG 5); and reduce ty Report we want to share inequality (SDG 10). We the efforts and the results are committed to ensuring achieved by the company sustainable consumption as concerns environmental and production patterns and social aspects and in (SDG 12); and to taking terms of transparency in urgent actions to combaour governance. ting climate change and its impacts (SDG 13). For three years we have been firmly adhering to In the Sustainability Rethe United Nations Gloport you will find our combal Compact initiative mitments, our results and and we are committed to above all the values that Chairman’s letter respecting human rights, guide us in facing future fighting against corruption challenges with courage. and preserving the natuThis report represents our ral ecosystem; our engacontribution to the devegement is demonstrated lopment of a new rich and by our approach to envisustainable economy. ronmental management, certified according to UNI Giovanni Borri EN ISO 14001, by our code Chairman of ethics, our company management model 231 and our environmental, safety and social responsibility policy published online and shared with all workers. This Sustainability Report also proves our efforts and contribution to some of the goals that the UN identified and included in its action plan “2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”. We confirm our commitment to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, 2018 Sustainability Report 1.1 2018 Company Highlights 7 approach to 63.8 8 sustainable business 83 1. About the Group more than 35 167 training courses delivered on HSE, quality and privacy 75 of the workforce based in Parma, Italy 61.5 472.8 3.91 reduction in waste (scope 1 and production scope 2) (in terms of waste / production) 8 1.2 Our Sustainability Approach The importance of sustaiwait ahead. In particular Standards. Subsequently, nability and its integration this report aims to give a both internal and external into the business model clear and up-to-date pictustakeholders were surveyed are increasingly influencing re of the Group’s 360-dein order to evaluate and priand shaping companies’ grees approach to sustaioritize the topics based on daily operations and decinability, the main internal their relevance to the Group sions and could determine and external initiatives the and to its key stakeholders. in the medium-long term Group has implemented Finally, these topics were their success and competiand the positive impact gemapped to create the mativeness. The introduction nerated for society. teriality matrix which reof new reporting requirepresents on the x-axis the ments on non-financial inFor the preparation of its relevance of the topics for formation (e.g. European annual Sustainability RePerfume Holding, and on Directive 95/2014) is chanport, Perfume Holding carrithe y-axis their relevance ging the national and interes out a materiality analysis for stakeholders. The picture 1. About the Group national landscape, putting in order to identify and ademerging from the matrix more and more attention dress all the sustainability serves as a tool for defining on the management of suissues that are most relethe Group’s sustainability stainability topics and on vant for the Group and its strategy, hence the aspects the disclosure of related stakeholders. The process that are covered within the risks and opportunities. was undertaken for the elaSustainability Report. While always being aware boration of the first Sustaithat a company’s economic nability Report, by applying For the 2017 Sustainabiliperformance cannot be dithe 2016 GRI Sustainability ty Report the materiality sconnected from the ecosyReporting Standards for the analysis was reviewed and stem in which it exists, identification and selection slightly updated in order to and committed to ensuring of key stakeholders and for better align it to emerging high standards of social the elaboration of the masustainability trends in the and environmental perforteriality matrix. cosmetic industry. For the mance, in 2016 Perfume 2018 reporting year the Holding decided to embark Indeed, as requested by materiality matrix remains on a journey towards the the GRI Sustainability Reunaltered compared to the achievement of ambitious porting Standards, for 2016 previous year. It was concorporate sustainability Sustainability Report the firmed that there were no objectives, by publishing its Group identified the most changes required as the first Sustainability Report significant economic, enmateriality matrix still reand by becoming a memvironmental and social flects the same priorities ber of the United Nations aspects that could potenand matters for Perfume Global Compact. Perfume tially influence the assesHolding and its stakeholHolding continues along sment and decisions of ders as represented below. this journey for the third stakeholders. These topics consecutive year, energized were selected on the basis by the lessons learned, the of the results of an industobjectives achieved, and ry benchmark and the GRI the ambitious goals that Sustainability Reporting 2018 Sustainability Report 9 Stakeholder Mapping Environment Local Distributor Suppliers communities and School and franchising University Employees Public Customers Institutions Shareholders, investors The most relevant topics, presented in the top-right mitment to its customers, its people, and the envi1. About the Group corner, mostly relate to ronment, and are therefore product quality, business the focus of this Report. The responsibility, the envitopics that fall below the ronment and occupational dashed line are classified as health & safety. These tonot material to the Group’s pics reflect Perfume Holcore business. ding’s priorities and its com10 Perfume Holding’s Sustainability Journey Perfume Holding has been working towards sustainability for many years. The key steps that marked the Group’s sustainability journey are described below: 2018 • In March 2018, Morris Profumi S.p.A. aligned the certification UNI EN ISO 14001 to the new reference standard ISO 14001:2015. 2017 • The Group published its first Sustainability Report related to its sustainability performance in 2016. 2016 • Perfume Holding became a signatory of the UN Global Compact and defined its commitment towards its 10 principles. 1. About the Group • Morris Profumi S.p.A. earned the “Silver Recognition Level”, ranking among the top 30% of sustainability performers evaluated by EcoVadis1. 2015 • For the first time, Perfume Holding included non-financial information into the 2015 Annual Report, in order to provide stakeholders with an overview of its sustainability approach. • The Code of Ethics was approved by the Board of Directors of Morris Profumi S.p.A. 2013 • Morris Profumi S.p.A. obtained the UNI EN ISO 22716:2008 certification. • The production plant in Parma was thermally insulated. • Morris Profumi S.p.A. obtained the UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 certification. For the 2007 first time, a roadmap with environmental and health and safety targets is defined, to be updated on an annual basis. UN GLOBAL COMPACT In order to reinforce its deareas: Human Rights, Labor, dication to sustainability, Environment and Anti-corPerfume Holding became a ruption. In being a signatory signatory of the UN Global to the UN Global Compact and Compact in 2016 and it is integrating the principles into committed to working tothe company’s core business, wards its 10 principles. The Perfume Holding not only global initiative, supported confirms its main responsibiliby the United Nations, is baties to people and the planet, sed on universal sustainability but also sets the stage for principles addressing four key long-term success. 1 Ecovadis is a collaborative platform that rates sustainability performance of companies based on CSR policies and supply chain management. 2018 Sustainability Report 1.3 Perfume Holding About the company Founded by Giuseppe Borri tioned itself and currently quely integrated approach 11 under the name of Morris operates in the niche fraallow for the choice of the Profumi in Parma in 1946, grance market areas. finest essences in the labothe company started its acDriven by creativity and pasratory, a strategic distributivity with the mission to sion, the Group boasts a pretion of products through the produce and distribute frastigious portfolio3, consisting global network according to grances in Italy. of proprietary brands such the specific target market, Since its foundation, the as Atkinsons London 1799, I as well as specialized marCompany’s main goal was Coloniali, English Garden and keting and communications to generate high quality and Morris, as well as licensed services. innovative products, always brands like Dirk Bikkembergs, Perfume Holding’s operaaiming for excellence in its Iceberg, Liu Jo, Sergio Tacchitions are mainly based in daily activities. ni and Fiat 500. As concerns Italy where the following dePerfume Holding2 is an inthe brand Atkinsons Lonpartments are located: R&D, ternational Group that has don 1799, a new important Regulatory Affairs, Quality 1. About the Group always not only valued its milestone in the Atkinsons Control, Manufacturing and brand and its people, but worldwide growth was reaProduction, Sales, Finance, also its customers, offering ched in May 2018 with the Marketing and Creation. a uniquely integrated apopening of a new boutique Products are distributed in proach to meet its clients’ in Dubai at the Dubai Mall. over 80 countries, with reneeds along the whole vaPerfume Holding’s corporapresentative offices in the lue chain, from the creation te goal is to be the leader U.S.A., United Kingdom, Gerto the production and distriin the niche and selective many, Italy, Russia, United bution of fragrances. A key segment of perfumes and Arab Emirates, Singapore, strength, thanks to which cosmetics markets. Its scienHong Kong and Spain. Perfume holding has positific know-how and its uniGermany Hong Kong Morris (100%) (100%) Profumi S.p.A. UK Singapore (100%) (100%) Russia USA (100%) London Spain (100%) (100%) (100%) The Group is indirectly owned by a fund managed by Investindustrial, a leading European investment and advisory group , which focuses its activity on three main areas of investment: consumer, retail and leisure, business services and industrial manufacturing. 2 The Group Morris Profumi is also commercially known as Perfume Holding. Instead, the reference “Morris Profumi S.p.A.” solely refers to the parent company. 3 A more detailed description of the Product Portfolio can be found in the Group’s 2017 Annual Report. 12 1.3.1 Corporate Governance Corporate governance is the Group. The Code of Ethics management system in line with the provisions of Legidriving force behind all the represents the set of ethidecision-making procescal values and standards of slative Decree 231/20014. ses and plays a key role in conduct, already deeply roestablishing relationships oted in the Group’s culture, As a result of Perfume Holof trust between the Group on which people working ding’s attention to these and its stakeholders: intefor the Group should base topics, no incidents of digrity and ethical behavior their activities. The Code of scrimination or corruption of all employees, adminiEthics is an instrument dewere recorded in 2018. strators and collaborators is signed to preserve the vakey to maintaining Perfume lues and the integrity of the Holding’s reputation and to company over time, in parensure mutual trust. ticular the values of legality, integrity, transparency, and Perfume Holding has imimpartiality, and represents plemented a control and a set of positive principles 1. About the Group governance system based and standards the Group on the role of the Board has chosen to adopt as a of Directors, comprising 5 concrete expression of its members, which is entrucommitment in its relations sted to ensure the ordinary to all stakeholders. and extraordinary management of the Company. Moreover, the Group believes in the respect for HuPerfume Holding recognizes man Rights as the foundathe importance of high stantion for liberty, justice and dards of ethical behavior peace. The organization, and social responsibility in management and control the conduct of its corporamodel adopted complies te and business affairs and with the provisions of Leis committed to respecting gislative Decree 231/2001 the legitimate interests of and implements proceduall stakeholders, including res, criteria and sanctions the community in which it designed to ensure comoperates. The Group’s conpliance with the ethical duct and activities are guivalues and standards of ded by the Code of Ethics conduct set in the Code of of Morris Profumi S.p.A., Ethics. A number of prepawhich was approved by the ratory activities have been Board of Directors in 2013 carried out for the construcand shared throughout the tion of a risk prevention and 4 More information is provided within the Code of Ethics and the 231 Model (both available on the website). 2018 Sustainability Report 1.4 Perfume Holding’s priorities The following chapters focus on the key areas that guide Perfume Holding’s sustainabi13 lity agenda, based on the materiality analysis. In particular, these priorities can be clustered into three different dimensions: Perfume Holding’s priorities Product Respecting stewardship the planet Creating value for people and society The year 2018 in brief Product stewardship More than 400 new preliminary formulas tested Development of new skin care products with Sun Protection Factors Creating value for people and society 6.9 tons of products donated to charity More than 1,000 hours of employee training, including more than 250 hours of training on quality management Respecting the environment 61.5% of waste generated sent to recovery plants 3.91% reduction in waste production (in terms of tons of waste / tons of production) 14 What’s inside your perfume? For the production of frawater. In 2018, 549 tons of ter were also used for the grances, the primary maalcohol and 105 tons of preparation of fragrances in terials used are alcohol essence were used in the 2018. (usually around 75-78% of production plant. Furtherthe fragrance), essence and more, around 89 m3 of waAverage components 12% of a perfume 2. Product stewardship 13% 75% alchool water essence The main components for material, in order to ensuaim of maintaining an adethe production of perfume re they undergo a recovequate proportion between bottles and their packary process. The company the size of perfume bottles ging are glass, paper and is committed to eliminaand their packaging and cardboard, plastic (ferrules, ting secondary packaging consequentially reducing caps, pipettes) and alumiof certain product lines, in the amount of packaging num. All components are order to reduce paper and required per product. sourced from suppliers and cardboard consumption. not produced by the comThe reduction in packaging Beauty care products such pany itself. Glass, paper size is also very important as creams, shower gels, and aluminum are highly for the Group, and proand body lotions are produrecyclable materials, and ducts’ packaging design is ced by external providers. for this reason Morris Profua central component of our mi S.p.A. sorts them sepaProducts Life Cycle Assesrately from the remaining sment procedure with the 2.1 Products’ environmental responsibility The art of perfumery and spectrum there are tradiAt Perfume Holding, we the creation of beauty tional beauty remedies and are becoming increasincare products are simultaingredients passed down gly aware of the power of neously one of the most through generations; on natural active ingredients, ancient forms of craftsthe other, are highly sophiand also of the potential of manship and one of the sticated research and devenew technologies to ammost innovative sectors lopment studies based on plify and replicate such betoday. On one side of the molecular science. neficial effects, often with 2018 Sustainability Report 15 a lower environmental imAt Morris Profumi, reducing a checklist which includes, pact. Central to our work, products’ environmental among others: information is ensuring that we design, footprints is one of the mion whether the supplier produce and commercialestones of our daily efforts selected offers after sales lize high quality products and activities. To this end, services to reuse and/or that are optimal for consualready from 2017, Morris recycle the products sold mers’ use while also being Profumi introduced a Pro(e.g. packaging), whether increasingly respectful of duct Life Cycle Assessment the product packaging has the environment, from (LCA) Procedure, with the been designed to facilitate the strategic selection of goal of incorporating key its reuse/recycling, whe2. Product stewardship the materials used, to the environmental criteria duther alternative ingredients designing of the producring the design and dehave been considered in tion processes entailed, velopment of new perfuorder to lower the use to the creation of the final mes, in order to encourage of potentially hazardous packaging. In other words, the selection of materials substances, whether the at Morris Profumi we want and suppliers that are in product contains reused/ to guarantee high sustailine with the Group’s enrecycled components, whenability standards of our vironmental performance ther an eco-label could be products, at every stage of objectives. The procedure applied, etc. production. entails the completion of Product Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Raw materials extraction Material End of life processing Product use Manufacturing In 2018, as an evolution projects brought to market, will lead in some years to from 2017 when the Proan action that was particuextend this methodology duct Life Cycle Procedure larly appreciated during the to all our products (new was performed for the first ISO 14001 re-certification and existing ones), starting time on the new perfume audit. This result achieved from the designing phase FIAT 500 as a pilot, this evaduring 2018, was an impor(from the selection of raw luation was applied to all tant step forward, which materials providers, to the 16 design and the evaluation and thus have a negligible on products’ environmenof products with higher enimpact on the environment tal sustainability within vironmental performances compared to the silicon the Company. Moreover, in terms of products and ones, in addition to offering the area of innovation and packaging). precious properties for the research has increasingly skin. Similarly to the selecconcentrated its studies in At Morris Profumi the ention of natural ingredients, developing innovative provironmental assessment the approach to perfume ducts able to guarantee a of products starts not only packaging design contrihigh level of natural oriwith the selection of natural butes to increasing the sugin ingredients, in order to 2. Product stewardship ingredients for new perfustainability of our products. maintain their integrity and mes, but it is extended also For instance, in 2018 the functionality besides reto the improvement and Atkinsons product line’s specting the environment. evolution of existing ones. packaging has been ideaFor instance, the envited to perfectly suit the size ronmental performance of of the perfume’s bottle, in few product lines – in parorder to reduce the amount ticular, Atkinsons scrub creof packaging waste both ams – has been improved, during the production and in this case by substituting utilization phase. the scrubbing micro-plastic material with natural and For the coming years, Perbiodegradable ingredients. fume Holding commits to In addition, already in continuing and to impro2017, the Company proceeving its environmental perded with the replacement, formance, by researching in some formulas, of silicon new solutions and market oils with vegetable derived opportunities for eco-prooils, in order to prevent the ducts. To this end, starting potentially negative imfrom 2017, Morris Profumi pact of silicon oils on the carried out an internal enenvironment and on aquagagement process with all tic animals. The substitute employees, in order to evaoils, derived from olives luate the potential demand and Brassica Campestris, for eco-friendly products, as are readily biodegradable well as to raise awareness 2.2 An integrated value chain Perfume Holding’s 360 defacturing and distribution and regulations while guagree integrated approach phases, Perfume Holding is ranteeing high quality stanis one of the company’s today a unique actor within dards, the Group works with key strengths. As it mainthe industry, due to its insuppliers throughout all actains direct control over all depth understanding and tivities, from product design stages of a product’s life expertise of the sector. To to distribution. cycle, from the design, to ensure that products are in the development, manuline with applicable laws 2018 Sustainability Report 17 The following figure illustrates Perfume Holding’s 360o integrated approach: SUPPORT ACTIVITIES Research & Developement Quality Management Stakeholder Consultation 2. Product stewardship Regulatory Affairs Design Phase Developement Manufacturing Distribution Phase Phase Phase Product Concept Technical Brief Material Procurement Final Testing Market Analysis Sample Products Product Manufacturing Product Dispatching Timeline Choice of Materials Advertising PRIMARY ACTIVITIES 360° Integrated Approach5 The Group’s impacts lie not and Corporate Social ReShould any specific issue be only in its operations and sponsibility (CSR) approach. identified, corrective actions final products but also in A quality audit is conducted are taken (e.g. official comits suppliers’ and custofor all new subcontractors, munication, audits, etc.). mers’ operations. For this in order to sign a quality reason, Perfume Holding is agreement to guarantee In 2018, a total of 107 supcommitted to ensuring requality standards and propliers (83%) were assessponsible procurement and cedures are being met. This sed, which is an 11% increexcellence throughout the allows Perfume Holding ase compared with 2017, value chain. The Group has to ensure all suppliers and and the Group is commita qualification and evaluasubcontractors apply the ted to extending the protion procedure for suppliers Group’s standards throucess to 100% of suppliers. as well as for subcontracghout the supply chain. FurIn addition, main suppliers tors, which is measured via thermore, all environmenand subcontractors are also a questionnaire addressing tal authorizations are required to sign Perfume issues such as quality maassessed to ensure they are Holding’s Code of Ethics and nagement systems, envivalid and up to date. operate in compliance with ronmental impact, health Suppliers are then ranked its principles. and safety of employees according to their responses. 5 A detailed description of the Integrated Approach can be found in the Group’s 2018 Annual Report. 18 The environmental suIMPACT IN PROGRESS® phisen with a double role: as stainability assessment of losophy for sustainable desupplier of functional ingresuppliers has been at the velopment, the Company’s dients, which among others basis of a new important main goal is to enhance huinclude vegetable oils such technological partnership mans’ life-quality guaranas the olive oil derived from with ROELMI HPC, a comteeing the environmental non-edible portions of Olea pany specialised in Italian preservation, using reneEuropaea and biodegraresearch, design, devewable sources, respecting dable emollients agents lopment and production of biodiversity, guaranteeing coming from cardoon, by functional ingredients, for ethical supply chain, suplocal cultivar in marginal 2. Product stewardship the creation of the new line porting local communities, lands, and as contractor of “I Coloniali”. This Combesides delivering a high to study and define some pany has been chosen by level of safety and perforformulas for which specific the Group after careful evamance. For these reasons equipment is necessary. luation. Along with their NO ROELMI HPC has been cho2.3 Product Innovation and R&D The research and deveThe R&D lab also cooperaIn particular, one of the focus lopment (R&D) laboratory tes with external partners areas of collaboration is the of Perfume Holding is chato translate scientific discore-discovery of old recipes racterized by a strong pasveries into healthy skin care and the use of extracts, for sion for science and intuition products (see paragraph example, from cinnamon for creativity. The mission above for more details). and lilium. Moreover, in of the R&D department is In 2018, Perfume Holding 2018, research has also been to fulfil the continuously has continued its collaborafocused on the introduction increasing requests of cution with the University of of the Sun Protection Factor stomers who see cosmetics Pavia, in particular a team (SPF) into products, in order as an integral part of their of biologists, expert in anto protect the skin from the daily life. The creation of cient apothecary recipes, sun’s ultraviolet rays. new product formulas is a to develop innovative formeticulous process: in ormulas for the new line of der to define the perfect “I Coloniali” skin care proformula, adjustments need ducts, in which scientific to be made ingredient by excellence is mixed with ingredient until the perfect the knowledge of traditiooutcome is achieved. nal herbs and spices. More than 400 122 14 preliminary formulas formulas formulas for approved for produced in product product launch 2018 developement 2018 Sustainability Report 19 The R&D lab develops and produced, after undergoing they require strict security tests hundreds of product several testing phases6. parameters). As a result, formulas every year. These The remaining 108 will be the new skin care products formulas undergo several evaluated for future proline will include around stages before being apduction. Overall, in 2018 10 new products, which proved for production and the number of approved official launch will occur launch. In 2018, around formulas for product debetween the end of 2019 400 preliminary product velopment increased: this and the beginning of 2020. formulas were tested for growth is mainly due to The tests managed by the new product development, the relevant number of R&D lab are represented in 2. Product stewardship out of which 122 formulas tests needed to embed the following figure: were approved for proSPF into the new skin care duction and 14 effectively products of “I Coloniali” (as 145 product stability tests 20 40 product sensory microbiological tests (olfactory and safety tests skincare sensory perception) 32 87 dermatological product tests compatibility tests Animal welfare Perfume Holding complies 1223/2009), which prohiternative procedures, in with the European Directibits products containing inorder to ensure that no ve against animal testing gredients that have been animal is harmed while (2003/15/EC), in force tested on animals. simultaneously ensuring since 2004, which forbids high standards of safety any form of animal testing These laws are in line with and quality of its products. for cosmetic products, and Perfume Holding’s values, with the EU regulation on which tests all ingredients cosmetic products (EC No and final products with al6 For more detailed data and information regarding the R&D lab activities in 2018, please refer to the Group’s 2018 Annual Report. 20 2.4 Labeling and packaging Perfume Holding ensures durability has not passed if packaging of finished customers have access to mandatory. cosmetic products in the accurate and adequate inEuropean Union. The regformation on the products Furthermore, all Perfume ulation was adopted to and services they conHolding’s fragrances are improve the protection sume, both from a product compliant with the Standof human health and the labeling and a marketing ards of the International environment from risks communication perspecFragrance Association (IFRA that can be posed by tive. Fair and responsible Standards), a globally acchemicals. 2. Product stewardship marketing communication cepted and recognized risk • Regulation (UE) N° and transparency on prodmanagement system for 655/2013 common criuct composition and their the safe use of fragrance teria for the justification proper use and disposal ingredients. The Standards of product claims. allow customers to make represent a self-regulating • Directive 94/62/EC of informed choices. framework of the industry, the European Commisbased on risk assessments sion on packaging and Perfume Holding’s intercarried out by an indepackaging waste. nal policy on labeling and pendent Expert Panel. • REACH (EC 1907/2006) packaging is defined and regulation on the use of supervised by the ReguA Cosmetic Product Safechemicals. latory Affairs department ty Report is prepared for • Directive 75/324/EEC and is periodically updated. every finished product beregarding aerosol disProducts, product packaging placed on the market pensers. ing and product labeling and is reviewed on a reg• CLP Regulation (UE) No. are compliant with all relular basis. To that end, po1272/2008 on labeling evant European regulations tential undesirable effects and packaging of subapplicable to the industry on human health resulting stances and mixtures. and contain all necessary from product use are filed information to sell products and taken into account in worldwide, including Asia, the following safety assessRussia, Far East, Middle ment of the product. For East, and South America. packaging in direct contact Required product informawith the cosmetic product, tion includes product comspecific regulatory verificaponents, content, safe use tion is carried out. and disposal of the product. Distributors must check the All of Perfume Holding’s correctness of the labelling products comply with applibefore making a cosmetic cable regulations, including: product available on the market and verify that the • Cosmetic Regulation language requirements (UE) N° 1223/2009 of are fulfilled under the apthe European Parliament plicable national law and governing the comthat the date of minimum position, labeling and 2018 Sustainability Report 2.5 Quality and safety for customers One of Perfume Holding’s they have useful sales and A Cosmetic Product Safety 21 key priorities is offering market data. Report is prepared high quality and safe prodfor every finished ucts to customers. Quality The main steps of a safety product being management is a central assessment are: placed on the activity in the value chain • Ingredient testing, inmarket and is of our products, as qualicluding potential effects reviewed on ty needs to be monitored of product packaging on a regular bacontinually, besides being the safety of the product; sis. To that end, 2. Product stewardship a way to guarantee that all • Stability testing of the potential undequality & safety standards product before and dursirable effects on huare being met. In 2018, ing the use-phase, to man health resulting from 100% of products achieved assess how the quality product use are filed and compliance with relevant of the product varies taken into account in the European regulations and with time under the innext safety assessment of were assessed for health fluence of a number of the product. and safety impacts by qualenvironmental factors ified external safety experts (for example, temperNo episode of non-combefore being launched into ature, humidity and pliance relating to product the market. The product light), ensuring no safequality and safety was resafety assessment process ty risks are identified; ported in 2018. requires expert knowledge • Analysis of product with respect to the product performance to ensure Morris Profumi S.p.A. composition, the chemical safety of exposure to demonstrated its comand physical properties of substances. When possimitment to continuous the ingredients, the manble, the safety margins quality improvement by ufacturing process and the are obtained. In cases obtaining the ISO UNI EN method of application of where it is not possi22716:2008 certification the product. All the data ble to obtain the safety in June 2013. This is a needed for safety assessmargins, documented harmonized standard and ment is kept by the Reguinformation of the inguideline for Good Manulatory Affairs department gredients is evaluated, facturing Practices (GMP) as part of the Production in order to assess health in the cosmetic sector. Information Forms (PIFs) and safety impacts; The application of such and Cosmetic Product Safe• Verification of the prodstandards guarantees to ty Reports (CPSRs). The uct labeling to ensure comply with provisions of experts undertaking the accuracy of the instructhe European regulation assessment combine their tions and warning in1223/2009 governing in-market experience with formation provided and the composition, labelbest available techniques, that all legal requireling and packaging of finin order to perform thorments are being met; ished cosmetic products ough safety evaluations. • Identification of the final and ensuring a high deRelevant information is product and its compligree of safety, transparalso collected from the disance with Good Manuency and objectiveness tributors of the products, as facturing Practices (GMP). of product information. 22 Holding the ISO UNI EN UNI EN 22716 certification Quality Assurance Manag22716:2008 certification by DNV Business Assurance er, is in charge of planning, requires having a Quality in Italy. Being certified imexecuting and monitoring Assurance System that, in plies the entire company these training activities, order to maintain prodis working towards a comin order to guarantee a uct warranty and safety, mon target and is aware of unique and solid approach guarantees high quality the importance of quality within the company. and security of finished policies and procedures as products through various well as employees’ impact procedures, such as: proon everyday operations 2. Product stewardship cess mapping; criticality and customers’ health. To monitoring; internal and this end, in 2018, Morris external planned audits in Profumi offered 284 hours order to verify compliance of training related to its of the processes; and emQuality Management Sysployee training in line with tem and GMP, mostly to Standard Operating Proceits blue and white collar dures (SOP). The Standard workers (258 hours), to also certifies compliance ensure employees respect with GMP throughout the Perfume Holding’s Good whole supply chain. Manufacturing Practices guidelines throughout all Morris Profumi S.p.A. is steps of the value chain, the first company in the from stocking to producperfume manufacturing tion to product recalls. A industry to obtain the ISO dedicated function, the 2.6 Complaints management Perfume Holding keeps cuThe Complaint Managehance its ability to resolve stomer care and product quament SOP provides guidancomplaints in a consistent, lity at the top of its agenda. ce for handling complaints systematic and responsiIn 2018 no product batches related to both commercial ve manner and to identify were taken off the market. and non-commercial actitrends and eliminate cauCustomer complaints are vities, ensuring consistent ses of complaints through a managed through an intercomplaint treatment and customer-focused approach. nal Standard Operating Proreinforcing customer confiEnd-users can directly concedure (SOP) for complaint dence, loyalty and satisfactact Perfume Holding and management as required tion. the company’s internal by ISO UNI EN 22716:2008 policy requires all signals and ISO UNI EN 9001:2015, In particular, the complaint to be singularly addreswhich include procedures for management process alsed within 24 hours by the quality management, custolows Perfume Holding to Quality Assurance division. mer satisfaction and guideliprovide a transparent and Each filed complaint is asnes for complaints handling responsive complaint masessed for non-compliance in organizations. nagement process; enwith regulations and/or 2018 Sustainability Report 23 voluntary codes. As prescriThe percentage of comComplaints filed for reasons bed by the internal policy, plaints classified as technithat are not related to techall complaints are analyzed cally founded was 40%. The nical defects are also addresand corrective or prevenseverity of the technically sed by Perfume Holding, tative actions are taken if founded complaints was classified as “unfounded”. required, in alignment to also aligned to the previous These types of complaints the quality continuous imyear, as illustrated below: allow Perfume Holding to provement system. understand how certain customers actually perceive The nature of complaints in Severity of the the products and services 2. Product stewardship 2018 was in line with thooffered by the company and 17+23+60A technically-founded se received in the previous take preventative actions. year. The sources of signacomplaints (2018) In 2018, the percentage of ling in 2018 are illustrated unfounded complaints was in the following graph: 60%, of which 44% were 17% from final Customers. This trend remains stable compa10+24+8295A Source of signaling red to 2017. (2018) 23% 60% Concerning data privacy, all personal data which iden5% 10% tifies the final consumer is censored in accordance with 24% the classification of an inter24% nal code. Personal data incluCritical defect: important defect which inhibits the des: name, e-mail address, use by the end-user telephone number and any 8% Major defect: which inhiother data that could identify 29% bits the purchasing of the the final consumer. Moreoproduct by the end-user ver, the email addresses of Minor aesthetical decomplainants are accessible Web fects: which give a nesolely to the defined interExport Customer Service gative impression on the nal reference person. During Final Consumer quality of the product to 2018, Perfume Holding did Italian Customer Service the end-user not receive any complaints Marketing concerning breaches of cuSales Director stomer privacy or losses of customer data. 24 The dedication, passion der to promote sustainable by, conscious that the value and skills of the people growth, a company needs generated and distributed working at Perfume Holto rely on human resource to its surroundings will geding are the main features capabilities and willingness nerate and feed a virtuous that reinforce the capacity to implement and act on all circle, from which the com3. Creating value for people and society of the company to innovate strategic management depany will benefit too. and to achieve excellence. cisions. In Perfume Holding, people, recognized as the Given this, the value genePerfume Holding is fully most important and central rated for employees and aware that the value it is resource, are treated as the society is one of the key foable to generate relies, to most crucial factor for the cus areas that guides Perthe largest extent, on the company’s success. Deeplyfume Holding’s sustainable relationships built over the rooted in the local territory, pathway. years with its employees Perfume Holding also relies and the local community on society and the local in which it operates. In orcommunities it is supported 3.1 Employees Considering its workforce as As of December 31st 2018, 167 a fundamental and stratethe Group employed 167 peemployees gic factor for achieving the ople. The Group’s personnel is company’s business objectimainly located in Italy (75%), ves, Perfume Holding contiwhere the parent company is nuously seeks to protect and headquartered; the remaivalue its staff. The aim is to ning employees are distribucontinuously improve and ted across Russia, USA, Hong broaden their professional Kong, UK and Spain. skills, while creating a fulfilIn 2018 the Italian workforce ling and rewarding working employed by Morris Profumi environment and increasing at the production site in Paremployees’ sense of belonma, totaled 125 people, of ging to the company. which 80% were women. Perfume Holding employees, by geography and gender 80% women in 1% United States Italy 2% Spain 25% 2% Hong Kong 75% 3% UK Italy 17% Russia 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 Employees 2017 2016 25 Country Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Italy 25 100 125 35 108 143 37 110 147 3. Creating value for people and society Spain 3 1 4 3 1 4 UK 3 2 5 3 2 5 United 1 1 1 1 1 1 States Germany 1 1 Dubai 1 1 2 2 1 3 Singapore 1 1 Hong Kong 1 2 3 2 2 Russia 7 22 29 8 26 34 4 18 22 France 1 1 Total 40 127 167 51 140 191 45 131 176 Table 1: Perfume Holding total number of employees by gender and geographical area Morris Profumi S.p.A. manaMoreover, Morris Profumi ges its relationship with emhas an internal business ployees through permanent policy that includes emcontracts, which, in fact, reployee contract details in present the totality both in addition to the general the reporting period and in reference legislation. An the previous year. In 2018, internal approved policy 93% of employees worked also formalizes the comfull-time, in line with the mitment of Morris Profumi previous year. In 2018, 6 penot to hire people under 18 ople were hired for seasonal years old and not to have changes to the production relationships with contracline through external agentors or suppliers who emcies, 8 were self-employed ploy people under that age. persons and 6 contractors. More detailed data on diverAll of Morris Profumi emsity and employees’ turnover ployees are covered by are reported in the “Perforcollective bargaining agremance Indicators” section, at ements, as required by nathe end of this Report. tional law. Minimum notice periods can be found in corporate policies and standard employment contracts. 26 3.1.1 Development and training Perfume Holding offers Morris Profumi monitors carried out for a total of equal employment opporthe training hours related 1,027 hours of which 67% tunities to all employees to Environment, Health and was delivered to women 3. Creating value for people and society based on professional quaSafety and process quality/ and 33% was delivered to lifications and capabilities, Good Management Practimen. On average, each emwithout any form of discrices (GMP) topics. In partiployee attended 8.2 hours mination. As specified in cular, regarding the producof training throughout the formalized internal policies, tion site, each employee is year, with a slight increase the selection, recruitment, regularly updated on envias compared to 2017 (7.8 remuneration and careronmental and safety achours per employee). 14+31+649A er development plans are tivities and initiatives via based exclusively on merit an informative booklet. In and professional skills, wiaddition, each employee thout any discrimination rereceives training on the 284 garding political or religious above-mentioned themes beliefs, membership of through specific courses unions, race, language, genorganized either internally der, age, working timetable, or externally. Each year, a 1027 family status or role within training plan is prepared, 648 the company, in compliance in order to meet requirewith the current and relements and deadlines on vant legislations and emenvironmental, occupatio95 ployment contract. nal safety and quality/GMP processes. Hours of training People development, which on quality and GMP is one of the top priorities In addition, in 2018, folof the company, starts from lowing the new regulatory Hours of training the hiring of new joiners requirements that came on Environment, and proceeds throughout into force, courses on privaHealth and Safety their entire careers. In fact, cy-related topics have been Hours of training new employees are introducarried out. on Privacy ced to the company’s culture and main policies throuThe following chart repreTotal hours of training gh an induction program, sents the distribution of which is usually held in Partraining hours by topics in ma. Yearly training activities 2018. Overall, 24 courses are designed to strengthen on Environmental, Health professional skills, improve and Safety, 10 courses interpersonal relationships on privacy topics, as well and establish a positive woras continuous training on king environment. Quality/GMP have been 2018 Sustainability Report Promoting high quality working conditions 27 Morris Profumi is acto provide a shared and In addition, the comtive in enhancing the free bus for its emplopany provides its em3. Creating value for people and society wellbeing of its emyees. This solution aims ployees with a salary ployees as well as their to increase awareness of bonus to cover part of work-life balance. To environmental practices, lunch-related expenses this end, at the producprovide transportation opand, for parents with tion site in Parma, the tions to employees who children at preschool, company reached an do not own a vehicle and a salary bonus to cover agreement with local enhance employee safety part of preschool fees. public transportation during commuting. 3.1.2 Health & Safety at work Morris Profumi works hard All the potential An updated to spread a culture of saferisks7 faced by Environmental, ty, by raising awareness of the company are Safety and Social risks, promoting a responconstantly moniResponsibility Policy sible behavior and endetored, and four has been drafted avoring to preserve occusecurity audits and approved in pational health & safety. are carried out on a February 2018 The Group works toward a yearly basis, in accor“Zero injuries” target. dance with Model 231. The In 2018, two injuries were company periodically scherecorded at the production Among the preventative dules dedicated meetings site in Parma, which lead to actions put in place by the with all manufacturing 14 lost days (strong declicompany, there is the imdepartments and different ne with respect to the preplementation of a safety area managers to discuss vious year, when 2 injuries management model folpossible business issues caused 35 lost days). The lowing the UNI-INAIL guiand collect suggestions on injuries recorded in 2018 delines. The management occupational health and sawere classified as minor system includes a business fety, environment and quaand did not severely impolicy, training plans and lity management. pact the health of the emother procedures (such as ployees or workers involnon-compliance manageMorris Profumi activities, ved. More detailed data on ment, emergency manageeven though related to a health and safety indicators ment, periodic monitoring production environment, are reported in the “perforof all plant facilities, compresent relatively low risks mance indicators” section, munications management, of hazards, resulting in a at the end of this Report. etc.). low number of accidents. 7 At Morris Profumi S.p.A, the production site, the main risks include: fire risk, explosion hazard, chemical risk, biomechanical overload risk due to repetitive work and manual handling of loads. 28 3.2 Supporting the local community Perfume Holding holds diMorris Profumi 6.9 tons of products donated to charity rect, responsible and longengaged EMC2, term relationships with a local Social Co3. Creating value for people and society the community in which it operative Enterprise, • Sponsorship of cultural operates. The company has for delivering its cleaning events for the city of Parbeen engaged in charitable services to the Company, ma, such as the “Festival activities with local orgabesides engaging it for Verdi” and sport events nizations for several years, the production of some (e.g. “Giocampus” sumusually donating products Christmas presents. EMC2 mer camp); to volunteering associaactivities aim at promo• Participation in educations, in order to support ting the recruitment and tional projects (“altertheir activities. integration into work of nanza scuola-lavoro”) disadvantaged and dihosting students for In 2018, the Group donasabled workers. The cotemporary internships. ted around 6.9 tons of operative, which holds products (e.g. body wash, ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and In addition to these events, etc.) to several associations OHSAS 18001 certificain 2018 the Company’s that needed them and protions, mainly operates in contribution to the devevided financial support to ecological maintenance, lopment of its local comLILT association (Lega Italiarelocation and removal, munity has strengthened na per la Lotta contro i Tusocio-educational and soby proactively taking part mori), an Italian non-profit cial care services. in initiatives promoted organization, focusing on from Dynamo Camp and cancer research. In 2018 the Group was from “Parma, io ci sto!” involved in several other association. Moreover, in 2018, the initiatives supporting local Procurement division of communities, such as: Dynamo Camp Right to happiness With a full commitment to tor. Its program consists of the Dynamo Camp’s phia wide offer of creative, losophy, in 2018 Morris expressive, fun and exciProfumi raised funds to ting activities structured support the mission and on the basis of the Recreactivities of Dynamo Camp ational Therapy model. by selling handbags to its Every activity at Dynamo employees. Camp can be interpreted therapy and in the post hoas a personal challenge, spitalization stage, free of Dynamo Camp Non-Profit constructive and without charge. Programs are desiAssociation has the sole elements of competition. gned ad hoc for the whole aim of social solidarity The camp is for children family in the awareness and operates, not for profrom 6 to 17 years with that an illness does not fit, in the social and soserious and chronic pajust affect the sick child, cial/health assistance secthologies who are both in but the whole family. 2018 Sustainability Report 29 With the aim of strengtheFounded in 2016, the asto encourage the deve3. Creating value for people and society ning the company’s commitsociation is active in four lopment of both the hument within the territory of main areas: Food, Cultuman and economic capital Parma, in 2018 Morris Profure and Music, Education of the city of Parma and mi further strengthened its and Innovation, Tourism its surrounding area, while local engagement by taking and Leisure. All that, with fostering entrepreneurship part in many initiatives prothe aim to promote and and stronger connections moted from the association coordinate social, cultural between citizens, busines“Parma, io ci sto”. and educational initiative ses, schools and University. 3.3 Value creation Data related to the creployees, suppliers, capital During 2018, the value geation and distribution of providers and the Public nerated by Perfume Holding economic value provide an Administration. The added amounts to € 64,164,000. indication of how the comvalue is calculated throuIt is mainly distributed topany creates value for its gh a reclassification of the wards suppliers and emploown development, while consolidated income stayees and is broken down as simultaneously contributement and highlights the follows: ting to the development economic effects generaof its community and key ted by the business’ manastakeholders including emgement. Economic value distributed in 2018 14+82+12A 2.2% 0.1% 0.1% 15.0% Employees Suppliers Public Administration Capital Providers Community 82.6% 30 Consciousness that the fect balance between nave measures to reduce such long-term success of a tural resource consumption impacts. company also depends and long-term economic on the ability to plan and growth while ensuring high Given the attention that make decisions aiming to quality of life to present and the Group poses on envi4. Respecting the environment embed sustainable practifuture generations, in 2016 ronmental and social matces throughout the value the Group designed and apters, a high level of comchain is the reason why proved its Environmental, mitment is also dedicated Perfume Holding has been Safety and Social Responto the implementation of committed to respecting sibility Policy, which was specific training and dethe environment for many updated in February 2018. velopment programs for years. By measuring and The main objectives of the employees, to the establimonitoring its environmenpolicy include reducing polshment of virtuous collabotal performance, the Group lution and ensuring comrations, to the scrupulous reinforces this commitment pliance with environmental measurement of a set of to its stakeholders. Such regulation. environmental indicators commitment is reflected In accordance with ISO and the communication in concrete actions, such as 14001, the Group monitors to all employees on each the UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 and assesses environmenachievements and progress. certified Environmental Matal risks (including the asnagement System implesessment of climate related There were no verified camented by the parent comrisks) and opportunities in ses of noncompliance with pany Morris Profumi S.p.A. order to yearly set operaenvironmental regulations since 2007 and aligned to tional guidelines and quanor standards in 2018, nor the new reference standard titative targets. for the previous two reporISO 14001:2015 in March ting years. 2018. In addition, in 2018, In addition, since 2016, the the Company renewed its Group calculates its Carmembership to the Ecovabon Footprint to monitor dis Rating. According to the its impacts and implement vision of reaching the perprecautionary and correcti4.1 Energy and Emissions Morris Profumi recognizes the Group’s overall carbon the energy audit conducted its responsibility in redufootprint is calculated. The in 2015, confirmed that the cing its contribution to glototal energy consumption vast majority of the yearly bal climate change phenoconsists of electricity purconsumption derives from mena. For this reason, even chased from the national heating and cooling prothough the energy intensity grid, used to power the cesses, which are therefore of its production processes offices and the operating mainly influenced by exterand commercial offices is site, and of the use of natunal weather conditions and relatively low, the Group’s ral gas, which is limited to seasonal phenomena. parent Company monitors heating purposes. The ovemonthly the energy conrall energy demand is only The total energy consumption of its plants and slightly correlated to the sumption for 2018 amounts offices and, once a year, actual production volumes: to 6,406 GJ, showing an in2018 Sustainability Report 31 crease compared to 2017 first consists in investments achieved through the provi(+10.7%). In particular, the aiming at enhancing the sion of specific training and consumption of natural gas energy efficiency of buildevelopment programs. shows a 15.7% increase dings and plants and inlinked to the weather concludes the installation of The trend of energy con4. Respecting the environment ditions and the demand of innovative measures or the sumption within the orelectricity shows an increimprovement of existing ganization across the last ase of 4.8% due to a new ones. Part of these measuthree years, divided by shop in the UK and an offires include re-lamping acfuel type, is represented ce in Spain, which use electivities, initiated last year, in Table 2. Consumption tricity (instead of natural that were completed in is distinguished between gas) also for heating. 2018. Furthermore, to track production and commerand monitor the overall cial activities and it is posThe Group has set targets energy consumption rate, sible to see that producin order to achieve enerthe Company installed new tion activities are the most gy consumption reduction energy meters in the most significant. and all of its activities are critical electric panels. The aligned to meet such goals. second category focuses Several initiatives have also on the development of been introduced to consithe Group’s human capital stently work towards these by increasing social and goals, and can be divided environmental awareness into two categories. The among employees; this is Energy consumption Fuel type 2018 2017 2016 PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES (Morris Profumi S.p.A.) Natural gas 3,322 2,830 2,660 Electricity 2,493 2,442 2,534 Total 5,815 5,272 5,194 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES (Russia, UK, Spain)* Natural gas 308 308 Electricity 283 205 Total 591 514 TOTAL 6,406 5,785 5,194 Table 2: Energy consumption within the organization by fuel type [GJ], Morris Profumi S.p.A., Russia, UK, and Spain. * The shop in UK (London) and the office in Spain (Madrid) opened in 2018. 2016 data for the commercial site in Russia (Moscow) are not available. 32 Total greenhouse gas (GHG) •LScope 1: direct GHG •LScope 2: indirect GHG emissions in 2018, reported emissions from installaemissions from energy conin Table 3, amount to 472.8 tions owned or controlled sumption, that is, GHG emistCO2, showing an increase by the company (natural sions from electricity, heat with respect to the previous gas for heating purposes) and steam imported and 4. Respecting the environment year of about 7%. This vaand in 2018 amounted to consumed by the company lue includes Scope 1 and 199.0 tCO2. and in 2018 amounted to Scope 2 emissions (location 273.8 tCO2 (location based based calculation), defined calculation). as follows: Emissions Scope 2018 2017 2016 PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES (Morris Profumi S.p.A.) Scope 1 181.7 150.7 145.6 Scope 2 location based 249.3 254.4 263.9 Scope 2 market based* 329.9 323.2 335.4 Total (Scope1 + Scope 2 431.0 405.1 409.5 location based) COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES (Russia, UK, Spain)** Scope 1 17.2 17.2 Scope 2 location based 24.6 18.1 Scope 2 market based 26.3 18.1 Total (Scope1 + Scope 2 41.8 35.4 location based) TOTAL SCOPE 1 199.0 167.9 145.6 TOTAL SCOPE 2 location 273.8 272.5 263.9 based TOTAL (Scope1 + Scope 2 472.8 440.4 409.5 location based) Table 3: Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions [tCO2], Morris Profumi S.p.A., Russia, UK and Spain. *The emissions scope 2 calculated according to the market based methodology is higher than those calculated according to the location based one, because the Company does not buy electricity certified as produced by renewable sources (certification of origin). **The shop in UK (London) and the office in Spain (Madrid) opened in 2018. 2016 data for the commercial site in Russia (Moscow) are not available. 2018 Sustainability Report 33 Starting from 2017, Morris sulated, thus significantly components and finProfumi S.p.A. also monireducing natural gas deished products. tors GHG emissions deriving mand for heating purposes from its car fleet. Emissions and electricity demand for In order to ensure emisare calculated multiplying cooling, CO2 emissions desions minimization and 4. Respecting the environment the actual distance travelcreased accordingly. Other compliance with standards led by company cars throuinitiatives introduced to and regulations, Morris Proghout the year (km) by reduce CO2 emissions derifumi also monitors emistheir average emission facving from business activisions of Nitrogen oxides tors (gCO2/km), resulting in ties are: (NOx) and Volatile Organic an overall amount of 47.8 • a company shuttle for Compounds (VOCs). tCO2 for 2018 reporting employees’ transportayear, with a slight decrease tion; as compared to 2017 value • the new logistic service (54.4 tCO2). operator is nearer to the plant and has elimIn 2013, the entire producinated the journeys of tion site was thermally inthe shuttle carrying the 4.2 Water Morris Profumi has its he2018 amounted to 5,059 system occurred in Sepadquarters in Parma, whem3, showing a 12% decreatember 2018 causing a ware water for the manufacse with respect to 2017. The ter consumption of about turing facilities and the relatively higher values of 567 m3. offices is mainly sourced 2017 and 2018 compared from public aqueducts. A to 2016 are due to leaks. Data only include conminor amount of water is In particular, a leak in the sumption from the Italian also needed for irrigation water well system occurred production unit, since conpurposes and for the fire in 2017, causing water consumption related to offices system and is withdrawn sumption of about 850-900 in UK, Spain and Russia is from an owned well. m3; whereas, a significant considered negligible. Total water withdrawal in leak in the hydrants’ water Water consumption Source [m3] 2018 2017 2016 Groundwater 1,531 2,891 1,005 Municipal water 3,528 2,881 3,457 supplies Total 5,059 5,772 4,462 Table 4: Water withdrawal by source [m3], Morris Profumi S.p.A. 34 In 2018, Morris Profumi diter is tested by a qualified As concerns water quality in scharged 3,195 m3 of water. external laboratory (REI La2016, Morris Profumi built This amount is mainly due boratory) on a bi-weekly two small wells for water to sanitation water usage basis. Perfume Holding’s withdrawal to allow the and only a small portion to efforts to reduce discharges company’s internal experts 4. Respecting the environment production activities. With also include retrofitting sato regularly extract small respect to 2017, there was nitation facilities. samples for testing. This a 14.4% increase in water was done in order to ensure discharge value. All voluIn order to improve overall efficient monitoring of wames of water discharged water resource manageter quality flows and of poare treated in an owned and ment, water withdrawal is tential water contamination. authorized water purificamonitored on a monthly All completed tests confirtion plant before being dibasis. If irregular values med a high quality of the scharged into public sewers. are detected, the company groundwater streams that Previously, the wastewaimmediately investigates feed the production plant ter was discharged directly the cause of the anomaly and office headquarters. into a surface water body, and intervenes by taking In addition, as part of probut in 2018 the company corrective measures. In adgrams for the development made a large investment dition, over the years, the among employees of enviin the construction of a seirrigation system has been ronmental awareness, the wage collector to discharge optimized with the installaGroup promotes employee its wastewater. The purifier tion of an automated meeducation on best practiis constantly monitored and chanism for water usage ces to reduce water conthe quality of the wastewaminimization. sumption and waste. 4.3 Waste Perfume Holding imple61.5% of waste mented a rigorous waste generated is sent to management procedure recovery plants throughout the entire productive plant aimed at reshowing a 2.46% decrease gulating the sorting process with respect to 2017. Whiaccording to each waste le the repartition among category. Proper waste sordifferent disposal methods ting and management alremained virtually constant turning wooden pallets, palows for waste to be effectiwith respect to the previous per packaging divisions and vely treated and recovered year, the amount of waste partitions to the suppliers and minimizes the portion per ton of product decreafor re-use, instead of diof waste sent to landfill and sed by about 4%. In partisposing them, has led to a incineration. cular, the amount of waste noticeable reduction of wagenerated decreased while ste from mixed packaging, In 2018, the waste geproduction slightly increapaper and wood. The total nerated at the Group’s sed. This is also thanks to amount of re-used maheadquarters in Parma the re-use practices put in terials in 2018 was 13.81 amounted to 203.47 tons, place by the company. Retons, of which 7.96 tons 2018 Sustainability Report 35 from mixed packaging and the weight of the wooden Data only include waste 5.85 tons from paper and pallets returned to the supproduced by the Italian propaper-board. In addition, pliers is 55.65 tons. duction unit. Waste 4. Respecting the environment 2018 2017 2016 Disposal NonNonNonmethod HazardHazardHazhazardTotal hazardTotal hazardTotal ous ous ardous ous ous ous Recovery (energy 4.8 120.4 125.1 4.6 120.9 125.5 7.8 144.2 152.0 included) Incinera41.1 41.1 46.0 46.0 55.7 55.7 tion Landfill 35.7 35.7 36.1 36.1 33.8 33.8 Preliminary 1.6 0.0 1.6 1.0 0.01 1.0 1.5 2.4 2.9 deposit Total 6.3 197.1 203.5 5.5 203.1 208.6 9.3 236.1 245.4 Table 5: Waste production by type and disposal method [tons], Morris Profumi S.p.A. Another initiative put in cedure to allocate unsold ding to this initiative, at place aimed at waste proproducts to retailers that least 50% of such unsold duction minimization is have had high demand for products were eligible for concerning products that those products. When this charities. In 2018, 6.9 tons every year, despite their is not possible, the proof waste were avoided as a impeccable conditions, reducts are re-collected at result of this approach. main unsold. Perfume Holthe production plant and ding has developed a prodonated to charity. Accor4.4 Materials Materials Table 6 represents the Material* 2018 2017 2016 trend, during the last three Alcohol 549.0 462.0 527.0 years, of the raw material Essence 105.0 76.0 95.0 volumes used by Morris Profumi. The amount of Glass 1,256.2 1,190.9 1,457.8 sourced raw materials is Paper and 333.7 334.5 386.4 directly proportional to procardboard duction volumes, indeed, Plastic 238.8 193.1 183.6 with respect to 2017, there was a 10% increase in maAluminum 3.1 2.2 5.5 terials used amount. Steel 0.9 3.0 3.3 Table 6: materials used Wood 3.1 3.3 3.7 by weight [tons] Total 2,489.8 2,265.0 2,662.3 *2016 and 2017 data (excluding the ones related to alcohol and essence) have been updated as compared to the previous Sustainability Report following more reliable data that have become available. 36 All data are referred to Morris Profumi S.p.A. 5.1 Human Resources indicators Total number of employees by employment contract and gender 5. Performance Indicators Type of 2018 2017 2016 employment FeFeFecontract Male Total Male Total Male Total male male male Permanent 25 100 125 35 108 143 37 110 147 Temporary Total 25 100 125 35 108 143 37 110 147 Table 7: Total number of employees by employment contract and gender. Total number of employees by employment type and gender 2018 2017 2016 Full-time/ Part-time FeFeFeMale Total Male Total Male Total male male male Full-time 24 92 116 34 102 136 36 103 139 Part-time 1 8 9 1 6 7 1 7 8 Total 25 100 125 35 108 143 37 110 147 Table 8: Total number of employees by employment type and gender. Total number of employees by employment category and gender 2018 2017 2016 Employment category FeFeFeMale Total Male Total Male Total male male male Senior Man1 2 3 4 4 8 4 2 6 agers Middle Man7 8 15 6 8 14 8 10 18 agers White col11 37 48 17 41 58 17 43 60 lars Blue collars 6 53 59 8 55 63 8 55 63 Total 25 100 125 35 108 143 37 110 147 Table 9: Total number of employees by employment category and gender. 2018 Sustainability Report Employment Total number of employees by employment category and age group 2018 2017 2016 37 category <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Total Senior 1 2 3 3 5 8 3 3 6 Managers 5. Performance Indicators Middle 9 6 15 5 9 14 9 9 18 Managers White 4 26 18 48 3 41 14 58 5 42 13 60 collars Blue 2 35 22 59 3 40 20 63 4 39 20 63 collars Total 6 71 48 125 6 89 48 143 9 93 45 147 Table 10: Total number of employees by employment category and age group. Governance bodies’ members by gender and age group 2018 2017 2016 Board <30 30-50 >50 Tot <30 30-50 >50 Tot <30 30-50 >50 Tot Members M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F 5 5 7 2 1 2 2 1 2 4 1 2 Table 11: Governance bodies’ members by gender and age group. Number of external workers by employment category and gender 2018 2017 2016 Employment category FeFeFeMale Total Male Total Male Total male male male Self-employed persons 8 8 8 8 12 12 Workers hired through exter5 7 12 5 7 12 5 9 14 nal agencies Total 13 7 20 13 7 20 17 9 26 Table 12: Number of external workers by employment category and gender. Employee hiring and turnover rate by gender 2018 2017 2016 Rate and percentage FeFeFeMale Total Male Total Male Total male male male Hiring rate 16% 2% 5% 20% 3% 7% 24% 7% 12% Turnover rate 52% 11% 19% 26% 6% 10% 11% 5% 7% Table 13: Employee hiring and turnover rate by gender. 38 Rate and Employee hiring and turnover rate by age group 2018 2017 2016 percentage <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Total Hiring rate 17% 6% 2% 5% 17% 6% 8% 7% 44% 12% 4% 12% Turnover 5. Performance Indicators 0 25% 13% 19% 33% 10% 8% 10% 22% 8% 2% 7% rate Table 14: Employee hiring and turnover rate by age group. Average hours of training by employment category and gender 2018 2017 2016 Average Total Men* WoWoWoTotal Total Total Men* men Total Total Men* men hours hours avg men avg avg hours avg avg avg hours avg avg avg Senior 15 4.0 5.5 5.0 18 0.5 4.0 2.3 28 4.7 4.7 Managers Middle 105 9.0 5.3 7.0 76 8.7 3.0 5.4 68 8.5 3.8 Managers White 505.5 12.0 10.1 10.5 280 5.4 4.6 4.8 843 16.0 9.5 14.1 collars Blue 401.5 23.5 4.9 6.8 213 14.3 2.0 3.4 165 4.0 2.1 2.6 collars Total 1,027 4.0 5.5 5.0 587 7.2 3.1 4.1 1,104 10.1 5.0 7.5 Table 15: Average hours of training by employment category and gender. 2018 Sustainability Report 5.2 Health and safety indicators 39 Health and safety indicators by employees and external workers 2018 2017 2016 Number External External External 5. Performance Indicators and rate* Employees Employees Employees workers workers workers Injuries 2 1 1 3 1 Occupational 0.94 disease rate Work-related fatalities Absentee days 1,492 966 n.a. 741 n.a. Absentee rate 4.5% 2.6% n.a. 2.1% n.a. Injury Rate 1.87 0.9 8.4 2.8 3.7 Lost Day Rate 0.10 0.02 1.3 0.36 0.6 Table 16: Health and safety indicators by employees and external workers. In 2018 no injuries or occupational diseases were recorded for external workers. *Data related to injuries do not include commuting injuries, (2 in 2018). The two reported injuries above occurred to women. Rates calculated as follows: • Occupational disease rate is calculated as the ratio between the frequency of occupational diseases and the total number of hours worked (including overtime), multiplied by 200,000. For 2018 the occupational disease rate was 3.92 for women, zero for men. • Absentee rate is calculated as the ratio between the total number of working days lost due to absenteeism (including work-related injuries, commuting injuries, sick days and occupational diseases) and the total days scheduled to be worked. For 2018 the absentee rate was 18.0% for women and 0.6% for men. • Injury rate is calculated as the ratio between the number of injuries (excluding commuting injuries) leading to an absence of more than one day (excluding the one in which the injury happened) and the total number of hours worked (including overtime), multiplied by 200,000. For 2018 the injury rate was 7.84 for women and zero for men. • Lost day rate for employees is calculated as the ratio between the number of working lost days (due to injuries excluding commuting injuries and occupational diseases) and the total number of hours scheduled to be worked, multiplied by 1,000 (for external workers, the ratio is calculated using the hours worked). For 2018 the lost day rate was 0.47 for women and zero for men. 40 This 2018 Sustainability reference “Morris Profumi dicators, which refer Report represents our comS.p.A.” solely refers to the only to Morris Profumi mitment towards a tranparent company. S.p.A. Data included in sparent and structured resection 5 “Performance porting process, developed The reported information indicators” refer to by the Group for the benefit and data refer to 2018 Morris Profumi S.p.A.; 6. Note on Methodology of its stakeholders. It sup(from 1 January 2018 to 31 plements the information December 2018), unless • For environmental data, regarding sustainability diotherwise noted. Any data the reporting scope resclosed in the 2018 Annual referring to previous years fers to Morris Profumi Report, providing details on is presented for comparaS.p.A., with the excepthe Group’s sustainability tive purposes only, so as tion of the data related performance and industry to allow an assessment of to energy and emissions, trends, and giving proper the evolution of the Group’s which refer to the Group attention to the expectaperformance over time. (parent company and tions of all stakeholders Where the data comes from subsidiaries consolidated who, either directly or indiestimates, it is flagged acon a line-by-line basis). rectly, are interested in the cordingly. The performance activities of the Group. indicators are collected on The Group’s headquarters an annual basis and the reare in Strada Maretto 13, This Report has been preporting frequency is annual. Roncopascolo (Parma). The pared in accordance with scope of reporting is consithe GRI Standard: Core opThe scope of the reported stent with the description tion. The breadth and dedata differs depending on reported above with the tail with which the issues the topic at stake, as follows: exception of some data exin the Sustainability Report plicitly indicated in the text. are covered reflect the ma• The operating and fiteriality analysis carried nancial data refer to the out according to the meGroup (parent company Calculation criteria thodology described in the and subsidiaries consolparagraph “Approaching idated on a line-by-line Several operating desustainability”. basis) and are extracted partments of the Group from the Annual Report have been actively inas at 31 December 2018; volved in the process of Scope of reporting data gathering and report • For human resources drafting, in order to shape The Group is commercially information, the rethe Report. The ultimate known as “Perfume Holporting scope refers to objectives of the Group are, ding” and for this reason the Group (parent comthrough the elaboration of “Perfume Holding” and pany and subsidiaries the Sustainability Report, “the Group” are used interconsolidated on a lineto further strengthen the changeably in this Report, by-line basis), with the reporting system and to both referring to Morris exception of the data enhance the accuracy and Profumi Group. The Group’s related to training and reliability of the informalogo has not changed. The health and safety intion and data provided. 2018 Sustainability Report 41 As for the calculation criteria: purchased from the national electricity grid and • The Hiring Rate is calthe emissions factor was culated as the ratio taken from Terna’s inbetween the numternational comparisons ber of people enteron Enerdata data 2016 6. Note on Methodology ing and the number data. The Market Based of employees, by genmethodology takes into der and by age group. account the RECS certificates (Renewable Ener• The Turnover Rate is gy Certificate System) calculated as the rapurchased by the Group, tio between the numwhich certify the evenber of people leaving tual supply by the comand the number of pany of electricity from employees, by genrenewable sources that der and by age group. do not involve emissions. If the organization does • Direct (scope 1) and innot completely cover its direct energy emissions electricity needs with (scope 2) have been calthese certificates, for the culated as follows: remaining part, an emisFor emissions caused by sions factor associated the use of natural gas, with the production of the emissions factor used energy from thermal powas taken from the table wer plants can be used. of national standard parameters (valid for the Please note that the numcalculation of emissions bers in tables and graphics from January 1st to Deare sometimes rounded, so cember 31st of the correthat totals reported could sponding year) published not match exactly with the by the Italian Ministry breakdowns. for the Environment and Protection of the TerritoFor further information ry and the Sea; about this Sustainability For indirect emissions Report, please contact: from the consumption of electricity there are Morris Profumi S.p.A. two different methodoStrada Maretto 13 logies: location based 403126 Roncopascolo (PR) and market based. The Italy location based methodoTel: + 39 0521 662111 logy considers the cone-mail: sumption of electricity info@perfumeholding.com 42 6.1 Explanation of the material topics and its boundaries and correlation with the GRI Standards The following table presents the correlation between the material topics for the Group and GRI Standard aspects and the explanation of the material topics and their boundaries. Boundary GRI Material Perfume 6. Note on Methodology # Standard Explanation Where the Topic Holding’s Aspect impact occurs involvement Customer Creating and selling high Perfume Product quality Direct; Indirect 1 health and quality, long-lasting, safe Holding; and safety contribution safety and sustainable products Suppliers Promotion of good Corporate Governance, inspired by the highest Perfume Anti Direct; Indirect 2 Business ethics standards related to Holding; corruption contribution ethics, integrity and Suppliers compliance to laws and regulations Human Respect, promotion and Perfume Direct; Indirect 3 Human rights rights protection of human Holding; contribution assessment rights Suppliers Implementation of a structured system that allows to identify, Governance Perfume Direct 4 n.a. evaluate and manage and risks Holding contribution risks from an economic, social and environmental point of view Involvement and support Community Local of local communities Perfume Direct 5 involvement communities through activities and Holding contribution initiatives Complying with laws and Occupational regulations concerning Health Perfume Direct 6 health security, prevention, and safety Holding contribution and safety hygiene and health in the workplace Management of customer Perfume Customer privacy and ability to buCustomer Holding; Direct; Indirect 7 satisfaction ild customer relationships privacy Distributors contribution and privacy that are long-lasting and and franchising based on trust Promotion of gender and Diversity Diversity non-gender diversity Perfume Direct 8 and equal and equal through non-discriminaHolding contribution opportunity opportunity tion policies and practices Effluents Effluents Promotion of an efficient Perfume Direct 9 and waste and waste waste management policy Holding contribution 2018 Sustainability Report 43 Promotion of sustainable Perfume Direct 10 Water Water water management Holding contribution 6. Note on Methodology Promotion of energy efficiency policies and Energy and Energy; Perfume Direct; Indirect 11 contribution to climate emissions Emissions Holding contribution change mitigation and adaptation Economic perEconomic Creation and distribution Perfume Direct 12 formance performance of economic value Holding contribution Selecting suppliers, colSupplier laborators and business environmental partners in accordance Responsible assessment; Perfume Direct 13 with their environmental purchasing Supplier Holding contribution and social performance social and through fair and assessment transparent processes Involvement of key Stakeholder Perfume Direct 14 n.a. stakeholders in decisionengagement Holding contribution making processes Use of safe and sustainaPerfume Materials and Direct; Indirect 15 Materials ble materials, including Holding; packaging contribution responsible packaging Suppliers Research and devePerfume Research and lopment activities in Holding; Direct; Indirect 16 n.a. development order to improve product Schools and contribution quality Universities Presence of the organizaMarket Perfume Direct 17 n.a. tion at the national and presence Holding contribution international level Providing accessible and Marketing Marketing adequate information Perfume Direct 18 and product and labelling on the composition and Holding contribution labelling impacts of products Offering training and Training and development programs Perfume Direct 19 Human capital education to strengthen employee Holding contribution skills Promotion and safeguarPerfume Direct 20 Animal welfare n.a. ding of animal welfare Holding contribution Attention to the environmental impact of Perfume logistics through the Direct; Indirect 21 Logistics n.a. Holding; selection of suppliers and contribution Suppliers the designing of distribution channels 6.2 Correlation between UN Global Compact and GRI Standards 44 The following table presents the correlation between the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and the GRI Disclosures covered in this Report, which represents a Communication on Progress (COP), i.e. a document that communicates to Perfume Holding’s stakeholders its progress in applying the 10 Principles to its core business. Category UN Global Compact Principle GRI Standard Disclosure Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed hu412-1, 103-2, 103-3 Human Right man rights 6. Note on Methodology Businesses should make sure they are not 414-2 complicit in human right abuses Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of 102-41, 402-1 the right to collective bargaining Businesses should uphold the elimination of 414-2 all forms of forced and compulsory labor Labor Businesses should uphold the effective 414-2 abolition of child labor Businesses should uphold the elimination of 102-8, 401-1, 405-1, discrimination in respect of employment and 406-1 occupation Businesses should support a precautionary 302-1, 303-1, 305-1, approach to environmental challenges 305-2 302-1, 303-1, 305-1, Businesses should undertake initiatives 305-2, 306-1, 306-2, to promote greater environmental Environment 301-1, 307-1, 308-2, responsibility 103-2 Businesses should encourage the development and the fusion of environmentally n.a. friendly technologies Businesses should work again corruption in Anti-corruption 102-16, 205-3 all its forms, including extortion and bribery 2018 Sustainability Report 6.3 GRI Standards – Content Index 45 The following table presents the GRI Disclosures covered by this Report according to the option “In Accordance-core”, as prescribed by the GRI Standards. For each Disclosure, a brief description is provided and the paragraph of the 2018 Sustainability Report in which the information can be found. A specific comment is provided for Disclosures that have not been covered, or have only been partially covered. Disclosure Description Paragraph/Notes GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 6. Note on Methodology Organizational profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 1.3 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 (Note on Methodology); 1.3 GRI 102-4 Location of operations 1.3 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 1.3 GRI 102-6 Markets served 1.3 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization 1.1; 3.1 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 3.1; 5 GRI 102-9 Supply chain 2.1 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization 6 (Note on and its supply chain Methodology) GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 1.3.1 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 1.2; 6.2 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 1.2; 6.2 (Note on Methodology) Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Chairman Letter GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 1.3.1; 3.1.2; 2.1; 2.2; 2.5; 4.1 Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 1.3.1 of behavior Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure 1.3.1 Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 1.2 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 3.1 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 1.2 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 1.2 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 1.2 Reporting practice GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 6 (Note on statements Methodology) GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 1.2; 6 (Note on Methodology) Disclosure Description Paragraph/Notes GRI 102-47 List of material topics 1.2; 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-48 Restatements of information 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-50 Reporting period 6 (Note on 46 Methodology) GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 6 (Note on GRI Standards Methodology) GRI 102-55 GRI content index 6.3 6. Note on Methodology GRI 102-56 External assurance This report has not been externally assured. TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS ECONOMIC Material aspect Economic performance GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 3.3 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 3.3 Material aspect Anti-corruption GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 1.3.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 1.3.1 taken ENVIRONMENTAL Material aspect – Materials GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 4.4 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 4.4 The Group is committed to extending the reporting on data on materials used Material aspect Energy GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 4.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 4.1 Material aspect – Water GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 4.2 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 4.2 Material aspect – Emissions GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 4.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach 2018 Sustainability Report Disclosure Description Paragraph/Notes GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 4.1; 6 (Note on Methodology) GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 4.1; 6 (Note on Methodology) Material aspect – Effluents and waste GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 4.2 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the 47 management approach GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 4.2 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 4.3 Aspect – Environmental compliance GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 4 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 4 regulations 6. Note on Methodology Material aspect – Supplier environmental assessment GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 2.2 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the 2.2 supply chain and actions taken SOCIAL Aspect – Employment GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 3.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 3.1; 5 Aspect – Labor/management relations GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 3.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 3.1 changes Material aspect – Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 3.1.2 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 3.1.2; 5 diseases, lost days, absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities Material aspect – Training and education GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 3.1.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 3.1.1; 5 Material aspect – Diversity and equal opportunities GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 3.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 3.1; 1.3.1; 5 Aspect – Non-discrimination GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 1.3.1 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 1.3.1 taken Disclosure Description Paragraph/Notes Material aspect – Human rights assessment GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 1.3.1 48 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human 1.3.1 rights reviews or impact assessments Material aspect – Local communities GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 3.2 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 3.2; 3.3 impact assessments, and development programs 6. Note on Methodology Aspect – Supplier social assessment GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 2.2 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 2.2 actions taken Material aspect – Customer health and safety GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 2.5 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 2.5 product and service categories GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 2.5 health and safety impacts of products and services Material aspect – Customer privacy GRI 103-1; 103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 2.6 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 2.6 customer privacy and losses of customer data Material aspect – Marketing and labeling GRI 103-1;103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 2.4 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach GRI 417-1 Requirements of product and service information 2.4 and labeling GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product No incident of nonand service information and labeling compliance leading to a fine or penalty has been reported GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning No incident of nonmarketing communications compliance leading to a fine or penalty has been reported OTHERS MATERIAL ASPECTS Material aspect – Animal welfare GRI 103-1; 103-2; Explanation of the material topic, 2.3 103-3 the management approach and an evaluation of the management approach Material aspect – Research and Development GRI 103-1; 103-2; Explanation of the material topic, the 2.3 103-3 management approach and an evaluation of the management approach
