2018 ANNUAL REPORT FREUDENBERG GROUP The Freudenberg Group stands for technology and champion. For Freudenberg, striving together for innovation. Together with customers and research solutions that support global sustainability is both partners, Freudenberg employees develop leadingmotivation as well as the concept for success. It edge technologies, products, solutions and services. enables the Group to provide its customers with The innovative strength of Freudenberg has many solutions and answers to tomorrow’s questions, today. facets. Having pioneered innovation throughout its The company slogan “Innovating Together” embodies history – from chrome tanning and the development the Group’s identity. This Annual Report brings you of the Simmerring to sophisticated and high-tech many examples of what makes Freudenberg so medical devices – the company is an innovation unique and different. HIGHLIGHTS [€ million] 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sales Germany 1,087 1,116 1,269 1,557 1,641 EU (excluding Germany) 1,657 1,700 2,094 2,434 2,448 Other European countries 334 308 314 441 429 North America 1,383 1,668 2,093 2,502 2,434 South/Central America 296 274 281 326 285 Asia 1,089 1,204 1,700 1,907 2,016 Africa/Australia 136 141 149 179 202 Total sales 5,982 6,411 7,900 9,346 9,455 Consolidated profit 478 521 1,087 700 602 Cash flow from operating activities 618 763 945 929 828 Cash flow from investing activities -339 -429 -1,510 -612 -581 Balance sheet total 6,667 7,238 10,224 10,194 10,239 Equity 3,211 3,700 4,603 4,835 5,312 Equity ratio 48 % 51 % 45 % 47 % 52 % Workforce (as at Dec. 31) 34,030 34,007 46,266 47,653 49,137 Workforce (annual average) 34,094 34,312 40,951 47,657 48,894 SALES DEVELOPMENT In 2018, Freudenberg once again continued the development in the US dollar exchange rate. In good development of sales. Compared with the addition, the first-time application of the new acprevious year, organic growth was further boosted counting standard IFRS 15 had a negative impact and reached €406.5 million. However, a number of €54.3 million on sales. In the year under review, of factors impacted on the sales figure in euros the effects of acquisitions and disinvestments toduring the financial year. These included signifitaled €43.2 million. Sales in the 2018 financial cant negative exchange rate effects, amounting year reached €9,455.4 million, 1.2 percent up on to €285.6 million, especially resulting from the the figure for the previous year. [€ million] Effects of acquisitions Exchange rate Sales and disinvestments effects Organic growth Sales IFRS 15 effects 9,345.6 43.2 -285.6 406.5 9,455.4 -54.3 2017 2018 2018 FREUDENBERG ANNUAL REPORT CONTENTS COMPANY BOARDS Supervisory Board 2 Board of Management 3 Executive Council 4 Management of the Business Groups 5 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD 6 FOREWORD OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT 8 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SOCIETY (UN Global Compact Communication on Progress) 12 COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT Fundamental Information Business Model 43 Research and Development 46 Report on Economic Conditions Macroeconomic Environment 50 Business Development and Position 53 Earnings Position 55 Financial Position 55 Report on Operations by Business Area 60 Report on Events after the Date of the Statement of Financial Position 86 Report on Opportunities and Risks 87 Report on Expected Developments 96 Freudenberg SE (HGB) 99 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 104 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 106 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 107 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 108 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 109 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 110 Shareholdings 168 Independent Auditor’s Report 179 COMPANY BOARDS SUPERVISORY BOARD From left: Pott, Schildhauer, Towfigh, Kuhlich, Freudenberg, Wentzler, Kammüller, Kairisto, Purvis, Kurz, Thielen, Freudenberg-Beetz, Schücking Martin Wentzler, Großhesselohe Maeva Kuhlich, Chichilianne, France Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Freudenberg SE Manufacturing Integrator at Attorney Becton Dickinson France S.A.S. Professor Dr. Dieter Kurz, Lindau Dr. Richard Pott, Leverkusen Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Freudenberg SE Covestro AG Chairman of the Shareholder Council of the Carl Zeiss Foundation David M. Purvis, Kansas City, Missouri, USA Former Executive Vice President Martin Freudenberg, Heidelberg and CTO at Solectron Corp. Managing Director of Jumag Dampferzeuger GmbH Walter Schildhauer, Stuttgart Managing Partner of Dr. Maria Freudenberg-Beetz, Weinheim speedwave GmbH Biologist Dr. Christoph Schücking, Frankfurt am Main Essimari Kairisto, Korschenbroich Attorney and Notary Public MA Business Management, Management Consultant, Member of the Board of Directors of Fortum Oy Mathias Thielen, Zürich, Switzerland Managing Director of Credit Suisse AG Dr. Mathias Kammüller, Ditzingen Managing Director and Professor Dr. Emanuel V. Towfigh, Bad Soden CDO of TRUMPF GmbH + Co. KG University Professor, Dean of the EBS University Law School as at December 31, 2018 2 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT From left: Krauch, Sohi and Krieger Dr. Mohsen Sohi, Frankfurt am Main Chief Executive Officer Dr. Tilman Krauch, Heidelberg Member of the Board, CTO Dr. Ralf Krieger, St. Leon-Rot Member of the Board, CFO as at December 31, 2018 3 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL Members Business Groups Claus Möhlenkamp (CEO) Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Frank Müller (CEO) Vibracoustic Dr. Frank Heislitz (CEO) Freudenberg Performance Materials Karin Overbeck (CEO) Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions Hanno D. Wentzler (CEO) Freudenberg Chemical Specialities and the Board of Management Membership of the above-mentioned five CEOs in the Executive Council takes stronger account of the perspectives of the Business Groups with regard to overarching issues. as at December 31, 2018 4 MANAGEMENT OF THE BUSINESS GROUPS Management Business Groups Claus Möhlenkamp (CEO and Member of the Executive Council), Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Dr. Theodore Duclos (CTO), Ludger Neuwinger-Heimes (CFO), Dieter Schäfer (COO) Richard Schmidt (CEO), Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies Craig Barnhart (CFO) Dr. Andreas Raps (CEO), EagleBurgmann Dr. Sebastian Weiss (CFO), Dr. Kai Ziegler (CTO) Dr. Max Gisbert Kley (CEO), Freudenberg Medical Kurt Ziminski (CFO) Frank Müller (CEO and Member of the Executive Council), Vibracoustic Dr. Jörg Böcking (CTO), Volker Christ (CFO) Dr. Frank Heislitz (CEO and Member of the Executive Council), Freudenberg Performance Materials Thomas Herr (CFO), John McNabb (CTO) Dr. Andreas Kreuter (CEO), Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Frank Reuther (CFO), Dr. Jörg Sievert (COO) Satoshi Kawamura (CEO), Japan Vilene Company Yasuhiro Esaki (COO), Yukiyasu Izuta (CFO), Atsushi Shimoda (CTO) Karin Overbeck (CEO and Member of the Executive Council), Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Dr. Arman Barimani (CTO), Solutions Kerstin Borrs (CFO) Hanno D. Wentzler (CEO and Member of the Executive Council), Freudenberg Chemical Specialities Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann (CFO) Horst Reichardt (CEO), Freudenberg IT Wolfgang Schneider (CFO) as at December 31, 2018 5 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Supervisory Board consulted on the negotiations on the North American Free Trade Agreement and Brexit. In addition, the Supervisory Board addressed acquisitions and their integration in the Group, such as the acquisition of E. D. Oates Pty Ltd, Melbourne, Australia, the market leader in the professional cleaning business in Australia, by Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions. Furthermore, Japan Vilene Company purchased Hanns Glass GmbH & Co. KG, Grafing, Germany, the global leader for the production of floor mats for the automotive industry. In addition, stakes in the fuel cell manufacturer Elcore GmbH, Munich, Germany, and Elcomax GmbH, Munich, Germany, were acquired, and Freudenberg Sealing Technologies purchased a stake in the U.S. company XALT Energy, Midland, Michigan, USA, a producer of large lithium ion battery cells, modules and systems. Martin Wentzler (Chairman) Moreover, the Supervisory Board was involved in the review of various strategic options for the best possible path forward for Freudenberg IT. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board held regular and detailed discussions on the progress The Audit Committee met five times in the year under of the Freudenberg Group and major individual review. In the first quarter of 2018 it consulted closely business transactions based on verbal and written on the annual financial statements and the reports from the Board of Management. Furthermore, consolidated financial statements as at December 31, both company boards jointly consulted on 2017 and on the reports from the auditors about these fundamental issues of business policy which was financial statements. The second meeting focused on updated where necessary. Moreover, the Supervisory risk management, with the Audit Committee first Board advised the Board of Management in managing addressing the auditor's report assessing the internal the company, while supervising and monitoring the control system. This report was discussed extensively conduct of business. In addition, the Chairman of the with auditor representatives, making cross references Supervisory Board held discussions with the members to the relevant auditors’ reports from previous financial of the Board of Management on current business years. As the 2018 financial year progressed, the Audit developments. Regular exchanges between the Committee also consulted on the intra-annual Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the Chairman of financial situation and, among other things, was the Audit Committee and the Board of Management informed about the development of Group risk member responsible for Finance were also held. management and the planned standardization in Freudenberg Group accounting. The Supervisory Board held six meetings in 2018. These meetings addressed an analysis of the markets, sales Other issues addressed by the Audit Committee in and earnings development, the financial situation and 2018 included the work of the Ethics Office, the Group’s risk management. The agenda also information security, the principles of the German included the portfolio structure, special projects and Corporate Governance Code as applied mutatis future-related topics. mutandis, the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, changes in accounting At the beginning of the year under review the standards, and a preview of the 2018 consolidated Supervisory Board approved the strategy for the period annual financial statements. Furthermore, the Audit 2018 – 2020 with the core themes of “New Mobility”, Committee consulted regularly on the ongoing reports “Sustainability” and “Digitalization”. Furthermore, the prepared by Corporate Audit and reported back to each plenary session of the Supervisory Board on the issues 6 addressed by the Audit Committee and the outcomes included in the management report (Section 289, of its consultations. German Commercial Code (HGB)). The Innovation and Technology Committee met twice. Based on the results of our audit, the dependent The topics at these meetings were innovation and company report does not give rise to any reservations. technology projects, IP strategies, and marketing We have therefore issued the following audit opinion: strategies of various Business Groups. Based on our audit and assessment, which were carried The Personnel Committee met three times in the year out in accordance with professional standards, we under review. It consulted on matters such as confirm that leadership development, the talent management process, and succession planning in key bodies of the 1. the factual statements made in the report are Freudenberg Group. correct, 2. the payments made by the company regarding The annual financial statements, the consolidated legal transactions detailed in the report were financial statements prepared pursuant to IFRS, the not unreasonably high, combined management report of Freudenberg SE and 3. there are no circumstances in favor of a the Group, and the dependent company report of significantly different assessment than that Freudenberg SE for 2018 were audited by Ernst & Young made by the Board of Management regarding GmbH Wirtschaftsprufungsgesellschaft, Mannheim, the measures listed in the report.” Germany, and were issued with an unqualified audit opinion. The members of the Supervisory Board were The Supervisory Board examined the Board of provided with the documentation for the annual Management’s report on relations with affiliated financial statements and the audit reports in due time. companies and approved it as well as the related audit The Supervisory Board approved the consolidated report. The examination of the dependent company financial statements and the combined management report by the Supervisory Board did not result in any report of Freudenberg SE and the Group and the annual objections to the concluding statement by the Board of financial statements of Freudenberg SE, and following Management in the dependent company report. examination, concurred with the auditor’s findings. The annual financial statements of Freudenberg SE as at On June 30, 2018, Dr. Tilman Krauch was reelected to December 31, 2018 are therefore adopted. the Board of Management of Freudenberg SE for a further term of five years effective July 1, 2019. The report on relations with affiliated companies Furthermore, Dr. Christoph Schücking was reelected to (dependent company report) in accordance with the Supervisory Board of Freudenberg SE for a further Section 312 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) four years and subsequently reelected Chairman of the submitted by the Board of Management of Audit Committee. Freudenberg SE was audited by the auditors, who issued the following opinion: On behalf of the Supervisory Board I would like to thank “We render this report in accordance with the all employees, Business Group managing bodies and provisions of Section 313 AktG and conclude that the the Board of Management. Their great personal report of the Board of Management of Freudenberg SE, commitment made an important contribution to the Weinheim, Germany, on relations with affiliated Group's success in a very challenging year. companies for the financial year from January 1 to December 31, 2018 attached as Appendix 1 complies Weinheim, March 20, 2019 with the provisions of Section 312 AktG. The Board of For the Supervisory Board Management provided us with all the explanations and supporting documents requested. The dependent company report complies with the principles of a true and fair view. In accordance with Section 312 (3), 3rd Martin Wentzler sentence, AktG, the concluding statement of the Chairman dependent company report has therefore been 7 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT FOREWORD Freudenberg looks back at 2018 as a year of strategic and operating successes. The company continued to perform well in a volatile and challenging environment. Particularly noteworthy were the above market average organic sales growth of 4.3 percent and the strong operating profit. The company continued to successfully develop innovative solutions for its customers and put in place the organizational framework necessary to maintain and expand its leading position in the relevant markets The strong strategic and operative planning are the keys to Freudenberg’s success, along with the team spirit of more than 49,000 employees as well as close and agile cooperation with its customers. As a technology group focused on efficiency, Freudenberg has again expanded its research and development activities, to be even more agile in creating innovative solutions for the customers. €54.3 million negative impact on sales. The standard contains new rules for the amount and timing of revenue recognition for all contracts with customers. In total, sales increased from €9,345.6 million to €9,455.4 million. In addition to sales, profit from operations is a key indicator of our financial performance. Our business generated an operating profit of €910.3 million. This is slightly above the previous year’s high level of €905,0 million and is equivalent to a return on sales of 9.6 percent. We achieved this increase despite a sharp rise in material prices particularly for metals and plastics and energy prices over the course of the year. We also continued to invest heavily to secure the future of our Group. Dr. Mohsen Sohi (CEO) Noteworthy here are the ever greater investments in electromobility. Investments in innovations were also Business performance figures: at their highest ever: €444.3 million (previous year: €427.8 million), representing 4.7 percent of sales We are particularly proud of our organic sales growth (previous year: 4.6 percent). Freudenberg measures the of 4.3 percent in 2018. In the year under review, effectiveness of research and development activities acquisitions contributed €91.3 million in sales. using the share of new products (those younger than four years) as a percentage of total sales. This increased Throughout the financial year, however, various factors to 33.6 percent (previous year: 33.0 percent). dampened euro-based sales. One was significant negative exchange rate effects of €285.6 million, due, Despite higher operating profit, the consolidated profit above all, to developments in the dollar's exchange rate. fell from €700.1 million to €602.4 million. The decline In addition, other currency losses relative to the euro stems primarily from lower investment income, as well including the Turkish lira contributed to this negative as a decline in the pro rata results from associated effect. Also, the first-time application of IFRS 15 had a companies, and from impairment of goodwill. 8 9,455.4 910.3 49,137 Sales € million Operating profit € million Freudenberg employees We were able to increase our very healthy equity ratio industrial scale at its headquarters in Weinheim. once again. As of December 31, 2018, the ratio was 51.9 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies has developed percent (previous year: 47.4 percent). Liquid funds at special seals for fuel cells, which can be installed year end totaled €984.7 million (previous year: €998.8 directly on the gas diffusion equipment, making ultramillion). thin designs possible. The ratings agency Moody’s Deutschland GmbH, Digitalization continues apace and has changed Frankfurt am Main, assessed the overall performance almost every aspect of the business world. Digital and decided to maintain Freudenberg SE's “A3” rating transformation can take countless forms. Freudenberg with a stable outlook from the previous year. This is needs to clearly separate important factors from equivalent to an excellent single-A rating. “hype”. So digitalization must either offer added value to our customers or significantly improve efficiency. Three essential pillars for the 2018 to 2020 Strategic Due to our varied technologies and markets, each Period Business Group is developing a separate digitalization strategy. Nevertheless, they need to share ideas, learn This year marks the beginning of a new strategic period together, pass on best practices and work together to for Freudenberg. The years 2018 – 2020 will be vital to advance the innovation process. our Group's future, as the markets are shifting ever faster and the pace of technological and digital change Sustainability the third strategic topic is a part of continues to accelerate. Freudenberg’s “Responsibility for Society” and has two dimensions. One is process design and equipment The automotive industry is facing fundamental change usage that conserve resources (Footprint). The second with electromobility and autonomous vehicles is the numerous Freudenberg products and solutions driving this shift. As a reliable partner for our that make our customers' production more efficient customers, we are working hard on forward-looking and sustainable or allow products to be manufactured innovations for all drive types including electric engines, with greater resource efficiency (Handprint). Grouphybrids, fuel cells and internal combustion engines. wide key performance indicators have been established for material efficiency, energy efficiency Two acquisitions this year strengthened Freudenberg and emissions. Examples of successful sustainability Sealing Technologies' energy and storage business: In projects can be found in the “Responsibility for Society early January 2018, parts of Munich-based fuel cell (UN Global Compact Progress Report)” chapter on manufacturers Elcore GmbH and Elcomax GmbH were pages 20 – 23. purchased. The Business Group also purchased shares in XALT Energy, LLC, Midland, Michigan, USA. The Beyond the strategy periods, Freudenberg also has company produces large-scale lithium-ion battery various planning phases. We monitor the Business cells, modules and systems for use in heavy utility Groups’ markets in our three year strategic planning vehicles, such as buses, ships and other industrial process. Megatrends and future developments are applications. used when planning for the next ten to 15 years; examples here include continuous development of Several Business Groups have also strengthened their electromobility and digitalization. We look at more innovation activities in battery separator development. fundamental questions over even longer periods. In Freudenberg Performance Materials is now late 2015, we started a project that looks 35 years into manufacturing fuel cell gas diffusion layers on an the future. The outcome of the project now influences 9 our strategic planning, our research projects and our The rapid changes also driven by digitalization mean acquisition pipeline. we must further improve and accelerate our innovation strength. The goal is to maintain and The Group seeks to strengthen its portfolio through expand our position as market leader in our segments. selective and targeted acquisitions in all the Business We are working to further develop Freudenberg’s Groups. Our goal is a balanced portfolio combining material, process and system competencies via nine cyclical and anticyclical businesses with equal sales technology platforms. We focus on essential contributions from the Americas, Europe and Asia. interdisciplinary technologies relevant to several Examples of acquisitions included: Business Groups, and in doing so create knowhow synergies. In January, Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions acquired the company E.D. Oates Pty Ltd., Melbourne, We want to be more agile on the market and even Australia. Oates is the market leader for professional faster in developing innovative solutions for our cleaning products in Australia and has an extensive customers this aspiration was the focus of our range of household and cleaning products for the end international senior management conference DIALOG, consumer business. which was held in July 2018 with 400 participants from throughout the Freudenberg World. In April, Japan Vilene Company acquired Hanns Glass GmbH & Co. KG, Grafing, Germany. The company is one The two core topics of “Innovating Together” and of the world’s leading manufacturers of floor mats for “Digitalization” were used to create a common the automotive industry and holds a strong position in understanding about how our Group can further Europe. accelerate its innovation speed in changing markets. Efficient processes were also discussed, to find the right In December, Freudenberg Filtration Technologies path for digitalization at Freudenberg. signed a contract to acquire a majority stake in Apollo Air Cleaner Co., Ltd., Shunde, China. Apollo is a leading Efficiency and excellence supplier of air and water filtration solutions in China. The transaction still requires approval from antitrust With renewed vigor, we worked hard on Freudenberg’s authorities. interpretation of “Operational Excellence” to make our processes, services and products more efficient, better The Freudenberg Group together with the and safer: through standardization and by applying management of its Freudenberg IT (FIT) Business Lean and Six Sigma methods. Group examined various strategic options best suited for FIT’s future. The process resulted in the sale of FIT to We are continually working to be and remain excellent the Syntax Group of Canada, effective late February in all areas. This is specifically true for our Talent 2019. Three IT companies Syntax, FIT and Management, where we made further progress in the EmeraldCube are being brought together under the year under review. The Operations Leadership Program Syntax umbrella to create a strengthened global IT fullwas carried out for the first time. It complements two service provider with a clear IT growth plan. This is other executive development programs; the “Strategic paving the way for FIT’s future success. Leadership Program” and the “Business Leadership Program”. The goal of Talent Management is to support Strengthening Innovation diversity and inclusion in the company, while also attracting the best employees, developing their skills As a technology group, innovation has always been key and retaining them within the company. to our success. Three examples of innovations from various Business Groups illustrate how we strengthen Workplace safety at Freudenberg is also good for a our customers and society over the long term with manufacturing company. The LDIFR value (accidents innovative solutions: Heat shields in electric vehicle with at least one day of work lost per one million hours batteries, water-based Hydro Lubricants and new worked) was 1.5 in the year under review (previous year: wound care that has direct coatings made from silicon 1.4). adhesives. 10 Responsibility for Society financial stability of individual nations, rising commodity prices and a possible economic slowdown Success for Freudenberg means both financial success, in the automotive sector. Freudenberg is well prepared while also fulfilling our responsibility for society. The to face these and other challenges. We are cautious in two goals have been inextricably linked since the our planning and anticipate a subdued business company’s founding. At Freudenberg, “Responsibility performance in markets relevant to the Group. for Society” covers five areas: Sustainability; Health & Safety and Environmental Protection (HSE); Corporate Thanks Citizenship; Compliance and Human Rights & Labor. Freudenberg’s commitment to Corporate Citizenship Despite difficult market conditions, our company has extends beyond the value chain. In 2018, many Group continued to be successful. We had organic growth, companies, sites and employees volunteered in small have become more efficient, expanded our areas of initiatives and complex projects. The e² (education and excellence and leveraged further Group potential. This environment) program has been strengthening our is primarily thanks to our employees. We thank you for corporate citizenship since 2015. The goal is to provide your contribution to our success. The uncertainties in people with access to education and employment, and the difficult market environment will not disappear in support environmental protection. Freudenberg has the new year. However, we are ready for change. We already donated a total of €14 million to the program. will be more agile, cooperate even closer and By the end of the year, e² was supporting some 70 experiment more and keep a close eye on our markets projects. and customers as we do so. Outlook After all, our customer’s success is our success. We want to thank them and our business partners for their We expect a challenging macroeconomic environment confidence and excellent cooperation. in the 2019 financial year. Growth forecasts for the world economy in 2019 are slightly lower than those Weinheim, Germany, March 20, 2019 for the previous year. The risk of a stronger decline in For the Board of Management global growth has increased. Geopolitical and economic uncertainties are unlikely to abate. In the face of increasing market volatility, the goal is to closely monitor further developments and react flexibly. The Dr. Mohsen Sohi spotlight is on the threat of an escalating trade conflict CEO between the US and China, the Brexit process, the 11 LEADING TECHNOLOGY GROUP As a leading technology group, excellence at Freudenberg Innovation forms a common thread through means setting standards in technology, innovation and Freudenberg’s history covering chrome tanning, quality. Simmerrings along with sophisticated and hightechnology medical products. Across the globe, the Freudenberg is a global technology group that Freudenberg Group’s products and services make a strengthens its customers and society long-term valuable contribution to customers’ success – often through forward-looking innovations. Working with invisible, but always essential and in keeping with the customers and the world of science, Freudenberg emcompany’s positioning “Freudenberg is a values-based ployees develop leading-edge technologies, products, technology group that best serves its customers and solutions and services. society”. They are experts in their fields and use their experThe collaborative search for environmentally and tise to develop excellent solutions for some 40 marsocially sustainable solutions is both Freudenberg’s ket segments and thousands of applications seals, motivation and the basis for the company’s success. vibration control technology components, technical “Innovating Together” is put into practice across Busitextiles, filters, specialty chemicals, medical technolness Groups and regional sites around the world. ogy products, IT services and state-of-the-art cleaning products. 12 Kapitel Freudenberg employees act and think like entrepreneurs, show initiative and are ready to take on responsibility. They work in diverse teams on international projects to develop solutions that are both innovative and visionary. Innovation, strong customer orientation and close cooperation, as well as diversity and team spirit are the cornerstones of the Group. The company holds strong to core values it has been putting into practice for 170 years: a commitment to excellence, reliability and proactive, responsible action. 13 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SOCIETY (UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT) As a family-owned, values-based technology group, success for Freudenberg is financial success as well as fulfilling our responsibility for society. The two goals have been inextricably linked since the company’s TE C OM RA IP PL founding. R PO NSH IA N O IZ E C CI T CE VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS INNOVATION Y I E T CT LEADERSHIP S A F OTE PEOPLE MA RESPONSIBILITY & L N RIG HTS H E A L T H & PR Freudenberg Values & Principles ABO E N VIR O N M E NTAL R LONG-TERM ORIENTATION Areas relevant to “Responsibility” HU Processes and initiatives along the value chain ON (based on the UN Global Compact) SUSTA IN A BILITY Initiatives that extend beyond the value chain 14 Kapitel At Freudenberg, “Responsibility for Society” covers In 2014, the company signed the UN Global Compact five areas: Sustainability, Health, Safety and Environbecause it is important to communicate the actions to mental Protection, Corporate Citizenship, Compliance customers, neighbors, potential employees and instiand Human Rights & Labor. All five areas are firmly tutions. The principles that underlie the Global Comanchored in Freudenberg’s Values and Principles and pact are inscribed in the Freudenberg Group’s Guiding closely interlinked. Principles with different wording. The principles focus on four areas; human rights, labor standards, environValues have always been important at Freudenberg mental protection and anti-corruption. when dealing with customers, business partners, neighbors and the environment. Freudenberg employThe following describes how Freudenberg put these ees pledge to uphold an internal Code of Conduct, take principles into practice in the past year. part in Freudenberg’s “We all take care” initiative to improve environmental protection, health and occupational safety and have developed innovative, sustainable solutions to improve quality of life around the globe. 15 “We all take care” Group-wide initiative Every year, Freudenberg honors employees who have successfully taken part in the “We all take care” award. Since launching in 2002, the internal “We all take care” initiative has encouraged employees around the world First prize in the year under review went to a team at to make their work and workplace safer, healthier and Freudenberg & Vilene Nonwovens in Yang-Mei, Taiwan, more environmentally friendly; to get involved in sofor a process water management project. The team cial projects and help improve safety at the company. started by analyzing the water quality for each treatment plant and discussed possible improvements. The changes to the treatment processes were then discussed with experts including those from other Freudenberg Business Groups and then established at the sites after initial testing was completed. The reverse osmosis process plays a key role in the improved technology. Second prize went to a team at Freudenberg Sealing Technologies in Hamburg for a series of HSE videos. The initiative stands for putting corporate values into Third prize went to VistaMed in Carrick-on-Shannon, practice – across country borders, hierarchies and Ireland for greater safety in manual cutting processes. Business Groups. Each employee is encouraged to bring forth ideas and suggestions. Via the Freudenberg The final award ceremony presented twelve projects Portal, employees can find details about successful from throughout the Freudenberg World. A total of projects and speed up the improvement process. As 157 projects were submitted. part of the Corporate Health, Safety, Security, Environment meetings, upper management was integrated in the process and the heads from each of the Business Groups helped move things forward. Up to now more than 3,400 projects have been submitted. The finalists of the “We all take care” award at the ceremony in May 2018 in Weinheim, Germany 16 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) Important figures for “Responsibility for Society” On this page, you can see a selection of the important figures quantifying “Responsibility for Society”. A detailed explanation for the figures can be found in the chapters for the five areas of responsibility. 49,137 Freudenberg employees 94.1 (in tons/million euro sales) 157 CO emissions ² “We all take care” projects 0.25 (in kWh/euro sales) 1.5 Energy efficiency LDIFR (Lost Day Incident Frequency Rate): 14.6 All workplace incidents with at least one day of work lost per one million hours worked (in tons/million euro sales) Waste 28.8 (million euros) Investments in environmental protection and workplace safety 17 SUSTAINABILITY Product and process sustainability have always been part of responsibility practiced at Freudenberg. In 2016, the Group’s Sustainability Strategy was developed and handed over to all the Business Groups to act as a framework in 2017. Sustainability was also made into a systematic component of the strategy process. 18 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Sustainability ENERGY EFFICIENCY AT FREUDENBERG ENERGY EFFICIENCY (Kilowatt hours perAT FREUDENBERG euros in sales) [kwh per sales in euro] Sustainability is a part of Freudenberg’s “Responsibility 0.37 for Society” and has two dimensions: One dimension is how the company designs processes and uses equipment to conserve resources (Footprint). The second di0.25 mension is the numerous Freudenberg products and solutions that make our customer’s production more efficient and sustainable or allow products to be manufactured with greater resource efficiency (Handprint). Freudenberg helps improve sustainability around the world by minimizing our Footprint and maximizing our 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Handprint. The five core topics: materials, waste, ener20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 gy, emissions and water are the most important ones The increase is attributable to the inclusion of Japan Vilene Company in the consolidation of energy since 2017, and the negative exchange rate effects significantly for the Group. The five core topics were used to derive lowering euro-based Group sales. the three Group-wide TOP themes for Freudenberg: Material efficiency, energy efficiency and emissions. tion, Freudenberg reports emissions in accordance Freudenberg has a KPI (Key Performance Indicator) for with Scopes 1 and 2. Site-based calculations indicate a each of them. The KPIs help create more transparenvalue of 94.1 tons of CO2 per million euros in sales. This cy by making improvements comparable across the increase of almost six percent compared to the previGroup. ous year is primarily attributable to negative currency effects, which significantly reduced Group sales. See Freudenberg has been measuring and analyzing enchapter “Sales Performance” on the inside of the cover. ergy consumption across the Group since 2009. The company has managed to continuously improve enFor the first time since the reporting year, a Group-wide ergy efficiency through various measures put in place waste indicator of 14.6 tons per million euros in sales since the launch of the energy management system. was also compiled in line with the Global Reporting Energy consumption has been reduced by over a third Initiative (GRI). Of these, 91.06 percent are “safer” and in just nine years: from 0.37 to 0.25 kilowatt hours 8.94 percent “hazardous” waste. per euro in sales. Freudenberg remains committed to further improving energy efficiency. In 2018, specific approaches and measures identified to make sure sustainability is put into practice at each Since 2017, CO2 emissions across the Group have been of the Business Groups led to innovative solutions that tracked in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas protocreate direct added value for customers. col. Adjusting for direct and indirect energy consumpMaterials Emissions Material efficiency Air pollution/ emissions Recycled, renewable and replacement materials End-of-Life-(EOL) handling of products & Waste Water & Waste handling Water pollution Water consumption Energy Energy efficiency Renewable energy Ma te r ials ter Wa Was t n s e Energy Emissio 19 EXAMPLES OF SUCCESSFUL WASTE SUSTAINABILITY PROJECTS The Freudenberg Group’s constant quest for greater sustainability strengthens innovation. At the Improved production processes reduce waste same time, innovations make more sustainable Waste levels were high at the site of Freudenberg’s processes and products possible in the first place. Klüber Lubrication company in Shanghai, China. One Innovation and sustainability are closely linked reason was the ever-broader product range which genand drive each other. Innovations can contribute erated the need for more cleaning between production to sustainability by having a positive impact on the batches as well as a broad range and high quantity of Footprint and Handprint. raw materials and thus ever more packaging waste. To avoid waste, the site adjusted production planning, Selected Footprint examples are listed on this making it no longer necessary to clean between batches. two-page spread; selected Handprint examples Containers instead of barrels were used for the storage can be found on the following two-page spread. of raw materials as well. Footprint The search for sustainable production processes is an important part of Freudenberg’s DNA and is firmThe project team was able to significantly reduce hazardous waste disposal, ly anchored in the principles of the values-based while generating cost savings of 24 percent. technology group. Topics such as energy and material efficiency, the sustainable use of resources and waste reduction are important in minimizing the ENERGY company’s Footprint. Continuous improvement in these areas helps Freudenberg take responsibility for society. Modern LEDs save energy Modern lamps with light emitting diodes (LEDs) can save lots of energy. They also last an average of 25 times longer than light bulbs. To have production halls as enMaterials Emissions ergy efficient as possible, Freudenberg sites around the Material efficiency Air pollution/ emissions world have switched to LED lighting. This includes the Recycled, renewable and EagleBurgmann site in South Africa. In the production replacement materials facilities, fluorescent and mercury vapor lamps were End-of-Life-(EOL) replaced with modern LEDs. This lowers the annual enhandling of products ergy requirements for lighting by about half. Waste Water Waste handling Water pollution Water consumption Energy Energy efficiency Renewable energy At Freudenberg sites worldwide, light bulbs (icon) are being replaced by modern LEDs. 20 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Sustainability ENERGY AND EMISSIONS WATER Ground water creates a pleasant climate and saves Reducing chemical usage energy Water is treated with chemicals to allow for its re-use At the EagleBurgmann site in Eurasburg, Germany, a in production facilities. This compromises water qualmodern climate concept helps keep temperatures at 19 ity and with it the environment. The Freudenberg Perdegrees Celsius, ideal for people and machines. Water formance Materials site in Yang-Mei, Taiwan, called in circulates through the concrete floor and in air coolers experts and closely examined every step of the water on the walls in the production hall. Depending on the treatment process. A project team tested various imtemperature outside, it either removes heat or releases provements and introduced a reverse osmosis process heat. As it comes from the ground water, the cooling and other methods. It sank chemical consumption by energy can thus be drawn from available geothermal 202 tons a year and significantly improved the quality sources. This lowers operating costs by 75 percent and of the treated water. reduces CO2 emissions. Whether summer or winter: Modern air conditioning keeps an area of over The project team set itself the goal of increasing both the quantity and the 16,500 square meters at a constant temperature. quality of the treated water. WASTE AND MATERIALS ENERGY AND EMISSIONS Intelligent sorting Clean solar energy for production The manufacture of seals at Freudenberg Sealing More and more Freudenberg Group sites are using Technologies in Northfield, New Hampshire, USA, used solar power for their energy supply. This is particularto contaminate the machine coolant with metal shavly useful in the Klüber Lubrication site in Querétaro, ings. The fluid would thus need to be disposed of at Mexico, where the sun shines an average 7.7 hours a regular intervals. To save resources, the site developed day: The 2,800 square-meter photovoltaic array on the a procedure to separate the metal remnants from the roof of the production hall and warehouse supplies coolant and recycle it for production. The process saves about 80 percent of the energy needed. It saves some some 3,000 liters of coolant every year. The metal shav200 tons of CO2 emissions a year. Similar systems have ings can also be recycled. Other Freudenberg sites have already been installed at Klüber Lubrication in Mysore, already adopted the process. India and Chem-Trend in Howell, Michigan, USA. The new process saves around 30 percent of the coolant that previously had The site in Querétaro, Mexico, is reducing its footprint with solar power. to be disposed of with metal shavings (icon). 21 OTHER EXAMPLES OF SUCCESSMATERIALS AND WATER FUL SUSTAINABILITY PROJECTS Biodegradable lubricants reduce material usage Freudenberg’s Klüber Lubrication company has two environmentally friendly specialty lubricants for 90 percent of all the lubrication points in ships. The lubricants provide increased wear protection, increasing the life of the entire fleet. Shipping companies benefit from lower repair and replacement part costs. The lubricants are also quickly biodegradable and thus far Selected Handprint examples are listed on this twoless damaging to the environment than standard lupage spread, selected Footprint examples can be bricants made from mineral oils. found on the previous two-page spread. Handprint Responsibility for society means that Freudenberg also helps customers become more sustainable. Specialty lubricants from Klüber Lubrication are functional and environmenInnovative products and services can thus help tally friendly. contribute to greater energy efficiency for our customers for example. Expanding our Handprint also has a positive impact on our customers’ quality of ENERGY AND EMISSIONS life while making an improved contribution to sustainability in various areas outside of Freudenberg. Mobility of the Future Freudenberg components make vehicles with electric drives efficient and safe. Freudenberg Sealing Technologies developed a heat shield for thermal Materials Emissions management in lithium-ion batteries that helps preMaterial efficiency Air pollution/ emissions vent overheating in a damaged cell from spreading Recycled, renewable and to the other cells and compromising the entire batreplacement materials tery system. The Business Group has also developed End-of-Life-(EOL) handling a pressure compensation valve for battery systems. It of products is composed of a patented multi-layered nonwoven and provides pressure compensation at temperatures Waste Water ranging from -40°C to +120 °C. Waste handling Water pollution Water consumption Energy Energy efficiency Renewable energy Heat shields between the individual cells ensure that the heat in the defective cell is isolated until it has been degraded. 22 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Sustainability ENERGY AND EMISSIONS EMISSIONS Fuel cells for emission-free mobility Clean air thanks to filter calculation software Freudenberg has a broad range of products for zeFine dust, pollen or sandy grit the location of paint ro-emission mobility. Research has been carried out plants, power plants or hospitals strongly influences for 20 years on fuel cells. One result is the so-called the design of air intake filter systems. Other factors gas diffusion layer made using conductive noninclude system requirements such as operating times wovens from Freudenberg Performance Materials. and flow volumes. Freudenberg Filtration TechnoloThey help ensure the optimal distribution of the gies has developed a software that takes all factors two reactive gases, hydrogen and oxygen as well into account and makes digital calculations to find as for the transport of any water and heat generata filter solution. The customer benefit: The more taied. Raw material usage is thus made more efficient. lored the system, the greater the performance, safety and economic viability. Freudenberg researchers are working on the future of mobility. The newly developed calculation software supports customers in finding the optimal filter solution. MATERIALS AND WASTE ENERGY Old plastics for new household products Sustainable energy from wind power Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions uses recyThe Freudenberg Group supplies many components to cled plastic to make its home and professional cleanthe wind power industry. Seals for the yaw-bearing being products. Up to now, this was only possible for the tween the tower and nacelle, for rotor-blade bearings gray product parts. The site in Aurora, Illinois, USA, as well as the primary bearings help protect machine worked with a partner to make it possible to manuelements against sand, dust or salty air. Freudenberg facture red product parts with recycled polypropylene. Sealing Technologies developed seals for extremely To do so, Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions large wind turbines. They use meander springs instead purchases some 1,300 tons of clear plastic waste every of radial springs, so that the seal can be maintained year some of which comes from its customers, the even during high winds. It prevents leaks and reduces large retail chains, thus supporting their Zero Waste maintenance costs. programs. Employees in Aurora, Illinois, use recycled waste to manufacture household Freudenberg seals ensure reliability and planning security for wind turbine products. operators. 23 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Freudenberg’s HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) Guideline includes the HSE principles and defines the Freudenberg Group’s values in this area. The overarching goals are avoiding accidents, preventative health protection and continuously reducing the negative impact of its business on the environment. 24 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Occupational health and safety and environmental protection Freudenberg is committed to employees’ wellbeing Numerous sites are implementing DIN EN ISO and their personal development. Occupational safe50001-compliant management systems to reduce ty and health are supported and put into practice at energy consumption and limit the environmental all levels within Freudenberg, in line with internal impact. Freudenberg Sealing Technologies, Eagleregulations. Health protection, occupational safety Burgmann, Vibracoustic, Freudenberg Performance and process safety are all part of the daily routine at Materials, Freudenberg Filtration Technologies and Freudenberg. Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions have introduced the management systems at their German The approach has allowed the Freudenberg Group to production sites. Other production sites at Eaglereduce the number of accidents to a low level relaBurgmann in Austria and Freudenberg Performance tive to industry benchmarks. Existing measures are Materials in France have also followed this example. strengthened and enhanced with new targeted apCurrently the Group is checking which European sites proaches for continuous improvement. Success in require energy audits in accordance with DIN EN occupational safety serves as a benchmark for other 16247-1. areas where Freudenberg also hopes to continuously improve, particularly environmental protection and health protection. This is how preventative health management projects are increasingly pursued in the Investments company. The share of direct investments in environmental An HSE Week is held once a year and all sites within protection, occupational health and safety as part of the Freudenberg Group are called on to implement overall investment in tangible assets, intangible assets HSE campaigns. In the year under review, employees and investment properties was 7.6 percent (previous received occupational safety training courses and lesyear: 5.3 percent). sons on workplace ergonomics, stress reduction and safety, and continuous participation was thus encouraged. Energy efficiency was the focus for environmental protection. Environmental Protection Internal and external audits as well as the HSE asFreudenberg feels obligated to protect the environsessments at all Freudenberg Group sites are used to ment and takes responsibility to make their actions assess improvements in environmental protection, ocas environmentally friendly as possible. cupational safety and health protection or fire safety. One goal of these programs is to improve operationThe goal is to continuously reduce our negative impact al procedures and help avoid personal harm to indialong the entire value chain, by using resources more viduals, work outages and thus any potential supply efficiently, reducing emissions, saving energy, water disruptions. The audit findings are systematically evaland other materials while improving transportation. uated and remediation measures implemented within Freudenberg also includes ecological factors when rethe relevant Business Groups. designing and modernizing buildings. Management systems The expansion of occupational health and safety management systems (OHSAS 180001) and switch to ISO 450001 and environmental protection systems (ISO 14001 or EMAS) continued in 2018. The Freudenberg Filtration Technologies plant in Potvorice, Slovakia, is one of the most modern in the Business Group’s global production network. 25 Freudenberg uses many raw materials and processResource consumption es in production. The materials and processes vary in their impact on occupational safety and the enviIn 2018, Freudenberg used 2.4 million megawatt ronment. Freudenberg has many ways to control the hours of energy (previous year: 2.3 million megawatt associated risks. The goal is to continuously reduce hours). The energy usage was primarily distributed physical hazards at a site as well as their impact on among the following sources: the environment. • Third-party supplies (electricity, steam and district heating, which were produced external to the We actively search for alternatives to hazardous maFreudenberg site; 1.57 million megawatt hours) terials or those with a pending REACh (European Reg• Gas (0.75 million megawatt hours) ulation on Registration, Evaluation and Restriction of Chemicals) classification prior to the passage of any • Heating oil (0.03 million megawatt hours) regulations. Assessments are carried out to prevent The 2.4 million megawatt hours generated costs toany negative impact on production from restrictions taling roughly 163 million euros. Energy costs made placed on a material. In addition, many products are up 1.7 percent of overall revenue (previous year: 1.6 developed in phased processes to make sure that the percent). use of hazardous chemicals and the environmental impact of a new product is less than its predecessor. Contaminated sites Incidents Provisions for contaminated sites fell by 19.5 percent relative to the previous year. In 2018, the Freudenberg Group had 24 environmental and crisis management incidents (previous year: 12). The reasons for this are the gradual progress of ongoing restructuring projects, new legal requirements Large fires occurred on the Freudenberg Sealing in Germany and exchange rate effects. Following the Technologies sites in Brzostek, Poland, and completion of the preliminary remediation planning Freudenberg Performance Materials in Yang-Mei, for the Weinheim wastewater treatment plant and Taiwan. the former site of Freudenberg Sealing Technologies in Pinerolo, Italy, the costs for the remediation phase Leaks of consumables led to mild environmental conwere estimated. As a result, the necessary provisions tamination at Freudenberg Performance Materials were adjusted accordingly. The renovation phase for in Kaiserslautern, Germany, Freudenberg Chemical both projects should start this year. A groundwater Specialities in Zwingenberg, Germany, Freudenberg monitoring program is being conducted at the Klüber Home and Cleaning Solutions in Augsburg, Germany, Lubrication site in São Paulo, Brazil. Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions in Norrköping, Sweden, and EagleBurgmann in Minhang, Due to planned conversion measures at the Weinheim China. site, new provisions have been set aside for exploration and potential remediation measures. Due to new Longer shutdowns hit the Freudenberg Medical site in limits for perfluorinated and polyfluorinated chemiCarpinteria, California, USA, due to wildfires and sevcals, analytical costs for future projects will rise. Cureral sites in Brazil because of a long-running, counrency adjustments for ongoing projects in Brazil and try-wide trucker strike. the USA also required a review of the provision totals. Safety incidents occurred at the Japan Vilene Company site in Hopkinsville, Kentucky, USA, and the Freudenberg-NOK Sealing Technologies site in Bristol, New Hampshire, USA. A severe workplace accident at the Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions site in Monselice, Italy, aroused local media interest. 26 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Occupational health and safety and environmental protection Preventative healthcare The total number of incidents resulting in more than one day’s absence in the year under review was 156 In 2018, the Group expanded preventative health care (previous year: 140). The Group had 6 serious accimanagement and carried out the health principles dents in 2018 (previous year: 6). in the form of various programs and initiatives. The Business Groups compile health care indicators, such Occupational safety focuses on measures to raise emas sick leave, to find improvement potential and then ployee safety awareness. The numerous projects in the derive measures. “We all take care” initiative serve as an illustration of these measures. The holistic and sustainable health program at Freudenberg-NOK Sealing Technologies in Cuautla, Trainees at the Freudenberg Sealing Technologies site Mexico are particularly noteworthy. It is directed at in Hamburg developed high-impact and witty short all employees and successfully combines, knowledge, films, presenting typical traffic violations. The films are fun and team work: Sick days fell significantly, and the presented on large screens at the site, raising awarehealth rates improved. ness of the topic among employees. The “Connecting of Nonwoven Material” project on At Freudenberg Medical in Carrick-on-Shannon, Irethe other hand provides an impressive illustration of land, tasks are performed that involve working on the impact small changes can have. Adjustment to a small parts with scalpels or knives. Cuts occur repeatsingle step in the production line at Freudenberg Peredly. Various measures helped significantly reduce the formance Materials in Weinheim, Germany made the need to perform such tasks. In turn, the number of inworkplace far more ergonomic. Time and money were juries was reduced significantly. also saved. Holistic occupational safety aspects are also included Since May 2017, employees at the Weinheim Industriwithin the “We all take care” initiative. The Freudenal Park have been able to use the Freudenberg Fitness berg Home and Cleaning Solutions in Lisbon, Portugal, Studio. An initial user survey found high satisfaction appealed directly to employees’ attitudes toward life. with the equipment and specifically with the highly Emphasizing the importance of a positive attitude not qualified team of trainers. only improved their subjective sense of life but also reduced the number of sick days. Occupational Safety The Freudenberg internal Safety Boost campaign launched in 2017 further intensified and focused occupational safety activities in the year under review. Activities focused on the five areas of organization and responsibility, safety culture, detection and reporting of high potential risk events, machine safety and cross-audits. The campaign will be continued in the coming years. Freudenberg’s internal reporting uses the LDIFR (Lost Day Incident Frequency Rate) benchmark. The figure serves as a non-financial key performance indicator Occupational health and safety have top priority at Freudenberg. for the Freudenberg Group. All workplace incidents with at least one day of work lost per one million hours worked are measured. 27 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Corporate Citizenship has always been integral to Freudenberg and practiced both inside and outside the company. The Group strives to be a good corporate citizen and good neighbor in all the countries, states and communities we call home. Corporate Citizenship at Freudenberg goes beyond the value chain – as seen in the hundreds of projects near our sites. 28 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Corporate Citizenship In 2018, many Group companies, sites and employthe Special Olympics. In Košice, Slovakia, “Interactive ees worldwide volunteered in small initiatives and Education for a Better Future” offers professional Encomplex projects. All campaigns are tailored to local glish lessons to children from socially disadvantaged requirements and in general Freudenberg employees families. “Plant for the Future” works to protect endanvolunteer locally. gered mangrove forests in Thailand. Global program for education and environmental Company-wide initiative for refugees protection The Freudenberg Group is donating 2.6 million euros as Freudenberg has worked for society since its founding. part of a company-wide initiative to help integrate refWith the launch of the e² (education and environment) ugees. By late 2016, the company had helped over 70 initiative, Corporate Citizenship was rolled out across different initiatives in Germany and in crisis-plagued the globe in 2015. The goal is to provide people with regions supporting children and young people, and access to education and employment, and support teaching language skills. environmental protection. The initiative complements existing individual initiatives that meet a list of criteNow, refugees need long-term prospects and apria. Freudenberg is donating a total of 14 million euros prenticeships. As donations are used to secure the to e² over seven years. financing, the refugee traineeships can be created in addition to the regular traineeships. In the year under review, e² supported a broad spectrum of aid projects, covering everything from smallIn 2017, the first refugees started their training coursscale campaigns to large-scale educational programs, es at Freudenberg. In the year under review, further all in the direct neighborhood of Freudenberg sites. refugees started their training courses. The Group also Examples of supported projects include: The Bedford offered eleven refugees an internship with the goal of Bobcats in New Hampshire, USA, provides special hiring as many as possible later as trainees. needs children with an all-day sports program from “e²” lifts the spirits of young people. 29 Lessons at the non-profit training center in Nagapattinam, India. The following examples illustrate the long-term orienSchool project in China tation of local aid projects at the Freudenberg Group: In May 2008, an earthquake devastated the village of Haijin in Szechuan Province, China. Freudenberg helped rebuild an elementary school that reopened Training center in India in 2009. The building has enough space to teach 300 students. Every year, Freudenberg employees visit the Since 2009, Freudenberg has offered young people in elementary school and organize various activities such a non-profit training center in Nagapattinam, India, as the summer school project, tutoring and a Christin the province of Tamil Nadu south of Chennai the mas party. opportunity to qualify as electricians, welders, engine mechanics, pipe fitters and machinists in dual training programs. The Nagapattinam region is poor, populated mainly by farmers and fishers, and suffered “Service Day” in North America immensely from the 2004 Tsunami. In North America, Freudenberg organized the 5th Service Day. Employees from over 60 sites in Canada, the US and Mexico volunteered to help at educational institutions, municipalities and agricultural facilities. 30 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Corporate Citizenship Exchange program for children of employees Volunteer exchange In celebration of the company’s 150th birthday in In 2018, some 100 participants from 40 charitable ini1999, the youth exchange program TANNER was tiatives and clubs from the Rhine-Neckar region met at launched for children of employees. The goal is to the Freudenberg Group in Weinheim for their 7th anexpose young people to other cultures, expand their nual networking meeting. The goal is to provide new horizons and learn life lessons. Over the years, more inspiration for non-profits and discuss other topics, than 1,200 young people have traveled the globe with meet like-minded individuals while also developing TANNER. The young participants, their parents and the ideas for new projects. The Freudenberg Group created hosts all have a stronger feeling that they are part of the meeting to expand the network among the many the global Freudenberg community. non-profit organizations in the area. The Group also supports social projects at the headquarters in Weinheim as part of the “Wir tun was” initiative. Germany-wide initiative: “Die Wissensfabrik” (The Knowledge Factory) Freudenberg Foundation Since 2016, Freudenberg has also been a member of the Germany-wide initiative, “The Knowledge FactoSince 1984, the Freudenberg Foundation has been ry” which works together with companies to support helping bring about real, long-term change by proeducational projects in preschools and schools. Up to moting inclusion, education and democracy. As a now, Freudenberg employees in over 20 educational non-profit company, the Foundation is a Partner in the partnerships have supported two “Knowledge FactoFreudenberg & Co. KG. The primary focus of activities ry” projects: The goal of “KiTec Children Discover are children and young people and their social, linguisTechnology” is to get preschool and elementary school tic, educational and professional integration. children interested in technological interactions. The “IT2School” project provides the targeted fundamentals of information technology (IT) to students in their first few years at secondary school. In 2018, some 100 participants from 40 charitable initiatives and clubs from the Rhine-Neckar region met at the Freudenberg Group in Weinheim for their 7th annual networking meeting. 31 COMPLIANCE As early as 1887, when his sons joined the company, founder Carl Johann Freudenberg drafted his first business policy principles. The document forms the basis for the Freudenberg Group’s ten Business Principles for partners and employees. One principle stipulates that success must come from performance, another states that Freudenberg shall not engage in illegal or unethical business practices. 32 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Compliance Business Principles and Guiding Principles might be need for improvement. The measures will be carried out over the course of 2019 and 2020. Supplemental Guiding Principles were derived from the Freudenberg Group’s Business Principles and define the values used in conduct towards employees, business partners, stakeholders and third parties. Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct is derived from the Business Principles and Guiding Principles, with a close focus Compliance Structure on Responsibility. The Code of Conduct is the same everywhere around the world and designed to ensure Freudenberg is a company where the Business Groups that respect for the law and proper conduct remain a have general autonomy when making operational decicornerstone of how Freudenberg conducts business. sions. The Business Groups are thus generally responsible for compliance with laws and regulations. The Code of Conduct is available to all employees around the world in 26 languages, as a printed broAt the Holding level, and that of the Freudenberg chure and a digital document. It is communicated and Compliance Management Council, the focus is on the explained to all employees. The Business Groups have most important compliance issues relevant to the Group made use of a wide-range of media available for comor those with international implications, which specificalmunication, including presentation templates, FAQs ly pose a threat to Freudenberg’s reputation. and e-learning tools. The consistent and continuous communication clearly indicates that the Code of ConTo determine the suitability for the Compliance Manduct is binding even for new employees (as an annex agement System in the individual Business Groups, the to their employment agreement for example) and the Freudenberg Compliance Management Council worked need for compliance with the Code is emphasized. with Ernst & Young in the Q3 and Q4 2018 to carry out a survey across all Business Groups. It is designed to deIn order for the Code of Conduct to remain a central termine the areas where inter-Business Group initiatives building block of the corporate culture while expandor best practice approaches are possible or where there ing assistance available to employees and managers, The Business Principles and Guiding Principles in the Group are discussed with all new employees. 33 Freudenberg regularly trains employees on compliance-relevant topics in face-to-face meetings and with e-learning tools. the Freudenberg Compliance Management Council ual topics represent an expanded opportunity for the undertook further measures. These include regular Business Groups to train employees from various deinteractions with human resource officers in the Busipartments and areas of responsibility in specific topic ness Groups, active cooperation with the Ethics Offices areas. and their members as well as regular training sessions covering core compliance topics; “anti-trust and comThe global standard e-learning tool for the Code of petition” and “anti-corruption laws in the regions”. Conduct is a suitable medium for all employees to learn more about the Freudenberg Code of Conduct. 2018 saw numerous classroom training sessions on It also allows for the monitoring of participant attencompliance issues, where employees received persondance and performance and invites employees to give al instruction using case studies and other means. feedback. The e-learning program covering numerous individ34 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Compliance Ethics Offices Doing so, makes it possible to prevent compliance incidents or complaints beforehand. The Ethics Offices are an important part of Freudenberg’s Compliance Management System. The offices are a contact for any employees who for whatever reason feel they cannot turn to their superiors, HR team or their emRisk Management and Corporate Audit ployee representatives. The opportunity to confidentially and pro-actively report compliance violations or impendAnti-corruption measures and evaluation of their efing violations in a confidential environment helps create fectiveness also remained a component of risk mana culture of trust and protects Freudenberg’s internal Valagement and the work of the Corporate Audit team. ues and Principles. The goal of the department is to uncover corrupt practices, evaluate the effectiveness of counter measures Another global Ethics Office meeting was held in 2018. and improve them as needed. Representatives from the Corporate Ethics Office and the Regional Ethics Offices shared their experience, Internal audits evaluate compliance with the stanparticularly when it comes to handling cultural differdards. Employees receive anti-corruption training in ences. As the Ethics Offices have a unique perspective classroom sessions and as part of e-learning courses. on the organization thanks to their work, the analyses The Freudenberg Compliance Management Council they perform and any tendencies they uncover shall be works together with Corporate Audit and the Ethics included in drafts of anonymous recommendations. Offices to assess any incidents that may arise. Participants in the global Ethics Office Meeting 35 HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR Diverse teams drive innovation at Freudenberg. The best solutions and innovations come when employees contribute their varied experience, knowledge and skills to a collaboration. Employees provide new ideas, generate imaginative solutions and create innovative products. The over 49,000 employees all have a common foundation: entrepreneurship in their mindset and actions. This stance can be found in around 60 countries. 36 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Human Rights & Labor Employees As of December 31, 2018 Freudenberg employed 49,137 employees (previous year: 47,653 employees). FREUDENBERGGROUP FREUDENBERG GROUP EMPLOYEESBY WORKFORCE BYREGION REGION 13,897 14,067 2017 2018 12,176 11,472 10,783 10,285 9,876 10,062 1,640 1,461 483 588 Germany Europe North South/Central Asia Africa/ (excluding Germany) America America Australia In Germany, the employee headcount increased to 12,176 (previous year: 11,472), in Europe (ex-Germany) the number rose to 14,067 (previous year: 13,897), in North America to 10,783 (previous year: 10,285), in Asia to 10,062 (previous year: 9,876) and in Africa/Australia to 588 (previous year: 483). The employee count in South America / Central America was 1,461 (previous year: 1,640). You can find information about training at Freudenberg on page 41. 37 Corporate Principles The Freudenberg Group Guiding Principles are Value Guiding Principle “People” for Customers, Leadership, Responsibility, Innovation, People and Long-Term Orientation. The principles form As a family company, we are devoted to our emthe basis and benchmark for everything the Group ployees’ well-being and personal development. We does. Regular audits assess whether or not these reject all forms of discrimination and harassment benchmarks are applied in the workplace. and show understanding and respect in our dealings with each other. As nearly 70 percent of employees participated in the Group-wide Principles & Engagement survey in 2017, We promote a multi-cultural environment where the focus in the year under review was on putting in employees work together in worldwide teams to place improvement measures at all Freudenberg sites. enrich our culture and capability. We believe in the The measures are many and focus on improving comvalue of enduring relationships with customers, munication and cooperation. suppliers and industrial partners In Human Rights & Labor, the focus is on the principles Guiding Principle Responsibility governing People and Responsibility as they express the Freudenberg Group’s fundamental interpretation Our company and its family shareholders togethof these topics. er are committed to protecting the environment. Our goal is to be a good corporate citizen and good The Leadership Principles are part of the Group’s Busineighbor in all the countries, states and communess Principles (see also page 32, Compliance). nities we call home. We take all possible care to ensure the safety of the workplace and of our products. As a family company, we strive for the highest standards of personal behavior. Fairness and integrity guide our conduct amongst ourselves, towards our business partners and the general public. Management Principles The Freudenberg Group has social responsibilities to all its staff, both in Germany and abroad. No one single standard can be applied here: what is needed is a flexible response attuned to the laws, customs, needs and possibilities in each individual country. Discrimination and exploitation of vulnerable people have no place in our company. The Group’s business policy requires adherence to behavioral principles with which both the partners and the staff feel able to identify: 38 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Human Rights & Labor Diverse teams drive innovation at Freudenberg. Employees provide new ideas, generate imaginative solutions and create innovative products. We, too, have to hold our own against fierce comers and authorities. They thus form the basis for petition. Success has to come from performance; the economic success of the Group. The Business we shall not agree to any business where illegal or Principles are compulsory for all employees and unethical means are utilized. must be actively put into practice and carried out at all levels, starting with the Management Board We will not manufacture any products designed to at Freudenberg SE, the Board of Partners, manageharm people (e.g. weapons). ment at the Business Groups and all other leaders. A responsible attitude to the environment and Infringements are not acceptable and may result in the safety of our staff are important corporate disciplinary action from the Board level down and objectives, and must not be restricted to letter ofinclude Business Group management and other the-law compliance with the relevant statutory superiors. This is especially true in cases of active requirements. and passive corruption, breaches of antitrust rules, violation of relevant legal environmental and techCompliance with applicable laws and other regnical safety and labor law rules (such as breaches ulations, as well as with the applicable Business of equal opportunity principles) and violations of and Guiding Principles of the Freudenberg Group employees’ personal rights (such as personal degand the observance of non-contradictory, suppleradation or sexual harassment). mentary in-house (e.g. Codes of Conduct employee handbooks) and external local practices (together “Corporate Principles”) is an indispensable condition for solid cooperation among all Group employees and is the foundation for relationships with third parties, particularly suppliers, custom39 Attractive Employer stantly ongoing to expand these benefits and communicate them to employees. Strengthening the employer brand Offers tend to vary from region to region and site to Freudenberg launched a new global brand in 2015 site, but on the whole are generally far better than promising forward-looking solutions for customers the minimum legal requirements in the respective and society at large. Parallel to these efforts, an emcountries. As part of the Talent Management program, ployer positioning was worked out and established. In (see Talent Management on this page) Freudenberg the year under review, 2017’s revised employer promsupports numerous continuing education programs ise was put in place to attract individual target groups at all hierarchical levels (see Employee Development, and make sure that Freudenberg would appeal to the page 41). Freudenberg also sees maintaining a good right talented individuals in the future. work-life balance as important in helping to ensure and improve employee health and well-being. The Sample awards Group provides the best possible medical support as part of an occupational health management program In 2018, the Freudenberg Group once again won varand sponsors numerous sport and fitness programs. ious awards for successful human resource work. Examples include: The global IT system for human resources will be further expanded to place employees more firmly at the For the seventh time in a row, the Freudenberg comcenter of all HR processes and to ensure that these pany, Chem-Trend of Michigan, USA, was named one processes are more efficient. In the year under review, of the 150 Top Employers in the Region. The Detroit a selection process was carried out for new software, Free Press rating also included awards for Freudenberg to manage all HR and organizational master data files NOK Sealing Technologies. as well as core talent management processes and remuneration management processes. In 2018, the Freudenberg Group in Germany also received the Fair Company Seal of Approval, which it has had since 2009. Fair Company is a voluntary pact where participating companies agree to comply with Talent Management certain rules guaranteeing fair working conditions for newly hired employees. The competition for top talent is one of the biggest challenges companies face. Talent Management at The Freudenberg Group in Germany received two Freudenberg has been further expanded to meet the awards for its internships in the “Clevis Praktikantencompany’s own standards of excellence. spiegel 2018” one as a “Hidden Champion” for “above average employer quality 2018” and the other as the Talent Management at Freudenberg is designed to top company in the “Mechanical and plant engineermake sure that employees receive a fair and balanced ing” category. The Praktikantenspiegel has over 5,000 evaluation of their performance, their conduct and participants making it the largest internship survey on their potential. In the year under review, this process the German labor market. identified strengths, development potential as well as courses of action to ensure the targeted continuing Attractiveness development of employees. Another focus of the process is long-term succession management for experts Freudenberg offers numerous benefits to attract new and leaders in all units. employees and retain current employees. Work is con40 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Human Rights & Labor Diversity The Freudenberg Academy as a virtual combination of all continuing education activities at the Business Diversity is anchored in the Group’s Values and Groups helped advance Group-wide cooperation Principles and also clearly positioned in the brand. through the joint usage of the Learning Management Freudenberg is convinced that teams with people of System. The Freudenberg Learning & Development various ages and genders and with diverse cultural Community coordinates in matters of Group-wide inbackgrounds are more successful. The balanced genterest and develops standard course offerings, which der distribution is particularly noteworthy. Positive are then accessible to all Business Groups. developments were found here: The share of female experts and managers has risen in the past three years Vocational training at Freudenberg to 33 percent. This increase is the result of taking the diversity of candidates into consideration when hiring. In 2018, 134 young people (previous year: 127) startThe share of women in middle management has also ed vocational training at Freudenberg companies in increased to more than 25 percent. Germany. In total, 377 people were in traineeships at Freudenberg as of December 31, 2018. The spectrum ranges from Employee development 2-year commercial or technical traineeships to dual studies at a university of cooperative education. Neighboring Leadership development was further expanded in companies send their young employees to Freudenberg 2018. Some 500 participants used the Leadership for training, highlighting the company’s reputation for Framework based on the cross-Business Group leadthe high standard of its vocational training. ership development programs. The new vocational training center in Weinheim was In 2018, a total of 110 managers took part in the completed in the reporting year and offers innovathree Executive Development Programs: the Strategic tive and modern learning concepts in a light-filled, Leadership Program, the Business Leadership Program two-story building. An example includes the Learning and the Operations Leadership Program. A new comFactory 4.0, where trainees learn about company proponent was a two-day program focused on diversity cesses through production workflows, helping them and inclusion. gain a quicker grasp of interactions and better control of the processes using high-tech machines. The fully automated instructional lines imitate a production line, making digitalization tangible. 41 UN Global Compact Index The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is the world’s largest and most important initiative for responsible corporate leadership. Since signing in 2014, Freudenberg has voluntarily agreed to make sure our business is values-based and sustainable. The following Global Compact Index provides an overview of the ten principles in the Global Compact and illustrates the pages of the Annual Report where readers can find information about the progress we have made in implementing these principles. UNGC PRINCIPLE Content Reference Human Rights 29, 33*, 38–39, 41 Principle 1 Protection and compliance with international human rights 29, 33*, 38–39, 41 Principle 2 No violations of human rights 29, 33*, 38–39, 41 Labor standards 25–27, 29, 33*, 34, 38, 41 Principle 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the right to 33* collective bargaining Principle 4 Elimination of all forms of forced labor 33* Principle 5 Abolition of child labor 33* Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination 33*, 38, 41 Environmental Protection 12, 19–23, 25–26, 29, 33* Principle 7 Environmental protection through care principle 19–23, 25–26, 29, 33* Principle 8 Support for environmental awareness 19–23, 25, 29, 33* Principle 9 Development of environmentally friendly technologies 12, 19–23, 26 Anti-corruption 33*–35 Principle 10 Anti-corruption measures 33*–35 *The parts of the Freudenberg Code of Conduct covering the relevant principles. 42 Combined Management Report – Business Model COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT FUNDAMENTAL INFORMATION At year-end 2018, the number of companies in Freudenberg totaled 487 located in 56 countries. 447 of these companies were included in the consolidation. BUSINESS MODEL 422 companies, including 163 sales companies and 162 production companies, were fully consolidated. The remaining companies were holding or manageOrganizational structure ment companies. The Freudenberg Group (Freudenberg) is a global Together with partners, customers and the world of technology group that strengthens its customers and science, the eleven Business Groups in the year under society long-term through forward-looking innovations. review developed leading-edge products, excellent solutions and services for some 40 market segments and for thousands of applications: seals, vibration control components, technical textiles, filters, specialty chemicals, medical products, IT services, and the most modern cleaning products. STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT PARENT COMPANY FREUDENBERG & CO. KOMMANDITGESELLSCHAFT BUSINESS OPERATIONS PARENT COMPANY FREUDENBERG SE Seals and Vibration Control Nonwovens and Filtration Household Products Specialties and Others Technology Business Area Business Area Business Area Business Area Business Groups Business Groups Business Group Business Groups Freudenberg Sealing Freudenberg Performance Freudenberg Home and Freudenberg Chemical Technologies Materials Cleaning Solutions Specialities Freudenberg Oil & Gas Freudenberg Filtration Freudenberg IT Technologies Technologies Divisions EagleBurgmann Japan Vilene Company Freudenberg Business Services Freudenberg Medical Freudenberg Service Vibracoustic As at December 31, 2018. For further details on Freudenberg companies, please refer to the chapter entitled “Review of Operations by Business Area”. 43 Freudenberg builds on lasting and reliable Innovation strength, strong customer orientation and relationships with customers and partners. The close collaboration as well as diversity and team spirit partnership with NOK Corporation, Tokyo, Japan, for are the cornerstones of the Group. Commitment to example, already spans more than 50 years. Numerous excellence, reliability and pro-active, responsible action activities in the Americas, Asia (China and India) and in have belonged to the company’s core values ever since Europe have been jointly established during the it was founded in 1849. decades-long partnership. Freudenberg introduced the “Strategic Guide” Freudenberg and NOK Corporation jointly hold shares leadership concept in 2013. Under this concept, the in several companies. Particularly worthy of mention Board of Management concentrates on developing the are Freudenberg-NOK General Partnership, Plymouth, Freudenberg Group strategy, approves major USA, which is fully consolidated in the consolidated investments, draws up strategic guidelines, and financial statements, as well as NOK-Freudenberg Asia defines strategic planning. Operational business is in Holding Co. Pte. Ltd., Singapore, which is disclosed atthe hands of independent companies whose equity as a 50:50 joint venture in the consolidated management conducts business under their own financial statements. responsibility. These individual companies in turn belong to Business Groups. Further details can be found under “Investments in joint ventures“ and “Investments in associated Freudenberg has two parent companies: Freudencompanies“ in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial berg & Co. Kommanditgesellschaft (Freudenberg & Co. Statements. KG), Weinheim, Germany, is the strategic parent company, Freudenberg SE, Weinheim, Germany, is the Across the globe, Freudenberg’s products and services parent company with responsibility for managing make a valuable contribution to the success of its business operations. The corporate bodies of customers – rarely visible, but always indispensable in Freudenberg & Co. KG are the Management Board, the the spirit of the new positioning which states that Board of Partners and the General Meeting. The “Freudenberg is a values-based technology group that corporate bodies of Freudenberg SE are the Board of best serves its customers and society“. Management, the Supervisory Board and the Shareholders Meeting. The composition of the Freudenberg offers its customers in the passenger car Management Board of Freudenberg & Co. KG and the and commercial vehicle industry, mechanical and Board of Management of Freudenberg SE is identical. plant engineering, textile and apparel, construction, This also applies to the Board of Partners of mining and heavy industry, energy, chemical, and the Freudenberg & Co KG and the Supervisory Board of oil and gas sectors excellent innovative technological Freudenberg SE. products and services. In the year under review the customer base also included companies in the Freudenberg is a family company and is currently medical technology, civil aviation, and rail vehicles owned by some 320 heirs to the founding father Carl sectors. Johann Freudenberg. 44 Combined Management Report – Business Model Organizational changes Business processes Acquisitions and disinvestments and discontinued During the year under review, Freudenberg continued operations with its intensive efforts to make products, services and processes more efficient, better and safer. In January 2018, the Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Operational Excellence activities related to both Solutions Business Group acquired E. D. Oates Pty. Ltd., administration and production. Melbourne, Australia. Oates is the market leader in the professional cleaning business in Australia, and has a Digitalization continues to advance at a fast pace and broad and comprehensive range of household and has already changed almost every business. There are cleaning products in the consumer business. innumerable possibilities for initiating digital change. For Freudenberg, however, the crucial factor is Also in January 2018, the Freudenberg Sealing separating what is important from the digital hype. At Technologies Business Group acquired stakes in the Freudenberg, that means digitalization must either fuel cell manufacturers Elcore GmbH and Elcomax bring added value for customers or achieve a GmbH, both Munich, Germany. Furthermore, significant boost in efficiency. Given the market Freudenberg Sealing Technologies purchased a stake in differences, each Business Group develops its own XALT Energy, LLC, Midland, Michigan, USA. The digitalization strategy. Notwithstanding, it is company manufactures large-scale lithium ion battery important to share ideas, learn together, exchange best cells, modules and systems for use in heavy-duty practices and drive the process of innovation. The commercial vehicles such as city and transit buses, in “Digitalization” technology platform supports the marine industry and in other industrial collaboration across Business Groups to find the path applications. best suited to Freudenberg. In April 2018, the Japan Vilene Company Business Moreover, all Business Groups continued to work on Group acquired Hanns Glass GmbH & Co. KG, Grafing, responding to customer needs even more effectively Germany. The company is a leading global supplier of and on optimizing business processes. Further details car floor mats for the automotive industry with a and information can be found in the chapter entitled strong presence in Europe. “Review of Operations by Business Area”. In December 2018, the Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Business Group signed a contract to purchase the majority shareholding in Apollo AirCleaner Co., Ltd., Shunde, China. Apollo is a leading supplier of air and water filtration solutions in China. The transaction still requires approval from the antitrust authorities. 45 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Striving for solutions that support the sustainable In 2018, Freudenberg conducted research and development of the environment and society development activities in the amount of €444.3 million worldwide has always been the foundation for success (previous year: €427.8 million). This represents at Freudenberg. The joint search to find new solutions 4.7 percent of sales (previous year: 4.6 percent). and products for customers is always at the forefront Research and development activities also include of these endeavors. Close collaboration between development expenses for customer-specific developemployees and customers, partners and scientists ment projects disclosed under cost of sales in the worldwide is therefore firmly anchored in our consolidated statement of profit or loss. corporate structure in the spirit of Innovating Together . The Business Groups account for the largest share of funds for R&D activities. They cooperate closely with their customers on technology and product developments in their market segments. As a leading technology group and innovative partner, the Group’s self-image is founded on meeting the most demanding requirements in terms of product, process and service quality. The objective of all innovation activities is to constantly expand and renew the product portfolio. Freudenberg measures the effectiveness of R&D activities as the share of new products (products less than 4 years old) in total sales. This share is 33.6 percent (previous year: 33.0 percent). Innovation management further strengthened Following the optimization of Group-wide innovation management in 2017, Freudenberg addressed further improvements in innovation activities and strengthened technological innovation processes in the year under review. Various players within innovation management are tasked with constantly driving forward the innovation power of the Freudenberg Group. Among other things, the Freudenberg Technology Innovation Corporate Function supports the Business Groups in their mediumand long-term innovation activities. Freudenberg Technology Innovation contributes expertise in fields such as tribology, polymers, surface technology and simulation and provides the required technological infrastructure, processes and methods. 46 Combined Management Report – Research and Development Bundling technology know-how Innovations for tomorrow's world The technology platforms are one important strategic Freudenberg is constantly working on innovations in element for cross-Business Group knowledge transfer. many areas of life. A whole gamut of customers and In total, there were nine active technology platforms in markets benefits from these forward-looking ideas, the year under review: Digitalization, Medical technically advanced products and excellent services. Technology & Hygiene, Nonwovens, Sealing Technology, Molding, Wear & Lubrication, Surface Technologies, Polymers, Mixing & Reacting. One feature common to all technology platforms is the identification and evaluation of relevant crosssectional issues aimed at developing new technologies and thus enabling business success. To that end, specific competences in the relevant fields are developed and made available to the Business Groups. Long-term topics are intensively pursued in the form of strategic programs. Some individual technological issues arising from the technology platforms or the strategic programs are supported and advanced by short-term technology exploration and incubation projects. Freudenberg is constantly working on innovations in many areas of life. In 2018, nine long-term topics were processed under To meet the many challenges of e-mobility, strategic programs, including the Advanced Polymers Freudenberg Sealing Technologies has engineered for Extreme Conditions“ project, where the findings numerous solutions ready for series production using culminated in new materials, processes and products materials developed and customized in-house. These that were transferred to the relevant Business Groups materials are particularly important for meeting the for further use. In connection with this project, a complex challenges of different applications such as laboratory-scale twin-screw extruder was added to the fireproof requirements, operating life or freedom from technological infrastructure of Freudenberg Technocontamination. Two noteworthy designs in the field of logy Innovation. With this new equipment, it is now fuel cell applications are seal integration on metal possible to test the behavior of polymers under bipolar plates and gas diffusion layers with integral extreme conditions. seals. In both cases, the assemblies perform significantly more functions than just their primary task of reliably sealing the fuel cell stack. Car manufacturers Future project can engineer compact design and automated assembly, thereby reducing the number of parts and simplifying In the year under review, a project team analyzed the assembly process. The same applies to an 20 growth fields for possible business opportunities for innovative heat shield for lithium-ion batteries. This the Freudenberg Group. The long-term goal of the heat shield insulates the battery and prevents a project is to adjust the Group's business portfolio to damaged cell in a lithium-ion battery from overheating future requirements through targeted strategic and, in the worst case, leading to the entire battery product developments or acquisitions. system exploding. Heat shields between individual cells are designed so that the heat from a damaged cell remains insulated until it can be drained away. This new 47 product was recognized with the MATERIALICA Design comparable products, but can nevertheless absorb + Technology Award in October 2018. maximum torque. The products and seals used in the oil and gas industry New wound dressings with a direct coating of silicone must be able to withstand extreme conditions: adhesives from Freudenberg Performance Materials temperatures ranging from approximately -46° Celsius are much more flexible than conventional products to approximately +316° Celsius, pressures of up to and adapt better to the wound bed. The innovative 20,000 PSI, high bending moments, and corrosive foam with silicone coating enables antibacterial elements. The new FlangeLok Compact Flange preparations to perform their function more effectively developed by Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies is an than foams with a transfer coating. In addition, the innovative connector offering significant weight and reduction of production process steps and complexity space savings with a high bending moment that saves energy, avoids waste and simplifies the supply functions in all of these extreme conditions. The chain. Another innovative project from Freudenberg FlangeLok Compact Flange has a patented TechLock Performance Materials also highlights sustainability: metal seal ring and offers superior sealing even in comfortemp fiberball eco padding. The material is as extreme operating conditions. lightweight as natural down and offers optimal thermal insulation and breathability. The highA solution to a customer's highly-complex tribological performance padding is made of 70 percent recycled problem for a nuclear power station was successfully material and is ideal for sportswear and functional developed through close cooperation between outerwear. EagleBurgmann, Freudenberg Technology Innovation and und Fraunhofer Institute for Mechanics of In the year under review, Freudenberg Filtration Materials (IWM). The solution featured DiamondFace , Technologies developed a filter for use in the growing the Business Group's tried-and-tested innovative field of environmentally-friendly bus and train microcrystalline diamond coating, in combination with drivetrains. The fuel cell filter effectively protects both the Atomistic Simulation of Friction and Wear the catalyst material and the membranes used in the platform project. stack and system components from contaminant gases and particles. The Business Group also launched Freudenberg Medical markets combination products the micronAir Gas Shield filters, a new modular and drug delivery coatings under the Hemoteq brand product portfolio of automotive cabin air filters that name. The main fields of application are drug-eluting adsorb gases and odors. Freudenberg technologies stents and drug-coated balloons to treat vascular interact to create targeted product solutions in construction or occlusion. It is now planned to transfer response to different cabin air quality requirements the underlying technology to new medical products. and, in combination with high-efficiency particulate Together with its customers, Hemoteq is working on filters, provide optimal comfort and protection. These drug delivery coatings for implants in a cerebral solutions can be transferred to further gas adsorption environment (brain). applications. The new cord-reinforced flexible prop shaft coupling Underbody shields (UBS) protect parts of the engine called NRG-Disc from Vibracoustic offers carmakers a and the interior on the vehicle underside. In the year cost-effective alternative to a classic rubber disc for allunder review, Japan Vilene Company launched wheel and rear-wheel drive vehicles. The decoupling nonwoven UBS materials designed to replace disc helps reduce the impact of torsional vibration fiberglass reinforced products. The benefits: nonoccurring in the engine on the drivetrain. It is wovens weigh less and reduce noise better than significantly lighter and much more compact than fiberglass materials. 48 Combined Management Report – Research and Development Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions developed Freudenberg Awards iTrace, a new digital solution for professional cleaning businesses. Among other things, the cloud-based Freudenberg recognizes outstanding achievements in platform is designed to provide support to improve innovation by regularly presenting two external fleet management efficiency, thus saving costs. An app science prizes – the Carl Freudenberg Prize and the Karl can be used, for example, to track the items of cleaning Freudenberg Prize – and an internal innovation prize – equipment in use at the various locations and to the Freudenberg Innovation Award. The Karl identify the condition of the equipment. iTrace can also Freudenberg Prize was presented for the 30th time in live track cleaning materials and prepare inventory 2018. The awardee was the biologist Dr. Kristina Döring, statistics, thereby enhancing transparency and whose work provided an important foundation for planning capability for customers. helping prevent diseases such as diabetes, Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s and cancer in future. The new hydro lubricants from Klüber Lubrication (part of the Freudenberg Chemical Specialities Business Group) are causing a revolution in lubrication technology. Apart from extremely low friction coefficients, the water-based lubricants enhance sustainability and improve occupational safety. The German Design Council recognized the company for this innovation, presenting it with the German Innovation Award in two categories: in Excellence in Business to Business for the innovative products group, and in the Design Thinking category for the cuttingedge process used to develop the hydro lubricants. The company also launched a digital innovation with the MyKlüber smartphone app: using near field communication technology, customers can verify the authenticity of products by scanning a code on the original Klüber packaging, as well as downloading product information and safety data sheets. 49 REPORT ON ECONOMIC CONDITIONS MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT In 2018, global gross domestic product lost some of its expenditure by the administration created momenamomentum year-on-year against the backdrop of a tum for growth. A series of natural disasters in Japan marked increase in economic and geopolitical impacted an otherwise robust economy. The pace of uncertainty. Given the good situation on labor markets growth in Europe and Germany slackened noticeably. in many countries, private consumption was the economic mainstay. In contrast, corporate investment Economic momentum in China almost exactly reached and foreign trade felt the effects of growing the target set by the government. However, growth uncertainty as a result of the smoldering trade dispute was at the lowest level for almost 30 years. India between the USA and China, the prolonged overcame the slight dip of the previous year and negotiations on the North American Free Trade spearheaded growth among the major emerging Agreement, and the impending Brexit. economies in 2018. Brazil and Russia, on the other hand, again fell short of their potential. Coming off an already high level, gross domestic product in the USA rose further. Tax cuts and higher EUROPE WORLD REGIONS GDP growth GDP growth GDP growth GDP growth Region 2017 2018 Region 2017 2018 Eurozone 2.5 % 1.8 % USA 2.2 % 2.9 % Germany 2.2 % 1.5 % Mexico 2.0 % 2.0 % France 2.3 % 1.5 % Brazil 1.0 % 1.3 % Italy 1.6 % 0.9 % Argentina 2.9 % -2.3 % Spain 3.0 % 2.5 % Japan 1.7 % 0.8 % Portugal 2.8 % 2.1 % Russia 1.5 % 2.3 % Ireland 7.2 % 6.4 % China 6.9 % 6.6 % Greece 1.4 % 2.1 % Taiwan 2.9 % 2.6 % United Kingdom 1.7 % 1.4 % India 6.7 % 7.3 % Sources: Consensus Inc., national statistical offices Sources: Consensus Inc., national statistical offices 2018 GDP growth as at February 2019 2018 GDP growth as at February 2019 50 Combined Management Report – Macroeconomic Environment Sector-specific environment In light of more stringent climate targets and a growing number of diesel bans, classic drivetrain concepts came In light of the solid economic situation, the majority of under increasing pressure in the public debate in Freudenberg's sales markets saw growth, although Germany. The share of all-electric and hybrid vehicles in momentum slackened year-on-year. global production rose to approximately 5 percent. (Source: IHS Markit) Starting from a high prior-year level, global production in the automotive industry declined by 1 percent to The upturn in the international mechanical 94 million light vehicles in total. Significant decreases engineering sector continued. However, tightening in the United Kingdom (minus 9 percent), Germany capacity constraints and a shortage of skilled (minus 10 percent, in particular as a result of the professionals curbed the pace of growth. Moreover, as changeover to the stricter WLTP emissions test that the year progressed the trade dispute between the USA came into effect in September 2018), and Italy (minus and China dampened the inclination to invest. 6 percent) pushed the EU average into negative Production in the mechanical engineering sector rose 3 territory (minus 2 percent). China also ended the year 4 percent in Germany, 5 percent in the USA, 4 percent in percent down. While production in Japan and Mexico Japan, and 7 percent in China. (Source: national stagnated (each 0 percent), the USA saw a slight statistical offices) increase (0.5 percent). Brazilian carmakers continued to recover, with production there rising 4 percent. LIGHT VEHICLE DOMESTIC PRODUCTION 2018 production in million units (94.2 million units worldwide) 26.7 18.5 13.4 11.0 9.2 5.3 4.8 4.0 3.9 of 2.7 which China Japan India South Korea EU 28 Germany USA Mexico Brasil Rest of world Source: IHS Markit, February 2019 51 Momentum in the textile and apparel industry tailed The oil price fluctuated in the first three quarters of off. Production in China, the global market leader, only 2018, following a strong rising trend. In the remaining grew 2 percent and China lost further market shares to months of the year, the oil price plummeted from other Asian countries such as Vietnam, Bangladesh, US$76 to approximately US$46 per barrel of WTI. The Cambodia and Myanmar. (Source: national statistical annual average price was US$64.96, 28 percent higher offices) than the previous year. (Source: New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX)) The long-standing boom in the global construction industry continued. The income of private households, Positive employment and wage trends boosted private companies and the public sector rose further on the consumption, which grew 2 percent. At the same time, back of the solid economic situation. This had a positive inflation increased slightly after a long break (for impact on both the housing sector and business example, an annual average of 1.9 percent for property development. Production growth was Germany), but nevertheless remained in the planned 10 percent in China, 3 percent in the USA. The growth target corridors. rate slowed to 2 percent in the EU, falling even lower to 1 percent in Germany. Storms in Japan meant In 2018, there was an almost constant decrease in the production there only stagnated (0 percent). (Source: value of the euro versus the dollar as the most relevant national statistical offices) currency for the Group, with an annual average exchange rate of just under US$1.18 per euro. In the medical technology sector, the established Nevertheless, this still represents a rise of 4.6 percent major manufacturing nations saw strong growth in compared with the previous year. (Source: European 2018. Production rose 6 percent in Germany, 6.5 Central Bank; monthly rates) percent in Japan and 5.5 percent in the USA. In China, growth was again around the 10 percent mark. (Sources: national statistical offices, BMI Research) EURO EXCHANGE RATE DEVELOPMENT IN 2018 US dollar per euro 1,30 1,25 1,20 1,15 1,10 1,05 1,00 Jan. Feb. March Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Source: European Central Bank; month-end rates 52 Combined Management Report – Macroeconomic Environment Business Development and Position BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND POSITION For Freudenberg, sales, profit from operations and The forecasts made at the beginning of the year with return on sales are the key financial performance respect to the key financial and non-financial indicators. The key performance indicator profit from performance indicators are regularly reviewed and operations describes profit before income tax without updated in the course of the year. The financial and special effects (for example, significant restructuring non-financial key performance indicators presented expenses), the profit or loss on disposals of assets, are made available to the Board of Management on a impairment of goodwill, or results of major associated monthly basis. This allows trends and changes to be companies. The return on sales is calculated from the identified in good time so that measures can be taken two key performance indicators sales and profit from to counteract any detrimental developments. operations. The key financial performance indicators are used for For its internal reporting, Freudenberg uses the LDIFR assessing the position and development of the Group (Lost Day Incident Frequency Rate) as a non-financial with respect to earnings and focus on sustainable key performance indicator. It measures all accidents at growth and a continuous increase in enterprise value work involving at least one day’s absence per million as indicators for steering future success. working hours. Starting with the 2015 financial year, the indicator also includes data for temporary Our performance indicators developed as follows: employees and agency staff. FORECAST/ACTUAL COMPARISON, FREUDENBERG Actual Actual 2017 Forecast for 2018 Change 2018 Sales [€ million] 9,345.6 slightly above previous year +1.2 % 9,455.4 Profit from operations [€ million] 905.0 at previous year’s level +0.6 % 910.3 Return on sales [percent] 9.7 slight decrease -0.1 % points 9.6 LDIFR [LDI per million working hours] 1.4 further reduction +0.1 1.5 Freudenberg aims for profitable growth both from its The LDIFR in 2018 was 1.5 (previous year: 1.4). It was own resources (organic) and from acquisitions not possible to achieve the further reduction which (external). In 2018, Freudenberg once again continued had been forecast. Levels of health and safety at its good business development. Despite significant Freudenberg continued to be good for a manufacturing negative exchange rate effects, sales, at €9,455.4 company. The causes of accidents are precisely million, were slightly above the level of the previous analyzed. The consequences of these analyses are year and the forecast development was achieved. discussed intensively and possible changes are initiated. At €910.3 million, profit from operations was slightly above the high level recorded in the previous year. Especially contributions to profit from higher sales in the year under review were more than sufficient to compensate for the rises, in some cases considerable, in the price of certain raw materials. 53 Sales Freudenberg again reported increased sales in 2018. SALES BY SECTOR [in %] Key success factors included the innovative product Energy and water 4 Construction 4 range, customer-oriented, flexible problem solutions for the various sectors of industry, and structured Textile Chemical 3 and apparel 5 Medical and expansion into attractive markets and strategic Spare parts pharmaceutical 4 business areas. business 5 Other Final users industry In the financial year under review, Freudenberg 10 sectors 9 reported sales of €9,455.4 million (previous year: Mechanical Automotive €9,345.6 million). On this basis, sales were €109,8 and plant OEMs 44 million or 1.2 percent higher than the figure for the engineering 12 previous year, representing a new record. In 2018, acquisitions and disinvestments contributed North America accounted for 26 percent of total sales €43.2 million to sales. Sales were reduced by significant (previous year: 27 percent) and Asia for 21 percent negative exchange rate effects totaling about €285.6 (previous year: 20 percent). There was no change in the million, especially as a result of the development in the other regions compared with the previous year. US dollar exchange rate. The application of the new accounting standard IFRS 15 reduced sales by €54.3 million. SALES BY REGION [in %] Adjusted for these special effects, the organic growth Africa / Australia 2 Germany 17 in sales was €406.5 million or 4.3 percent. Sectors and regions Asia 21 EU (excluding Germany) 26 The distribution of sales by sectors and regions South / Central remained very stable compared with the previous year. America 3 In the 2018 financial year, the share of automotive OEM Other European business in total sales amounted to 44 percent North America 26 countries 5 (previous year: 45 percent). The share of the second most important customer grouping, mechanical and plant engineering, remained at about the previous year’s level, with a total of 12 percent (previous year: 11 percent). In the other sectors, there was no change in the share in total sales compared with the previous year. 54 Combined Management Report – Business Development and Position Earnings position [€ million] 2017 2018 In the year under review, the balance of other income and expenses rose by €47.6 million. This figure mainly Sales 9,345.6 9,455.4 includes higher income from the disposal of intangible Cost of sales -6,171.1 -6,395.6 assets and tangible assets as well as exchange rate Gross profit 3,174.5 3,059.8 gains. These effects were partly offset by an Selling expenses -1,365.8 -1,297.2 impairment of goodwill. Administrative expenses -622.6 -633.5 Research and development The financial result fell by €78.8 million. In addition to expenses -414.2 -374.3 lower income from participations, this fall was due to Other income and expenses 4.2 51.8 the decrease in the pro rata share in the profit of Income from participation in joint ventures 21.5 22.0 associated companies. Profit from operations 797.6 828.6 These effects led to consolidated profit which was Financial result 85.5 6.7 €97.7 million lower than the figure for the previous Profit before income taxes 883.1 835.3 year. Income taxes -183.0 -232.9 Consolidated profit 700.1 602.4 Financial position Despite a slight increase in sales in 2018, gross profit Financing management fell by €114.7 million compared with the previous year. This is mainly the result of the application of the new Freudenberg SE and the central financing company accounting standard IFRS 15. Under this standard, Externa Handelsund Beteiligungsgesellschaft mit expenses incurred in connection with sales promotions beschränkter Haftung, Weinheim, Germany, are must be deducted from sales. Previously, part of these responsible for all the financing activities of expenses had been recognized as selling expenses. In Freudenberg, thus ensuring that Freudenberg has addition, in connection with the transition to IFRS 15 sufficient liquid funds at all times. As a general development expenses for customer-specific developprinciple, companies obtain the financing they require ment projects are now included in cost of sales and no via cash pool agreements or internal loans – for legal, longer in research and development expenses. The fiscal and other reasons, financing in some countries changes in the presentation in the statement of profit also takes the form of bank loans guaranteed by or loss are also reflected by the development of selling Freudenberg SE. expenses and research and development expenses. Freudenberg does not expose itself to financial risks The administrative expenses ratio remained at the through speculation with derivative financial same level as the previous year at 6.7 percent. Admiinstruments but uses such instruments only for hedging, nistrative expenses include expenses which cannot be and therefore reducing, risks in connection with allocated to production, sales or research and underlying transactions and items. Future transactions development, and mainly represent personnel are only hedged if there is a high probability of expenses. occurrence. In order to ensure the identification and management of all financing risks, the Freudenberg Group pursues a holistic approach to financial risk management. The existing financial risks are identified and limited in an institutionalized control loop. 55 Exchange rate risks on currency markets remain high. indebtedness (“Schuldscheindarlehen”) included in In addition, there is volatility on the credit and capital the liabilities to banks is based on variable and fixed markets. This also impacts the financing conditions for components. Further details on interest rate structure industrial companies. Freudenberg is in a good position can be found in the section on interest rate risks in the to tackle these challenges thanks to its conservative Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. finance policy. Liquidity measures include high reserves of liquid funds and committed credit lines with core Off-balance sheet contingent liabilities and other banks. Liquid funds are always invested on the basis of financial obligations of Freudenberg mainly relate to internal directives. These call for the risk-based, limitguarantees. oriented diversification of financial investments between issuers with an investment grade rating and As in the previous year, the rating agency Moody`s for investment only for short terms. Deutschland GmbH, Frankfurt am Main, Germany, rated Freudenberg SE, Weinheim, at “A3”, with a stable A key element in external borrowing is a long-term outlook. The Group therefore continues to hold a shareholder loan where the interest payable is oriented single-A rating. towards market interest rates for the same terms plus a premium. This gives Freudenberg very good creditworthiness at investment grade level. As at December 31, 2018, Freudenberg had undrawn committed credit lines amounting to some €850 million. The interest payable on the certificates of 56 Combined Management Report – Business Development and Position STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION STRUCTURE Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Change [€ million] [€ million [Percent] [€ million] Assets structure Non-current assets 6,399.4 6,203.9 -3.1 -195.5 Current assets 3,794.5 3,926.9 3.5 132.4 Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups 0.0 108.3 108.3 Assets 10,193.9 10,239.1 0.4 45.2 Capital structure Equity 4,835.0 5,312.1 9.9 477.1 Non-current liabilities 2,448.6 2,195.8 -10.3 -252.8 Current liabilities 2,910.3 2,663.9 -8.5 -246.4 Liabilities in connection with non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups 0.0 67.3 67.3 Equity and liabilities 10,193.9 10,239.1 0.4 45.2 Capital structure The equity ratio increased from 47.4 percent to 51.9 The €246.4 million reduction in current liabilities to percent. In absolute terms, equity rose by €477.1 €2,663.9 million was chiefly the result of the reduction million. This was chiefly attributable to the positive in short-term financial debt, especially short-term result and to positive exchange rate developments. liabilities to banks. Here too, the first-time application These positive factors were offset both by dividends of IFRS 15 and the resulting derecognition of customer paid to the parent company Freudenberg & Co. KG and allowances for tooling costs and development projects to external shareholders as well as the measurement had an effect. Adjusted for exchange rate effects and of associated companies and other participations the changes in the consolidated group, non-current without impact on net income. Non-controlling liabilities fell by 10.5 percent and current liabilities by interests also rose by about €33.1 million. Here, the 10.1 percent. positive pro rata share in profit was offset mainly by dividends. As regards the currency structure, reference is made to the currency risk section of the Notes to the Non-current liabilities amounted to €2,195.8 million Consolidated Financial Statements. (previous year: €2,448.6 million). This change was mainly due to the reduction in other non-current liabilities. Here, the effects of the derecognition of allowances for customer-specific tools and development projects as a result of the first-time application of IFRS 15 had an effect. 57 Investments Liquidity Adjusted for acquisitions, investments in intangible Cash flow from operating activities in the 2018 assets, tangible assets and investment properties financial year amounted to €828.4 million, corresamounted to €378.6 million (previous year: €501.5 ponding to a year-on-year decrease of €100.6 million. million). This fall is chiefly due to the first-time This fall is due to structural changes in the statement of application of IFRS 15. Under the new standard, costs cash flows as a result of the first-time application of connected with customer-specific development IFRS 15. In the past, amortization and depreciation of services and customer-specific tools are no longer customer-specific development projects and tools recognized as assets but are disclosed directly as cost of reduced the cash outflow from operating activities. The sales upon the transfer of the assets to the customer. changed recognition of customer-specific development expenses and tools under construction as contract The Freudenberg Group invested worldwide. For assets or inventories also had a negative impact on the example, the Freudenberg Performance Materials change in working capital. Amounts used from Business Group started work on the construction of a provisions further contributed to the outflow of liquid new spunlaid plant in Taiwan. Vibracoustic completed funds. the extension of production at its plant in Sroda Slaska, Poland, and started construction of a third plant in Despite higher acquisitions than in the previous year, Chongqing, China. At its Potvorice facility in Slovakia, the negative cash flow from investing activities was the Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Business reduced to €-581.0 million. In this context, the firstGroup completed extensive expansion work and time application of IFRS 15 also had an impact, invested in new production machinery. Investments in resulting in significantly lower statement of financial Germany totaled €125.2 million (previous year: €175.6 position additions compared with the previous year. million). At Maisach, the new European logistics center of Freudenberg Chemical Specialities was comCash flow from financing activities in the 2018 missioned. Vibracoustic invested in the extension of air financial year was €-249.0 million (previous year: €spring production in Hamburg. Investments planned 245.0 million). The main factors in this fall were for 2019 are likely to be financed from cash flow from payments to the shareholder and non-controlling operating activities and to have no major effect on net interests as well as the repayment of financial debts. assets. The Group can meet all of its payment obligations at any time. 58 Combined Management Report – Business Development and Position Assets Overall assessment The total assets of Freudenberg rose by €45.2 million to In an overall economic situation that remains volatile €10,239.1 million (previous year: €10,193.9 million). and challenging, Freudenberg can look back on a 2018 financial year that was successful both in strategic and Non-current assets fell to €6,203.9 million (previous in operational terms. In 2018, the Group was able to year: €6,399.4 million). Adjusted for exchange rate outperform the financial key performance indicators effects and changes in the consolidated group, there forecast for 2018 despite significant negative exchange was a significant reduction of €311.1 million. This is rate effects and once again reported record profit from chiefly due to the first-time application of IFRS 15, operations. which led to a reduction in non-current assets as at the time of the transition. Especially tangible assets were The non-financial key performance indicator LDIFR in reduced by €195.5 million upon the transition as a 2018 was 1.5 (previous year: 1.4). It was not possible to result of the derecognition of customer-specific tools achieve the further reduction which had been forecast. which had previously been recognized as assets. The The causes of accidents are precisely analyzed. The amortization of intangible assets from purchase price consequences of these analyses are discussed allocations in the amount of €84.2 million also led to a intensively and possible changes are initiated. fall in intangible assets. In view of its solid net assets and financial position and The increase of €132.4 million in current assets to its high-earnings business, Freudenberg’s assessment €3,926.9 million was chiefly attributable to the rise in of the overall financial position of the Group is very inventories and the initial recognition of assets as a positive. It is not necessary to change this assessment result of the first-time application of IFRS 15. Securities as a result of the events presented under “Major Events and cash at bank and in hand were slightly reduced by After the Date of the Statement of Financial Position”. €14.1 million. Cash outflows for purchase price payments, such as for the acquisition of E. D. Oates Pty. Ltd. or Hanns Glass GmbH & Co. KG, were offset by higher investments in commercial papers. Adjusted for exchange rate effects and changes in the consolidated group, the increase was €169.3 million. 59 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS BY BUSINESS AREA The Freudenberg Group's four Business Areas – Seals Together with its partners, customers and the world of and Vibration Control Technology, Nonwovens and science, Freudenberg develops cutting-edge products, Filtration, Household Products, and Specialties and excellent solutions and services for some 40 market Others – focus on long-term, sustainable and segments and thousands of applications in the spirit of profitable growth. Innovations are a common thread the positioning “Freudenberg is a values-based running through the Group's history – from chrome technology group that best serves its customers and tanning and the Simmering to sophisticated and society”. highly technical medical products. SEALS AND VIBRATION CONTROL TECHNOLOGY BUSINESS AREA In the year under review, the Seals and Vibration Sales in this Business Area rose to €5,506.4 million Control Technology Business Area comprised the (previous year: €5,412.5 million). The headcount at following Business Groups: the close of the financial year increased to 32,451 (previous year: 31,686 ). • Freudenberg Sealing Technologies • Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies • EagleBurgmann • Freudenberg Medical • Vibracoustic 60 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas FREUDENBERG SEALING TECHNOLOGIES 2017 2018 Sales [€ million] 2,224.7 2,258.9 Workforce 14,164 14,795 FREUDENBERG SEALING TECHNOLOGIES Business development Key events The 2018 financial year was a successful one for At the beginning of the financial year, Freudenberg Freudenberg Sealing Technologies. Sealing Technologies strengthened its position in the e-mobility sector and acquired extensive know-how The targets were met through significant growth in and specific product and system solutions for business business in spite of major investments in e-mobility, with fuel cells and lithium ion batteries through an higher material and raw material prices, and unfavorable acquisition and a strategic investment. exchange rate effects – particularly for the US dollar. The acquisition concerned stakes in the fuel cell Sales growth was mainly attributable to the regions of manufacturers Elcore GmbH and Elcomax GmbH, both Europe and NAFTA (North American Free Trade Munich, Germany. Elcore developed an extremely Agreement) nations. However, the sales performance efficient fuel cell for stationary applications and its in India, China and South America was also better than patents and patent filings now exceed 200. This in the previous financial year. product will now be developed further for mobile applications. With growth of some four percent, general industry business developed significantly better than was the Furthermore, Freudenberg Sealing Technologies case for automotive business, which was roughly on acquired a minority stake in the U.S. firm XALT Energy, the level of the previous year. Consolidation in the LLC, Midland, Michigan, USA. The company manuautomotive sector, particularly in the USA, was clearly factures large-scale lithium ion battery cells, modules discernible. and systems for use in heavy-duty commercial vehicles 61 such as city and transit buses, in the marine industry batteries. The larger batteries and the higher energy and in other industrial applications. XALT Energy, LLC is density become, the more important it is for their seals one of the leading manufacturers in this field in the to be reliable. Engineers at Freudenberg Sealing United States with over 40,000 square meters of highTechnologies have developed several seriesgrade automated cleanroom manufacturing. The production-ready solutions for a perimeter seal that company's battery products have been used ranges from two-and-a-half to five meters in length, successfully in urban transit buses in major American depending on the sizing of the housing. The seal has cities such as New York and Los Angeles for several even more to do than keep out road spray and years. contaminants. If there is a fire, it is expected to resist the flames over a relatively long period and help The Business Group invested a sum in the mid-doubleprevent the fire from spreading. With the help of digit-million-euro range in these transactions. aviation experts at the site in Tillsonburg, Canada, Organizational changes accompanied the portfolio Freudenberg Sealing Technologies achieved V0 , the expansion. Going forward, the fuel cell and battery highest classification, for one of its compounds. In the activities will be combined into one new division test, the flame completely died out in ten seconds. named Battery and Fuel Cell Systems . Furthermore, when approached by a global automaker, Freudenberg Sealing Technologies already offers a the Business Group developed materials for use in broad product portfolio for business with fuel cells and battery housings in electric vehicles that even meet the lithium ion batteries: strict flammability standards in China. The new materials help automotive manufacturers meet a new In the year under review, the Business Group was level of thermal management and occupant safety in recognized with the MATERIALICA Design + their vehicles. For example, they can prevent a fire from Technology Award 2018 in gold for its innovative heat spreading through a vehicle for up to 15 minutes. shield for battery systems in electric vehicles. Batteries with a high energy density create a basis for the broad Freudenberg Sealing Technologies has also developed acceptance of electric vehicles. But the more energy is special seals for fuel cells that are attached directly to stored in a confined space, the greater the safety the gas diffusion layer and facilitate very thin cell requirements. So precautions are essential in case a cell designs. The membranes for the gas exchange need to overheats. Experts call the phenomenon thermal remain uncontaminated to extend the fuel cell's runaway and it can cause the temperatures in a cell to operating life. In addition, the gases must not escape rise as high as 600°Celsius. The risk is that the battery's into the environment and the hydrogen must not come cooling system would not be able to drain the heat into direct contact with the oxygen. This makes it away quickly enough under these conditions. If essential to securely seal the gas diffusion layer. Since it neighboring healthy cells also heat up due to the heat is directly attached to the gas diffusion layer, the seal buildup, a chain reaction can result that, in the worst makes it easier to assemble fuel cell stacks. Working case, could lead the entire battery system to explode. with a German supplier of fuel cell modules, Freudenberg Sealing Technologies has developed a Freudenberg Sealing Technologies is now developing heat shield for use in prismatic and pouch cells with seals for gas diffusion layers and fuel cells to seriesalmost no impact on the required installation space. In production readiness. future, heat shields between the individual cells ensure that the heat from a damaged cell remains insulated In addition to these achievements, Freudenberg until it can be drained away. Sealing Technologies is using its expertise to make internal combustion engines more environmentallyThe Business Group also offers new foldable and friendly: the Business Group has developed a new fireproof sealing solutions for large lithium ion bonding agent to improve the precision and long-term 62 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas stability of SCR systems for exhaust gas treatment, In agriculture, Freudenberg Sealing Technologies thus reducing the amount of nitrogen oxide in the products boost efficiency and conserve resources. The exhaust of today's diesel engines. Business Group developed a new accumulator cylinder for tractors with a track drive in cooperation with a Other innovations were also successful on the market global agricultural machinery manufacturer. The new in the year under review: the new large seal for greaseproduct combines the functions of a hydraulic cylinder lubricated main bearings in wind turbines merits and a hydraulic accumulator in a single system. This special mention. Manufacturers continue to increase makes installation easier and lowers the risk of leakage. the size of wind turbines in an effort to generate an The use of aluminum also reduces the system's weight. ever-increasing supply of clean energy. Systems of this size produce powerful forces during operation that impact main shaft roller bearings and seals. Profile: Freudenberg Sealing Technologies’ new SevenFreudenberg Sealing Technologies is a leading market tomatic shaft seal reliably prevents leaks from the and technology partner for demanding and innovative main bearings used in conjunction with large shaft applications, including sealing technology and diameters while tolerating strong shaft runout. The e-mobility. Starting from the invention of the new Freudenberg Sealing Technologies development Simmerring, which was developed by Freudenberg in therefore supports the trend to ever-larger wind 1932, the Business Group today offers a broad customerturbines for the efficient and reliable production of oriented product portfolio – from tailor-made individual clean energy. solutions to complete sealing packages and components for electric vehicles. The partnership with NOK Freudenberg Sealing Technologies developed a new Corporation, Tokyo, Japan, creates a global network rotary seal, the Gerromatic , for use in the process supplying products of the same consistently high quality industry. It has a wave-shaped sealing lip which worldwide. significantly increases the amount of pressure that can be applied. The special design also reduces friction and provides self-cleaning, which extend operating life. 63 FREUDENBERG OIL & GAS TECHNOLOGIES 2017 2018 Sales [€ million] 110.2 109.8 Workforce 512 500 FREUDENBERG OIL & GAS TECHNOLOGIES Business development there is no uncertainty as to whether the price could drop to below US$50. This impacts sales at The market environment for Freudenberg Oil & Gas Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies, because demand Technologies was more stable in the first three for products from the Business Group then rises. quarters of 2018 than it had been in the previous three years. In the USA, for example, where drilling activities Adjusted for exchange rate effects, Freudenberg Oil & in the year under review primarily concerned shale oil Gas Technologies sales increased in the year under extraction, some 1,050 wells were in active operation, review on the back of strong project work in the the same level as 2015. Furthermore, the price per “Connectors” business unit and drilling product sales barrel of WTI – the benchmark crude price in the U.S. – in the “Pressure Control Products” unit. There was a rallied strongly during the course of the year up to slight rise in sales in the “Engineered Seals” unit. October, at approximately US$65 per barrel. This was followed by a sharp drop in the price per barrel Key events at the end of December to approximately US$46. The fall is attributable to rising oil production in the USA, Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies underwent uncertainty about the position of OPEC member realignment based on the principle of strategic countries and Russia with regard to further production business units at the beginning of the financial year in cuts, and weaker global demand. line with the Freudenberg Group’s strategy plan for the period 2018 – 2020. The business and market The oil and gas industry begins to invest as soon as the opportunities for Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies price per barrel is significantly higher than US$50 and in the technology-intensive upstream segment were 64 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas evaluated under the strategy planning process. The Location changes project identified specific segments and growth paths. In November, Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies In addition, the Business Group continued to consolidated its Vector connector production at the concentrate on improving profitability in all business Fallbrook location in Houston. All three production units during the year under review. It moved forward facilities in Houston, Texas, USA, have been combined with the Operational Excellence programs and made at the Fallbrook location since 2015. further investments in occupational health, safety and environmental measures. Profile: In 2018, the Business Group again focused on solutions Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies provides innovative for the exploration and production of oil and gas in the sealing solutions and products to the global oil and gas upstream segment. Work on developing new products industry. The Business Group focuses on solutions for the at Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies centered on upstream exploration and production segment. It high-pressure and high-temperature sealing solutions develops and markets products for drilling / BOP to meet industry challenges and customer (pressure control), wellhead equipment, fracturing requirements. services, offshore oil and gas platforms, and subsea applications. The new FlangeLok Compact Flange developed by Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies, for example, is an Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies serves a wide range innovative connector offering significant weight and of customers including oil and gas producing companies, space savings with a high bending moment. The original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and FlangeLok Compact Flange has a patented TechLock engineering and service companies that provide metal seal ring and offers superior sealing even in technologies, equipment and services for producing oil extreme operating conditions such as temperatures and gas from land-based platforms and subsea ranging from approximately -46° Celsius to throughout the world. Freudenberg Oil & Gas approximately +316° Celsius, pressures of up to Technologies has its own materials development and 20,000 PSI, high bending moments, and corrosive product testing lab in Houston where the Business elements. Group develops and tests new materials and solutions. 65 EAGLEBURGMANN 2017 2018 Sales [€ million] 789.4 821.7 Workforce 5,534 5,644 EAGLEBURGMANN Business development In contrast, the persistently difficult economic situation in South and Latin America significantly In the year under review, EagleBurgmann reported impacted business in the oil and gas segment there. positive sales development in a very competitive market environment. There was profitable growth The Business Group strengthened and expanded its across all product groups. Moreover, incoming orders market position in the pharmaceutical industry, water reached a record level. procurement and wastewater treatment, energy, petrochemicals, and the food and beverage processing In terms of regional development, EagleBurgmann industry. Growth in these sectors developed as planned. won new projects for seals and supply systems in the Middle East; these included projects for the new Duqm Furthermore, developments in the service business in refinery in Oman and for Socar, the oil and gas all regions were stable. This is attributable in particular company in Azerbaijan. to after sales services. The Business Group reported a strong rise in orders for seals for compressors and high-pressure applications Key events in North America. EagleBurgmann experienced a noticeable rise in EagleBurgmann won a very large individual order in technically challenging development tasks in 2018. India. The “Hengli” project in China continued: This is due to the fact that more powerful and efficient EagleBurgmann is delivering over 2,000 seals and pumps are being increasingly used in industrial supply systems for the construction of a new oil refinery. 66 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas applications, resulting in the need for suitable sealing strategy for the period 2018 – 2020 proved challenging technology. in the year under review. Moreover, high capacity utilization in production impacted delivery reliability. In addition, customer requirements regarding technical documentation, quality reports and preThe Business Group reviewed the management simulation of seals are increasing. EagleBurgmann development programs in the year under review and, responds to these challenges by more efficient among other things, modernized and realigned the processing of project tasks based on the core parts entry-level program for management. strategy, and through various digitalization projects: digitalization of process workflows continued and Furthermore, the application of lean methods in sales personnel began using a new customer production and administration resulted in further relationship management system in 2018. workflow improvements. The electronic data exchange Furthermore, sales and order processing structures with customers and suppliers reduced expenditure for along with the service network were aligned even more transmitting order-relevant data, and electronic closely to customer expectations. One example is the customer service processes enable more efficient service center in Qatar, an important market for working. compressor seals, that EagleBurgmann opened in April 2018. Preparations were made for a new sales office to In 2018, EagleBurgmann launched “SeccoLip”, an be opened in the Republic of Tatarstan, a region rich in innovative dry running seal for agitators and use in the oil and gas reserves, in 2019. chemical, pharmaceutical and food industries as well as water procurement and wastewater technology. Incoming orders in aftermarket business developed Another new product was the SHI300 mechanical seal very well; this is attributable to the growing specially developed for an extremely wide range of willingness on the part of customers to invest in highapplications such as batch scheduling for multi-fuel quality products and reaffirms the strategy to expand pipelines. end user business further. The strategy for the expansion joints product group Profile: implemented in the regions of EMEA, Asia/Pacific and EagleBurgmann is one of the leading international America at the beginning of 2018 generated manufacturers of industrial sealing technology. The encouraging results in terms of growth and Business Group manufactures and markets a broad profitability. range of high-quality products, from technically advanced, customer-specific solutions to large-batch On the other hand, setting up the project structure for products for pumps, compensators and agitators. many ongoing projects, and the transition from the concept phase to the implementation stage of the 67 FREUDENBERG MEDICAL 2017 2018 Sales [€ million] 172.1 169.1 Workforce 1,488 1,523 FREUDENBERG MEDICAL Business development the first half of the year. Moreover, several of the Business Group’s key accounts were forced to stop The global market for medical devices posted moderate production due to the effects of Hurricane Maria in growth in 2018. While the weaker US dollar curbed Puerto Rico. In contrast, the second half of the year saw business development for many export-oriented significantly more positive developments for European manufacturers, developments in the USA Freudenberg Medical with new project ramp-ups and were more dynamic than in recent years. Markets in market share gains. Asia, particularly China, continued on a strong growth path. On the other hand, exchange rate fluctuations Medical devices are becoming increasingly and worsening macroeconomic conditions had a sophisticated, for example through the integration of negative impact on other emerging economies. additional functions in minimally-invasive devices. Consequently, Freudenberg Medical offers technical While Freudenberg Medical achieved organic sales solutions that enable medical device manufacturers to growth in this environment, sales expressed in euros realize advanced product concepts, shorten nevertheless declined as a result of negative exchange development and approval times, and save costs. rate effects. Sales by the Freudenberg Medical business Freudenberg Medical further extended its portfolio of units in the USA and Costa Rica were particularly proprietary product and process platforms in 2018. affected by this development. Freudenberg Medical has a presence at eleven Furthermore, production at the Freudenberg Medical locations in the USA, Europe, Latin America and Asia, location in Carpinteria, California, USA, was temporarily and is therefore able to offer its products and services interrupted due to the Thomas Fire in California during 68 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas all over the world. This is particularly appreciated by the documents. Given that the medical device industry is Business Group’s customers operating worldwide. subject to increasingly stringent regulatory and qualitative specifications, the introduction of this system is a key initiative for offering Freudenberg Key events Medical customers an industry-leading service and reinforcing the competitive advantage the Business Freudenberg Medical acquired an additional 12.5 Group already holds in this sector. percent stake in Hemoteq AG, Würselen, Germany, in 2018. As a result, the Business Group now holds 87.5 In November 2018, Freudenberg Medical announced it percent of the shares. Hemoteq is a leading developer would be moving to a new global headquarters in and manufacturer of drug coating technologies for Beverly, Massachusetts, USA. Freudenberg Medical will medical devices and offers a broad range of coating also be relocating silicone component production from solutions for the medical industry. In 2018, Hemoteq the present factory in Gloucester, Massachusetts, USA, successfully developed a new drug coating for to the new site in Beverly and expanding these implantable electrodes for the ENT market and operations. The new building will have some 3,500 significantly expanded its hydrophilic coatings line for square meters of floor space and will be equipped with minimally-invasive products. The company also ISO Class 8 cleanrooms. The operation will be ISO increased the production volume for drug-coated 13485 certified and FDA-registered (U.S. Food and Drug catheters. Administration). It is to open in the second half of 2019. Freudenberg Medical began introducing the global unified quality management system during 2018. The Profile: system ensures compliance with national medical Freudenberg Medical is the global partner for the design, device legislation and the ISO 13485 quality standard, development and manufacture of innovative medical as well as safeguarding consistent control of important products. The company’s portfolio comprises catheter quality processes at all Freudenberg Medical business solutions for minimally-invasive procedures and units worldwide. components made from complex medical materials. The company is a leader in the field of high-precision silicone An integrated ERP system provides electronic support and thermoplastic components and tubing as well as enabling the paperless management of quality metal hypotubes. 69 VIBRACOUSTIC 2017 2018 Sales [€ million] 2,116.1 2,146.9 Workforce 9,988 9,989 VIBRACOUSTIC Business development vehicles, pure electric vehicles present a different challenge. Noise and vibrations generated at higher In 2018, Vibracoustic was confronted with persistent frequencies and by auxiliaries previously masked by the heavy pressure on prices, increases in the price of internal combustion engine become audible and essential raw materials, and stagnating or falling noticeable. Vibracoustic is collaborating closely with vehicle production figures in key regions. Vibracoustic leading OEMs to develop innovative and efficient nevertheless continued on its sustainable growth path solutions to meet these challenges. and outperformed the market. Furthermore, both established electric vehicle Developments among car manufacturers indicate they manufacturers and new players are increasingly will be offering growing numbers of partially or fully turning to air spring systems, since they also bring electric vehicles in future. In terms of vibration control additional benefits for pure electric vehicles. Air spring technology, this brings new opportunities and systems can, for example, contribute to reducing air challenges for innovative approaches and solutions. resistance and improving passive cooling of the battery Serving market trends such as alternative drive systems, packs. autonomous driving, shared mobility and digitalization calls for intelligent solutions to support manufacturers in Vibracoustic counts on innovations to continuously their efforts to meet increasingly stringent emission improve the vibration behavior of all classes of vehicles. regulations. Examples include innovative switchable air springs with a three-chamber concept or the application of While noise and vibrations are still generated by an activated carbon within the air spring to increase the air internal combustion engine in partially-electrified volume without increasing the packaging. Both 70 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas systems were introduced in series production at major Location changes German automakers in 2018. A socially acceptable solution for the closure of the Breuberg location was reached in collaboration with Key events the Works Council. Technology and production employees relocated to Weinheim and the Breuberg Demand for air spring systems is steadily increasing. location was closed – as scheduled – at the end of 2018. Work on significantly expanding air springs The ability to supply customers was not affected by the production at the Hamburg site commenced in the closure. first half of 2018 with a view to responding to this trend and in order to manage a major order from a The plant in Guarulhos, Brazil, was closed in the first premium car manufacturer in Europe. half of 2018. Operations have commenced at the new location in Taubaté, Brazil, and the facility has sufficient Vibracoustic is investing in capacity expansion in capacity to cover business in South America. China to keep pace with market growth. Planning for a third factory in China has been concluded. Construction began in the first half of 2018, with Profile: commissioning and start of production for products Vibracoustic is one of the leading global automotive from the “Chassis” Division scheduled for 2019. NVH experts (noise, vibration, harshness), providing customized solutions adding comfort and supporting Capacity expansion at the plant in Sroda Slaska, efficiency, safety and durability. Its expertise along the Poland, was completed. Production of MCU entire product life cycle and all vehicle systems as well as (microcellular urethane) components commenced in its broad product range enable Vibracoustic to solve the second half of 2018, which is also when the MCU current and future NVH challenges across all European competence center began operating. automotive segments. With a global network of development and production locations, the Business The global focus of investments in 2018 again Group supplies almost all passenger car and commercial centered on customer projects, continuous quality vehicle manufacturers as well as their direct suppliers assurance, and HSE (Health, Safety, Environment). worldwide with components that significantly increase onboard comfort. 71 NONWOVENS AND FILTRATION BUSINESS AREA In the year under review, the Nonwovens and In total, the Business Area generated sales of Filtration Business Area comprised the following €1,899.2 million (previous year: €1,909.4 million). Business Groups: At year-end 2018, the headcount was 8,521 , compared with 8,175 at the close of the previous • Freudenberg Performance Materials year. • Freudenberg Filtration Technologies • Japan Vilene Company FREUDENBERG PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 72 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas FREUDENBERG PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 2017 2018 Sales [€ million] 935.3 919.5 Workforce 3,726 3,685 Business development The Business Group stepped up its innovation activities in the year under review with the aim of developing 2018 was a challenging year for Freudenberg new and advanced process technologies and fostering Performance Materials. Although the Business Group growth through special products with attractive market achieved organic sales growth, sales expressed in euros potential. One example is the project launched at the were lower as a result of negative exchange rate effects. beginning of the year to install a new spunlaid line at On the cost side, the profit margin in all divisions was Freudenberg Far Eastern Spunweb Comp. Ltd., Taoyuan, affected by further rises in raw material and energy Taiwan. This investment underscores Freudenberg’s prices, particularly in the second half of the year. long-term commitment to Asia and is an important milestone for further growth in the automotive and The global market environment for the Business Group carpet markets. was mixed. The carpet tiles business and the promising “Advanced Wound Care” segments were the only Freudenberg Performance Materials was recognized operations to record growth in all world regions. While with numerous awards in 2018. Among them was the the “Automotive” segment grew in Asia, business prestigious ECARF seal of quality presented to Evolon tailed off in the USA and Europe after a good start to New Generation, the microfilament fabric for anti-mite the year. bedding. The seal of the independent European Centre for Allergy Research Foundation (ECARF) aims to help In the “Construction” segment, strong demand in the allergy sufferers select the appropriate goods and USA – on the back of repair work following the services by certifying the quality of products and hurricanes in 2017 – and stable developments in services according to strict standards. Evolon New Russia contrasted with weaker market momentum in Generation met the testing criteria in terms of Western Europe. filtration performance and sleeping comfort. Evolon New Generation was also a finalist for the RISE There was growth in the apparel market in Turkey, Innovation Award presented annually in the USA. The China, India and South East Asia, but the market still award recognizes innovations that creatively use faltered in Western Europe and the USA, where advanced science and engineering principles to solve structural change continued as demand shifted from challenges. luxury segments to leisurewear. In the medical market, Freudenberg Performance There was business growth in shoe components and Materials was recognized as “Supplier of the Year” in special applications such as Evolon, energy cables and the “Innovation” category. The jury praised the adsorption products. The persistently difficult Business Group’s outstanding innovation strength economic situation in South America impacted that enabled this “market leader in advanced wound hygiene business there, although there was an care” to launch a product that “outclassed improvement in the second half of the year. competitors”. Several products from the “comfortemp” thermoKey events insulation series won awards at ISPO 2018, the leading trade fair for the international sport business. Freudenberg Performance Materials continued to “comfortemp down feel” was recognized in the restructure its logistics activities at the Weinheim insulation category of “Textrends 2018 TOP 10”, and location. Following the successful conclusion of “comfortemp fiberball padding” was honored in the discussions with employee representatives, impleinsulation category of “Textrends 2018 SELECTION”. mentation of the planned measures began in the year “comfortemp” is a new technologically top quality and under review and will continue in 2019. ecologically clean insulation. 73 In Taiwan, Interface Thailand recognized the Business cooperation throughout the supply chain and is a Group with its “Supplier Excellence Award 2018” for renowned network that promotes sustainable business outstanding product quality, service and commitment practices in the textile industry. to sustainability. Interface is a worldwide leader in the design and manufacture of carpet tiles. The Business Group was also recognized with the award for the “Best Location changes Performance on Product Compliance” from Apex, the leading shoe manufacturer in Bangladesh. In view of the consolidation on the hygiene market in South America, Freudenberg Performance Materials In Russia, the Governor of the Nizhny Novgorod Region decided to relocate its hygiene production from presented the Freudenberg Performance Materials Argentina to Jacarei, Brazil. The Business Group will (FPM) site in Zavolzhye with an award for its excellent serve all of its customers in the Latin American hygiene business performance and strong commitment to market from the Jacarei location. social responsibility. Furthermore, a key account in the hygiene segment In South Africa, Freudenberg Nonwovens (Pty.) Ltd., restructured and consolidated its global supply chain. Cape Town, was recognized by Pep Clothing – its largest Following the termination of the supply contract with single customer for apparel – with the “Supplier this customer, the Freudenberg Performance Materials Excellence Award 2018” for consistent performance, hygiene production facility in Greetland, United quality and customer satisfaction. Kingdom, was closed at the end of the year. Sustainable action is a given for the Business Group. In the USA, Freudenberg Performance Materials LP, Profile: Durham, received the “100 Million Bottle Circle Award” Freudenberg Performance Materials is a leading global from fiber supplier Unifi. 102 million post-consumer supplier of innovative technical textiles for a wide range PET bottles were recycled using the fiber the Business of markets and applications, including automotive, Group purchased from Unifi to manufacture its own construction, apparel, energy, hygiene, building interiors, products. medical, footwear and leather goods, as well as special applications. The Business Group is a pioneer in the field At the beginning of 2018, Freudenberg became an of nonwovens and operates 25 production locations in official system partner of bluesign technologies, a 14 countries worldwide. global network that aims to systematically reduce the burden on humans and the environment caused by the textile industry. bluesign stands for transparency and 74 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas FREUDENBERG FILTRATION TECHNOLOGIES 2017 2018 Sales [€ million] 423.1 422.0 Workforce 2,085 2,134 FREUDENBERG FILTRATION TECHNOLOGIES Business development business in England was down on the previous year due to the reluctance to invest. Demand for the Freudenberg Filtration Technologies continued on its expanded products and services portfolio for industrial sustainable, profitable growth path in a challenging painting (filterCair) was high. market environment thanks to high global demand for filtration solutions that protect people and improve Automotive filtration business, for new vehicles as well industrial processes. Business Group sales were on the as replacement parts, was very robust. Sales in the same level as the previous year. Adjusted for exchange automotive segment grew in Europe and North rate effects and the effects of the sale of the engine America, while demand in China and South Korea was intake air filter business in China at the end of 2017, slightly weaker than in previous years. Following the the Business Group outperformed the market in terms sale of the engine intake air filter business in China to of growth. the former minority shareholder Changchun Autofilter Co., Ltd., the Business Group focused its activities in In the industrial filtration business, the focus on China on the development and manufacture of highselected market segments and the associated more quality cabin air filters. Niche business with the pronounced customer orientation had a positive innovative Category 4 filter for tractor cabins and with impact. Growth also benefited significantly from good fuel cell products developed well. demand for filters for air purifiers in China. The markets in European countries presented a mixed picture, the situation in North America was challenging. The Key events recovery in the Australian coal mining industry triggered a rise in sales, while the market environment As a customer-oriented provider of high-quality, in South Africa remained difficult. Water treatment efficient filtration solutions, product innovations are an 75 important cornerstone for Freudenberg Filtration lines at the Kaiserslautern location and production Technologies. In paint shop technology, for example, the plant for high-arrestance air filters in China. Business Group actively advanced the technological transition from wet to dry paint mist separation in the The Business Group completed extensive expansion year under review with a comprehensive program of work at its factory in Potvorice, Slovakia, and invested in products, services and consulting. Innovations include new production machinery. After investing approx. €10 the Dry Pleat and Dry Pleat nano filter plates as well as million, the site has been expanded by about 40,000 a paint mist arrestor made of fire-retardant corrugated square meters and has a workforce of some 400. board for efficient and cost-effective dry separation. The Automotive and industrial filters are produced at one GTS double-cylindrical filter cartridge series for of the Business Group’s largest and most modern onshore and offshore installations developed for the factories. Gas Turbine & Compressor segment maximizes the useful lifetime of air intake systems thanks to the Reorganization of the facility in Weinheim which optimized self-cleaning characteristics. commenced in 2017 was brought to a close with no compulsory redundancies. A customer information The e.FFECT (electronic Freudenberg Filter Efficiency hub was added to the Filtration Science Lab in Calculation Tool) software launched back in 2017 was Weinheim, which was also equipped with a new test upgraded in the year under review. In addition to rig. calculating the ideal filter combination based on process requirements and plant specifics, version 2.0 At the end of 2018, the Business Group signed a can now also calculate gas turbine loss of power. contract to purchase the majority shareholding in Apollo Air-Cleaner Co., Ltd., Shunde, China. The The Business Group presented “micronAir Gas Shield”, transaction still requires approval from the antitrust a new premium activated carbon selection for cabin air authorities. The company is a leading supplier of air and filters. Each solution is tailored to car manufacturers’ water filtration solutions in China and will continue as needs and regional environmental conditions, and a joint venture between Freudenberg as the majority effectively adsorbs a wide range of harmful gases and shareholder and the former sole proprietor Apollo unpleasant odors. This ensures higher-quality cabin air Trading Group, Japan, under the name Freudenberg and helps secure the health of occupants. Apollo Filtration Technologies. Freudenberg Filtration Technologies intends to bring its current consumer The Business Group was recognized with several filtration business into the joint venture. awards, among them the “Aftermarket 2018 Supplier Award” from the French carmaker PSA, and the “Supplier Performance Award” from Honda in North Profile: America, which was presented to Freudenberg for the Freudenberg Filtration Technologies is one of the world’s sixth time in succession. leading specialists in the development and production of air and liquid filtration solutions and their applications. In the year under review, Freudenberg Filtration The Business Group’s solutions make industrial processes Technologies invested in capacity and quality more economical, conserve resources, protect people and expansion, including new cabin air filter production the environment and thus contribute to improving the quality of life. 76 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas JAPAN VILENE COMPANY 2017 2018 Sales [€ million] 551.0 557.7 Workforce 2,364 2,702 JAPAN VILENE COMPANY Business development Key events Overall, Japan Vilene Company faced a challenging Japan Vilene Company acquired Hanns Glass market environment in 2018. Against this backdrop, GmbH & Co. KG in April 2018. The company is a leading sales were on the same level as the previous year. global supplier of car floor mats for the automotive industry with a strong presence in Europe. The Hanns Business for Japan Vilene Company in its important Glass portfolio complements the business of VIAM, Japanese market was mixed. Developments in the Air which is a core area of Japan Vilene Company. With the Filters Materials and Electrical Materials business acquisition of Hanns Glass GmbH & Co. KG, the VIAM remained positive, while the situation in Medical Group gains access to the European automotive Materials continued to be difficult. market and will be able to supply European carmakers from local production sites. Hanns Glass has In the Automotive Materials sector, the successful production sites in Paderborn and Meuselwitz, acquisition of Hanns Glass GmbH & Co. KG, Grafing, Germany, and Cheb, Czech Republic. These sites Germany, strengthened the European floor mat complement the VIAM Group’s global production business. Innovations in all-weather floor mats network in the USA, China, Mexico, Thailand and Japan. generated growth in North America, while headliner facings business there failed to meet expectations. In the year under review, the Business Group began marketing high-performance HME filters (HME is the Hygiene business in Korea continued to decline in the acronym for “heat and moisture exchanger”) for face of tough competition and changes in consumer medical devices. These breathing filters combine low trends. airflow resistance with high bacterial filtration 77 efficiency. They use technologies developed for the presented by Keihin Co. Ltd. at the “2018 Supplier Business Group’s industrial dust protection masks and Conference”. The award acknowledges the Business consumer use masks. One of Japan Vilene Company’s Group’s activities in reducing the environmental proprietary filters serves as the base material and is impact through waste recycling, energy savings and combined with other materials to produce a highenvironmental protection education for its employees. performance medical product that meet all users’ demands. Furthermore, Freudenberg & Vilene Filter (Thailand) Co. Ltd., Chonburi, Thailand, a joint venture with In June 2018, Japan Vilene Company and Freudenberg Freudenberg Filtration Technologies, was recognized Performance Materials had a joint presence at ANEX, for “Quality Cost Delivery” by Keihin Thermal the most important trade fair for the nonwovens Technology (Thailand) Co. This award is only presented industry, held in Tokyo, Japan. The motto of the to excellent suppliers. Freudenberg & Vilene Filter exhibition stand was “Global Innovations, Local (Thailand) Co. Ltd. was the only awardee to also receive Solutions”, and the Freudenberg Business Groups Keihin’s “Best Delivery Award” last year. Freudenberg & presented various solutions in the three categories of Vilene Filter (Thailand) Co. Ltd. plays a central role in the “Health, “Mobility” and “Energy”. Three topics that growth strategy of Japan Vilene Company. attracted considerable interest were transdermal backing materials, cabin air filters, and energy products. Japan Vilene Company also won the “Air Cleaning and Contamination Control Research Convention” Award The Business Group joined up again with Freudenberg presented by Japan Air Cleaning Association. “The Performance Materials and with Freudenberg & Vilene development and performance assessment of Int. Ltd., Hong Kong, to present the first fashion show nanofiber air filter media”, the research topic in Japan. Some 120 guests from key customers in the submitted by Japan Vilene Company, outperformed 60 apparel industry found out more about interlinings competitors. and paddings from the Freudenberg Group. Japan Vilene Company was recognized with numerous Profile: awards in the year under review. In the automotive Since it was established in 1960, Japan Vilene Company sector, Honda Access Co., Ltd. presented the Business has maintained its position as the leading domestic Group with the “Best Excellent Supplier Award 2017” manufacturer of nonwoven materials under the motto for its achievements in reducing floor mat production of ‘‘Engineering Fabric Innovation’’, utilizing its longcosts. In addition, the Business Group was recognized standing raw material expertise and considerable knowfor the third year in a row with the “Best Performance how in the fields of production processes and Award” from Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., for delivery technologies as well as nonwoven converting, and performance, throughput time and quality. offering a wide range of products through its Automotive Materials and Industrial Materials divisions. In the filter business, Japan Vilene Company won the “Excellent Prize (Environmental Division Award)” 78 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas FREUDENBERG HOME AND CLEANING SOLUTIONS 2017 2018 Sales [€ million] 938.4 931.4 Workforce 3,030 3,273 HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS BUSINESS AREA The Household Products Business Area comprises brands are active in the mechanical cleaning and the Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions laundry care segment for final users and Business Group whose Vileda, Vileda Professional, professional cleaning companies. O-Cedar, Oates, Gimi, Gala, Wettex and Marigold FREUDENBERG HOME AND CLEANING SOLUTIONS Business development particularly in Europe, the Business Group’s largest market. There was a slight decrease in sales compared with the previous year. The negative effect of the first-time In the final user business, there was pleasing double-digit application of IFRS 15 was almost fully offset by growth in sales of the “Turbo” easy wring and clean mop additional sales from acquisitions. The consumer climate system as well as the flat mops. In addition, Freudenberg in the year under review remained positive. Against this Home and Cleaning Solutions set up a separate backdrop, Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions development unit (the e-Products Lab) in Weinheim to grew sales further, maintained its strong position in key further strengthen business in innovative electronic markets and consolidated its position as market leader, products in future. 79 E-commerce business continued to develop well. As in While efforts in 2017 focused on the integration of Gimi the previous year, Freudenberg Home and Cleaning S.p.A., Monselice, Italy, a laundry care specialist for Solutions recorded double-digit growth worldwide in laundry driers, ironing boards and household ladders, this sector. E-commerce business with Abrasives, such as Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions was able to scourers, is particularly successful in the USA. STEAM, the report pleasing growth in this product segment in the Vileda steam mop, is another driver in online retail in key year under review. European markets. Furthermore, projects to improve efficiency throughout In the institutional cleaning business, Vileda Professional the value chain, for example in transport, logistics and developed twice as fast as the market, especially in retail as well as administration, were implemented in hospitals, care facilities and cleanroom cleaning. 2018 under various efficiency programs. Furthermore, the major regional markets of France, Russia and North America performed well; and India and The Business Group was recognized with numerous China also recorded double-digit growth. Digital services awards for its products in several countries. The “Glitzi” were successfully added to the product range in scourer, “Spray & Clean” and “Vileda Ultramat Turbo 2in1” Germany and Russia in 2018. As a result, solutions and received prestigious industry awards. In Scandinavia, services over and above the actual process of cleaning are Vileda Professional was recognized by the industry now also available. association “Städbranschen Sverige” as the environmentally-friendly company of the year for production of its cloths. Key events Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions continued its Location changes growth strategy in one of its key countries with the acquisition of E. D. Oates Pty. Ltd., Australia, in January In 2018, Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions 2018. Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions now decided to end final user business in China, Korea and offers a broad and highly innovative range of home and Brazil and to relocate some manufacturing and cleaning products across all retail channels in Australia logistics operations at the Augsburg production through the take-over of the market leader in the location. professional cleaning business there. Furthermore, the Business Group acquired 75 percent of Profile: AlMozn National Company for Home Appliances Ltd., Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions is one of the Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, a leading distributor of household leading international manufacturers of brand cleaning goods in Saudi Arabia. The company has been the articles and systems and laundry care products. The distributor for Vileda brand products in the Saudi Arabian products are marketed under the brand names of Vileda, market since 1969. With the transaction, Freudenberg Vileda Professional, O-Cedar, Oates, Gimi, Gala, Wettex Home and Cleaning Solutions is targeting stable und Marigold. development in Saudi Arabia and strengthening its market position in the Middle East. 80 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas SPECIALTIES AND OTHERS BUSINESS AREA In the year under review, the Specialties and Others Overall, the companies in this Business Area Business Area mainly comprised the following generated sales totaling €1,374.0 million (previous Business Groups: year: €1,342.3 million). At year-end 2018, the headcount was 4,892 compared with 4,762 at year• Freudenberg Chemical Specialities end 2017. • Freudenberg IT FREUDENBERG CHEMICAL SPECIALITIES 81 FREUDENBERG CHEMICAL SPECIALITIES 2017 2018 Sales [€ million] 1,070.8 1,104.1 Workforce 3,502 3,635 Business development customers in the oil and gas industry continued. Sales to distributors also grew. The strong market position of the divisions belonging to Freudenberg Chemical Specialities forms the basis With its broad portfolio and growing range of for the Business Group’s positive sales development. environmentally compatible solutions, Chem-Trend grew its market share further, for example in the tires Freudenberg Chemical Specialities responded and composites segments. The company also unchanged to persistently unfavorable exchange rate consolidated its position in the automotive industry. effects, a sharp rise in raw material prices in the first half of 2018, and the scarcity of certain base materials SurTec outperformed the market in its 25th year of with consistent action to secure sales growth, earnings business. New products with enhanced sustainability and customer supply. It was not until the end of the were successfully positioned. Growth was particularly year that raw material prices fell slightly and certain strong in the construction and household segment. base materials again became available at a more or less normal level. At year-end, the order backlog was solid Capol rallied slightly in the second half of the year after and incoming orders were stable. a subdued start to 2018. Rising costs, particularly in the North American market, capacity bottlenecks at the Demand in the manufacturing and processing industry, most important logistics partner, and dealer network the automotive, general industry and construction restructuring prevented even better performance. sectors – all important market segments for Freudenberg Chemical Specialities – was preOKS recorded growth in key areas of business dominantly good to very good in 2018. However, the throughout the year, although sales in the German economy weakened in some regions, such as Europe, market did not quite meet expectations. particularly in the automotive sector. The moderate recovery in the global oil and gas industry continued until the fall of 2018; as in previous years, Freudenberg Key events Chemical Specialities benefited from surprisingly strong demand for specialty products in this sector. Capol GmbH, Elmshorn, Germany, successfully integrated the business of Colarôme Inc., Saint Hubert, Industrial production in Europe remained solid in 2018, Canada, acquired in October 2017. A unique line of while there was a more noticeable increase in North natural pigments for the food industry is now America. Business development for Freudenberg manufactured and sold under the Capol brand name. Chemical Specialities in Turkey and Russia remained good. In South America, Freudenberg Chemical Klüber Lubrication’s new European logistics center in Specialities noticeably outperformed the market. In Maisach near Munich was commissioned. In addition spite of somewhat difficult general conditions, there to the logistics facilities primarily geared to Klüber was a significant increase in demand for special Lubrication, the center also features a central European solutions from Freudenberg Chemical Specialities in filling station for small bins and a technical center with China, South East Asia and India, although some laboratories, testing and application technologies for growth rates were lower than in the previous year. Chem-Trend. Klüber Lubrication recorded strong organic growth in In the year under review, Klüber Lubrication and Chemalmost all market segments in the year under review, Trend fully integrated the new national companies particularly in the food market, the automotive established in Romania in 2017 in their respective business and specialty segments such as the timber operations structures, thus strengthening business in industry. As in the previous year, strong demand from Eastern Europe as anticipated. 82 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas In line with the Freudenberg Group’s sustainability Klüber Lubrication was recognized with the “Best strategy, all five business divisions set up dedicated Innovation Project of 2017” award from the world’s project organizations to minimize their footprint and largest cement manufacturer, InterCement Group in develop and market sustainable value-added offerings Brazil. The company presented the award for the for customers (handprint). Chem-Trend published its implementation of the Klüber Lubrication first sustainability report in 2018 and Klüber EnergyEfficiency Service that enables significant Lubrication its second, following its maiden energy savings through tailor-made lubrication sustainability report in 2017. solutions based on a detailed technical analysis of plant and equipment. The cement industry is one of In the year under review, Freudenberg Chemical the world’s most energy-intensive industries, which is Specialities concluded the strategic project to evaluate why saving energy is a particularly important the opportunities and possible efficiency gains of economic factor. digitalization, both internally and for customers. Implementation of selected projects commenced at Capol is a founding participant of the “Initiative for Klüber Lubrication, SurTec and Chem-Trend. The Responsible Carnauba”, which sets out to improve the divisions began to develop adequate business models, working conditions for harvesting Carnauba, the palm create supportive operating structures, and expand wax used, for example, in the food industry, to uphold digital offerings. social standards and preserve biodiversity in the Carnauba harvesting regions in Brazil. The German Design Council recognized Klüber Lubrication with the German Innovation Award in the “Design Thinking” category for the cutting-edge process Profile: used to develop hydro lubricants; these specialty The Freudenberg Chemical Specialities Business Group lubricants are even more environmentally-friendly and comprises the operationally autonomous divisions of resource-efficient. Hydro lubricants are homogeneous Klüber Lubrication, Chem-Trend, SurTec, OKS, and Capol. lubricants that use water as a functional component, Klüber Lubrication is one of the world’s leading thus creating opportunities for an entirely novel range of manufacturers of specialty lubricants. Chem-Trend is a applications. The Mexican customer Cemex, one of the world market leader for release agents used to largest manufacturers of building materials with a manufacture composite, rubber, plastic, metal and global presence, also recognized Klüber Lubrication for polyurethane molded parts. SurTec is a leading supplier its hydro lubricants, naming the company as “Supplier of of chemical specialties for surface treatment and the Year”. electroplating. OKS specializes in performance lubricants and in repair and maintenance products. Capol is one of The Business Group also received numerous other the world’s leading manufacturers of coatings for the awards in the year under review. Examples include the confectionery industry and supplies glazes, release following: Klüber Lubrication North America in Tyler, agents and sealing agents, natural pigments, flavor Texas, USA, was yet again recognized as one of the formulations, natural vanilla extracts and other “Best Places to Work“. Chem-Trend won the award as a specialty products. “Top Workplace” in Michigan, USA, for the seventh time in succession. SurTec received the “Excellent Supplier of the Year” award from Gensen, the major Chinese automotive supplier, for its innovative, environmentally-friendly chrome (III) technology. 83 FREUDENBERG IT 2017 2018 Sales [€ million] 173.0 164.8 Workforce 886 870 FREUDENBERG IT Business development portfolio, relieving some of the load and creating space for the digitalization of enterprises. The high pace of change again characterized the IT market in 2018. The decision to permanently cancel Freudenberg IT continued to enjoy its long-standing Cebit – formerly the world’s largest IT conference – is business success in the USA in the year under review. one example of this trend. The innovative measures begun in 2017 bore fruit in 2018 and have strengthened Freudenberg IT in the In such a dynamic environment, the Business Group’s long term. Preparations for new business can now be mission is to provide the most comprehensive support implemented much earlier and planned more possible for IT decision-makers (Chief Information effectively long-term through the integration of new Officers) in upscale medium-sized enterprises. marketing and business development processes. According to the market research and consultancy firm Moreover, an energy supplier became a new customer. Gartner, CIOs across the board spend more than 60 percent of their working time on tasks outside the The existing structure in China was adapted due to classic IT spectrum. That is the starting point for changes in the legal framework. The company is well Freudenberg IT – in line with its own slogan of “IT positioned locally and, among other things, is now SOLUTIONS. SIMPLIFIED.” From cloud services, SAP collaborating closely with CEC, a business partner consulting and application management issues, IIoT based in Hong Kong; a joint market approach has (Industrial Internet of Things), and cyber security to already been initiated. digital workplace solutions in partnership with Microsoft, Freudenberg IT was again present in the IT Activities in Europe in 2018 included the further marketplace in 2018 with a broad and in-depth development of new forms of market approach and 84 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas customer contact. Customer relations were stepped up slogan “simplyCIONTROL”. All units – such as Cloud – particularly at management level – through Services – now have the prefix “simply”. Intensive measures such as the new “FIT Customer Advisory advertising campaigns were rolled out to Board” and the in-house “FIT Customer Innovation communicate this realignment worldwide. One Day”. New customer care programs were introduced to outcome is a comparatively higher number of inbound maintain customer satisfaction over the long term and enquiries. This is, however, primarily attributable to the – where possible – generate additional business. less complex and swifter positioning of the entire Furthermore, IIoT activities have developed portfolio of sales activities. successfully. A dedicated team is working at full capacity in the marketplace. In this context, the close relationship between Freudenberg IT and SAP again Profile: resulted in a successful constellation based on the IIot Freudenberg IT (FIT) is a global cloud provider and IT hot topic. The SAP consulting business also developed service provider for upscale medium-sized enterprises. At very well with regard to team utilization. The situation home in the automotive and manufacturing sectors, FIT with reference to the cooperation between Microsoft now provides a broad IT service spectrum that covers and Freudenberg IT is similar. almost the entire SAP landscape, including application management services, SAP licenses and extensive During the year under review, the Freudenberg Group consulting services for the implementation of SAP S/4 and the management of Freudenberg IT reviewed HANA. FIT was among other things involved very early various strategic options for the best possible path on in utilizing the Industry 4.0 megatrend. A forward for the company. The aim was to find the best complementary partnership with Microsoft also allows way to further develop Freudenberg IT’s potential over for the targeted support for customers in the the long term and to further expand the market digitalization of ever more advanced workplace position as a very successful global IT service provider. environments. Key events A larger number of customers and other visitors actively engaged in dialog with Freudenberg IT at the “Customer Innovation Day 2018”. The event has established itself as an in-house trade fair and is becoming increasingly popular with the Germanspeaking IT community. The groundwork for far more modern processes was laid with the launch of the “Service Now” platform and the associated further development of the “FIT Enterprise Service Management” unit – both within the Business Group and in the exchange with over 34,000 users worldwide. The innovative approach and the pooling of the “Service Now” systems and SAP are a milestone for Freudenberg IT. The Freudenberg IT portfolio was recategorized and positioned in line with market requirements under the 85 REPORT ON EVENTS AFTER THE DATE OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Major events after the date of the statement of financial position which are not included either in the statement of profit or loss or the statement of financial position are explained in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under the section “Major events after the date of the statement of financial position”. 86 Combined Management Report – Report on Events after the Date of the Statement of Financial Position Report on Opportunities and Risks REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS Freudenberg is exposed to numerous opportunities Opportunities and risks inseparably associated with business activities. Monitoring technological, political and social changes in particular is part of proactive Global presence entrepreneurship behavior. This often generates opportunities to be harnessed in order to secure and Due to its global presence, Freudenberg has for many specifically improve the company’s competitiveness. years been able to offer products and services at Opportunities are addressed in the context of the uniform worldwide standards. As a result, Freudenannual planning process and pursued and reported berg can keep pace with the international strategies of throughout the year. Long-term opportunities for its customers, for example in production or research profitable growth are primarily identified as part of the and development. Traditionally, Freudenberg has strategy process. Freudenberg operates a Group-wide leveraged this expertise for many customers from risk management system, in which newly-acquired Europe or North America as they gain a foothold in enterprises are also integrated, to identify risks in a emerging countries. As the presence in these countries timely fashion and respond to them appropriately. increases, some progress is being made to successfully support the international strategy of some customers from emerging economies entering the market in Western Europe. If this trend were to intensify in the future, Freudenberg could achieve additional benefits from its global presence. With the Freudenberg global brand, the Group gives a clear benefit statement, strengthens the image and raises visibility, for example as a solid supplier or an attractive employer. Investments in strategic growth areas and regions A central element of strategic planning is the continuous evolution of existing business through product and process innovations with a view to achieving profitable, significantly higher than market growth in existing business areas. This is achieved by expanding the portfolio through selective, targeted acquisitions in order to close identified technology gaps and develop access to new markets. The successful “bolt-on acquisition” strategy in the defined growth areas therefore continues. Examples in 2018 include the acquisition of E. D. Oates Pty. Ltd., Broadmeadows, Australia, and Hanns Glass GmbH & Co. KG, Grafing, Germany. In addition, options to acquire new areas of business that complement Freudenberg’s existing organization are also investigated. In the medium term, Freudenberg’s goal is a strategically balanced portfolio 87 with sales distributed evenly among the regions of the Future mobility concepts Americas, Europe and Asia. As a partner of the automotive industry, the foreseeable changes in drive technology and Trendand regulation-oriented product alternative mobility concepts also impact development Freudenberg. The term “new mobility” as used by Freudenberg not only covers e-mobility but also Social trends are constantly changing. Changes in includes developments for the entire spectrum of consumer behavior and growing expectations of drive technologies such as improvements in internal products and services, for example with regard to the combustion engines, hybrid solutions, pure-electric sustainability of products and their manufacture, are cars and vehicles powered by fuel cells. Freudenberg key drivers in the search for innovative solutions and components are also used in autonomous driving new raw materials. New regulations and standards technology. reflect these changing trends. Freudenberg therefore closely aligns the further development of its products Freudenberg is well prepared for these developments to regulatory requirements. Systematically focusing thanks to its materials know-how and more than ten on regulatory changes with reference to trends and years of experience researching components for highthe Group’s ensuing innovation activities offers performance batteries for electric vehicles as well as significant market potential and opportunities for the some 20 years of experience researching the future. development of fuel cells. Advances and new developments in battery components, engines, charging units, filters, thermal management, vibration Pioneer for future technologies control systems or specialty lubricants offset reductions in demand for seals. Going forward, As a global technology group, Freudenberg works Freudenberg will remain a competent provider of constantly on product and process innovations and solutions for high-tech innovations – for all kinds of develops technology-based solutions for the future drivetrains. together with its partners. In spite of all necessary adjustments, the ongoing trend toward digitalization in various forms (for example, Internet of Things or Harnessing synergies for strategic issues Industry 4.0) as well as the move toward sustainability and environmental awareness represent opportunities Throughout the world regions, Freudenberg’s knowfor profitable growth for Freudenberg. how and innovation strength are used in more than 40 market segments and for thousands of The strategy-oriented innovation activities therefore applications. The company engages in numerous focus on the continuous further development of the activities specifically targeted at pooling this Group’s entire portfolio. This applies above all to the knowledge, because the potential thus generated sectors of mobility, digitalization, energy, environment, makes a key contribution to securing the future. healthcare, comfort and lightweight construction. Synergies are harnessed to drive key strategic issues Consequently, the key issues for the Business Groups such as digitalization, sustainability and materials during the year under review were e-mobility, material efficiency across the Business Groups. Joint projects efficiency and sustainability. There were also highlyand programs are always implemented under expert innovative approaches in fuel cell developments. guidance and have already produced significant Further groundbreaking advances in innovation results. activities and award achievements can be found in the chapter entitled Research and Development . 88 Combined Management Report – Report on Opportunities and Risks Work is progressing on a future project launched in Risk management system 2015 with a very long-term perspective. Under the first stage of the project, employees and external experts The Group’s risk management system is a developed scenarios for possible trends, gauging decentralized system oriented to the organizational hypothetical consequences and economic forecasts structure. It covers all fully consolidated Freudenberg across Business Group borders. In the next step, 20 companies, and includes all Group measures growth fields are being analyzed for business addressing the main risks. This process in particular opportunities and specific strategic product ensures the structured identification, assessment, developments targeted. The specialist knowledge of control and monitoring of main risks. The process also relevant experts is pooled in nine established includes appropriate risk communication and the technology platforms to derive Group-wide innovation continuous improvement of the risk management activities that contribute to securing the future of the system. Group. These are key cross-sectional technologies of interest to several Business Groups. The new The primary objective of the risk management system Technology Foresight department identifies new is the prompt identification of risks that might social and technological trends and assesses them for jeopardize the continued existence of the company their relevance to the Freudenberg Group. and the initiation of appropriate countermeasures. The intention is not to avoid all potential risks, but rather to create the leeway for taking a deliberate decision to Talent management enter into a risk backed by a comprehensive knowledge of essential information. A talent management process covering the majority of employees worldwide has been in place at The risk management strategy is derived from the Freudenberg for several years. The process establishes general strategy of the Group. The risk management a uniform procedure for talent management system is developed, refined and audited as required. throughout the entire Group. It includes harmonized assessment systems and is based on standardized Controlling, internal auditing, the compliance skills profiles and definitions of potential. This organization, the Code of Conduct, the internal control enhances the comparability of assessments and system, various quality assurance systems as well as facilitates personnel development. The process several Corporate Functions make a significant improves the basis on which Freudenberg can take contribution to the success of the Group’s risk personnel decisions. management. 89 Risks penalties or compensation, for example, but can also impact the reputation and image of the Group as a Risks are defined as all future developments, events or whole. In extreme cases, legal risks could have a actions that could have a negative impact on the substantial effect on Freudenberg. targets and strategies of the Group. Freudenberg has many measures in place to respond to The following deals with risks classified as significant these legal risks. These include comprehensive quality for Freudenberg ranked in descending order by their assurance mechanisms tailored to the requirements of importance according to the potential level of damage. the respective business models and value chains, These quantifiable and non-quantifiable risks can have clearly-defined product specifications, instructions, very differing impacts. They may occur individually and regular training for employees, documentation and independent of one another or simultaneously. In all preventive contractual solutions containing provisions cases they have the potential to impact the net assets, limiting liability and taking account of the parties’ financial position or results of operations of the Group spheres of influence. These measures are flanked by directly or indirectly in the short or long term. customary insurance cover which is thoroughly Quantitative data are not disclosed because qualitative analyzed and where necessary adapted to changed factors affecting operating activities such as failure to conditions on an annual basis. meet corporate targets or damage to the company’s reputation are included in impact classification. The Group conducts its global business in many different jurisdictions under different legal and regulatory frameworks that are undergoing change Legal risks and compliance and becoming steadily more complex. The scale and scope of the laws and regulations that must be Freudenberg is a globally active manufacturer of observed are subject to constant changes that are functionally relevant technical components and sometimes difficult to predict, and demand a high level system parts for the automotive industry and many of information processing, interdisciplinary and crossother sectors of industry. Freudenberg develops and border communication as well as a swift response and produces specialty lubricants, release agents and a proactive approach. broad range of specialty chemicals for very diverse applications. Freudenberg also produces cleaning By tradition, compliance with laws and regulations as equipment and filter products for end users and is well as internal guidelines and Freudenberg’s own becoming increasingly active in the manufacture and Guiding Principles and Business Principles has very sale of medical materials and components. A broad high priority at Freudenberg. Employees are made range of services in various business segments rounds aware of, skilled and trained in the relevant legal risks off the Freudenberg portfolio. Consequently, for their respective Business Group and the regions of Freudenberg is exposed to various legal risks. These relevance for Freudenberg; they are expected to include in particular risks in the fields of data observe and comply with these requirements. protection, competition and antitrust law, product liability risks, contractual warranty risks, tax and excise Freudenberg uses classic methods (documents in all duty law, M&A transactions, asset misappropriation the main relevant languages and attendance seminars) fraud, anti-corruption regulations, infringements of to communicate compliance issues through training, intellectual property rights (patents and brand law), dialog and discussions. Modern communication export controls as well as risks in the fields of instruments such as web-based training, e-learning occupational health and safety and environmental tools, interactive video conferences, etc., are also being protection. These risks can affect Freudenberg to increasingly used to complement the classic activities various degrees and can lead not only to fines or other and reach as many employees as possible. 90 Combined Management Report – Report on Opportunities and Risks Despite all carefully applied control and prevention clearance problems, supplier and customer bottlemechanisms in our compliance structure and necks, legal framework and specifications as well as compliance measures, there is a residual risk that is exchange rate fluctuations). A raft of measures, such as unavoidable given the size and complexity of our increasing inventories, is in place to respond to the global organization. Furthermore, the possibility that aforementioned risks. Nevertheless, unexpected direct Freudenberg or Freudenberg employees unconsciously or indirect effects with a shortor medium-term infringe(s) third-party rights cannot be ruled out; this impact on some sections of the Group cannot be ruled could trigger negative judicial consequences or out. The long-term impact depends on the final damage the image or reputation of Freudenberg. withdrawal terms. There may be a limited operational and strategic impact on Freudenberg, which should be seen in the context of the Group's broad geographical Macroeconomic and sectoral risks and sectoral diversification. As long as Brexit does not lead to a global economic downturn, the overall effect Freudenberg delivers solutions to many customer on Freudenberg will be manageable. segments and sectors and is active in many regions and countries. The broad diversification of the Group reduces dependence on individual customers, Information security risk customer groupings, suppliers, raw materials, regions and countries. Nevertheless, Freudenberg is dependent Modern business processes are based to a significant on the general economic situation, particularly with extent on information recorded, processed, exchanged regard to general demand for its products and services, and stored by electronic means. Potential risks caused and dependent on some major customers. In spite of by faults in these processes could impact both internal sustained efforts to diversify further, a slump in business processes and communication with demand in a specific region or sector or a persistent customers and suppliers and could, for example, lead international trade conflict can lead to a substantial to the interruption of operations at Freudenberg or at a decline in sales and earnings for Freudenberg, as for third party. Demands on the reliability and security of most other companies, and thus pose a not IT systems are intensifying as a result of technological insignificant risk for Freudenberg. progress and the trend towards greater process networking. As a provider of services, Freudenberg Freudenberg has taken several measures to limit the offers its customers the usual guarantees regarding negative consequences of demand-side risks. In availability and performance. particular, the company has appropriate capacity flexibility and practices active working capital The aim of the guideline on information security issued management. Freudenberg regularly monitors several by the Board of Management is to preserve the success indicators and can thus respond promptly to confidentiality, availability and integrity of information. negative developments. In the context of a long-term Freudenberg deals with the relevant information response to demand-side risks, Freudenberg makes security risks by operating information security targeted investments in research and development, in management systems oriented to the ISO/IEC individual regions and customer relations as well as 27001:2013 international standard. The Business selected strategic growth areas. Groups, Corporate Functions and Freudenberg Regional Corporate Centers conduct comprehensive Freudenberg is closely following the negotiations for risk monitoring and implement the appropriate the United Kingdom to leave the EU (Brexit) and has measures. For example, measures such as analyzed the possible effects on the Group (including geographically separate, redundant data centers are customs and administrative costs, logistic and customs implemented to deal with technical risks. Numerous internal training and communication measures 91 encourage heightened awareness on the part of Group. Such risks include financial risks from the employees with regard to the correct handling of Group’s M&A activities arising from the potential information and information processing systems. The impairment of goodwill and investments or of effectiveness of the information management security unrecognized obligations. Freudenberg employs system is regularly assessed and the system is various measures to manage these risks. The Group has upgraded where necessary. Currently, this is several specialist functions and expert groups particularly relevant in light of the general trend specifically tasked with the identification, analysis and towards increased cyber risks. control of Freudenberg‘s financial risk profile. This also includes the regular review of financial risk management methodology and steering. Interruption of operations and long-term disruptions Various measures to safeguard liquidity are in place which allow Freudenberg to react swiftly to The classic risk of unplanned interruptions of unexpected liquidity-related risks. Such risks are operations has several possible causes. The main ones hedged by solid banking and Partners’ financing and are interruptions in production, raw material high liquid reserves. Freudenberg has a comfortable availability, delivery delays, restricted availability of IT equity ratio, a stable level of Partners’ reserves, and infrastructure, damage from natural hazards, or any comprehensive credit lines. combination of these causes. The possible consequences are loss of sales revenue and earnings, In addition, Freudenberg is exposed to exchange rate contract infringements, possible contractual penalties and interest rate risks. Managing these risks is and claims for damages as well as reputational implemented by internal guidelines and processes and damage. monitored by a treasury management system. Because the exchange rate risks of the various companies have Freudenberg has taken numerous precautions to a partially offsetting effect, the effective foreign maintain and safeguard IT systems (back-up solutions, exchange risk is determined for the Group as a whole emergency data centers) as well as to meet contractual and steered by a central unit. delivery obligations (dual/multi-sourcing, lead centers with interchangeable infrastructures, cross-plant tools, Interest rate risks arise from possible changes in the crisis training at relevant production locations) and to market rate and can lead to changes in the market ensure delivery reliability and contract compliance, and value of fixed interest investments. has also taken out insurance cover for insurable individual risks. Despite all the measures that have Funds for subsidiaries are made available in the form of already been taken or will be taken in the event of an loans or cash pool agreements. Freudenberg emergency, there is a residual risk of a temporary companies channel surplus liquidity to the central interruption in operations with a possible impact on finance department. the sales and earnings of the Group. Binding internal guidelines for Freudenberg companies clearly specify that derivative financial instruments Financial risks may not be used for speculative purposes, but only for hedging risks in connection with underlying As an internationally active company with major transactions and associated financing operations. shareholdings in other countries Freudenberg is exposed to financial risks which under certain The Group’s sound financial profile was one of several circumstances could significantly impact the net factors that led the rating agency Moody’s assets, financial position or results of operations of the Deutschland GmbH, Frankfurt am Main, Germany, to 92 Combined Management Report – Report on Opportunities and Risks confirm its Freudenberg SE A3 rating with a “stable” portfolio through acquisitions and disinvestments of outlook in May 2018. This gives Freudenberg very good companies and business units. During the course of creditworthiness at investment grade level. these activities, obligations are assumed or commitments undertaken that may change as time goes by, must be complied with over a longer period of Risks from technological progress and third-party time, or may prove impossible to meet as a innovations consequence of unforeseen events. These activities could in retrospect prove disadvantageous and above As a highly diversified technology group, Freudenberg all could negatively impact the earnings situation of is active in numerous product and market segments, the Group to a limited extent. Freudenberg has several some of which differ considerably. Moreover, measures in place to deal with these significant risks, Freudenberg conducts its entrepreneurial activities on such as comprehensive upfront analyses and checks the basis of different business models. Consequently, with regard to acquisitions supported by external Freudenberg operates in a constantly changing experts and consultants. This is complemented by environment and is exposed to technological progress interdisciplinary and supra-regional risk management and a wide range of innovations. In specific terms, this resources established at both Business Group and means that Freudenberg comes up against new holding company level, as well as the continuous products, technologies or organizational structures. improvement and further development of systematic contract management and contract monitoring in line Freudenberg addresses the implications of these with business demands. customary risks in its regularly updated corporate strategy and limits these risks by various measures, in particular in-house research and development and Occupational health and safety environmental risks innovation. The most important pillar and key driver of innovation at Freudenberg is to be found in the Freudenberg has production sites in some 60 countries, Business Groups, whose research and development some of which operate under very different conditions. activities are closely geared to their customers. In There are operative risks with regard to production addition, the Freudenberg Group acquires external processes in particular in terms of workflows, companies or business units to add to the Group’s production equipment and the processing of technology and product portfolio and to enhance hazardous materials. Freudenberg trains employees to competitiveness through innovation. comply with safety regulations and in the use of protective equipment, and fulfills all relevant safety With the Freudenberg Technology Innovation requirements and guidelines. Corporate Function, Freudenberg has created an organizational unit that bundles the Group’s technical Freudenberg locations are continually exposed to knowledge – in particular through cross-sectional natural hazards as a result of the presence in various technologies. At 4.7 percent, Freudenberg invests a regions and climate zones. In spite of the usual substantial share of sales in research and development. preventive measures, earthquakes, floods, forest fires, This has led to an increase in the share of sales mudslides or heavy snowfall can occasionally attributable to new products to 33.6 percent. negatively impact business operations of the units concerned. Natural hazards are taken into consideration as part of the site selection process and during the Contractual risks acquisition process. Freudenberg enters into contracts with third parties on Group-wide standards in the fields of occupational a daily basis and makes continuous adjustments to its health and safety, the environment, and fire protection 93 define and implement the minimum requirements consolidated financial statements and the and guidelines for the Business Groups. Internal and consolidated management report of the Group. external audit processes monitor the implementation of programs to continuously minimize risks in these The consolidated financial statements and the fields at the Business Groups. The audit findings are consolidated management report of the Group are systematically evaluated and measures implemented prepared centrally. The minimum requirements throughout the Group. Sites regularly conduct regarding reporting content submitted by the emergency and evacuation exercises. Despite all of companies are defined and controlled centrally, and the these preventive measures, significant occupational time frame and process requirements are monitored. health and safety and environmental risks cannot be The standards for IFRS reporting as regularly updated entirely ruled out. form the basis for compiling the IFRS reporting packages of the parent company and of all domestic In the case of hazardous substances, for example, and foreign subsidiaries included in the consolidation. efforts are made to identify substitute substances There are binding instructions for Freudenberg’s before a statutory provision comes into effect with a internal coordination and other preparatory work for view to minimizing potential and customary risks the financial statements. arising in connection with such hazardous substances. This forestalls the effects on production of a possible Freudenberg uses a standard software tool for the ban on a given substance. In addition, many product Group financial reporting process. This tool is used developments are subject to a stage gate process throughout the company worldwide and clearly which among other things ensures that new products defines user rights observing the principle of the have a better environmental performance than their separation of functions. The system covers both predecessors and that undesirable substances are not reporting by Freudenberg companies and the data for used in new product development. the consolidated financial statements. Additional controls are implemented in the consolidation process. Since it was launched in 2002, the worldwide “We all take care” initiative motivates Freudenberg employees The consolidation process is also supported by a to make their work and their workplaces safer, software tool for the automatic reconciliation of healthier and more environmentally friendly as well as balances throughout the Group. The individual taking responsibility for society. The initiative is companies have a local internal control system which supported by the Group's top management, employee is the responsibility of the respective Business Group representatives and senior executives in the Business and which must comply with uniform minimum Groups, and the best projects are honored each year. requirements applicable throughout the Group. Internal control and risk management Corporate Controlling & Accounting organizes system (referred to the Group financial seminars for employees involved in this process in the reporting process) event of important changes in financial reporting procedures and IT applications, thereby guaranteeing a The Group internal control and risk management consistently high standard of reporting. Actuarial system for the financial reporting process at reports and evaluations are compiled by specialist Freudenberg is tasked with ensuring the functionality, service providers. compliance and effectiveness of financial reporting in the Group. The internal control system includes There is a clear demarcation of tasks between measures intended to ensure the complete, accurate Corporate Controlling & Accounting and the and timely transmission and presentation of companies. The segregation of functions and the dual information of relevance for the preparation of the control principle are systematically applied. It is 94 Combined Management Report – Report on Opportunities and Risks standard procedure for the Group auditor and the auditors of the consolidated companies to review the functionality and compliance of the relevant Group’s reporting processes. Suggestions for improvements are regularly discussed and optimized. In addition, the functionality and compliance of processes of relevance to financial reporting are reviewed regularly under an internal auditing process. The complete package of processes, systems and controls adequately ensures that the Group’s reporting process is in accordance with IFRS and other regulations and laws of relevance to financial reporting and is reliable. Overall assessment of the opportunities and risks Freudenberg has an in-depth understanding of the shortand long-term opportunities necessary for the further development of existing business areas and the development of new activities to secure the future of the Group, and actively pursues these opportunities. In our opinion, based on the probability of occurrence and potential impact of the risks described above, they do not individually or cumulatively present a risk to the continued existence of Freudenberg. 95 REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS We expect a generally challenging macroeconomic We expect strong differences in growth rates for the environment in the 2019 financial year. Growth emerging economies. China remains one of the most forecasts for the global economy in 2019 are slightly important growth regions for Freudenberg. Given that lower than the previous year.1 The risk of a stronger China already recorded its weakest growth since the decline in global growth has risen. The geopolitical and early 1990s in the 2018 financial year, we expect economic uncertainties are not expected to decrease. growth to decline further to 6.2 percent. Momentum In light of increasingly volatile markets, it will be will continue to decelerate, above all as a result of the necessary to follow future developments closely and tension from the ongoing trade conflict with the USA respond flexibly. Attention will focus among other and the associated negative effects on exports. As things on the threat of an escalating trade conflict China’s overall debt continues to rise, a counteractive, between the USA and China, the outcome of Brexit, the expansionary fiscal and monetary policy is financial stability of individual nations, rising raw approaching its limits. We forecast economic growth of material prices, and a possible economic slowdown in 7.3 percent for India, on the same level as the previous the automotive sector. Freudenberg is well equipped to year. This trend is supported by ongoing good private manage these and other future challenges with consumption and a positive investment climate. strategic planning to 2020 on issues such as e-mobility, digitalization and sustainability as well as flexible In Brazil, we expect to see a marked 2.4 percent solutions for changing customer and market needs. Set increase in economic growth in 2019. Under a new against this backdrop, we are engaged in careful government, we anticipate swift financial reforms and planning and expect modest business development in expect to see private consumption and investments the markets relevant to the Group. recover. Lower government spending could curb growth slightly. With regard to individual developments in our regional core markets, we expect the economic trend in For Russia we expect economic growth to continue at a Germany to decelerate further, with growth at 1.3 moderate 2.0 percent. There are no signs of a percent. The forecast for the eurozone, which remains significant recovery. Growth momentum comes from the Group’s largest sales region, has also been adjusted the oil business. The increase in the VAT rate that came downward to 1.5 percent. This trend is above all into effect in 2019 could, however, impact private attributable to uncertainties in foreign policy and a less consumption. expansive monetary policy on the part of the European Central Bank. In the automotive industry we expect modest growth of 1.0 percent in global production. Increases of 1.6 We anticipate economic growth of 2.5 percent in the percent in China and 1.4 percent in Japan will be offset USA in 2019 on the back of continued higher consumer by decreases of 0.5 percent in North America and 0.3 spending as a result of lower unemployment and rising percent in Europe. incomes as well as a continuation of the positive economic effects of the enacted U.S. tax reform. Furthermore, developments in the oil and gas industry Further interest rate increases by the U.S. Federal are also of relevance to Freudenberg. Investments in Reserve and the risk of further escalation in the trade the oil and gas industry will pick up in the 2019 dispute with China are, however, the first indications of financial year. Based on the lower price levels towards a slight weakening in economic activity. the end of the previous year, demand for oil will 1 Sources: in this chapter, all figures relating to economic developments are based on data from Consensus Economics, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, and the market research and consulting company Schlegel und Partner. 96 Combined Management Report – Report on Expected Developments increase, thus pushing the oil price upwards in 2019. Freudenberg Medical expects a slightly positive organic We anticipate positive growth rates above all in the sales growth in 2019. This trend will be driven in USA, Iraq and Saudi Arabia. particular by the launch of new products. Despite the growing complexity of the environment in Vibracoustic expects a slightly positive business trend which we operate and constantly changing customer in 2019. This will be driven above all by growth in air requirements, we expect almost all our Business spring systems in the Chassis Division and by strong Groups to record moderate business development in developments in North America. The Powertrain line with the relevant markets in the 2019 financial Division will also see slight growth. year. Sales increases in the individual Business Groups will offset the reverse effect attributable to the disposal The Freudenberg Performance Materials Business of the Freudenberg IT Business Group. Together with Group expects moderate sales development in 2019. the Business Group management, the decision was Almost all units will contribute to this trend. taken in early 2019 to further develop the activities of Productivity improvements will have a positive impact. Freudenberg IT under Novacap, a Canadian financial investor with a clear IT growth plan. Freudenberg Filtration Technologies expects a slightly positive sales trend for the coming year. This Freudenberg Sealing Technologies expects market development will be driven above all by the Industrial developments to be generally stable in 2019. Despite Filtration Division. Business with cabin air filters will regional and industry-specific differences, slight global remain stable at the level of the previous year. sales growth is expected for the sealing sector as a whole. Increases in productivity, leaner processes in The Japan Vilene Company Business Group expects to development, sales and administration together with see a slight rise in sales and a positive impact from substantial price rises are to limit the impact of higher productivity improvements despite a challenging costs. With regard to digitalization and the market environment. The further integration of Hanns transformation to e-mobility, measures will be Glass GmbH & Co. KG acquired in the 2018 financial significantly intensified and accelerated. Freudenberg year will increasingly strengthen the position of the Sealing Technologies is making substantial resources Business Group in the European automotive industry. available to that end. Among other activities, fuel cell and battery products will be bundled in a new “Battery Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions expects to and Fuel Cell Systems” division. see a modest sales trend in 2019 on the back of innovations in the consumer business and the Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies expects to see a Professionals Division. Efficiency improvement slight increase in sales in the 2019 financial year on the initiatives throughout the value chain will lead to back of the anticipated stabilization of the oil price and sustained increases in productivity. the resulting investments in the oil and gas industry. This trend will continue to be supported by Freudenberg Chemical Specialities expects its strong productivity enhancement programs. market position to continue in 2019, forming the basis for a slightly positive sales trend. All units will EagleBurgmann expects a modest sales trend in contribute to this development. almost all regions in 2019. This development will be strengthened by productivity increases and cost As a global technology company Freudenberg is reductions. characterized by its broad portfolio of products and companies together with forward-looking innovations and solutions at the highest technological level. Our aim for 2019 is to again harness the resulting growth 97 potential by systematically implementing our longBased on the developments and challenges described term strategy for the sustained benefit of our above, we expect Group sales in the 2019 financial year customers and society. In order to manage economic to be on the level of the previous year. The operating and geopolitical uncertainties, we will stay agile and result is expected to be slightly lower than the level for continue to respond swiftly and flexibly to changing the previous year. This is driven by rising ramp up costs customer and market requirements. As rapid change to expand the e-mobility business. On the basis of progresses, driven in part by digitalization, we must these forecasts, we expect a slight decline in the return reinforce our innovation strength even further and on sales in 2019. accelerate our ability to innovate. To that end, we are engaged in the constant further development of our Weinheim, March 20, 2019 material, process and system know-how and, in that context, are focusing on key cross-sectional technologies of relevance to several Business Groups in order to generate synergy effects. The swift integration The Board of Management of newly-acquired businesses, responsible leadership and diversity-oriented talent management remain the pivotal factors for success. In 2019, we will continue to drive forward with our projects in the fields of sustainability, non-financial key performance indicators, and our responsibility for society. As a responsible, innovative technology group, Freudenberg will once again implement numerous measures in environmental protection, occupational health and safety. As in the previous year, special attention will again be devoted to occupational safety in 2019. We therefore expect to see a slight reduction in the LDIFR (Lost Day Incident Frequency Rate – all incidents at work involving at least one day’s absence per million working hours) for the 2019 financial year. The analysis of present risks concludes there is no threat to the continued existence of Freudenberg. There were no major changes in the overall risk situation compared with the previous year. 98 Combined Management Report – Report on Expected Developments Freudenberg SE (HGB) FREUDENBERG SE (HGB) Freudenberg SE is a wholly-owned subsidiary of The sales of Freudenberg SE largely result from the Freudenberg & Co. KG, Weinheim, and the parent charging of services and from royalties for the company with responsibility for the operations of the Freudenberg global brand amounting to €11.4 million Freudenberg Group. (previous year: €10.7 million). The net assets, financial position and results of The investment result fell from €707.3 million to operations of Freudenberg SE are characterized by its €612.1 million. Among other factors, dividend holding function. The company holds interests in payments decreased from €117.5 million to €30.7 affiliated companies and it is the profit from these million. investments that dominates the earnings situation of Freudenberg SE. Other operating income rose from €6.1 million to €7.0 million. Higher exchange rate gains were the The annual financial statements of Freudenberg SE are main factor in this development. set up in accordance with the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB – German Commercial Code) and the AktienMaterial expenses rose from €5.2 million to €9.6 gesetz (AktG – German Stock Corporation Act). million and represent services purchased. EARNINGS SITUATION The increase of €1.9 million in personnel expenses to €12.0 million (previous year: €10.1 million) is due to At €466.1 million (previous year: €570.2 million), the higher expenses for pension provisions. profit of Freudenberg SE for the year was about 18 percent lower than the figure for the previous year. This The other operating expenses rose from €92.9 million fall was chiefly due to the investment result, which to €99.5 million. This increase was chiefly due to higher declined by €95.2 million (previous year: increase of expenses for computer services. €119.0 million) compared with the previous year. The financial result improved by €0.6 million. Among [€ million] 2017 2018 other factors, the previous year had been negatively affected by an impairment loss on financial assets. Sales 16.6 21.5 Investment result 707.3 612.1 Income taxes rose by €2.4 million from €-21.1 million Other operating income 6.1 7.0 to €-23.5 million mainly as a result of tax payments for Material expenses -5.2 -9.6 previous periods. Personnel expenses -10.1 -12.0 Other operating expenses -92.9 -99.5 Financial result -30.5 -29.9 Profit before taxes 591.3 489.6 Income taxes -21.1 -23.5 Profit for the year 570.2 466.1 99 ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FINANCIAL POSITION [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Provisions increased by €7.8 million from €143.2 million to €151.0 million and chiefly include provisions Intangible assets 8.1 11.7 for pensions. Tangible assets 1.0 1.4 Financial assets 2,389.5 2,447.0 Liabilities fell by €41.1 million from €1,369.2 million to Receivables and other assets 1,817.0 2,098.7 €1,328.1 million, chiefly as a result of the repayment of Cash at bank and in hand 57.3 28.4 loans. Total assets 4,272.9 4,587.2 Equity 2,760.5 3,108.1 SUMMARY STATEMENT Provisions 143.2 151.0 Against the backdrop of our sound situation with Liabilities 1,369.2 1,328.1 respect to net assets and financial position and the Total equity and liabilities 4,272.9 4,587.2 high earnings of our affiliates, we assess the general economic situation of Freudenberg SE as positive. This statement is not affected by the events reported in the The assets of Freudenberg SE as the holding company chapter “Report on Events After the Date of the chiefly consist of shares and participations in Statement of Financial Position”. companies and amounts receivable from these companies. REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS As at the statement of financial position date, financial As the parent company of the Freudenberg Group assets had risen by €57.5 million to €2,447.0 million responsible for business operations but without its (previous year: €2,389.5 million): as a result of various own business operations, Freudenberg SE mainly capital increases and asset transfers. receives income from its affiliates. As a general principle, expectations concerning business developReceivables and other assets mainly include amounts ments within the Freudenberg Group therefore also receivable from affiliates. As at the date of the have an impact on the earnings of Freudenberg SE. For statement of financial position, these had risen by this reason, the assumptions and statements made in €278.9 million to €2,059.8 million (previous year: the report on expected developments for Freudenberg €1,780.9 million). This is mainly the result of higher are equally relevant to Freudenberg SE. cash pool receivables from Externa Handelsund Beteiligungsgesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung with headquarters in Weinheim, Germany. Equity increased to €3,108.1 million (previous year: €2,760.5 million). The net retained profit from the previous year rose by €347.6 million from €2,015.3 million to €2,362.9 million. The profit for the year fell from €570.2 million to €466.1 million. The net retained profit for the year was reduced by dividends paid in the amount of €118.5 million (previous year: €114.4 million). 100 Combined Management Report – Freudenberg SE (HGB) NET RETAINED PROFIT AND DIVIDEND In December 2018, the Shareholders Meeting resolved, as proposed by the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management, to pay a dividend of €118.5 million (previous year: €114.4 million) to the sole shareholder Freudenberg & Co. KG in 2018 from the net retained profit as at December 31, 2017, which amounted to €2,015.3 million. The Board of Management proposes that the profit for the 2018 financial year, amounting to €466.1 million (previous year: €570.2 million) should be carried forward to new account. SUMMARY CONCLUDING STATEMENT OF DEPENDENT COMPANY REPORT OF FREUDENBERG SE “We hereby declare in accordance with Sec. 312, Para 3, AktG (German Stock Corporation Act) that, on the basis of the circumstances of which we were aware at the time when transactions with affiliated companies were implemented or acts or forbearances were taken, our company received consideration comparable with that obtainable from a non-affiliated company and did not suffer any disadvantage as a result of such acts or forbearances.” 101 102 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 104 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 106 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 107 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 108 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 109 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 110 Shareholdings 168 103 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ASSETS [€ million] Note Dec.31, 2017 Dec.31, 2018 ASSETS Intangible assets (1) 2,572.0 2,475.3 Tangible assets (2) 2,359.1 2,204.0 Investment properties (3) 12.7 10.3 Investments in joint ventures (4) 149.5 167.3 Investments in associated companies (5) 903.4 947.8 Other financial assets 122.5 118.6 Financial assets 1,175.4 1,233.7 Other non-current assets (8) 55.2 72.1 Deferred taxes (27) 225.0 208.5 Non-current assets 6,399.4 6,203.9 Inventories (6) 1,021.9 1,127.8 Contract assets (7) 60.0 Trade receivables 1,509.1 1,467.5 Other current assets 177.4 205.8 Current receivables (8) 1,686.5 1,733.3 Current tax assets 87.3 81.1 Securities and cash at bank and in hand (9) 998.8 984.7 Current assets 3,794.5 3,926.9 Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups (10) 0.0 108.3 10,193.9 10,239.1 104 Consolidated Financial Statement – Consolidated Statement of Financial Position CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION EQUITY AND LIABILITIES [€ million] Note Dec.31, 2017 Dec.31, 2018 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Subscribed capital 450.0 450.0 Capital reserves 50.2 50.2 Retained earnings 4,008.9 4,452.9 Equity without non-controlling interests 4,509.1 4,953.1 Non-controlling interests 325.9 359.0 Equity (11) 4,835.0 5,312.1 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations (12) 735.9 718.1 Other long-term provisions (13) 142.6 109.0 Long-term provisions 878.5 827.1 Financial debt 932.3 887.6 Other non-current liabilities 280.7 132.3 Liabilities (14) 1,213.0 1,019.9 Deferred taxes (27) 357.1 348.8 Non-current liabilities 2,448.6 2,195.8 Other current provisions (13) 631.5 571.6 Current tax liabilities 94.6 90.7 Financial debt 859.8 802.5 Trade payables 882.9 883.0 Other current liabilities 441.5 316.1 Liabilities (14) 2,184.2 2,001.6 Current liabilities 2,910.3 2,663.9 Liabilities in connection with non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups (10) 0.0 67.3 10,193.9 10,239.1 105 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS [€ million] Note 2017 2018 Sales (15) 9,345.6 9,455.4 Cost of sales (16) -6,171.1 -6,395.6 Gross profit 3,174.5 3,059.8 Selling expenses (17) -1,365.8 -1,297.2 Administrative expenses (18) -622.6 -633.5 Research and development expenses (19) -414.2 -374.3 Other income (20) 103.3 135.3 Other expenses (21) -99.1 -83.5 Income from investments in joint ventures (4),(22) 21.5 22.0 Profit from operations 797.6 828.6 Income from investments in associated companies (5),(23) 79.4 46.9 Other investment result (24) 36.8 -9.5 Other interest and similar income (25) 13.3 13.3 Interest and similar expenses (26) -44.0 -44.0 Financial result 85.5 6.7 Profit before income taxes 883.1 835.3 Income taxes (27) -183.0 -232.9 Consolidated profit 700.1 602.4 Of which: attributable to Freudenberg 651.9 553.2 Of which: attributable to non-controlling interests (28) 48.2 49.2 106 Consolidated Financial Statement – Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME [€ million] Note 2017 2018 Consolidated profit 700.1 602.4 Other comprehensive income: Remeasurement of defined benefit plans (12) 12.4 5.3 Changes in value of securities 0.0 -22.3 Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (11) -23.9 -1.7 Share in other comprehensive income of associated companies (5) -12.3 -34.4 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss -23.8 -53.1 Exchange rate differences (11) -329.6 73.6 Changes in value of securities (11) 14.3 0.0 Change in value of derivative financial instruments (11) -0.6 0.3 Miscellaneous comprehensive income -41.2 10.4 Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met (11) 19.1 -4.0 Share in other comprehensive income of joint ventures (4) -0.5 0.2 Share in other comprehensive income of associated companies (5) 47.2 -19.0 Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met -291.3 61.5 Other comprehensive income for the year -315.1 8.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 385.0 610.8 Of which: attributable to Freudenberg 387.5 553.5 Of which: attributable to non-controlling interests -2.5 57.3 107 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS [€ million] Note 2017 2018 Profit before taxes 883.1 835.3 Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses on intangible assets, tangible assets, investment properties and financial assets less write-ups 479.5 441.7 Income from investments and interest income -107.5 -41.6 Income taxes paid -248.2 -244.6 Profit or loss on disposal of intangible assets, tangible assets, investment properties and financial assets -11.0 -22.1 Dividends received 60.6 26.8 Other expenditure and income not affecting payments -0.9 -2.5 Changes in inventories, trade receivables and other assets -191.8 -70.5 Changes in trade payables and other liabilities 62.5 5.6 Changes in provisions 31.5 -68.3 Interest paid -39.5 -41.7 Interest received 10.7 10.3 Cash flow from operating activities (29) 929.0 828.4 Cash inflow from disposals of intangible assets, tangible assets and investment properties 32.7 47.9 Cash outflow from acquisitions of intangible assets, tangible assets and investment properties -501.5 -378.6 Cash inflow from disposals of financial assets 25.5 1.5 Cash outflow from acquisitions of financial assets -11.5 -74.5 Cash inflow in connection with the disposal of consolidated companies or other business units less cash disposed of 12.3 -1.5 Cash outflows in connection with the acquisition of consolidated companies or other business units less cash acquired -169.6 -175.8 Cash flow from investing activities -612.1 -581.0 Payments to shareholders/non-controlling interests (30) -153.1 -142.4 Cash inflow from the take-up of financial debts 167.7 178.0 Cash outflow from the repayment of financial debts -258.0 -287.4 Cash inflow from disposals of loans and securities held as non-current assets 2.5 3.6 Cash outflow from acquisitions of loans and securities held as non-current assets -4.1 -0.8 Cash flow from financing activities -245.0 -249.0 Changes in cash and cash equivalents with effect on payments (32) 71.9 -1.6 Changes in cash and cash equivalents from exchange rate differences -33.8 -9.1 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 960.7 998.8 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 998.8 988.1 1 The figures include assets and groups of assets held for sale. 108 Consolidated Financial Statement – Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY RemeasureFinancial ment of investments defined Fair value accounted for Subscribed Capital Currency benefit measurement using the [€ million] capital reserves translation obligations of securities equity method Status Jan. 1, 2017 450.0 50.2 139.4 -401.7 30.3 83.2 Consolidated profit Appropriation of profit Other comprehensive income -294.7 83.2 13.3 40.1 Status Dec. 31, 2017 450.0 50.2 -155.3 -318.5 43.6 123.3 Status Jan. 1, 2018 450.0 50.2 -155.3 -318.5 44.7 123.3 Consolidated profit Appropriation of profit Other comprehensive income 69.5 8.3 -22.5 -56.4 Status Dec. 31, 2018 450.0 50.2 -85.8 -310.2 22.2 66.9 Equity without Tax effects Other Total nonrecognized revenue retained controlling Non-controlling [€ million] in equity reserves earnings interests interests Equity Status Jan. 1, 2017 85.3 3,799.3 3,735.8 4,236.0 367.3 4,603.3 Consolidated profit 651.9 651.9 651.9 48.2 700.1 Appropriation of profit -114.4 -114.4 -114.4 -38.9 -153.3 Other comprehensive income -2.5 -103.8 -264.4 -264.4 -50.7 -315.1 Status Dec. 31, 2017 82.8 4,233.0 4,008.9 4,509.1 325.9 4,835.0 Status Jan. 1, 20181 82.8 4,240.9 4,017.9 4,518.1 325.9 4,844.0 Consolidated profit 553.2 553.2 553.2 49.2 602.4 Appropriation of profit -118.5 -118.5 -118.5 -24.2 -142.7 Other comprehensive income -6.3 7.7 0.3 0.3 8.1 8.4 Status Dec. 31, 2018 76.5 4,683.3 4,452.9 4,953.1 359.0 5,312.1 1 The opening balances were in some cases adjusted due to the effects of the first-time application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15. See also the comments on equity in note (11) of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 109 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General Freudenberg is an international industrial group The Group currency is the euro. All amounts are mainly active as a supplier to the automotive, indicated in million euros unless otherwise stated. mechanical engineering, oil and gas industries as well as the textile and apparel industries. The portfolio also includes medical technology and consumer goods. Accounting standards published but not yet applied The consolidated financial statements of The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) Freudenberg SE, Weinheim, Germany, for 2018 have and the IFRS Interpretations Committee have been drawn up in accordance with the International published additional standards, interpretations and Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as they are to be amendments the application of which was not yet applied in the European Union (EU) as of the date of binding for the 2018 financial year. The application of the statement of financial position (December 31, these standards, interpretations and amendments is 2018). subject to endorsement by the EU which, in some cases, is still pending. Freudenberg SE has availed itself of the right as laid down in Sec. 315a (3) HGB (Handelsgesetzbuch, “German Commercial Code”) to set up its consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS. Application Endorsed by Standards/Interpretationes/amendments binding from1 EU Probable impact IFRS 3 Amendments to IFRS 3 – Business January 1, 2020 No No material impact Combination IFRS 9 Amendments to IFRS 9 – January 1, 2019 Yes No material impact Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation IFRS 16 Leases January 1, 2019 Yes See information provided below IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts January 1, 2021 No No material impact IAS 19 Amendments to IAS 19 – Plan January 1, 2019 No No material impact Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and January 1, 2019 Yes No material impact Joint Ventures Various Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8 – January 1, 2020 No No material impact standards Definition of Material Various Annual Improvements to IFRSs January 1, 2019 No No material impact standards 2015-2017 Cycle IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax January 1, 2019 Yes No material impact Treatments Conceptual Amendments to Conceptual January 1, 2020 No No material impact Framework Framework – References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards 1 From this date or for reporting periods beginning after this date. 110 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements In January 2016, the IASB published IFRS 16 – Leases. operating leases. In the statement of profit or loss, only The standard was endorsed into EU law on insignificant effects on the profit from operations and October 31, 2017. Freudenberg will apply the new the consolidated profit are expected. standard for the first time to the financial year commencing on January 1, 2019 on the basis of the In future, lease payments are to be divided into a modified retrospective method and will dispense with principal portion and an interest portion. Only the the restatement of the comparison period in interest portion is to be deducted from the cash flow accordance with the transition requirements. For from operating activities. On the other hand, cash flow major classes of assets, the introduction of a uniform from financing activities will be reduced by the model for the recognition of leased assets by the lessee principal portion of the payments. at Freudenberg will result in the recognition of rightof-use assets with respect to leased assets and corresponding lease liabilities. This will probably lead Accounting standards applied for the first time in to an increase in the statement of financial position the reporting year total by about 4.0 percent and will mainly concern real property leased by Freudenberg. However, there will be In the 2018 financial year, the application of the no negative impact on equity at the time of the firstfollowing amended and new standards was binding time application as a right-of-use asset in the amount for the first time: of the lease liability will be recognized for all existing Standards/amandments Title Impact IFRS 2 Amendments to IFRS 2 – Classification and No material impact Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions IFRS 4 Amendments to IFRS 4 – Applying IFRS 9 Financial No material impact Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts IFRS 9 Financial Instruments See information provided below IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers See information provided below Clarifications on IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers IAS 40 Amendments to IAS 40 – Transfers of Investment No material impact Property IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance No material impact Consideration Various standards Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 No material impact In July 2014, the IASB published IFRS 9 – Financial Freudenberg applies the new standard by the Instruments. The standard was endorsed into EU law in retrospective method and dispenses with the November 2016. IFRS 9 replaces IAS 39 – Financial restatement of the comparison period on the basis of instruments: recognition and measurement as well as the transitional requirements. The values disclosed for the relevant interpretations. The introduction of IFRS 9 2017 therefore continue to be based on IAS 39. has also resulted in amendments to IFRS 7 – Financial Instruments: Disclosures. IFRS 9 states new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets, the impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting. 111 All the effects of the first-time application were Freudenberg does not hold any financial instruments recognized cumulatively in equity as at January 1, 2018. for trading. As regards equity instruments, Freudenberg Changes to the opening statement of financial exercises the option of recording changes in value in position values as a result of the first-time application equity without effect on net income. The amounts are presented below. The requirements of IFRS 9 do not recognized under other comprehensive income for apply to financial instruments which had already been these equity instruments are not reclassified to profit or de-recognized as at January 1, 2018. The changed loss upon the later disposal of these instruments. A disclosure requirements as a result of the reconciliation of the measurement categories and amendments to IFRS 7 are not presented for the carrying amounts under IAS 39 and IFRS 9 is given in the comparison period of 2017. table below. IFRS 9 had no effect on the accounting of financial liabilities at Freudenberg. The introduction of IFRS 9 results in changes in the classification and measurement of financial In accordance with IFRS 9, impairment losses are instruments. IFRS 9 defines three classification measured using the expected loss model on the basis categories for financial assets: “measured at amortized of expected future credit losses. The incurred loss cost”, “measured at fair value through other model of IAS 39, under which only losses which had comprehensive income” and “measured at fair value already been incurred were recognized, no longer through profit or loss”. The standard replaces the applies. In accordance with IFRS 9, impairment losses existing categories defined in IAS 39: “loans and are recognized for all financial assets measured at receivables at amortized cost”, “held-to-maturity amortized cost, debt instruments measured at fair investments” “available-for-sale financial assets value without effect on net income and contract (measured at fair value or amortized cost without effect assets. In principle, IFRS 9 provides for a three-stage on net income)” and “financial assets measured at fair procedure. A loss allowance is measured either on the value through profit or loss”. As at December 31, 2017, basis of the 12-month expected credit loss (stage 1) or Freudenberg did not hold any held-to-maturity financial on the basis of the lifetime expected credit loss if there investments or financial assets measured at fair value has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial through profit or loss. Financial instruments are recognition (stage 2) or a credit impairment has been assigned to the categories of IFRS 9 on the basis of the identified (stage 3). In the case of debt instruments business model within which the financial assets are held by Freudenberg and measured at amortized cost, held and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the the default risk is normally low and these are therefore financial assets. Existing financial instruments were to be assigned to stage 1 of the impairment loss model. classified and assessed on the basis of assesments The application of the model to expected credit losses made as at January 1, 2018. All loans and receivables resulted in the recognition of impairment losses measured by Freudenberg at amortized cost in amounting to €1.0 million as at January 1, 2018. The accordance with IAS 39 continue to be measured at impairment loss was not adjusted in the current amortized cost under IFRS 9. The cash flows associated reporting period as the change was not material. For with these financial instruments consist solely of the greater part of the financial assets, especially trade principal and interest payments and are managed by receivables and contract assets, the simplified Freudenberg in a business model whose objective is approach is adopted. In this approach, the loss achieved by collecting the contractual cash flows. In allowance is always calculated on the basis of the future, certain financial instruments will be measured lifetime expected credit losses. In order to determine at fair value through profit or loss. This concerns debt the expected credit losses, customers are assigned to instruments with cash flows not consisting solely of groups with similar credit risks. In the case of principal and interest payments, investments for which appropriate individual circumstances and risk another measurement would result in an accounting indications, individual impairment losses are mismatch and shares in partnerships. Furthermore, recognized. Information related to the past and to the derivative financial instruments which do not meet the future is taken into consideration in the measurement requirements for hedge accounting are measured at fair of impairment losses. A financial instrument is devalue through profit or loss. There is no difference recognized if, on the basis of an appropriate estimate, between the carrying amount in accordance with it is not to be expected that a financial asset can be IAS 39 and the fair value as at January 1, 2018. realized in whole or in part. Further information on the 112 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements simplified impairment loss model developed by accounting, Freudenberg has chosen to continue to Freudenberg is given in note (14). As at the date of apply the regulations of IAS 39 concerning hedge initial application, January 1, 2018, the application of accounting and to apply the requirements of IFRS 9 IFRS 9 resulted in an increase of €3.8 million in concerning hedge accounting from a later date. impairments to trade receivables which was recognized in retained earnings without effect on net As at the date of initial application of IFRS 9, January 1, income. 2018, the financial instruments held by Freudenberg, taking into consideration the new measurement IFRS 9 includes amended regulations on hedge categories, were as follows: accounting. However, in accordance with the option provided in the transition rules of IFRS 9 for hedge Classification and carrying amount IFRS 9 At fair value Carrying through other At fair value Classification amount At amortized comprehensive through profit or [€ million] IAS 39 IAS 39 cost income loss Difference1 Other financial Loans and receivables assets at amortized cost 8.3 8.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 Available-for-sale financial assets at fair Other financial value without effect assets on profit or loss 84.2 0.0 72.4 11.8 0.0 Available-for-sale Other financial financial assets at assets amortized cost 30.0 0.0 3.8 26.2 0.0 Trade Loans and receivables receivables at amortized cost 1,509.1 1,505.3 0.0 0.0 -3.8 Loans and receivables Other assets at amortized cost 104.9 103.2 0.0 1.7 0.0 Securities and cash at bank and Loans and receivables in hand at amortized cost 998.8 997.8 0.0 0.0 -1.0 2,735.3 2,614.6 76.2 39.7 -4.8 1 The differences are the result of applying the new expected credit loss model of IFRS 9. The reclassifications of the financial instruments did not result in any changes to measurements. 113 As at the date of initial application of IFRS 9, January 1, 2018, the classification and measurement regulations had effects on various equity items: [€ million] Status Dec. 31, 2017 Fair value measurement of securities – IAS 39 43.6 Reclassification of available-for-sale financial assets to the at fair value through profit or loss category -1.1 Status Jan. 1, 2018 Fair value measurement of securities – IFRS 9 42.5 Status Dec. 31, 2017 Retained earnings – IAS 39 4,008.9 Reclassification of available-for-sale financial assets to the at fair value through profit or loss category 1.1 Increase in loss allowance for trade receivables and contract assets -3.8 Increase in loss allowance for securities and cash at bank and in hand -1.0 Increase in deferred tax assets 1.4 Status Jan. 1, 2018 Retained earnings – IFRS 9 4,006.6 In May 2014, the IASB published IFRS 15 Revenue from In accordance with the transition requirements, Contracts with Customers and issued further Freudenberg has applied IFRS 15 using the modified clarifications of the standard in May 2016. In 2016, the retrospective method. The cumulative effect of initially new standards and clarifications were endoresed into applying the new standard is recognized as an EU law. IFRS 15 replaces IAS 11 – Construction adjustment to the opening balance of retained Contracts and IAS 18 – Revenue as well as the relevant earnings. The comparison period is presented in interpretations. Under this new standard, an entity accordance with the previous standards. Freudenberg recognizes revenue at an amount that reflects the has decided to apply the standard retrospectively consideration to which the entity expects to be solely to such contracts which were not yet completed entitled in exchange for the goods or services that will at the date of initial application. be transferred to the customer. The standard also contains new regulations concerning the timing of revenue recognition. The principles in IFRS 15 are applied using a five step model which is to be applied to all contracts with customers. 114 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The effects of applying the modified retrospective method to the opening balances of financial position as at January 1, 2018 were as follows: Effects of [€ million] Dec. 31,2017 IFRS 15 Dec. 31,2018 ASSETS Intangible assets 2,572.0 -41.1 2,530.9 Customer-specific development services -41.1 Tangible assets 2,359.1 -195.5 2,163.6 Customer-specific tools -195.5 Deferred taxes 225.0 -0.6 224.4 Other non-current assets 1,243.3 0.0 1,243.3 Non-current assets 6,399.4 -237.2 6,162.2 Inventories 1,021.9 16.4 1,038.3 Customer-specific products -35.0 Customer-specific tools 51.4 Contract assets 49.2 49.2 Customer-specific products 39.3 Customer-specific development services 9.9 Other current assets 2,772.6 0.0 2,772.6 Current assets 3,794.5 65.6 3,860.1 10,193.9 -171.6 10,022.3 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Retained earnings 4,008.9 12.5 4,021.4 Other equity 826.1 0.0 826.1 Equity 4,835.0 12.5 4,847.5 Other long-term provisions 142.6 0.0 142.6 Non-current other liabilities 280.7 -120.7 160.0 Customer-specific development services -29.2 Customer-specific tools -91.5 Deferred taxes 357.1 4.5 361.6 Other non-current debt 1,668.2 0.0 1,668.2 Non-current liabilities 2,448.6 -116.2 2,332.4 Other current provisions 631.5 -18.3 613.2 Refund liabilities -18.3 Other current liabilities 441.5 -49.6 391.9 Customer-specific development services -4.0 Customer-specific tools -63.9 Refund liabilities 18.3 Other current debt 1,837.3 0.0 1,837.3 Current liabilities 2,910.3 -67.9 2,842.4 10,193.9 -171.6 10,022.3 115 Previously, the economic risks and rewards of Under IFRS 15, customers-specific development costs customer specific tools associated with the possession under construction will be recognized as contract of the asset remained with Freudenberg and therefore, assets. The corresponding customer allowances are were recognized as tangible assets of the Group. defined as contract liabilities and will continue to be Allowances received from customers in connection recognized as other liabilities. In connection with the with such tools were recognized as other liabilities first-time application of IFRS 15, development upon the receipt of payment and realized as sales from expenses incurred for customer-specific development tools over the useful life of the tool in accordance with projects are presented as cost of sales and no longer as IFRIC 18. Under IFRS 15, an entity recognizes revenue research and development expenses. when (or as) a performance obligation is satisfied by transferring a good or service to a customer. In this Under IAS 18, revenue for customer specific products context, an asset is deemed to be transferred when (or was recognized solely after the delivery of the goods to as) the customer obtains control of that asset. The new the customer. For products that have no alternative criteria for the transfer of control to the customer lead use due to their specifications, IFRS 15 leads to an to an earlier recognition of revenue. Revenues from earlier recognition of revenue over time, provided customer-specific tools will, under IFRS 15, be realized Freudenberg has an enforceable right to payment at a point in time, i. e. at the time of acceptance by the from the customer in an amount that at least customer. The derecognition of tooling costs compensates for the performance completed to date previously recognized as tangible assets and customer plus a reasonable profit margin. This change in allowances previously recognized as liabilities results accounting policy leads to a reduction in investories in a reduction of total assets as of January 1, 2018. In and an increase in contract assets. future, customer-specific tools under construction will be recognized as inventories while the corresponding Costs incurred in connection with sales promotions customer allowances represent contract liabilities represent variable considerations and must be under IFRS 15 and will continue to be recognized as deducted from revenue in accordance with IFRS 15. other liabilities. Previously, some of these costs were recognized as selling expenses. Changes in recognition in the Previously, costs in connection with customer-specific statement of profit or loss result in a reduction in sales development projects, where the economic risks and and selling expenses. rewards associated with the ownership of the asset remain with Freudenberg, were recognized as In accordance with IFRS 15, amounts already received intangible assets if the project value exceeded a but expected to be refunded to the customer are threshold defined for the Group. Allowances received presented as refund liabilities under other liabilities. from customers in connection with such development These amounts typically relate to expected discounts projects were recognized as other liabilities and and bonuses and were previously presented as other subsequently recognized as revenue over the useful provisions. life of the asset in accordance with IFRIC 18. The control of customer-specific development projects is already transferred to the customer upon the performance of the development service. As a result, the application of IFRS 15 leads to an earlier recognition of revenue. The derecognition of development costs previously recognized as intangible assets and customer allowances previously recognied as liabilities is reflected by a reduction in total assets as of January 1, 2018. 116 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The effects of the continued application of IAS 18 in comparison to IFRS 15 on the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 2018 are presented in the table below: IFRS 15 Effects of IAS 18 [€ million] Dec. 31,2018 IFRS 15 Dec. 31,2018 ASSETS Intangible assets 2,475.3 53.7 2,529.0 Tangible assets 2,204.0 215.8 2,419.8 Deferred taxes 208.5 0.6 209.1 Other non-current assets 1,316.1 0.0 1,316.1 Non-current assets 6,203.9 270.1 6,474.0 Inventories 1,127.8 -14.4 1,113.4 Contract assets 60.0 -60.0 0.0 Other current assets 2,739.1 0.0 2,739.1 Current assets 3,926.9 -74.4 3,852.5 Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups 108.3 0.0 108.3 10,239.1 195.7 10,434.8 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Retained earnings 4,452.9 -8.0 4,444.9 Other equity 859.2 0.0 859.2 Equity 5,312.1 -8.0 5,304.1 Other long-term provisions 109.0 0.0 109.0 Non-current other liabilities 132.3 120.7 253.0 Deferred taxes 348.8 -4.5 344.3 Other non-current debt 1,605.7 0.0 1,605.7 Non-current liabilities 2,195.8 116.2 2,312.0 Other current provisions 571.6 18.3 589.9 Other current liabilities 316.1 69.2 385.3 Other current debt 1,776.2 0.0 1,776.2 Current liabilities 2,663.9 87.5 2,751.4 Liabilities in connection with non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups 67.3 0.0 67.3 10,239.1 195.7 10,434.8 As a result of the first-time application of IFRS 15, sales for the 2018 financial year were €54.3 million lower and consolidated profit was €5.8 million lower compared to a revenue recognition in accordance with IAS 18. 117 Consolidated group Apart from Freudenberg SE, 66 German (previous year: In the year under review, 8 companies were included in 64) and 355 foreign (previous year: 363) affiliated the consolidated financial statements as fully companies, with respect to which Freudenberg SE has consolidated affiliated companies for the first time. 14 the power to direct the relevant activities of the companies which had previously been fully company, the right to variable returns from the consolidated were no longer included as fully company and the ability to affect such variable returns, consolidated affiliated companies due to sale, are fully consolidated. liquidation, merger or change of status. The timing of the initial consolidation was determined on the basis Freudenberg operates a joint venture in the field of of the date when Freudenberg SE gained control. In the mechanical seals within the EagleBurgmann Business event of loss of control, deconsolidation is effected. Group together with the partner Eagle Industry Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan. Freudenberg holds a 25-percent Acquisitions and disposals stake in EagleBurgmann Japan Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan. The partner also holds a 25-percent indirect stake In the 2018 financial year, Freudenberg did not engage in EagleBurgmann Germany GmbH & Co. KG, in any corporate acquisition or disposal transactions Wolfratshausen, Germany. According to the joint which were material. The consideration transferred for venture agreement between the partners, the acquisition of shares totaled €90.3 million and was Freudenberg exercises control over affiliated comtransferred entirely with an effect on payments. The panies of the EagleBurgmann Group in which purchase price allocation resulted in a total goodwill Freudenberg holds less than half of the voting rights of which was not deductible for tax purposes of €41.7 the other company; such affiliated companies are million. Since the acquisition date, the newly acquired therefore fully consolidated. companies have recorded sales of €79.8 million and contributed €-10.1 million to consolidated profit. If the No German (previous year: 0) and 14 foreign (previous acquisitions had already taken place as of January 1, year: 14) joint ventures are included in the con2018, total sales would have been €13.9 million higher solidated financial statements. These legally indeand consolidated profit would have been €0.7 million pendent companies are managed jointly with the lower. partner company in each case. Both parties hold rights to the net assets of the companies. The joint ventures The transaction costs arising in connection with the are consolidated by the equity method. company acquisitions were, in each case, not significant and were recognized with effect on net In addition, 10 foreign (previous year: 9) associated income. As at the acquisition date, there was no companies are included in the consolidated financial significant difference in each case between the gross statements. Freudenberg does not control these amount of the consideration payable and the fair value. companies but only exercises a significant influence. These companies are consolidated by the equity method. All affiliated companies, joint ventures and associated companies are listed under “Shareholdings”. 118 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The fair values of the main asset and liability items of the companies acquired as at the acquisition dates were determined mainly on the basis of level 3 input factors. The cumulative values were as follows: [€ million] Fair values Intagible assets 79.3 Tangible assets 12.3 Other non-current assets 0.4 Inventories 15.3 Trade receivables 14.2 Other current assets 0.7 Cash acquired 3.4 Assets 125.6 Non-current liabilities 13.2 Current liabilities 22.1 Liabilities 35.3 Net assets 90.3 Intangible assets identified in connection with Inter-company profits and losses, sales, expenses and purchase price allocations mainly concern customer income and all receivables and payables between lists. The fair values of the customer lists identified consolidated companies are eliminated. Deferred taxes were measured by the residual value method on the are set up on consolidation transactions affecting net basis of corporate planning with a useful life of 6 to 10 income. years. Joint ventures and associated companies are Consolidation methods consolidated by the equity method on the basis of financial statements drawn up in accordance with IFRS. The consolidated financial statements are based on the annual accounts of Freudenberg SE and the The differences arising from the acquisition of consolidated companies according to IFRS. All the shareholdings in joint ventures and associated annual accounts concerned were drawn up as at companies form part of the book value of the December 31, 2018. In accordance with IFRS 10, the shareholding in the company concerned. Amortization accounts of the individual companies to be included in is not recognized on goodwill in subsequent periods. the consolidated financial statements were drawn up An impairment test is carried out on the book value of applying uniform accounting and measurement the shareholding in the joint venture or associated methods. company as a whole if there are indications that the carrying amount could be impaired. The acquisition costs of the individual consolidated companies are set off against the pro-rata share in the fair value of the equity of the companies concerned as of the date of acquisition according to the purchase method. Identifiable acquired assets and liabilities are also included in the consolidated statement of financial position at their fair values as of the acquisition date. Any remaining differences are shown as goodwill. 119 Accounting and measurement principles units or the value in use of such units has fallen below their carrying amount. Acquired intangible assets are capitalized at acquisition cost and amortized on a systematic basis. Provided that such assets meet the requirements of IAS 38, internally generated intangible assets are Systematic amortization is based on the following carried as assets at production cost and are useful lives: amortized on a systematic basis over their useful lives, if their useful lives are finite. Software 3 to 8 years If the useful life of intangible assets is not Patents and licenses depending on contract term considered to be finite, no amortization is effected. An impairment test is carried out on such assets annually. An intangible asset may be regarded as Intangible assets with finite useful lives acquired in having an indefinite useful life when, based on an a business combination are amortized on a analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no systematic basis over useful lives of up to 25 years. foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash flows for the Group. An impairment test is carried out on goodwill at least once per year. For the impairment test, the Expenditure in connection with development goodwill acquired is allocated to the groups of cashprojects is capitalized as intangible assets if, in generating units expected to benefit from the addition to meeting the criteria of IAS 38, a Group business combination. In line with internal threshold is exceeded. Otherwise, development management reporting, the groups of cashexpenditure is shown as expenses. Capitalized generating units are represented by the Business development expenditure is amortized on a straightGroups. An impairment loss is recognized if the line basis over the underlying contract term starting carrying amount of the group of cash-generating with the beginning of production of the product units is higher than its recoverable amount. The concerned. Amortization of capitalized development recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value expenditure is normally recognized in research and less costs of disposal and the value in use of the development expenses. group of cash-generating units. Tangible assets are capitalized at acquisition or For the determination of the recoverable amount, production cost. In the case of assets produced by the value in use of the group of cash-generating Group companies, production cost also includes units concerned is determined by the discounted directly attributable cost as well as pro-rata overheads cash flow method on the basis of a detailed planning and depreciation. period of 5 years. The discount rates used for the determination of the value in use are based on the Borrowing costs are capitalized as part of acquisition or weighted average cost of capital (hereafter WACC) production cost in the case of qualifying assets. determined separately for each group of cashgenerating units. Expenditure for repairs and maintenance is generally shown as expenses. Such expenditure is only Impairments of capitalized goodwill are shown capitalized if future economic benefits in connection under other expenses in the consolidated statement with such expenditure are probable and the acquiof profit or loss. Reversals of impairments are not sition or production cost can be reliably measured. recognized with respect to goodwill for which impairments have been recognized. Taxable grants and tax-free investment subsidies, normally paid by public bodies, are set off against Impairment losses going beyond goodwill are acquisition or production cost. recognized for individual assets of cash-generating units if the fair value less costs of disposal of such 120 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Movable non-current assets and industrial buildings Participations are shown at fair value. In some cases, are depreciated over their useful lives. This approach amortized cost represents the best estimate of fair normally corresponds to straight-line depreciation. value. Systematic depreciation is determined on the basis of Investments in joint ventures and associated the following useful lives: companies are shown at acquisition cost on first-time consolidation and subsequently adjusted for changes Buildings max. 50 years in the share of the shareholder in the net assets of the company concerned. In the event that the losses of a Machinery and equipment 5 to 20 years joint venture or associated company attributable to Other fixtures, fittings and office Freudenberg exceed the value of the share in that equipment 3 to 20 years company, no further impairment losses are recognized. In the event of objective evidence of impairment or value recovery in the case of such participations, An impairment test on tangible and intangible assets assumptions concerning future business developassigned to cash-generating units is always carried out ments must be made with a view to determining the if circumstances or changed conditions indicate that the recoverable amount. carrying amount of such cash-generating units may not be recovered. The composition of the cash-generating Long-term loans are discounted if the amount of such units is determined at the divisional or regional level as discount is significant. a function of the business model and differs between Business Groups. If the impairment of an asset reflected Inventories are shown at acquisition or production cost by a write-down in the past is reduced or eliminated, the or at net realizable value, where this is lower. impairment loss is reversed. The amortized acquisition Inventories of raw materials and consumables and or production cost represents the upper limit of merchandise are measured by the weighted average measurement in such cases. cost method. Production cost includes directly attributable costs as well as production and material In accordance with IAS 17, tangible assets leased under overheads and depreciation. finance leases are recognized as assets and written off over their economic useful life if substantially all the Receivables and other assets are recognized at risks and rewards associated with the ownership of the amortized cost. Loss allowances are made on the basis leased asset lie with the lessee. Such assets are carried of the expected credit loss model. For trade receivables, at the fair value of the leased asset at the inception of the simplified approach to impairment losses is the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the adopted. In this approach, the loss allowance is always minimum lease payments. A liability of the same calculated on the basis of the lifetime expected credit amount is also shown on the statement of financial losses. In order to determine the expected credit losses, position. customers are assigned to groups with similar credit risks. Individual impairment losses are recognized if In the case of operating leases, lease payments are circumstances become apparent which allow the recognized as expenses. conclusion that certain receivables are subject to a credit risk in excess of the general credit risk. In the Land and buildings held to earn rentals from third determination of loss allowances, credit insurance is parties are dealt with as investment properties. Such taken into consideration. The amortized cost is properties are measured at acquisition cost. approximately equivalent to the fair value of the assets Investment properties are depreciated over their useful concerned. Long-term receivables are discounted if the lives. This approach normally corresponds to straightamount of such discount is significant. line depreciation. As a general principle, systematic depreciation is calculated on the basis of a maximum Contract assets are recognized at amortized cost. For useful life of 50 years and effected on a straight-line determining impairment losses, the simplified basis. The fair value is determined by the discounted procedure for determining the expected credit losses is cash flow method. applied. 121 The other financial assets are classified and measured comprehensive income. Assets held to provide benefits on the basis of the business model within which the for employees are measured at fair value. financial assets are held and on the basis of contractual cash flows at the time of acquisition. There are Deferred taxes are calculated on temporary differences differences between the treatment of equity and debt between the book values of assets and liabilities in the instruments. Investments in equity instruments which consolidated statement of financial position and their are held as long-term strategic participations, and tax bases, taking into account the applicable national which are not expected to be sold within the short-to income tax rates valid on the date of realization and medium-term future are measured in equity without already in force on the statement of financial position effect on net income. Debt instruments with cash date. In addition, deferred tax assets are recognized for flows not consisting solely of interest payments and tax losses carried forward if sufficient taxable income principal repayments, investments for which another will be available in the future. Deferred tax assets and measurement would result in an accounting mismatch liabilities are only set off against each other in cases and shares in partnerships are measured at fair value where the income taxes concerned are levied by the through profit or loss. An impairment test is carried out same tax authority and concern the same period. In the for debt instruments measured at amortized cost or at case of deferred tax assets which are not impaired fair value through other comprehensive income. following the offsetting, it is assumed that future taxable income will be sufficient to allow the Cash at bank or in hand is shown at its nominal value. realization of the deferred tax assets formed. Cash held in foreign currencies is converted using the exchange rate as of the statement of financial position Other provisions allow for all recognizable risks and date. The expected credit loss model is applied. uncertain obligations towards third parties which will Derivative financial instruments that do not meet the probably result in an outflow of resources which can be requirements for hedge accounting are measured at reliably estimated. Such provisions are recognized at fair value through profit or loss. their most probable settlement value and discounted if the amount of such discount is significant. Non-current assets and groups of assets held for sale Reimbursement rights in this connection are shown are shown separately in the statement of financial separately under other assets. In its contracts with position if they are available for immediate sale in their customers, Freudenberg provides warranty services for present condition and the sale of such assets is highly general repair obligations but does not provide for any probable within the next 12 months. Such assets are extended warranties. In accordance with IFRS 15, the shown at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and existing warranties are mainly classified as assurancebook value. Systematic depreciation is not recognized type warranties and are recognized in accordance with on such assets from the date of reclassification. IAS 37 – Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Liabilities included in a disposal group are shown Contingent Assets. separately under liabilities. Liabilities are shown at their face value or at the The requirement for the reversal of the impairment of repayment or settlement value, where this is higher. assets has been complied with both for non-current Non-current liabilities are discounted if the amount of and for current assets. Unless individual standards call such discount is significant. for a different measurement, the updated acquisition or production cost represents the upper limit of Put options granted to the holders of non-controlling measurement in such cases. interests for the sale of their shares are recognized as forward purchases. The item recorded in equity for Provisions for pensions and similar obligations are these shares is de-recognized and a liability measured determined by the projected unit credit method using at fair value is recognized. As at each statement of actuarial principles. Service cost and the net interest on financial position date, the liability is remeasured. Any the net defined benefit liability are recognized under resulting changes in book value are recognized with an personnel expenses with an impact on net income. effect on net income. Gains and losses from remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability are disclosed under other 122 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Sales are measured at the fair value of the time between the transfer of a promised good or consideration received or to be received. Sales are service and payment in connection with such transfer recognized when control of the promised good or exceeds one year. service is transferred to the customer. In the event that the service performed by Freudenberg The delivery of goods normally represents a exceeds the payments received or to be received by performance obligation that is satisfied at a specific Freudenberg, a contract asset is recognized. As soon as point in time. In determining the timing of satisfaction, the right to receive the consideration from the the transfer of significant risks and rewards of customer becomes unconditional, the contract asset is ownership of the asset is taken as the main criterion. reclassified to trade receivables. If the payments Normally, this is the time when the goods are physically received from the customer exceed the service delivered to the customer. performed by Freudenberg, a corresponding contract liability is recognized. Sales from the delivery of customer-specific products are recognized over time, provided Freudenberg has an The performance obligations entered into by enforcable right to payment from the customer in an Freudenberg under contracts with customers normally amount that at least compensates Freudenberg for the have an expected original duration of one year or less. performance completed to date plus a reasonable In the case of longer terms, Freudenberg is normally profit margin. The amount of revenue is based on the entitled to consideration corresponding directly to the progress towards complete satisfaction of a performance of services completed to date. performance obligation and measured on the basis of Freudenberg therefore uses the practical expedient to the units produced. not disclose the aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to the performance obligations unsatisfied Sales from providing services are recognized in the as of the end of the reporting period. accounting period in which the services are performed. Revenue is recognized in the amount to which The consolidated statement of cash flows is broken Freudenberg has a right to invoice, as this amount of down into cash flows from operating, investing and consideration corresponds directly with the value to financing activities. Effects arising from changes in the the customer of Freudenberg’s performance consolidated group and the effects of exchange rate completed to date. Customers are normally invoiced differences have been eliminated from the monthly. Sales in connection with customer-specific consolidated statement of cash flows. The influence of development projects are realized over time. In the case these effects on cash and cash equivalents is indicated of fixed-price contracts, the amount of sales is separately. measured based on the cost incurred to date related to the total expected cost to be incurred in connection with the full satisfaction of the performance obligation. The exercise of judgement and estimates in the In the case of customer-specific development projects application of accounting and measurement for which Freudenberg has a right to consideration methods from a customer in an amount that corresponding directly with the value to the customer of In some cases, it is necessary to apply accounting Freudenberg’s performance completed to date, sales methods based on estimates or the exercise of are recognized as practical expedient in the amount of discretion in connection with the establishment of the the consideration to which Freudenberg has a right to consolidated financial statements. Normally, these invoice. methods include complex, subjective assessments and the use of uncertain assumptions which may be Invoices are normally issued following the physical subject to change. It is therefore conceivable that delivery of goods to the customer or the performance actual amounts in the future and future events may of the service promised in the contract. Payments by deviate from the forecasts made as estimates for the customers under fixed-price contracts are based on a same reporting period could have been made contractually agreed payment plan. There are no differently for reasons which are easy to understand. material contracts with customers under which the Such accounting methods based on estimates and the 123 exercise of discretion may therefore have a material The measurement of certain derivative financial impact on the net assets, financial position and results instruments without an active market such as put or of operations in the consolidated financial statements call options and earn-out clauses is based on and may also change over the course of time. The probability predictions and the best possible estimates estimates used for the establishment of the of the expected settlement amount, taking into consolidated financial statements and the underlying consideration recognized mathematical finance assumptions are regularly reviewed and any changes methods. The same applies to the determination of are taken into consideration as soon as better expected credit losses recognized as loss allowances in information is available. connection with financial instruments measured at amortized cost. Further information on financial The composition of a cash-generating unit and the instruments is given in note (14). determination of the recoverable amount for the performance of impairment tests is connected with When determining whether sufficient taxable income assessments made by management concerning future will be available in the future for assessing the value of developments and experience gained in the past. The deferred tax assets and the usability of losses carried cash flows predicted on the basis of these assessments forward, various estimates, including the development may be affected by factors including volatility of capital of tax planning strategies, must be made. Deviations markets, exchange rate fluctuations and expected between the actual results and the estimates made economic development. The WACCs used for may have an effect on the assets, liabilities and discounting take into account the market risk and the earnings situation. Further details are given in note (27). capital structure of companies comparable to the applicable group of cash-generating units. Changes in The determination of the amount and timing of these factors may have significant impact on the revenue from contracts with customers is affected by a existence or amount of a value impairment. Further number of estimations. Sales are recognized in the details are given in note (1). amount of the consideration Freudenberg expects to be entitled. Epecially in the case of the delivery of goods The actuarial assessments for the determination of the amount of consideration may vary as a result of provisions for pensions and similar obligations are variable consideration. The amount of variable based on major assumptions and estimates with consideration is based on estimates and is determined respect to the discount rates used and expected future upon the inception of the contract and reassessed at adjustments to salaries and pensions as well as life the end of each reporting period. The variable expectancy. All the parameters used are regularly consideration is estimated either by using the expected reviewed as of the statement of financial position date. value method or by using the most likely amount Any changes in the parameters used may lead to method. This depends on which method Freudenberg changes in statement of financial position values. expects to better predict the amount of consideration Further details are given in note (12). to which it will be entitled. Sales are only recognized to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant The determination of the settlement amount of reversal will not occur when the uncertainty associated provisions for restructuring, environmental risks, with the variable consideration is subsequently guarantees and litigation is normally connected with resolved. Amounts which have been received (or are to estimates and uncertainty. For the measurement of be received) and which will probably have to be such values, the assessments of local independent refunded are recognized as refund liabilities and experts are used in some cases. In the future, disclosed under other liabilities. deviations between actual events and the assumptions made may necessitate adjustments to the Group’s provisions. More detailed information on provisions is given in note (13). 124 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the recognition of sales from customer-specific development projects, estimates need to be made concerning the degree of completion or the total cost of the contract. A change in these estimates may lead to an increase or reduction in sales in the reporting period. Fair value is determined on the basis of input factors in 3 defined categories. Determination is based on estimates and assumptions associated with uncertainty. The following fair value measurement hierarchy is applied: Level 1: Use of quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date. Level 2: Determination of fair value using measurement procedures based on observed input factors for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or for identical assets or liabilities in markets that are not active. Level 3: Measurement of assets and liabilities using measurement methods based on unobservable inputs as adequate observable market data are not available for the measurement of fair value. 125 Currency translations The financial statements of almost all companies • Statement of profit or loss items are translated at included in the consolidated financial statements average annual exchange rates. which are not located in the eurozone are drawn up in the national currencies concerned. This is the currency • Differences arising from the use of different of the primary economic environment in which the exchange rates are recognized in equity without an companies concerned operate (concept of functional effect on net income. currency). The same principles are used in the case of investments In the accounts of individual companies, foreignin joint ventures and associated companies currency receivables and liabilities are translated at the consolidated by the equity method. exchange rates as of the date of the statement of financial position. With effect from the beginning of the 2018 financial year, the requirements of IAS 29 were applied for the Goodwill created as a result of acquisitions on or after first time to the affiliated companies Freudenberg S.A. March 31, 2004, is carried as an asset of the Telas sin Tejer, Buenos Aires, Argentina, and Klüber economically independent foreign companies Lubrication Argentina S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina. concerned in their respective functional currencies. Inflation adjustments are calculated on the basis of a price index recommended by the Federación Argentina In the consolidated financial statements, the financial de Consejos Profesionales de Ciencias Económicas statements of all companies not located in the (FACPCE). In the year under review, this price index rose eurozone are translated in accordance with the by 48 percent. From the point of view of the Group, following principles: neither the first-time application nor current inflation adjustments on the basis of historic acquisition and • Statement of financial position items are translated production costs had a material impact on the net at the exchange rate as of the date of the statement assets, financial position or results of operations of the of financial position. Group as at December 31, 2018. The exchange rates of currencies used for currency conversion which are material to the annual financial statements developed as follows: Country Currency Closing rate Average rate 1 euro = Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Brazil BRL 3.9729 4.4440 3.6434 4.3294 China CNY 7.8044 7.8751 7.6557 7.8156 India INR 76.6055 79.7298 73.7879 80.6258 Japan JPY 135.0100 125.8500 127.3040 130.0060 Turkey TRY 4.5464 6.0588 4.1429 5.6835 USA USD 1.1993 1.1450 1.1370 1.1793 Differences arising from the use of different exchange assets with respect to non-current assets and in the rates compared with the previous year are shown in consolidated statement of comprehensive income the statement of changes in intangible and tangible with respect to equity. 126 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (1) Intangible assets Changes in intangible assets from January 1 to December 31, 2017: Intangible Concesassets in Internally sions, Payments course of generated licenses and made construc[€ million] software others1 Goodwill on account tion Total ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1, 2017 3.9 1,743.6 1,552.6 6.3 20.1 3,326.5 Changes in consolidated group2 0.0 42.2 59.8 0.0 0.0 102.0 Exchange rate differences -0.5 -52.6 -44.8 -0.1 -0.1 -98.1 Additions 0.4 14.2 0.0 1.2 25.8 41.6 Write-ups 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Disposals 0.0 -20.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 -20.1 Reclassifications2 0.1 10.9 0.0 -5.0 -6.0 0.0 Status Dec. 31, 2017 3.9 1,738.3 1,567.6 2.4 39.8 3,352.0 AMORTIZATION Status Jan. 1, 2017 3.0 581.7 106.7 0.0 0.0 691.4 Changes in consolidated group2 0.0 1.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.2 Exchange rate differences -0.3 -30.9 -6.8 0.0 0.0 -38.0 Additions systematic 0.4 143.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 143.6 Impairment losses 0.0 1.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.7 Write-ups 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Disposals 0.0 -19.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 -19.6 Reclassifications2 0.0 -0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.4 Status Dec. 31, 2017 3.1 677.0 99.9 0.0 0.0 780.0 Book value Dec. 31, 2017 0.8 1,061.3 1,467.7 2.4 39.8 2,572.0 1 Intangible assets identified in connection with purchase price allocations mainly concern customer lists/relations, technologies and know-how. 2 The reclassifications also include transfers to other balance sheet items. 127 Changes in intangible assets from January 1 to December 31, 2018: Intangible Concesassets in Internally sions, Payments course of generated licenses and made construc[€ million] software others1 Goodwill on account tion Total ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1, 20183 3.9 1,718.1 1,567.6 2.4 12.7 3,304.7 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 36.3 41.7 0.0 0.0 78.0 Exchange rate differences 0.2 13.6 10.1 0.0 0.0 23.9 Additions 0.0 14.0 0.3 2.0 2.9 19.2 Disposals -0.1 -18.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 -18.7 2 Reclassifications 0.4 2.5 -4.0 -1.4 -11.8 -14.3 Status Dec. 31, 2018 4.4 1,765.9 1,615.7 3.0 3.8 3,392.8 AMORTIZATION Status Jan. 1, 20183 3.1 670.8 99.9 0.0 0.0 773.8 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Exchange rate differences 0.1 9.5 1.3 0.0 0.0 10.9 Additions – systematic 0.3 108.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 108.7 Impairment losses 0.0 6.8 44.4 0.0 0.0 51.2 Write-ups 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals -0.1 -17.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 -18.0 Reclassifications2 0.0 -9.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 -9.2 Status Dec. 31, 2018 3.4 768.5 145.6 0.0 0.0 917.5 Book value Dec. 31, 2018 1.0 997.4 1,470.1 3.0 3.8 2,475.3 1 Intangible assets identified in connection with purchase price allocations mainly concern customer lists/relations, technologies and know-how. 2 The reclassifications also include transfers to other balance sheet items. 3 The opening balances were in some cases adjusted due to the effects of the first-time application of IFRS 15. Goodwill was subjected to an impairment test in the On this basis, an impairment of goodwill was only 2018 financial year. Apart from the expected recognized for the group of cash-generating units developments in sales and profit as well as net Japan Vilene Company. This was the result of the investments of the Business Groups concerned, the adjusted at-equity results of the associated companies basic assumptions used for determining the value in and a fall in the profit margin. On the basis of a WACC use of the groups of cash-generating units included a of 9.0 percent (previous year: 8.7 percent) and the growth rate of 2.0 percent (previous year: 2.0 percent) growth rate stated above, the carrying amount and pre-tax WACCs ranging from 8.0 percent to 10.9 following impairment was €21.8 million. percent (previous year: ranging from 8.7 percent to 10.9 percent). 128 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The two significant goodwill items are assigned to the The business plans for 2018 of the group of cashgroups of cash-generating units Vibracoustic and generating units Freudenberg Sealing Technologies are Freudenberg Sealing Technologies. The WACCs used for based on generally stable market developments. Despite the impairment test were 8.0 percent (previous year: differences between the various regions and sectors, 10.7 percent) for Vibracoustic and 10.9 percent slight global business growth is expected in the sealing (previous year: 10.9 percent) for Freudenberg Sealing segment. Rising costs are to be compensated for by Technologies. The assumed sustainable growth rate further productivity increases, leaner processes in was 2.0 percent (previous year: 2.0 percent). The book development, sales and administration, and substantial values of these goodwill items are shown in the price rises. In the fields of digitalization and following table: transformation to e-mobility, the measures adopted will be significantly expanded and accelerated. Freudenberg [€ million] Goodwill Sealing Technologies will provide considerable resources for this purpose. Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Vibracoustic 835.9 835.9 In the case of a variation in the WACC of up to +/-1.0 Freudenberg Sealing percentage points, it would have been necessary to Technologies 178.9 180.7 recognize further impairments only for the group of cash-generating units Japan Vilene Company. There would have been no need for impairment with respect For the group of cash-generating units Vibracoustic, a to the major goodwill items. sales growth rate slightly above the growth rate for global automobile production derived from external studies is assumed. The main areas of growth will be in the regions of Europe, North America and Asia. Cost increases are to be compensated for by productivity improvements. 129 (2) Tangible assets Changes in tangible assets from January 1 to December 31, 2017: Other fixtures, Machinery fittings and Payments ConsLand and and office made on truction in [€ million] buildings equipment equipment account progress Total ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1, 2017 1,437.2 3,406.8 1,288.7 42.8 235.8 6,411.3 Changes in consolidated group 0.1 19.3 -1.2 -0.5 0.6 18.3 Exchange rate differences -65.7 -155.2 -44.5 -2.3 -12.6 -280.3 Additions 41.4 90.7 77.9 38.8 210.8 459.6 Write-ups 1.0 2.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 3.2 Disposals -8.3 -89.1 -44.6 -6.9 -6.2 -155.1 Reclassifications1 63.3 100.6 75.2 -31.0 -208.1 0.0 Status Dec. 31, 2017 1,469.0 3,375.2 1,351.6 40.9 220.3 6,457.0 DEPRECIATION Status Jan. 1, 2017 642.5 2,462.2 941.6 0.0 1.1 4,047.4 Changes in consolidated group -1.4 8.2 -1.5 0.0 0.0 5.3 Exchange rate differences -24.1 -112.5 -29.1 0.0 0.0 -165.7 Additions – systematic 42.2 161.7 120.3 0.0 0.0 324.2 Impairment losses 1.3 3.6 0.3 0.0 1.9 7.1 Write-ups 1.0 2.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 3.2 Disposals -4.6 -75.3 -41.3 0.0 -2.5 -123.7 Reclassifications1 11.6 -11.1 -0.2 0.0 -0.2 0.1 Status Dec. 31, 2017 668.5 2,438.9 990.2 0.0 0.3 4,097.9 Book value Dec. 31, 2017 800.5 936.3 361.4 40.9 220.0 2,359.1 1 The transfers also include reclassifications to other balance sheet items. 130 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Changes in tangible assets from January 1 to December 31, 2018: Other fixtures, Machinery fittings and Payments ConsLand and and office made on truction in [€ million] buildings equipment equipment account progress Total ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1, 20182 1,469.0 3,375.2 866.1 40.7 169.1 5,920.1 Changes in consolidated group 9.3 8.0 5.3 0.0 0.4 23.0 Exchange rate differences 15.5 36.3 4.7 0.4 3.0 59.9 Additions 31.8 88.5 52.1 38.8 153.6 364.8 Write-ups 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals -14.4 -153.6 -38.6 -2.5 -2.3 -211.4 Reclassifications1 28.2 109.0 -92.7 -46.6 -144.0 -146.1 Status Dec. 31, 2018 1,539.4 3,463.4 796.9 30.8 179.8 6,010.3 DEPRECIATION Status Jan. 1, 20182 668.5 2,438.9 648.9 0.0 0.2 3,756.5 Changes in consolidated group 3.7 5.7 3.9 0.0 0.0 13.3 Exchange rate differences 7.4 32.0 4.5 0.0 0.0 43.9 Additions – systematic 47.3 159.2 63.0 0.0 0.0 269.5 Impairment losses 0.2 3.1 0.5 0.0 0.0 3.8 Write-ups 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals -9.2 -140.6 -36.4 0.0 0.0 -186.2 Reclassifications1 -12.9 0.3 -81.9 0.0 0.0 -94.5 Status Dec. 31, 2018 705.0 2,498.6 602.5 0.0 0.2 3,806.3 Book value Dec. 31, 2018 834.4 964.8 194.4 30.8 179.6 2,204.0 1 The transfers also include reclassifications to other balance sheet items. 2 The opening balances were in some cases adjusted due to the effects of the first-time application of IFRS 15. In the financial year under review, Freudenberg received government grants for tangible assets in the amount of €0.9 million (previous year: €0.3 million). The grants mainly concerned investment promotion and were netted against acquisition costs. 131 Leased assets Leased assets are recognized under non-current assets at the following book values: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Land and buildings 4.1 5.4 Machinery and equipment 2.2 0.6 Other fixtures. fittings and office equipment 0.1 0.2 Book value of leased assets recognized 6.4 6.2 The finance lease contracts were concluded at arm’s do not provide for any contingent rent payments or length business conditions. Such leases normally significant restrictions. include favorable purchase options. The lease contracts Up to 1 to Over Up to 1 to Over [€ million] 1 year 5 years 5 years Dec. 31, 2017 1 year 5 years 5 years Dec. 31, 2018 Finance leases Minimum lease payments 1.0 1.6 4.4 7.0 1.2 1.8 4.6 7.6 Discount 0.0 0.1 0.9 1.0 0.0 0.6 1.2 1.8 Present value 1.0 1.5 3.5 6.0 1.2 1.2 3.4 5.8 Operating leases Minimum lease payments 78.3 185.5 142.3 406.1 91.9 168.9 114.2 375.0 Lease payments totaling €124.5 million (previous year: €120.7 million) under operating leases were recognized with an effect on net income. 132 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (3) Investment properties Details of land and buildings held by Freudenberg as investment properties are shown in the table below: [€ million] 2017 2018 Third-party use 100 % 100 % Rent income 4.0 3.9 There were no significant direct operating expenses in the year under review or in the previous year. There are no restrictions on the saleability of investment properties. Freudenberg is not under any contractual obligations to purchase, build or develop investment properties. Furthermore, Freudenberg is not under any contractual obligations to repair or maintain such investment properties going beyond its statutory obligations. 133 Changes in investment properties from January 1 to December 31: [€ million] 2017 2018 ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1 45.7 46.0 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 0.0 Exchange rate differences 0.0 0.0 Additions 0.3 0.0 Write-ups/revaluations 0.0 0.0 Disposals 0.0 0.0 Reclassifications 0.0 -2.7 Status Dec. 31 46.0 43.3 DEPRECIATION Status Jan. 1 31.9 33.3 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 0.0 Exchange rate differences 0.0 0.0 Additions systematic 1.4 1.3 Impairment losses 0.0 0.0 Write-ups/revaluations 0.0 0.0 Disposals 0.0 0.0 Reclassifications 0.0 -1.6 Status Dec. 31 33.3 33.0 Book value Dec. 31 12.7 10.3 The fair value of investment properties was €36.7 million (previous year: €37.0 million) and was calculated on the basis of discounted cash flows (level 3 inputs). 134 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (4) Investments in joint ventures The joint venture agreement with NOK Corporation, The summarized financial information of this joint Tokyo, Japan, is of major importance for Freudenberg. venture company is set out below: NOK-Freudenberg Asia Holding Co. Pte. Ltd., Singapore, is a 50:50 joint venture between the Japanese NOK Corporation and Freudenberg SE with the objective of serving the high-growth Chinese and Indian markets with locally-produced and imported sealing products. NOK-Freudenberg Asia [€ million] Holding Co. Pte. Ltd. Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Current assets 202.8 257.1 Of which: cash and cash equivalents 66.0 77.7 Non-current assets 166.3 226.0 Current liabilities 101.7 181.0 Of which: current financial liabilities 13.1 75.8 Non-current liabilities 0.1 0.8 Equity without non-controlling interests 267.3 301.3 Freudenberg share 50.0 % 50.0 % Pro-rata share in equity 133.7 150.6 At-equity measurement 133.7 150.6 2017 2018 Sales 377.1 375.3 Profit or loss from continuing operations 43.3 42.9 Other comprehensive income -12.9 -3.9 Total comprehensive income 30.4 39.0 Of which: depreciation and amortization -16.2 -19.0 Of which: interest income 0.4 0.6 Of which: interest expenses -1.3 -1.0 Of which: income tax expense or income -14.6 -12.6 As in the previous year, Freudenberg did not receive any The pro-rata share of the profit or loss from continuing dividend from NOK-Freudenberg Asia Holding Co. Pte. Ltd. operations of all individual joint ventures classed as not material was €0.5 million (previous year: €-0.2 million) The total carrying amount of interests in all individual and the pro-rata share in other comprehensive income joint ventures which are not material was €16.7 million was €0.5 million (previous year: €0.1 million). The pro (previous year: €15.8 million). rata share in total comprehensive income was therefore €1.0 million (previous year: €-0.1 million). 135 (5) Investments in associated companies For Freudenberg, its most important investment in The NOK Group manufactures and supplies sealing associated companies is its participation in the products, flexible printed circuits, roll products for Japanese company NOK Corporation with its office equipment and further products such as registered office in Tokyo, Japan. specialty lubricants. This major associated company gave the following figures in its consolidated interim financial statements as at December 31, 2018: [€ million] NOK Corporation Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Current assets 2,703.9 2,763.9 Non-current assets 3,383.8 3,621.8 Current liabilities 1,444.5 1,600.9 Non-current liabilities 866.4 813.0 Treasury shares -3.3 -1.8 Non-controlling interests 297.6 326.6 Equity without treasury shares and non-controlling interests 3,482.5 3,647.0 Freudenberg share 25.1 % 25.1 % Pro-rata share in equity 874.2 915.4 Goodwill 7.1 7.1 At-equity measurement 881.3 922.5 2017 2018 Sales 5,797.6 5,322.6 Profit or loss from continuing operations 321.6 213.9 Other comprehensive income 143.1 -220.0 Total comprehensive income 464.7 -6.1 The decrease in the other comprehensive income of The total carrying amount of interests in all associated NOK Corporation is due to exchange differences on companies classed as not material was €25.3 million translating the financial statement in foreign currency (previous year: €22.1 million). and to effects from the change in the value of securities available for sale. The pro-rata share in the profit or loss from continuing operations of all individual associated companies Freudenberg received dividends in the amount of €16.9 classed as not material was €0.2 million (previous year: million (previous year: €16.9 million) from NOK €6.5 million) and the pro-rata share in the other Corporation. comprehensive income of these companies was €1.2 million (previous year: €-4.9 million). The pro-rata share As at December 31, 2018, the market value of the in the total comprehensive income was therefore shareholding in NOK Corporation was €530.4 million €1.4 million (previous year: €1.6 million). (¥66,750.7 million) (previous year: €846.9 million; ¥114,336.7 million). 136 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (6) Inventories (7) Contract assets and contract liabilities Inventories break down as follows: [€ million] Jan. 01, 2018 Dec. 31, 2018 Contract assets 49.2 60.0 [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Contract liabilities 30.8 33.5 Raw materials and consumables 327.5 352.1 Work in progress 149.2 150.9 Finished goods and The first-time application of IFRS 15 resulted in the merchandise 540.7 561.7 recognition of contract assets in the amount of €49.2 Customer-specific tools in million as at January 1, 2018. These are mainly the construction 59.9 result of the over time realization of revenue for Payments made on customer-specific products and development account 4.5 3.2 contracts and, in the event of the application of IFRS 15 1,021.9 1,127.8 in 2017, would have resulted in the recognition of sales at an earlier point in time. Contract assets are transferred to trade receivables as soon as the right to Inventories rose by €105.9 million compared with the consideration becomes unconditional. As at December previous year. After eliminating the effects of changes 31, 2018, the carrying amount of contract assets was in the consolidated group and exchange rate effects, €60.0 million. inventories rose by about 9 percent. There were no significant loss allowances for contract Write-downs of inventories totaling €31.3 million assets in 2018. (previous year: €33.0 million) were recognized as expenses in the reporting year. The initial application of IFRS 15 resulted in the recognition of contract liabilities in the amount of Write-ups totaling €13.1 million (previous year: €30.8 million as at January 1, 2018. Contract liabilities €12.3 million) were effected on inventories as the relate to considerations received from customers in reason for the impairment losses concerned no longer advance of performance under a contract. Contract existed. liabilities are recognized as sales as soon as the promised goods or services have been transferred to The inventories shown are not subject to any the customer. In the reporting period, sales in the significant restrictions on title or disposal. amount of €25.5 million were recognized which had been included in contract liabilities at the beginning of the financial year. As at December 31, 2018, the carrying amount of contract liabilities was €33.5 million. Changes in the balances of contract assets and contract liabilities are mainly the result of the satisfaction of performance obligations laid down in contracts with customers. 137 (8) Receivables (9) Securities and cash at bank and in hand [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Trade receivables 1,509.1 1,467.5 Securities 82.0 180.9 Of which: Residual term Checks and cash in hand 3.7 4.1 up to 1 year 1,509.1 1,467.5 Cash at banks 913.1 799.7 Of which: Residual term more than 1 year 0.0 0.0 998.8 984.7 Other assets 232.6 277.9 Of which: Residual term The increase in securities mainly concerns a rise in the up to 1 year 177.4 205.8 amount of commercial papers and other short-term Of which: Residual term investments. more than 1 year 55.2 72.1 After adjustment for effects resulting from changes in the consolidated group and exchange rate effects, trade receivables fell by about 2 percent. The other assets for the year under review include pension plan assets in excess of the corresponding pension obligations amounting to €5.6 million (previous year: €7.2 million). The other assets also include other tax receivables in the amount of €73.6 million (previous year: €73.9 million) and liability insurance claims totaling €5.2 million (previous year: €5.2 million). The claims for reimbursement in connection with recognized provisions, which are included in other assets, are shown in the other provisions under note (13). 138 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (10) Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups The assets and disposal groups presented below and The assets and liabilities of the disposal group break the liabilities connected with these assets and disposal down as follows: groups are classified as “non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups”. [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Intangible and tangible assets 57.3 This item mainly concerns assets and disposal groups Inventories 1.1 attributable to the Freudenberg IT Business Group. A Trade receivables 27.1 description of the Freudenberg IT Business Group is Other assets 19.4 given in the management report. As at the statement of financial position date, the carrying amount of the Securities and cash at bank and in hand 3.4 assets and disposal groups concerned was lower than Non-current assets held for sale and disposal the fair value less costs to sell. By contract of groups 108.3 January 18, 2019, all the shares in the Freudenberg IT Business Group were sold to the Syntax Group with Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 15.4 effect from February 28, 2019. The Syntax Group is owned by the Canadian financial investor Novacap Other provisions 20.6 TMT IV, L.P., Quebec, Canada, and will round off its Trade payables 19.3 portfolio as an IT full service provider with Other liabilities 12.0 Freudenberg IT. Liabilities in connection with non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups 67.3 In addition, real property with a carrying amount of €4.3 million which was no longer regarded as necessary for the business of Freudenberg was classed As at the date of the statement of financial position, as held for sale. For the real property concerned, the cumulative other comprehensive income of the carrying amount corresponded to the carrying amount disposal group recognized in equity amounted to €4.4 or the fair value less costs to sell, whichever was lower. million. The sale of the real property concerned will probably take place within the first three quarters of 2019. 139 (11) Equity The subscribed capital in the amount of €450.0 In the reporting year, income (+) and expenses (-) which million (previous year: €450.0 million) consists of 450 had previously been recorded without an effect on net million no-par-value registered shares. The sole income with respect to the following components of shareholder of Freudenberg SE is Freudenberg & Co. other comprehensive income were reclassified to the Kommanditgesellschaft, Weinheim (hereafter: statement of profit or loss: Freudenberg & Co. KG). [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 The reserves break down as follows: Exchange rate differences -6.3 -1.0 Derivative financial [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 instruments -1.1 -0.1 Capital reserves 50.2 50.2 -7.4 -1.1 Retained earnings 4,008.9 4,452.9 4,059.1 4,503.1 In the 2018 financial year, tax effects (income (+)/expenses (-)) recorded without effect on net income The capital reserves consist of contributions in kind are attributable to the various items of other made by the shareholder. comprehensive income as follows: The retained earnings include net income earned by [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 the Group in the past and not distributed as well as Remeasurement of defined reserves of companies included in the consolidated benefit plans -23.9 -2.2 financial statements including expenses and income Securities and other items 19.1 -3.5 recorded without effect on net income. -4.8 -5.7 The profit distributed in the reporting year amounted to €118.5 million (previous year: €114.4 million). This corresponded to a profit per share of €0.26 (previous year: €0.25). The Board of Management proposes that the 2018 net retained profit in the amount of €2,371.2 million (previous year: €2.015,3 million) should be carried forward to new account. 140 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Non-controlling interests The change in non-controlling interests in the equity of This affiliated company is included in the consolidated consolidated affiliated companies from €325.9 million financial statements with the following values: to €359.0 million is mainly the result of the allocation of profit for the year and exchange rate differences. [€ million] Furthermore, dividends also resulted in a reduction in Freudenberg-NOK General non-controlling interests. Partnership Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Current assets 303.6 313.7 In the case of the following affiliated company, the Non-current assets 290.8 309.1 consolidated financial statements include significant Current liabilities 124.8 90.4 non-controlling interests in the amount of 25 percent Non-current liabilities 49.0 31.7 of the shares: [€ million] 2017 2018 Freudenberg-NOK General Sales 656.5 638.2 Partnership, Plymouth, USA Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Profit (+)/loss (-) 60.3 59.7 Profit (+)/loss (-) Total comprehensive income -3.7 80.8 attributable to noncontrolling interests 14.3 12.9 Total amount of noncontrolling interests 109.8 127.6 Freudenberg-NOK General Partnership paid dividends in the amount of €1.2 million (previous year: €2.0 million) to the holder of the non-controlling interests. Other non-controlling interests especially concern the EagleBurgmann Business Group, where they arise especially as a result of the contractual agreements with the partner Eagle Industry Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan. 141 (12) Provisions for pensions and similar obligations The Freudenberg pension scheme consists of both Apart from pension obligations, this item also includes defined contribution and defined benefit pension obligations similar to pensions, such as amounts paid plans. Defined benefit plans include both fixed salary to employees upon the termination of their and final salary plans. The provisions for pensions and employment which do not constitute termination similar obligations include obligations arising from benefits. These benefits vary in accordance with the current pensions and future pension entitlements. legal, tax and economic conditions in the countries concerned. The pension plans at Freudenberg Group mainly concern German, Japanese and British companies. The All defined benefit schemes of the Freudenberg Group pension obligations of the German companies are are subject to typical actuarial risks, especially commitments financed by provisions. These investment and interest risks. obligations are subject to the rules of the pension plan concerned and the applicable statutory provisions. The Current service cost and net interest on the net defined plans include benefit commitments dependent on benefit liability are disclosed in the statement of profit service periods and on salaries and provide for or loss under personnel expenses in the relevant disability benefits and benefits for surviving functional areas. dependents as well as for retirement benefits. In the case of the defined contribution plans, there are The pension plans of British companies are managed no additional obligations apart from the payment of by third party pension funds. The representatives of contributions. Contributions paid are expensed under the pension funds are legally obliged to act in the personnel expenses and amounted to €84.3 million in interest of all participants in the plan. In cooperation 2018 (previous year: €77.6 million). with investment advisers, they are responsible for the development and regular review of investment The defined benefit obligations were calculated on strategies for the plan assets. Commitments based on actuarial principles by the projected unit credit method. age and years of service include both retirement The calculation was based on the following discount benefits and certain forms of survivor benefits. Most rates as major actuarial assumptions: of these plans are frozen and future entitlements can no longer be earned by plan participants. The pension Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 obligations of these companies are mainly financed by Germany 1.85 % 1.95 % plan assets, funded chiefly by employers’ Japan 0.52 % 0.52 % contributions. United Kingdom 2.40 % 2.82 % The pension plans in Japan consist of benefit commitments based on age and years of service. These pension plans are managed by a third-party In the case of the other foreign companies, the pension fund. The pension obligations of the Japanese discount rates ranged from 0.9 to 4.2 percent (previous companies are mainly financed by plan assets, funded year: 0.5 to 3.0 percent). solely by employers’ contributions. As a result of the pension plan regulations, the . assumed trend in salaries and pensions only has an effect on the value of pension obligations in exceptional cases. 142 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Net obligations are shown in the following items of the statement of financial position: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 735.9 718.1 Other assets 7.2 5.6 728.7 712.5 Net obligations are calculated as follows: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Present value of funded obligations 299.9 266.7 Fair value of plan assets -275.4 -247.1 Surplus (-)/deficit (+) 24.5 19.6 Present value of unfunded obligations 704.2 692.9 728.7 712.5 143 Defined benefit obligations developed as follows: United Miscella[€ million] Germany Japan Kingdom neous 2017 Present value of defined benefit obligations, Jan. 1, 2017 635.1 131.3 194.3 261.5 1,222.2 Current service cost 16.2 3.4 0.0 5.2 24.8 Interest cost 11.2 0.7 5.0 4.8 21.7 Gains (-) and losses (+) from remeasurement of defined benefit obligations -1.9 1.2 -8.5 8.9 -0.3 Gains (-) and losses (+) on settlements 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.5 Past service cost -1.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.2 Contributions by plan participants 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.7 Liabilities extinguished on settlements 0.0 0.0 -45.5 -138.1 -183.6 Benefits paid -21.2 -3.8 -9.9 -10.6 -45.5 Other changes 1.0 0.0 0.0 4.6 5.6 Exchange rate differences 0.0 -11.1 -6.4 -23.3 -40.8 Present value of defined benefit obligations, Dec. 31, 2017 639.2 121.7 129.0 114.2 1,004.1 United Miscella[€ million] Germany Japan Kingdom neous 2018 Present value of defined benefit obligations, Jan. 1, 2018 639.2 121.7 129.0 114.2 1,004.1 Current service cost 14.4 3.8 0.0 4.8 23.0 Interest cost 11.6 0.7 2.6 2.5 17.4 Gains (-) and losses (+) from remeasurement of defined benefit obligations -4.2 0.8 -5.7 -1.7 -10.8 Gains (-) and losses (+) on settlements 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.3 Past service cost 0.2 0.0 0.5 0.5 1.2 Contributions by plan participants 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.7 Liabilities extinguished on settlements 0.0 0.0 -25.8 -7.6 -33.4 Benefits paid -19.8 -4.4 -7.4 -6.2 -37.8 Other changes -15.1 0.0 0.0 0.5 -14.6 Exchange rate differences 0.0 8.9 -1.1 1.7 9.5 Present value of defined benefit obligations, Dec. 31, 2018 626.4 131.5 92.1 109.6 959.6 144 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The plan assets of funded pension plans developed as follows: United Miscella[€ million] Japan Kingdom neous 2017 Fair value of plan assets, Jan. 1, 2017 100.9 180.0 183.2 464.1 Interest income 0.5 4.6 3.8 8.9 Gains (-) and losses (+) from remeasurement of plan assets 4.3 2.7 5.1 12.1 Contributions by employer 5.3 2.0 20.2 27.5 Contributions by plan participants 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.8 Liabilities extinguished on settlements 0.0 -45.5 -138.3 -183.8 Benefits paid -3.8 -9.9 -8.1 -21.8 General plan administration costs 0.0 -0.3 -1.5 -1.8 Other changes 0.0 0.0 3.9 3.9 Exchange rate differences -8.5 -5.9 -20.1 -34.5 Fair value of plan assets, Dec. 31, 2017 98.7 127.7 49.0 275.4 United Miscella[€ million] Japan Kingdom neous 2018 Fair value of plan assets, Jan. 1, 2018 98.7 127.7 49.0 275.4 Interest income 0.5 2.6 1.1 4.2 Gains (-) and losses (+) from remeasurement of plan assets -0.3 -5.7 0.4 -5.6 Contributions by employer 6.2 2.2 5.2 13.6 Contributions by plan participants 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.6 Liabilities extinguished on settlements 0.0 -25.8 -7.7 -33.5 Benefits paid -4.1 -7.4 -3.0 -14.5 General plan administration costs 0.0 -0.2 -0.3 -0.5 Other changes 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 Exchange rate differences 7.2 -1.0 1.4 7.6 Fair value of plan assets, Dec. 31, 2018 108.2 92.4 46.5 247.1 145 The fair value of plan assets with quoted prices in In the reporting year, gains and losses from the active markets was as follows: remeasurement of the defined benefit obligations and plan assets recognized in retained earnings developed [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 as follows: Equity instruments 104.4 80.4 [€ million] 2017 2018 Interest-bearing securities 51.0 55.8 Other assets 66.5 81.9 Gains (+) and losses (-) from remeasurement, Jan. 1 -397.7 -305.1 221.9 218.1 Gains (+) and losses (-) from remeasurement of defined benefit obligations 0.3 10.8 The fair value of plan assets without quoted prices in Of which: as a result of changed financial active markets was as follows: assumptions -4.5 17.9 Of which: as a result of [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 changed demographic assumptions 6.5 -6.5 Equity instruments 0.8 0.7 Of which: as a result of Interest-bearing securities 0.3 0.4 experience-based Other assets 52.4 27.9 adjustments -1.7 -0.6 53.5 29.0 Gains (+) and losses (-) from remeasurement of plan assets 12.1 -5.5 Reclassifications/other changes 70.4 10.7 Exchange rate differences 9.8 0.5 Gains (+) and losses (-) from remeasurement, Dec. 31 -305.1 -288.6 In the following year, contributions in the amount of €11.5 million (previous year: €12.8 million) will probably be made to plan assets. The weighted average duration of defined benefit obligations as at the end of the reporting year was 16.4 years (previous year: 16.9 years). The possible changes in the defined benefit obligation as a result of changes in the discount rate, a major actuarial assumption, were calculated on the basis of the projected unit credit method. If the discount rate as at the statement of financial position date had been 0.50 percentage points lower, the present value of defined benefit obligations as at the statement of financial position date would have been €83.2 million (previous year: €88.2 million) higher. If the discount rate as at the statement of financial position date had been 0.50 percentage points higher, the present value of defined benefit obligations as at the statement of financial position date would have been €74.3 million (previous year: €77.9) lower. 146 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (13) Other provisions Warranties Personnel and Onerous Miscella[€ million] obligations guarantees contracts neous Total 1 Status Jan. 1, 2018 351.0 88.6 25.9 290.3 755.8 Increases 258.3 32.7 16.3 143.4 450.7 Unwinding of discount and effect of change in discount rate 0.2 -0.1 0.0 1.0 1.1 Amounts used -241.0 -10.6 -13.2 -129.9 -394.7 Reversal -21.6 -38.0 -3.5 -45.6 -108.7 Exchange rate differences 1.1 -0.2 0.1 -3.5 -2.5 Changes in consolidated group 0.8 -0.3 0.0 1.5 2.0 Other changes -8.8 -1.5 -0.1 -12.7 -23.1 Status Dec. 31, 2018 340.0 70.6 25.5 244.5 680.6 Of which: long-term 61.6 3.3 0.5 43.6 109.0 Of which: short-term 278.4 67.3 25.0 200.9 571.6 Reimbursement claims connected with provisions and shown in the statement of financial position under other assets 0.5 1.6 0.0 1.0 3.1 1 The opening balances were in some cases adjusted due to the effects of the first-time application of IFRS 15. The provisions for personnel obligations mainly The miscellaneous provisions include the following include provisions for other short-term employee items: benefits such as bonuses and commissions, provisions for vacation not taken and other long-term employee [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 benefits such as long-term remuneration components Restructuring 35.9 33.4 as well as provisions for termination benefits. Legal action 25.0 24.1 Environmental protection 18.6 21.6 The provisions for guarantees and warranties concern Other 229.1 165.4 products supplied and services rendered. The provisions for onerous contracts include unrealized Total 308.6 244.5 losses from contracts which have not been performed or not been fully performed. 147 (14) Liabilities Residual term Residual term More More Up to 1 to than Dec. 31, Up to 1 to than Dec. 31, [€ million] 1 year 5 years 5 years 2017 1 year 5 years 5 years 2018 Liabilities to banks (= financial debt) 201.3 342.1 10.5 553.9 133.5 282.0 0.4 415.9 Cash pool liablities 98.0 0.0 0.0 98.0 101.9 0.0 0.0 101.9 Other financial debt, including leasing 12.4 1.6 3.8 17.8 12.2 1.6 4.0 17.8 Shareholder’s loans 370.0 150.0 150.0 670.0 375.0 150.0 150.0 675.0 Accounts of Freudenberg & Co. KG Partners 178.1 274.3 0.0 452.4 179.9 299.6 0.0 479.5 Financial debt 859.8 768.0 164.3 1,792.1 802.5 733.2 154.4 1,690.1 Trade payables 882.9 0.0 0.0 882.9 883.0 0.0 0.0 883.0 Contract liabilities 21.1 0.0 0.0 21.1 33.5 0.0 0.0 33.5 Miscellaneous liabilities 420.4 183.2 97.5 701.1 282.6 52.7 79.6 414.9 Other liabilities 441.5 183.2 97.5 722.2 316.1 52.7 79.6 448.4 2,184.2 951.2 261.8 3,397.2 2,001.6 785.9 234.0 3,021.5 The average interest rate on long-term liabilities to The interest payable on the certificates of banks is 1.00 percent (previous year: 0.83 percent). indebtedness included in the liabilities to banks is based on variable and fixed components. Cash flows for variable and fixed interest and repayment of principal will probably be as follows from 2019 to 2023: [€ million] Book value Cash Flows Dec. 31, 2018 2019 2020 2021-2023 Certificates of indebtedness 214.5 2.8 160.3 59.1 Other financial debt includes loans granted by third The interest rates applicable to accounts of parties. This item also includes liabilities in connection Freudenberg & Co. KG Partners vary between 1.00 and with finance leasing, with an average interest rate of 4.00 percent depending on the individual agreements 3.18 percent (previous year: 3.22 percent). Further (previous year: between 1.00 and 4.00 percent). details are given in the information on finance leases under note (2). Miscellaneous liabilities include liabilities for outstanding wages and salaries, holiday pay and special The loans granted by the shareholder were extended bonuses and liabilities for other taxes, as well as during the reporting year. Interest is payable on these liabilities in connection with social security and other loans at rates between 1.00 and 3.35 percent (previous refund liabilities. year: between 1.00 and 3.35 percent). 148 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Bills of exchange 0.1 0.1 Guarantees 27.4 15.8 Warranty agreements 8.0 0.2 Collateral for third-party liabilities 0.0 0.1 Miscellaneous 10.1 0.4 45.6 16.6 OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS Commitments arising from leasing contracts1 390.3 370.3 Purchase commitments in connection with intangible assets 0.5 1.4 Purchase commitments in connection with tangible assets 48.0 47.7 Purchase commitments in connection with the delivery of goods and services 105.8 92.7 Miscellaneous 10.2 23.4 554.8 535.5 1 See also the explanatory remarks in note (2) of the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the following contingent liabilities and other financial commitments concern joint ventures: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Guarantees 6.0 5.6 Warranties 0.4 0.4 6.4 6.0 OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS Commitments arising from leasing contracts1 15.8 4.7 Purchase commitments in connection with the delivery of goods and services 0.1 0.0 15.9 4.7 1 See also the explanatory remarks on leased assets in note (2) to the consolidated financial statements. 149 Additional information on financial instruments The term “financial instrument” is used to refer to any • Measured at fair value through profit or loss contract that gives rise to both a financial asset of one enterprise and a financial liability or equity instrument This category includes both debt and equity of another enterprise. A distinction is made between instruments. Debt instruments are to be assigned to primary and derivative financial instruments. Primary this category in the event that the cash flows financial instruments in the case of the purchase or associated with such instruments do not consist sale of assets are recognized at the settlement date, i.e. solely of principal and interest paymentsor if the the delivery of the asset concerned. Derivative financial business model is based mainly on short-term instruments are recognized as of the trade date. In the trading intentions. Equity instruments must also be event of loss of control over the contractually agreed assigned to this category if there are trading rights to a financial asset, the asset concerned is intentions. If there are no trading intentions, there is derecognized. Financial liabilities are derecognized on an option to classify equity instruments as measured the statement of financial position when the at fair value through profit or loss. In addition, both commitment is discharged or cancelled, or expires. debt and equity instruments are classified in this category if such classification prevents an According to IFRS 9, financial instruments are divided accounting mismatch. The same applies to into the following categories: partnership shares. Those shares are not considered to be equity instruments and also do not meet the • Measured at amortized cost condition that the cash flows associated with them consist solely of principal and interest payments. This category includes debt instruments with cash Derivative financial instruments that do not meet flows consisting solely of principal and interest the requirements for hedge accounting are also payments. They are held by Freudenberg in a measured at fair value through profit or loss. business model whose objective is achieved by collecting the contractual cash flows. Freudenberg does not hold any financial assets or liabilities for short-term trading purposes. • Measured at fair value through other comprehensive income This category includes both debt and equity instruments. Debt instruments are to be included in this category if the cash flows associated with these instruments consists solely of principal and interest payments and the business model has the objective of both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. Amounts recognized in other comprehensive income for those debt instruments are reclassified to the statement of profit or loss upon the later disposal of such instruments. Equity instruments not held for trading may be assigned to this category. The amounts recognized in other comprehensive income for those equity instruments are not reclassified to the statement of profit or loss in the event of the later disposal of such instruments. 150 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial instruments Financial instruments are assigned to categories on the The allocation to the categories unambiguously basis of the relevant items in the statement of financial defines the accounting and measurement of the position. instruments. Available-forsale financial assets at fair Available-forOther financial Loans and value without sale financial liabilities receivables at effect on profit assets at at amortized Book value [€ million] amortized cost or loss amortized cost cost Dec. 31, 2017 ASSETS Other financial assets1 8.3 84.2 30.0 122.5 Trade receivables 1,509.1 1,509.1 Other assets 104.9 104.9 Securities and cash at bank and in hand 998.8 998.8 2,621.1 84.2 30.0 2,735.3 LIABILITIES Financial debts 1,792.1 1,792.1 Trade payables 882.9 882.9 Other liabilities 407.8 407.8 3,082.8 3,082.8 1 The figures for the previousyear are calculated in accordance with IAS 39. In the previous year Freudenberg did not hold any held to maturity financial investments or financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss. The fair value of available for sale financial assets was determined on the basis of the values of active markets for identical assets (level 1 input factors) in the amount of €84.2 million in 2017. 151 At fair value through other At fair value Book value comprehensive through profit or Dec. 31, [€ million] At amortized cost income loss 2018 ASSETS Other financial assets 6.6 57.0 55.0 118.6 Trade receivables 1,467.5 1,467.5 Other assets 132.6 27.3 159.9 Securities and cash at bank and in hand 984.7 984.7 2,591.4 57.0 82.3 2,730.7 LIABILITIES Financial debts 1,690.1 1,690.1 Trade payables 883.0 883.0 Other liabilities 293.5 0.4 293.9 2,866.6 0.4 2,867.0 Loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost. The other financial instruments measured at fair value The cash flows arising from these financial assets through profit or loss are debt instruments with an consist solely of principal and interest payments and amount of €2.5 million with cash flows not consisting they are held by Freudenberg within a business model solely of principal and interest payments, investments whose objective is achieved by collecting the for which another measurement would lead to an contractualcash flows. The fair values of financial accounting mismatch with an amount of €9.0 million assets and financial liabilities measured at amortized and shares in partnerships with an amount of €43.5 cost are approximately equal to the carrying amounts million. In the case of shares in partnerships, the of such assets and liabilities. amortized cost represents the fair value. Insufficient more recent information was available for the The other financial assets measured at fair value measurement of fair value. In the event that later through other comprehensive income as at the information becomes available, measurement statement of financial position date consist solely of changes are recognized in fair value with an effect on equity instruments not held for trading purposes. The net income. This was not the case in the reporting greater part of these financial instruments, in the period. The other financial assets measured at fair amount of €53.3 million) were measured on the basis value through profit or loss are measured on the basis of active markets for identical assets (level 1 input of active markets for identical assets (level 1 inputs). factors). For the remaining equity instruments, in the The loss recognized in the reporting period for amount of €3.7 million, the amortized cost represents financial instruments in this category was €1.9 million. the best estimate of the fair value. The amounts The other assets in this category solely include recognized in other comprehensive income for equity derivative financial instruments. These concern option instruments are not reclassified to the statement of rights for the acquisition of shares in companies with profit or loss upon the later disposal of such a value of €26.7 million. The fair value of these assets instruments. In the reporting period, there were no is measured on the basis of developed, unobservable disposals of significant equity instruments in this input factors (level 3 input factors). The other category. derivative financial instruments are used for hedging currency risks but do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting. They are therefore measured at fair value through profit or loss (see information on hedging transactions). 152 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Information on credit risks In accordance with IFRS 9, expected credit losses are Securities and cash at bank and in hand are debt the key factor in measuring impairment losses. instruments that are measured at amortized cost. Impairment losses are recognized in accordance with Such assets held by Freudenberg mainly have a low IFRS 9 for all financial assets measured at amortized credit risk and are due in the short-term. Such assets cost, for debt instruments measured at fair value must therefore be assigned to stage 1 of the without effect on net income, and for contract assets. impairment model. The application of the expected credit loss models of these items resulted in the IFRS 9 provides for a three-stage procedure. Loss recognition of an impairment loss as at January 1, allowances are measured either on the basis of the 122018 of €1.0 million. The impairment losses were not month expected credit loss (stage 1) or on the basis of adjusted in the reporting period. the lifetime expected credit loss if there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition (stage 2) or a credit impairment has been identified (stage 3). [€ million] Trade receivables Other assets Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2017 Book value 1,509.1 104.9 Of which: neither past due nor impaired 1,200.2 95.0 Of which: not impaired as at the date of the statement of financial position and past due within the following time Up to 60 days 232.2 7.7 Between 61 and 120 days 34.6 0.3 Between 121 and 180 days 17.2 0.6 Between 181 and 360 days 9.6 0.4 More than 360 days 3.7 0.5 153 For trade receivables, the simplified approach in The customer-specific risk is based on shared credit risk accordance with IFRS 9 is adopted. In this approach, the characteristics of receivable groups. It takes into loss allowance is always calculated on the basis of the consideration specific business models, customer lifetime expected credit losses. In order to determine experience, differences in local payment cultures and the expected credit losses, customers are assigned to market knowledge. If there is a major difference groups with similar credit risks. In the case of between different due date ranges, impairment loss appropriate individual circumstances and risk rates are calculated separately for the different due indications, individual impairment losses are date ranges. recognized. Information related to the past and to the future is taken into consideration in the measurement To a large extent (between 70 and 90 percent), trade of impairment losses. receivables are covered by credit insurance. Credit insurance is taken into account in the calculation of the In order to determine the expected credit lossesfor a impairment losses. Otherwise, the carrying amount group of receivables, Freudenberg applies two factors. represents the maximum credit risk. The first factor takes the country risk into account and the second factor accounts for the customer-specific default risk. The centrally defined country risk factor covers factors such as transfer or convertibility risks, moratoriums, and capital or currency regulations which would prevent a company from converting its local currency into a foreign currency and/or transferring foreign currency to creditors in other countries. This specifically includes circumstances such as war, confiscation, revolution, insurrections, flooding and earthquakes. In addition the model considers forward looking information regarding the financial and economic situation. The financial information includes mediumterm financial solvency indicators such as overall foreign debt and total payments in connection with external debts. These figures are typically connected with indicators such as the gross domestic product and/or foreign exchange revenues. Economic information includes long-term structural indicators that measure the growth potential such as income levels, savings rates or economic growth rates achieved and vulnerability, such as export diversification, dependence on subsidies or the size of economies. 154 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Trade receivables are de-recognized if, on the basis of an or is subject to insolvency proceedings. As at the appropriate estimate, it is not to be expected that the statement of financial position date, derecognized receivable may be realized in whole or in part. In this receivables in the amount of €1.3 million were still context, the information concerned must indicate that subject to enforcement activity. a debtor has financial problems and that there is no realistic prospect of the receipt of payments, for The risk profile of trade receivables is summarized in example if a debtor has been placed under liquidation the table below: Gross carrying amount Weighted average [€ million] Dec. 31, 20181 loss rate Loss allowance Current (not past due) 1,259.4 1% 12.0 1 – 60 days past due 196.0 2% 4.3 61 – 180 days past due 43.8 9% 3.9 181 – 360 days past due 12.7 18 % 2.3 More than 360 days past due 9.6 46 % 4.4 1 The figures include assets and groups of assets held for sale. Impairment losses to trade receivables developed as follows: [€ million] 20171 2018 Impairment losses Jan. 1. – IAS 39 26.6 22.5 Transition effect on impairment losses recognized in other comprehensive income 0.0 3.8 Impairment losses Jan. 1. – IFRS 9 26.6 26.3 Changes in consolidated group -0.7 0.1 Exchange rate differences -1.3 -0.4 Additions (expenses for impairments) 7.2 9.6 Amounts used -4.8 -2.9 Reversals (reversal of impairment) -4.5 -5.8 Impairment losses Dec. 31 22.5 26.9 1 The figures for the previous year are calculated in accordance with IAS 39. As at the statement of financial position date, impairment losses to other assets amounted to €0.7 million (previous year: €0.5 million). 155 Hedging transactions Freudenberg SE is responsible for all financing Derivative financial instruments for hedging activities and also operates the cash management recognized assets or liabilities (fair value hedges) are system for the entire group of companies. Group shown in the statement of financial position at fair companies obtain the financing they require via cash value. Changes in the fair value are recorded in the pools or internal loans or, in some countries, in the form statement of profit or loss. of bank loans guaranteed by Freudenberg SE. Financial instruments for hedging future cash flows The limits of action, responsibilities and control (cash flow hedges) are also included in the statement procedures in connection with derivative financial of financial position at fair value, but changes in the fair instruments are laid down in a binding form in internal value of such instruments are recognized without directives for Group companies. Freudenberg does not effect on net income under retained earnings, taking expose itself to additional financial risks through into consideration the applicable income taxes and speculation with derivative financial instruments but recognized in the statement of profit or loss when uses such instruments only for hedging purposes and future cash flows are realized. Ineffective portions of therefore reducing risks in connection with transhedge transactions are always recognized in the actions. Future transactions are only hedged if there is statement of profit or loss. The effectiveness of a high probability of occurrence. As a general principle hedging transactions is determined regularly by Freudenberg uses derivative financial instruments for prospective assessment upon the inception of the hedging interest rate and foreign exchange risks. transaction. For hedging currency risks, the main hedging transactions concluded are based on contract Open risk Items are primarily hedged via transactions terms that are congruent with the underlying within the Group. External hedging transactions are transaction. Ineffectiveness may arise if parameters only concluded after consultation with the responsible such as the timing of a planned transaction change corporate function. compared with the original estimate. The interest rate risk represents the risk that the fair Derivative financial instruments are used solely for value or future cash flows of financial instruments may hedging purposes. However, if the derivatives do not fluctuate as a result of changes in market interest rates. meet the requirements for hedge accounting, they As in the previous year, there were no derivatives must be assessed as “held for trading” for accounting entered into for the purpose of interest rate hedging as purposes. Such instruments are measured at fair value at December 31, 2018. through profit or loss. Freudenberg is active internationally and is subject to The notional amount of previous year currency futures exchange rate risks resulting from transactions in concluded for hedging currency risks and still open as at foreign currencies. Currency risks arise from future December 31, 2017 was €105.4 million. The negative business transactions and recognized assets and fair value of these instruments as at December 31, 2017 liabilities concluded in a currency which is not the was €0.9 million. Of the total volume of derivatives, no functional currency of the relevant Group company. derivatives had a term of more than one year in the The objective of hedging transactions is to reduce the previous year. Of the total volume of financial volatility resulting from foreign currencies. For this instruments classified as fair value hedges, 67 percent purpose, currency futures and currency swaps are had a term of more than one year as at December 31, concluded. 2018.As at 31 December 2017, currency futures were included in the other assets at a fair value of €0.9 million and in other liabilities with a fair value of €1.8 million. 156 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As at 31 December 2018, the Group held the following currency futures: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – CASH FLOW HEDGES Other assets – book value (assets) 0.4 Other liabilities – book value (equity and liabilities) 0.3 Notional amount 31.7 Maturity date 1/2019 12/2019 Hedge ratio 1:1 Change in exchange rate of outstanding hedging instruments 0.1 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – FAIR VALUE HEDGES Other assets – book value (assets) 0.0 Other liabilities – book value (equity and liabilities) 0.2 Notional amount 3.6 Maturity date 2/2019 9/2020 Hedge ratio 1:1 Change in exchange rate of outstanding hedging instruments -0.2 Change in value of hedged item 0.2 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS HELD FOR TRADING Other Assets – book value (assets) 0.6 Other liabilities – book value (liabilities) 0.4 Notional amount 131.8 Maturity date 1/2019 12/2019 In the reporting year, value changes in the case of Derivatives to hedge currency risks in connection with currency futures (cash flow hedges) are recognized in the US dollar represent the greater part of the notional equity in the amount of €0.1 million (previous year: amount. €-0.1 million). [€ million] Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 The fair values of currency futures were determined on Notional amount the basis of the quoted currency future prices for currency pair USD/EUR 62.0 60.2 similar financial instruments (level 2 inputs). Weighted average hedged rate for the year USD/EUR 1.19 1.14 157 Risks in connection with financial instruments Currency risk: Freudenberg is exposed to risks resulting from changes The primary financial instruments are chiefly held in in exchange rates and interest rates and, as a general the functional currency. principle, uses conventional derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and currency futures Exchange rate differences caused by the conversion of to hedge risks in connection with business operations financial statements into the Group currency are not and financing to a limited extent. The use of these taken into consideration. instruments is governed by Freudenberg directives within the risk management system which lay down If the value of the euro against major currencies held at limits on the basis of the value of the underlying the date of the statement of financial position (USD, transactions, define approval procedures, exclude the GBP and JPY) had been 10 percent higher as at use of derivative instruments for speculative purposes, December 31, 2018, the profit before income taxes minimize credit risks and govern internal reporting and would have been €10.4 million (previous year: €8.0 the separation of functions. Compliance with these million) lower. If the value of the euro against major directives and the proper handling and measurement currencies held (USD, GBP and JPY) had been 10 percent of transactions are regularly verified, observing the lower as at December 31, 2018, the profit before principle of separation of functions. Furthermore, risk income taxes would have been €12.7 million (previous management for financial instruments is integrated in year: €9.8 million) higher. the Freudenberg Group risk management system. The risks which are hedged are chiefly as follows: Liquidity risk: Risks connected with cash flow fluctuations are Interest rate risk: identified by the cash flow planning system already in place. As a result of Freudenberg‘s good rating (“A3”) In the case of fixed-interest loans or investments, there and the credit lines granted by banks on a binding basis, is a risk that changes in the market interest rate will Freudenberg can access ample sources of funds at all affect the market value of the item concerned (market times. value risk contingent on interest rates). In contrast, variable interest loans and investments are not subject to this risk as the interest rate is adjusted to reflect Credit risk: changes in the market situation with a very short delay. However, there is a risk with respect to future interest Specific provisions are recognized to take account of payments as a result of short-term fluctuations in identifiable risks not covered by credit insurance. In market interest rates (cash flow risk contingent on addition, a loss allowance is recognized for expected interest rates). credit losses. Otherwise, the book value represents the maximum credit risk. Risks associated with interest rate changes mainly affect long-term items. If market interest rates had Freudenberg only concludes derivative financial been 0.5 percentage points higher or lower, on average, instruments with national and international banks of as of December 31, 2018, this would have had only an investment grade rating. Credit risks are largely limited insignificant impact on net income. by distributing hedges between several banks and a policy of applying caps to individual banks. 158 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS (15) Sales (19) Research and development expenses [€ million] 2017 2018 Apart from personnel and material expenses, research Sales from sales of goods 9,027.8 9,077.1 and development expenses chiefly include the cost of licenses and patents occurring in the course of Sales from services 159.4 153.7 development projects. Sales from research and development and research and development licenses 73.3 92.5 (20) Other income Sales from productionrelated licenses 1.4 1.2 [€ million] 2017 2018 Other sales 83.7 130.9 Currency and exchange 9,345.6 9,455.4 gains1 0.0 7.9 Income from other secondary business 2.1 2.2 Other sales include, inter alia, sales from the sale of Income from disposals of customer-specific tools, sales from rental and lease intangible and tangible assets 8.3 29.4 contracts and sales from support and supplementary operations. A breakdown of sales by sectors and Income from the change in status of investments regions is given in the management report. previously consolidated at-equity 22.2 0.0 Income from disposals of (16) Cost of sales financial assets 0.8 0.0 Income from recharges 7.6 10.9 Cost of sales, amounting to €6,395.6 million (previous Miscellaneous income 62.3 84.9 year: €6,171.1 million), indicates the cost of goods and 103.3 135.3 services sold. Apart from individual directly attributable costs, such as personnel expenses and 1 After offsetting of exchange rate losses. material expenses, overheads, and depreciation /amortization are also shown under cost of sales. The increase in other income is chiefly due to higher income from disposals of intangible and tangible assets (17) Selling expenses and currency and exchange gains. The increase in miscellaneous income is mainly the result of the Selling expenses, amounting to €1,297.2 million measurement of option rights. (previous year: €1,365.8 million) include all expenses incurred in the sales area, for example personnel, advertising, carriage and packaging expenses. (18) Administrative expenses In 2018, administrative expenses amounted to €633.5 million (previous year: €622.6 million). Administrative expenses include all expenses which cannot be allocated to production, sales or research and development and concern, inter alia, personnel expenses and miscellaneous administrative expenses. 159 (21) Other expenses (24) Other investment result [€ million] 2017 2018 The decline of other investment income from €36.8 million to €-9.5 million was chiefly the result of a Currency and exchange losses1 7.8 0.0 reduced income from other investments and increased Losses resulting from impairment losses on financial assets. disposals of intangible and tangible assets 7.6 6.2 Losses from the change in (25) Other interest and similar income status of investments previously consolidated at-equity 2.5 0.0 As in the previous year, other interest and similar Losses resulting from income amounted to €13.3 million. disposals of financial assets 3.4 1.1 Miscellaneous expenses 77.8 76.2 99.1 83.5 (26) Interest and similar expenses 1 After offsetting of exchange rate gains. In 2018, interest expenses amounted to €44.0 million (previous year: €44.0 million). This item chiefly includes interest on shareholder’s loans in the The miscellaneous expenses mainly include the amount of €13.4 million (previous year: €12.5 million) impairment loss on the goodwill of the group of cashand interest payable to the Partners of Freudenberg & generating unit Japan Vilene Company in the amount Co. KG in the amount of €13.1 million (previous year: of €44.4 million. €12.1 million). (22) Income from investments in joint ventures (27) Income taxes The income from investments in joint ventures This item shows German corporation tax (plus amounted to €22.0 million (previous year: €21.5 solidarity surcharge) and municipal trade taxes and million). similar taxes on income payable in other countries. The figure also includes deferred taxes on temporary (23) Income from investments in associated differences between the tax balance sheets and companies commercial balance sheets of individual companies, on adjustments to uniform measurement within The fall in income from investments in associated Freudenberg and on consolidation transactions. companies from €79.4 million to €46.9 million is a result of the reduced pro rata share in the profit of the Deferred taxes are calculated at the tax rates applicable associated company NOK Corporation, Tokyo, Japan. in the countries concerned. 160 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Income taxes break down as follows (expense (-) recognized in the amount of €6.1 million (previous year: /income (+)): €6.4 million). [€ million] 2017 2018 In the reporting year, deferred taxes related to transactions recognized directly under equity resulted Current taxes related to the reporting period -258.2 -242.2 in a reduction in equity of €5.7 million (previous year: Current taxes related to prior reduction in equity of €4.8 million). periods 8.7 -6.6 Deferred taxes 66.5 15.9 As of December 31, 2018, tax losses carried forward -183.0 -232.9 amounted to €388.2 million (previous year: €417.7 million). Deferred tax assets were recognized in respect of tax losses carried forward totaling €37.7 million (previous year: €29.7 million). Deferred tax assets were The amount of deferred tax income related to changes not recognized in respect of tax losses carried forward in tax rates was €0.9 million (previous year: deferred with a total amount of €350.5 million (previous year: tax income of €17.3 million). Deferred tax income €388.0 million) as it is not expected that these losses includes income in the amount of €14.5 million will be usable. Of the tax losses carried forward, €19.5 (previous year: €51.9 million) resulting from the million (previous year: €6.7 million) will be forfeited in development or elimination of temporary differences. the period up to 2028 if they are not used. In the reporting year, impairment losses with respect to deferred taxes on temporary differences were In the reporting year, tax losses carried forward totaling €14.7 million (previous year: €17.0 million) for which no deferred tax assets had been recognized were used. 161 Deferred taxes concern temporary differences and tax losses carried forward with the following amounts: Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities assets liabilities Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, [€ million] 2017 2017 2018 2018 Intangible assets 14.6 312.9 18.1 287.7 Tangible assets 11.1 116.7 11.1 119.3 Financial assets 0.9 2.1 1.3 2.0 Inventories 36.4 1.0 42.7 0.7 Receivables 16.3 10.3 19.3 8.4 Other assets 6.3 0.5 3.0 8.6 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 121.7 0.3 119.8 0.3 Other provisions 69.3 1.8 54.0 2.2 Liabilities 45.8 11.0 28.4 11.5 Other liabilities 0.1 4.4 0.1 4.2 Tax losses carried forward 6.4 0.0 6.8 0.0 328.9 461.0 304.6 444.9 Offsetting -103.9 -103.9 -96.1 -96.1 Recognized in statement of financial position 225.0 357.1 208.5 348.8 No deferred tax items were set up on temporary differences arising from shareholdings totaling €44.5 million (previous year: €38.7 million) as shortterm dividend payments are not expected. No deferred tax liabilities were recognized in respect of differences in the retained income of affiliated companies amounting to €1,974.7 million (previous year: €1,833.4 million) as it is intended to use these retained earnings for maintaining the substance and expanding the business of the companies concerned. 162 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Reconciliation of expected income tax with actual (28) Profit or loss attributable to non-controlling income tax expense interests Freudenberg SE and its German subsidiaries are [€ million] 2017 2018 subject to corporation tax (plus solidarity surcharge) Profit 56.0 55.9 and the municipal trade tax on income. Income Loss -7.8 -6.7 realized in other countries is taxed at the rates applicable in the countries concerned. The tax rate of 48.2 49.2 30.0 percent (previous year: 30.0 percent) used for calculating the expected tax expense is based on the structure of Freudenberg relevant for taxation. It is calculated as the weighted average of the tax rates for the regions in which Freudenberg realized its main income. Non-taxable income includes the profit after tax of participating interests consolidated by the equity method as well as dividends received from companies which were not fully consolidated. [€ million] 2017 2018 Profit before income taxes 883.1 835.3 Expected income tax expense (-)/ income (+) -264.9 -250.6 Different tax rates: In Germany 0.3 0.6 In other countries 29.2 44.3 Tax portion of: Non-taxable income 52.4 46.9 Non-deductible expenses -39.2 -64.1 Current taxes related to prior periods 41.2 -3.6 Tax portion of new tax losses carried forward for which no deferred tax assets were recognized -13.7 -12.4 Tax portion of tax losses carried forward and used for which no deferred tax assets were recognized 2.1 0.6 Other taxation effects 9.6 5.4 Actual income tax expense -183.0 -232.9 Effective tax rate (percent) 20.7 27.9 163 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (29) Cash flow from operating activities (30) Payments to shareholders/non-controlling interest The cash flow from operating activities takes into account dividends received from joint ventures totaling Payments to shareholders and non-controlling €0.3 million (previous year: €0.3 million) and dividends interests include dividends paid to the shareholder, to received from associated companies totaling the Partners of Freudenberg & Co. KG and to holders of €21.7 million (previous year: €24.0 million). non-controlling interests in Group companies. (31) Reconciliation of financial debt The table below shows the reconciliation of financial debt: With effect on [€ million] 2017 payments Without effect on payments 2018 Acquisitions / Exchange Disposals rate effects Others Liabilities to banks 553.9 -154.2 6.8 9.5 -0.1 415.9 Liabilities from cash pool 98.0 8.5 0.0 0.0 -4.6 101.9 Other financial debt, Including liabilities from finance lease 17.8 4.5 0.8 -1.4 -3.9 17.8 Shareholder’s loans 670.0 5.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 675.0 Accounts of Freudenberg & Co. KG Partners 452.4 26.7 0.0 0.0 0.4 479.5 Financial debt 1,792.1 -109.5 7.6 8.1 -8.2 1,690.1 (32) Changes in cash and cash equivalents with effect on payments Freudenberg recognizes checks, cash in hand, cash at The funds subject to restrictions on use by Freudenberg bank and short-term securities with an original term of largely concern cash and cash equivalents held by up to three months as cash and cash equivalents. Cash affiliates which can only be used by Freudenberg with and cash equivalents include funds with an amount of restrictions as a result of exchange controls. €1.8 million (previous year: €1.1 million) subject to restrictions on use. 164 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FURTHER NOTES Material expenses [€ million] 2017 2018 Raw materials, consumables and merchandise purchased 3,721.2 3,824.3 Services purchased 274.8 267.2 3,996.0 4,091.5 Workforce and personnel expenses In the year under review, an average of 48,894 (previous year: 47,657) persons were employed in the following functions: Other 2018 Germany countries Total Production 6,968 25,741 32,709 Sales 1,998 6,286 8,284 Research and development 1,740 1,850 3,590 Administration 1,334 2,977 4,311 12,040 36,854 48,894 [€ million] 2017 2018 Wages and salaries 2,083.9 2,134.9 Social security contributions and costs of pensions and assistance 526.6 515.0 Personnel expenses 2,610.5 2,649.9 Research and development In the year under review, research and development activities amounting to €444.3 million (previous year: €427.8 million) were performed. Sales from research and development and research and development licenses amounted to €92.5 million (previous year: €73.3 million). In the reporting year government grants for research and development projects totaling €3.4 million (previous year: €2.3 million) were received. 165 Related party disclosure Relations with related parties concern the parent Other related parties include other participations of company Freudenberg & Co. KG, joint ventures, the parent company and companies that are not associated companies and other related parties. included in the consolidated financial statements for reasons of materiality. Transactions with these parties in the course of the company’s ordinary business were as follows: Receivables Payables Residual Residual Residual term Residual term term up more term up more Sales to than 1 Dec. 31, to than 1 Dec. 31, [€ million] 2017 1 year year 2017 1 year year 2017 Parent company 7.7 2.4 0.0 2.4 471.0 300.0 771.0 Joint ventures 50.9 28.8 0.0 28.8 1.8 0.0 1.8 Associated companies 16.0 8.3 0.0 8.3 8.4 0.0 8.4 Other related parties 3.7 3.9 0.0 3.9 38.9 0.0 38.9 78.3 43.4 0.0 43.4 520.1 300.0 820.1 Receivables Payables Residual Residual Residual term Residual term term up more term up more Sales to than 1 Dec. 31, to than 1 Dec. 31, [€ million] 2018 1 year year 2018 1 year year 2018 Parent company 4.6 3.8 0.0 3.8 482.6 300.0 782.6 Joint ventures 54.9 61.8 0.0 61.8 2.2 0.0 2.2 Associated companies 17.1 5.7 0.0 5.7 7.5 0.0 7.5 Other related parties 3.7 7.3 0.0 7.3 44.0 0.0 44.0 80.3 78.6 0.0 78.6 536.3 300.0 836.3 Related parties also include the members of the Board A current service cost of €3.1 million (previous year: of Management and the Supervisory Board. The €4.8 million) was incurred with respect to company members of these bodies are listed under “Company pensions for Board of Management members. Boards”. An amount of €45.1 million (previous year: €46.5 million) The total remuneration of members of the Board of was assigned to provisions for pension obligations to Management, or expenditure for short-term payments former members of the Board of Management. for members of the Board of Management amounted to €8.6 million (previous year: €8.5 million). Under a service agreement, Freudenberg SE paid an amount of €1.2 million (previous year: €0.8 million) to its parent company for the performance of key management functions. 166 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Fees of the Auditor Major events after the date of the statement of financial position The auditor, Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, performed the following On December 10, 2018, the Freudenberg Filtration services in the 2018 financial year: Technologies Business Group signed a contract to purchase a majority shareholding in Apollo Air-Cleaner [€ million] 2018 Co., Ltd., from Apollo ZhanMao Technologies (HK) Co., Limited. The contract is still subject to the approval of Auditing services 1.7 the competition authorities. The company supplies air Other assurance services 0.1 and water filtration solutions such as filters for air Other services 0.9 purifiers, decentralized ventilation systems and water 2.7 treatment. In the 2018 calendar year, Apollo Air-Cleaner Co., Ltd., reported sales of €80.5 million and a profit of €6.7 million. By contract of January 18, 2019, all the shares in the Freudenberg IT Business Group were sold to the Syntax Group with effect from February 28, 2019. The Syntax Group is owned by the Canadian financial investor Novacap TMT IV, L.P., Quebec, Canada, and will round off its portfolio as an IT full service provider with Freudenberg IT. Apart from these events, there were no further events of major significance for the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the group of companies up to March 20, 2019 (the date when the annual report was approved for publication by the Supervisory Board). Weinheim, March 20, 2019 Freudenberg SE The Board of Management 167 SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 31 DECEMBER, 2018 Share of capital Company Location Country [%] Freudenberg SE Weinheim Germany I. AFFILIATED COMPANIES Germany Blaesus Grundstücksverwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. Vermietungs KG Mainz Germany 82,24 Burgmann International GmbH¹ Wolfratshausen Germany 100,00 Capol GmbH¹ Elmshorn Germany 100,00 Carl Freudenberg KG Weinheim Germany 100,00 Chem-Trend (Deutschland) GmbH¹ Maisach-Gernlinden Germany 100,00 Corteco GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 CT Beteiligungs-GmbH¹ Munich Germany 100,00 Dichtomatik Vertriebsgesellschaft für technische Dichtungen m.b.H Hamburg Germany 100,00 DS Beteiligungs-GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 DS Holding-GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 DS Verwaltungs-GmbH Weinheim Germany 100,00 EagleBurgmann Atlantic GmbH Wolfratshausen Germany 75,00 EagleBurgmann Espey GmbH¹ Moers Germany 75,00 EagleBurgmann Germany GmbH & Co. KG¹ Wolfratshausen Germany 75,00 EagleBurgmann Germany Verwaltungs-GmbH Wolfratshausen Germany 75,00 EagleBurgmann Middle-East GmbH Wolfratshausen Germany 60,00 Externa Handelsund Beteiligungsgesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 FCS-Munich GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 FFT Beteiligungs-GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 FHP Export GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 FHP Holding GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 FIT Service GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Chemical Specialities SE & Co. KG¹ Munich Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Dichtungsund Schwingungstechnik GmbH¹ Berlin Germany 100,00 Freudenberg DS Tooling Center GmbH & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Haushaltsprodukte Augsburg GmbH¹ Augsburg Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Freudenberg IT GmbH & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Medical Europe GmbH¹ Kaiserslautern Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Apparel SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Holding SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Logistics SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Performance Materials SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Service SE & Co. KG¹ Kaiserslautern Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Process Seals GmbH & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Real Estate GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies GmbH & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies GmbH¹ Hamburg Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Technology Innovation SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Freudenberg Verwaltungsund Beteiligungs-GmbH Weinheim Germany 100,00 168 Consolidated Financial Statement – Shareholdings Share of capital Company Location Country [%] Freudenberg Wohnbauhilfe GmbH Weinheim Germany 100,00 FV Beteiligungs-GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Hanns Glass GmbH & Co. KG Grafing Germany 75,00 Hanns Glass Immobilienverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG Paderborn Germany 75,00 Hemoteq AG Würselen Germany 87,49 Integral Accumulator GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Japan Vilene Europe GmbH Weinheim Germany 75,00 JUBA Jutta Baumgartner GmbH Meuselwitz Germany 75,00 Kaul GmbH Elmshorn Germany 100,00 Klüber Lubrication Deutschland SE & Co. KG¹ Munich Germany 100,00 Klüber Lubrication GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Klüber Lubrication München SE & Co. KG¹ Munich Germany 100,00 Lederer GmbH¹ Öhringen Germany 100,00 OKS Spezialschmierstoffe GmbH¹ Maisach-Gernlinden Germany 100,00 PTFE Compounds Germany GmbH¹ Bördeland Germany 100,00 Schneegans Freudenberg GmbH & Co. KG¹ Emmerich am Rhein Germany 100,00 SF GmbH Emmerich am Rhein Germany 100,00 SurTec Deutschland GmbH¹ Zwingenberg Germany 100,00 SurTec International GmbH¹ Bensheim Germany 100,00 Vibracoustic Asia Holding GmbH Weinheim Germany 100,00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs GmbH Hamburg Germany 65,07 Vibracoustic Europe GmbH Darmstadt Germany 100,00 Vibracoustic Germany GmbH Breuberg Germany 100,00 Vibracoustic GmbH Darmstadt Germany 100,00 Vibracoustic GmbH & Co. KG Weinheim Germany 100,00 Vibracoustic Management GmbH Darmstadt Germany 100,00 Vileda Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung¹ Weinheim Germany 100,00 Other Countries Freudenberg S.A. Telas sin Tejer Buenos Aires Argentina 100,00 Klüber Lubrication Argentina S.A. Buenos Aires Argentina 100,00 Chem-Trend Australia Pty Ltd Thomastown Australia 100,00 E.D. Oates Pty. Ltd. Broadmeadows Australia 100,00 EagleBurgmann Australasia Pty. Ltd. Ingleburn Australia 25,00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies (Aust) Pty. Ltd. Braeside Australia 100,00 Freudenberg Household Products Pty. Ltd. Surrey Hills Australia 100,00 Freudenberg Pty. Ltd. Thomastown Australia 100,00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Pty. Ltd. Brendale Australia 100,00 Klüber Lubrication Australia Pty. Ltd. Thomastown Australia 100,00 EagleBurgmann Belgium B.V.B.A. Sint-Job-in-'t-Goor Belgium 75,03 FHP Vileda S.C.S. Verviers Belgium 100,00 Klüber Lubrication Belgium Netherlands S.A. Dottignies Belgium 100,00 Klüber Lubrication Benelux S.A./N.V. Dottignies Belgium 100,00 Chem-Trend Industria e Comercio de Produtos Quimicos Ltda. Valinhos Brazil 100,00 EagleBurgmann do Brasil Vedacoes Ltda. Campinas Brazil 75,00 Freudenberg Nao-Tecidos Ltda. Jacareí Brazil 100,00 Freudenberg Produtos do Lar Ltda. São Paulo Brazil 100,00 Freudenberg Servicos Corporativos da America do Sul Ltda. Barueri Brazil 100,00 Freudenberg-NOK-Componentes Brasil Ltda. Diadema Brazil 75,00 Klüber Lubrication Lubrificantes Especiais Ltda. Barueri Brazil 100,00 169 Share of capital Company Location Country [%] SurTec do Brasil Ltda. Valinhos Brazil 100,00 Vector Tecnologia do Brasil Ltda. Rio de Janeiro Brazil 99,90 Vibracoustic South America Ltda. Guarulhos Brazil 100,00 Hänsel Textil Bulgaria ood Rousse Bulgaria 100,00 Freudenberg Productos del Hogar Ltda. Santiago de Chile Chile 100,00 Klüber Lubrication Chile Ltda. Santiago de Chile Chile 100,00 Burgmann Dalian Co. Ltd. Dalian China 40,00 Burgmann Shanghai Ltd. Shanghai China 40,00 Changchun Integral Accumulator Co., Ltd. Changchun China 100,00 Chem-Trend (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd. Shanghai China 100,00 Chem-Trend Chemicals (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100,00 Dichtomatik (China) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100,00 EagleBurgmann Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 50,00 EagleBurgmann Technology (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. Tianjin China 50,00 Freudenberg & Vilene Interlinings (Nantong) Co. Ltd. Nantong China 87,50 Freudenberg & Vilene International (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 87,50 Freudenberg & Vilene Nonwovens (Suzhou) Co. Ltd. Suzhou China 87,50 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions (Ningbo) Co., Ltd. Ningbo China 100,00 Freudenberg Household Products (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Suzhou China 100,00 Freudenberg IT (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Suzhou China 100,00 Freudenberg Management (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. Shanghai China 100,00 Freudenberg Medical Plastic & Metal Manufacturing (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Shenzhen China 100,00 Freudenberg Politex Ltd. Shanghai China 100,00 Freudenberg Real Estate (Yantai) Co. Ltd. Yantai China 100,00 Freudenberg Spunweb (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 67,69 Freudenberg Vilene Filter (Chengdu) Co. Ltd. Chengdu China 87,50 Klüber Lubrication (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100,00 Klüber Lubrication Industries (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100,00 SurTec Metal Surface Treatment Technology Co. Ltd. Hangzhou China 100,00 Tianjin VIAM Automotive Products Co., Ltd. Tianjin China 75,00 Trelleborg Automotive Design (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. Shanghai China 100,00 Vibracoustic (Chongqing) Co. Ltd. Chongqing China 100,00 Vibracoustic (Shanghai) Sales & Trading Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100,00 Vibracoustic (Wuxi) Vibration Isolators Co., Ltd. Wuxi China 100,00 Vibracoustic (Yantai) Co., Ltd. Yantai China 100,00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs (Yantai) Co., Ltd. Yantai China 65,07 Freudenberg Medical srl. San José Costa Rica 100,00 Chem-Trend A/S Copenhagen Denmark 100,00 EagleBurgmann KE A/S Vejen Denmark 75,00 EBI Atlantic A/S Vejen Denmark 75,00 EBI Middle-East A/S Vejen Denmark 60,00 Klüber Lubrication Nordic A/S Skovlunde Denmark 100,00 SurTec Scandinavia ApS Fredericia Denmark 100,00 OÜ Merinvest Mullutu Estonia 100,00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Finland Oy Naantali Finland 100,00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions Oy Espoo Finland 100,00 Chem-Trend France S.A.S.U. Entzheim France 100,00 Corteco SAS Nantiat France 100,00 170 Consolidated Financial Statement – Shareholdings Share of capital Company Location Country [%] Dichtomatik S.A.S Mâcon France 100,00 EagleBurgmann France S.A.S. Sartrouville France 75,00 FHP Vileda S.A. Asnières Sur Seine France 100,00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies SAS Villebon-sur-Yvette France 100,00 Freudenberg Immobilier SAS Chamborêt France 100,00 Freudenberg Joints Elastomères SAS Langres France 100,00 Freudenberg Joints Plats SAS Chamborêt France 100,00 Freudenberg Performance Materials S.A.S. Colmar France 100,00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies SAS Langres France 100,00 Klüber Lubrication France S.A.S. Valence France 100,00 SurTec France S.A.S. Toulouse France 100,00 Vibracoustic France SAS Carquefou France 100,00 Vibracoustic Nantes SAS Carquefou France 100,00 FHP Hellas S.A. Kifissia, Athens Greece 100,00 Aquabio Ltd. Worcester United Kingdom 100,00 Auto Suppliers Limited Kidderminster United Kingdom 100,00 Capol (U.K.) Limited Huddersfield United Kingdom 100,00 Chem-Trend (UK) Ltd. Huddersfield United Kingdom 100,00 Corteco Ltd. Lutterworth United Kingdom 100,00 Dichtomatik Ltd. Derby United Kingdom 100,00 EagleBurgmann Industries UK LP Warwick United Kingdom 75,00 EagleBurgmann Industries UK Ltd. Warwick United Kingdom 75,00 Filtamark Ltd. Crewe United Kingdom 100,00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies UK Limited Crewe United Kingdom 100,00 Freudenberg Household Products LP Rochdale United Kingdom 100,00 Freudenberg Limited Littleborough United Kingdom 100,00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies Ltd. Port Talbot United Kingdom 100,00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas UK Ltd. Aberdeen United Kingdom 100,00 Freudenberg Performance Materials LP Littleborough United Kingdom 100,00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Limited North Shields United Kingdom 100,00 Freudenberg Technical Products Ltd. North Shields United Kingdom 100,00 Freudenberg Vileda Ltd. Rochdale United Kingdom 100,00 KE-Burgmann UK Ltd. Congleton United Kingdom 75,00 Klüber Lubrication Great Britain Ltd. Huddersfield United Kingdom 100,00 Metflex Precision Mouldings Ltd Blackburn United Kingdom 100,00 Techlok Limited Port Talbot United Kingdom 100,00 Freudenberg Textile Technologies, S.A. Guatemala City Guatemala 100,00 APEC (Asia) Limited Hong Kong Hong Kong 100,00 Freudenberg & Vilene Int. Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 87,50 Freudenberg Household Products Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 100,00 Freudenberg Trading (Hongkong) Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 100,00 Japan Vilene (Hong Kong) Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 75,00 Jump (Asia) Distributors Ltd Hong Kong Hong Kong 100,00 Klüber Lubrication China Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 100,00 Vibracoustic Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 100,00 Chem-Trend Chemicals Co. Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 100,00 Dichtomatik India Seals Private Limited Bangalore India 100,00 EagleBurgmann India Pvt. Ltd. Pune India 50,00 EagleBurgmann KE Pvt. Ltd. Chennai India 75,00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies India Private Limited Pune India 100,00 171 Share of capital Company Location Country [%] Freudenberg Gala Household Product Pvt. Ltd. Mumbai India 60,00 Freudenberg Performance Materials India Pvt. Ltd. Chennai India 100,00 Freudenberg Regional Corporate Center India Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 100,00 Gimi India Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 100,00 Klüber Lubrication India Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 90,00 SurTec Chemicals India Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 100,00 Vibracoustic India Pvt. Ltd. Mohali India 100,00 Vibracoustic Noida Pvt. Ltd. New Delhi India 100,00 PT EagleBurgmann Indonesia Cikarang Selatan Indonesia 24,98 PT Klüber Lubrication Indonesia Jakarta Indonesia 100,00 VistaMed Ltd. Carrick-on-Shannon Ireland 90,00 Chem-Trend Italy del Dr. Gian Franco Colori S.a.s. Milan Italy 100,00 Corteco S.r.l. (a socio unico) Pinerolo Italy 100,00 Dichtomatik S.a.s. di Externa Italia S.r.l. Genoa Italy 100,00 EagleBurgmann BT S.p.A. Arcugnano Italy 75,00 EagleBurgmann Italia S.r.l. Vimercate Italy 75,00 Externa Holding S.r.l. Milan Italy 100,00 Externa Italia S.r.l. Pinerolo Italy 100,00 FHP di R. Freudenberg S.A.S. Milan Italy 100,00 Freudenberg Italia S.a.s. di Freudenberg S.p.A. Milan Italy 100,00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Apparel S.a.s. di Externa Holding S.r.l. Milan Italy 100,00 Freudenberg S.p.A. Milan Italy 100,00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies S.a.s. di Externa Italia S.r.l.u. Pinerolo Italy 100,00 Freudenberg Tecnologie di Filtrazione S.a.s. di Externa Holding S.r.l. Milan Italy 100,00 Gimi S.p.a. Monselice Italy 100,00 Hänsel Textil Italia S.a.s. di Externa Holding S.r.l. Rho Italy 100,00 Klüber Lubrication Italia S.a.s. di G. Colori Milan Italy 100,00 Politex S.a.s. di Freudenberg Politex s.r.l. Novedrate Italy 100,00 Chem-Trend Japan K.K. Kobe Japan 100,00 EagleBurgmann Japan Co., Ltd. Tokyo Japan 25,00 Freudenberg Spunweb Japan Company, Ltd. Osaka Japan 67,69 Japan VIAM Co., Ltd. Moriyama Japan 75,00 Japan Vilene Company Ltd. Tokyo Japan 75,00 Oshitari Laboratory, Inc. Sayama Japan 75,00 Oyama Chemical Co., Ltd. Oyama Japan 75,00 Pacific Giken Co., Ltd. Yasu Japan 75,00 SurTec MMC Japan KK Tokyo Japan 56,00 Vibracoustic Japan KK Yokohama Japan 100,00 Vilene Create Co., Ltd. Tokyo Japan 75,00 VIS Co., Ltd. Tokyo Japan 75,00 Freudenberg Vileda Jordan Ltd. Amman Jordan 51,00 Capol Inc. Saint-Hubert Canada 100,00 Dichtomatik Canada, Inc. Markham Canada 100,00 EagleBurgmann Canada Inc. Milton Canada 75,00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Inc. London Canada 100,00 Freudenberg Household Products Inc. Laval Canada 100,00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Canada Inc. Nisku Canada 100,00 Freudenberg-NOK Inc. Tillsonburg Canada 75,00 172 Consolidated Financial Statement – Shareholdings Share of capital Company Location Country [%] TOO Freudenberg Oil & Gas Atyrau Kazakhstan 100,00 Dichtomatik Colombia S.A.S. Bogotá Colombia 100,00 EagleBurgmann Colombia, S.A.S. Bogotá Colombia 75,00 EagleBurgmann (Malaysia) SDN. BHD. Shah Alam Malaysia 25,00 Freudenberg Household Products (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Petaling Jaya Malaysia 100,00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies Sdn. Bhd. Kuala Lumpur Malaysia 100,00 Freudenberg-NOK St Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Kuala Lumpur Malaysia 75,00 Klüber Lubrication (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Shah Alam Malaysia 100,00 Chem-Trend Comercial, S.A. de C.V. Querétaro Mexico 100,00 Dichtomatik de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Querétaro Mexico 95,50 EagleBurgmann Mexico S.A. de C.V. Cuautitlán Mexico 75,00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies, S.A. de C.V. León Mexico 100,00 Freudenberg IT, S.A. de C.V. Puebla Mexico 100,00 Freudenberg Productos del Hogar, S.A. de C.V. Mexico City Mexico 100,00 Freudenberg-NOK Sealing Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Cuautla Mexico 75,00 Klüber Lubricacion Mexicana S.A. de C.V. Querétaro Mexico 100,00 VIAM Manufacturing Mexico S.A. de C.V. Aguascalientes Mexico 75,00 Vibracoustic de México, S.A. de C.V. Lerma Mexico 100,00 Vibracoustic Nevado, S.A. de C.V. Toluca Mexico 100,00 Vibracoustic Toluca, S.A. de C.V. Toluca Mexico 100,00 Vitechmex Nonwovens S.A. de C.V. Aguascalientes Mexico 75,00 Dichtomatik B.V. Zwolle Netherlands 100,00 EagleBurgmann Netherlands B.V. Veenendaal Netherlands 75,00 Freudenberg Household Products B.V. Arnhem Netherlands 100,00 SurTec Benelux B.V. Reuver Netherlands 100,00 EagleBurgmann Norway AS Skedsmokorset Norway 75,00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions AS Skedsmokorset Norway 100,00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies AS Drammen Norway 100,00 Vestpak AS Sandnes Norway 100,00 Dichtomatik Handelsgesellschaft mbH Vienna Austria 100,00 EagleBurgmann Austria GmbH Salzburg Austria 75,00 EagleBurgmann Production Center Judenburg GmbH Judenburg Austria 75,00 Freudenberg Austria GmbH Kufstein Austria 100,00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Austria GmbH & Co. KG Kufstein Austria 100,00 Klüber Lubrication Austria Ges.m.b.H. Salzburg Austria 100,00 Schneegans Freudenberg Silicon Ges.m.b.H Losenstein Austria 100,00 SurTec Produkte und Systeme für die Oberflächenbehandlung GesmbH Salzburg Austria 100,00 EagleBurgmann Philippines, Inc. Dasmarinas, Cavite Philippines 25,00 Chem-Trend Polska Sp. z o.o. Kobylnica Poland 100,00 Chem-Trend Polska sp. z o.o. spólka komandytowa Kobylnica Poland 100,00 EagleBurgmann Poland sp. z o.o. Warsaw Poland 75,00 FHP Vileda Sp. z o.o. Warsaw Poland 100,00 FIM Polska Sp. z o.o. Środa Śląska Poland 100,00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Sp. z o.o. Śnieciska Poland 100,00 Freudenberg Vilene Sp. z o.o. Lodz Poland 100,00 Klüber Lubrication Polska Sp. z o.o. Kobylnica Poland 100,00 SurTec Polska Sp. z o.o. Kobylnica Poland 100,00 Vibracoustic Polska Sp. z o.o. Środa Śląska Poland 100,00 173 Share of capital Company Location Country [%] ST Ibérica Sociedade Unipessoal, LDA Albergaria-a-Velha Portugal 100,00 Chem-Trend Romania s.r.l. Bukarest Romania 100,00 Freudenberg Household Products SRL Braşov Romania 100,00 Freudenberg Household Products Vileda Societate in Comandita Braşov Romania 100,00 Freudenberg Management Imobiliar SRL Braşov Romania 100,00 Freudenberg Performance Materials SRL Braşov Romania 100,00 Hänsel Textilrom srl Bukarest Romania 100,00 Klueber Lubrication Romania s.r.l. Sibiu Romania 100,00 SurTec Romania s.r.l. Braşov Romania 100,00 Vibracoustic Romania SRL Dej Romania 100,00 EagleBurgmann OOO Moscow Russian Federation 75,00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies OOO Nizhniy Novgorod Russian Federation 100,00 Freudenberg Household Products Eastern Europe OOO St. Petersburg Russian Federation 70,00 Freudenberg Politex OOO Zavolzhye Russian Federation 100,00 Freudenberg Vileda Eastern Europe OOO Moscow Russian Federation 100,00 Klüber Lubrication OOO Moscow Russian Federation 100,00 OOO Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Moscow Russian Federation 100,00 OOO SurTec Moscow Russian Federation 100,00 Vibracoustic Volga OOO Zavolzhye Russian Federation 100,00 AlMozn National Co. For Home Appliances Limited Jeddah Saudi Arabia 75,00 EagleBurgmann Saudi Arabia Ltd. Al-Khobar Saudi Arabia 51,00 Dichtomatik A.B. Landskrona Sweden 100,00 EagleBurgmann Sweden AB Norrköping Sweden 75,00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions AB Norrköping Sweden 100,00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies AB Stockholm Sweden 100,00 Vibracoustic China Holding AB Forsheda Sweden 100,00 Vibracoustic Forsheda AB Forsheda Sweden 100,00 Vibracoustic Sweden Holding AB Forsheda Sweden 100,00 Vibracoustic Wuxi Holding AB Forsheda Sweden 100,00 EagleBurgmann (Switzerland) AG Höri Switzerland 75,00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies AG Zurich Switzerland 100,00 Klüber Lubrication AG (Schweiz) Zurich Switzerland 100,00 Freudenberg proizvodi za domacinstvo d.o.o. Belgrade Serbia 100,00 SurTec Cacak d.o.o. Čačak Serbia 100,00 Chem-Trend Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 100,00 EagleBurgmann KE Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 75,00 EagleBurgmann Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 25,00 EBI Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 25,00 EBI Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 50,00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 100,00 Klüber Lubrication South East Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 100,00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Slovensko, s.r.o. Potvorice Slovakia 90,00 Freudenberg Immobilienmanagement Slovakia, s.r.o Potvorice Slovakia 100,00 Freudenberg IT, s.r.o. Košice Slovakia 100,00 SurTec SK s.r.o. Vráble Slovakia 100,00 Freudenberg Gospodinjski Proizvodi d.o.o. Limbuš Slovenia 100,00 SurTec Adria d.o.o. Ljubljana Slovenia 100,00 EagleBurgmann Ibérica S.A. Madrid Spain 75,00 Freudenberg Espana S.A. Parets del Vallès Spain 100,00 Freudenberg Espana S.A., Telas sin Tejer, S.en C. Parets del Vallès Spain 100,00 174 Consolidated Financial Statement – Shareholdings Share of capital Company Location Country [%] Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions Iberica, S.L.U. Parets del Vallès Spain 100,00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies, S.L.U. Parets del Vallès Spain 100,00 Klüber Lubrication GmbH Ibérica S.en C. Parets del Vallès Spain 100,00 Vibracoustic Cascante S.A.U. Cascante Spain 100,00 Vibracoustic Spain Holding S.L.U. Martorell Spain 100,00 Vibracoustic Spain S.A.U. Martorell Spain 100,00 Freudenberg & Vilene International Lanka (Private) Limited Colombo Sri Lanka 87,50 Hänsel Textil Lanka PVT Ltd. Colombo Sri Lanka 87,50 Modderfontein/ EagleBurgmann Seals South Africa (Pty) Ltd. Johannesburg South Africa 55,50 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies (Pty) Ltd. Cape Town South Africa 100,00 Freudenberg Nonwovens (Pty.) Ltd. Cape Town South Africa 100,00 Klüber Lubrication (Pty.) Ltd. Alrode Alberton South Africa 100,00 SurTec South Africa Pty. Ltd. Alrode Alberton South Africa 100,00 Vibracoustic-Ikhwezi (Pty) Ltd. East London South Africa 70,00 Chem-Trend Korea Ltd. Anseong-si South Korea 100,00 EagleBurgmann Korea Co., Ltd. Osan South Korea 25,00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions Korea Ltd. Seoul South Korea 100,00 Korea Filtration Technologies Co., Ltd. Seoul South Korea 87,50 Korea Vilene Co., Ltd. Pyeongtaek-si South Korea 87,50 SurTec Korea Co., Ltd. Changwon-si South Korea 100,00 Vibracoustic Kunhwa Co. Ltd. Gyeongsan-si South Korea 51,00 EagleBurgmann Taiwan Co., Ltd. Kaohsiung Taiwan 25,00 Freudenberg & Vilene Nonwovens (Taiwan) Co. Ltd. Taoyuan Taiwan 87,50 Freudenberg Far Eastern Spunweb Comp. Ltd. Taoyuan Taiwan 67,69 Chem-Trend Trading (Thailand) Co. Ltd. Bangkok Thailand 100,00 EagleBurgmann (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Rayong Thailand 25,00 Freudenberg & Vilene Filter (Thailand) Co. Ltd. Chonburi Thailand 87,50 Jump Distributors (Thailand) Co Ltd Nonthaburi Thailand 100,00 Klüber Lubrication (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Bangkok Thailand 100,00 Lucky Gecko Co Ltd Bangkok Thailand 100,00 VIAM Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Prachin Buri Thailand 75,00 Vibracoustic (Thailand) Ltd. Sriracha Thailand 100,00 Accu-Tech s.r.o. Chrastava Czech Republic 49,00 EagleBurgmann Czech s.r.o. Prague Czech Republic 75,00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions s.r.o. Prague Czech Republic 100,00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies s.r.o. Opatovice nad Labem Czech Republic 100,00 Hanns Glass CZ s.r.o. Cheb Czech Republic 75,00 Klüber Lubrication CZ, s.r.o. Prague Czech Republic 100,00 SurTec CR s.r.o. Prague Czech Republic 100,00 TPE správni s.r.o. Melnik Czech Republic 100,00 Vibracoustic CZ s.r.o. Melnik Czech Republic 100,00 Beltan Vibracoustic Titresim Elemanlari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Bursa Turkey 100,00 Blacktech Otomotiv Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Bursa Turkey 65,07 Eagle Burgmann Endüstriyel Sizdirmazlik Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Şirketi Istanbul Turkey 75,00 Freudenberg Household Products Evici Kullanim Araclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Istanbul Turkey 100,00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Bursa Turkey 100,00 Freudenberg Vilene Tela Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Istanbul Turkey 100,00 Klüber Lubrication Yaglama Ürünleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Istanbul Turkey 100,00 175 Share of capital Company Location Country [%] Vibracoustic Çerkezköy Oto Parçaları Dış Ticaret A.S. Çerkezköy Turkey 100,00 Vibracoustic Çerkezköy Otomotiv Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Çerkezköy Turkey 100,00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs Otomotiv Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Gemlik Turkey 65,07 Dichtomatik Kft. Budapest Hungary 100,00 EagleBurgmann Hungaria Kft. Budapest Hungary 75,00 Freudenberg Háztartási Cikkek Kereskedelmi BT Budapest Hungary 100,00 Freudenberg IM Hungária Kft. Nyíregyháza Hungary 100,00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Kft. Kecskemét Hungary 100,00 Freudenberg Tömítés Ipari Kft. Lajosmizse Hungary 100,00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs Magyarország Kft. Nyíregyháza Hungary 65,07 Capol LLC Deerfield USA 100,00 Chem-Trend Limited Partnership Howell USA 100,00 Dichtomatik Americas, L.P. Shakopee USA 100,00 EagleBurgmann Industries Inc. Houston USA 75,00 EagleBurgmann Industries LP Houston USA 75,00 Freudenberg Business Services LP Plymouth USA 100,00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies LP Hopkinsville USA 100,00 Freudenberg Household Products Inc. Aurora USA 100,00 Freudenberg Household Products LP Aurora USA 100,00 Freudenberg IT LP Durham USA 100,00 Freudenberg Medical, LLC Gloucester USA 100,00 Freudenberg North America Limited Partnership Plymouth USA 100,00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas, LLC Houston USA 100,00 Freudenberg Performance Materials LP Durham USA 100,00 Freudenberg Real Estate LP Plymouth USA 100,00 Freudenberg Texbond L.P. Macon USA 100,00 Freudenberg-NOK General Partnership Plymouth USA 75,00 Freudenberg-NOK Holdings, Inc. Wilmington USA 75,00 International Seal Company, Inc. Santa Ana USA 75,00 Intpacor Inc. Plymouth USA 100,00 Klüber Lubrication NA LP Tyler USA 100,00 Pellon Corporation Plymouth USA 100,00 SurTec, Inc. Brunswick USA 100,00 Tobul Accumulator Incorporated Bamberg USA 100,00 Upper Bristol Ramp, LLC Wilmington USA 75,00 VIAM Holding, Inc. Manchester USA 75,00 VIAM Manufacturing, Inc. Manchester USA 75,00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs USA, Inc. Wilmington USA 65,07 Vibracoustic North America Holdings, Inc. Plymouth USA 100,00 Vibracoustic North America LP Plymouth USA 100,00 Vibracoustic USA, Inc. South Haven USA 100,00 VICAM Inc. Manchester USA 75,00 VITECH Manufacturing L.P. Hopkinsville USA 75,00 VITECH Manufacturing, Inc. Hopkinsville USA 75,00 EagleBurgmann Middle East FZE Dubai United Arab Emirates 60,00 Freudenberg Oil and Gas FZE Dubai United Arab Emirates 100,00 Chem-Trend Vietnam Company Limited Ho Chi Minh City Vietnam 100,00 EagleBurgmann Vietnam Company Limited Ho Chi Minh City Vietnam 25,00 176 Consolidated Financial Statement – Shareholdings Share of capital Company Location Country [%] SurTec Viet Nam Co., Ltd. Ho Chi Minh City Vietnam 100,00 II. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES (CONSOLIDATED BY EQUITY METHOD) Germany Other Countries Cambus Teoranta Spiddal Ireland 50,00 Corfina s.r.l. Pinerolo Italy 50,00 NOK-Freudenberg Asia Holding Co. Pte. Ltd.² Singapore Singapore 50,00 TETL Holdings, LLC Dover USA 41,25 TTKKE Holdings, LLC Dover USA 30,00 III. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES (CONSOLIDATED BY EQUITY METHOD) Germany Other Countries Hikotomi Industrial Co., Ltd. Hikone Japan 24,98 NOK Corporation Tokyo Japan 25,10 NOK Klüber Co., Ltd. Tokyo Japan 49,00 Shinwa Products Co., Ltd. Tsuzuranuki Japan 34,09 Klüber Lubrication Korea Ltd. Seoul South Korea 48,00 Dawson Manufacturing Company Benton Harbor USA 45,00 Ishino Gasket North America L.L.C. Plymouth USA 37,50 XALT Energy, LLC Midland USA 23,86 EagleBurgmann Venezuela, C.A. Caracas Venezuela 41,25 SurTec Middle East (L.L.C.) Sharjah United Arab Emirates 35,00 1 Application of Sec. 264 (3), HGB (Handelsgesetzbuch, “German Commercial Code”) and Sec. 264b, HGB 2 Consolidated financial statements including Changchun NOK-Freudenberg Oilseal Co., Ltd., Changchun, China Corteco China Co. Ltd., Guangzhou, China NOK-Freudenberg Group Sales (China) Co., Ltd., Schanghai, China NOK-Freudenberg Group Trading (China) Co., Ltd., Schanghai, China Taicang NOK-Freudenberg Sealing Products Co., Ltd., Taicang, China Wuxi NOK-Freudenberg Oilseal Co., Ltd., Wuxi, China NOK-Freudenberg Hong Kong Ltd., Hongkong, Hong Kong Corteco India Private Limited, Gurgaon, India Sigma Freudenberg NOK PVT. Ltd., Neu-Delhi, India 177 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To Freudenberg SE Report on the audit of the consolidated financial Basis for the opinions statements and of the group management report We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial Opinions statements and of the group management report in accordance with Sec. 317 HGB and in compliance with We have audited the consolidated financial German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial statements of Freudenberg SE and its subsidiaries (the Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in financial position as at 31 December 2018, the Germany] (IDW). Our responsibilities under those consolidated statement of profit or loss, the requirements and principles are further described in consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated statement of cash flow, the consolidated consolidated financial statements and of the group statement of changes in equity for the fiscal year from management report” section of our auditor’s report. 1 January to 31 December 2018, and notes to the We are independent of the Group entities in consolidated financial statements, including a accordance with the requirements of German summary of significant accounting policies. In addition, commercial and professional law, and we have fulfilled we have audited the group management report of our other German professional responsibilities in Freudenberg SE for the fiscal year from 1 January to 31 accordance with these requirements. We believe that December 31, 2018. the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions on the In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained consolidated financial statements and on the group in the audit, management report. • the accompanying consolidated financial Other information statements comply, in all material respects, with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the additional The supervisory board is responsible for the report of requirements of German commercial law pursuant the supervisory board in the annual report. In all other to Sec. 315e HGB and, in compliance with these respects, the executive directors are responsible for the requirements, give a true and fair view of the assets, other information. The other information comprises liabilities and financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2018 and of its financial performance for • the presentation of the company boards, the the fiscal year from 1 January to 31 December 2018, executive council and the management of the and business groups in the annual report, • the accompanying group management report as a • the foreword of the board of management in the whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s annual report and position. In all material respects, this group management report is consistent with the • the section “responsibility for society” in the annual consolidated financial statements, complies with report. German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future Our opinions on the consolidated financial statements development. and on the group management report do not cover the other information, and consequently we do not Pursuant to Sec. 322 (3) Sentence 1 HGB, we declare express an opinion or any other form of assurance that our audit has not led to any reservations relating conclusion thereon. to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report. In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in so doing, to consider whether the other information 178 Independent Auditor’s Report • is materially inconsistent with the consolidated The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the financial statements, with the group management Group’s financial reporting process for the preparation report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report. • otherwise appears to be materially misstated. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Responsibilities of the executive directors and the consolidated financial statements and of the group supervisory board for the consolidated financial management report statements and the group management report Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance The executive directors are responsible for the about whether the consolidated financial statements preparation of the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, that comply, in all material respects, with IFRSs as whether due to fraud or error, and whether the group adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of management report as a whole provides an German commercial law pursuant to Sec 315e (1) HGB appropriate view of the Group’s position and, in all and that the consolidated financial statements, in material respects, is consistent with the consolidated compliance with these requirements, give a true and financial statements and the knowledge obtained in fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and the audit, complies with the German legal financial performance of the Group. In addition, the requirements and appropriately presents the executive directors are responsible for such internal opportunities and risks of future development, as well control as they have determined necessary to enable as to issue an auditor’s report that includes our the preparation of consolidated financial statements opinions on the consolidated financial statements and that are free from material misstatement, whether due on the group management report. to fraud or error. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in executive directors are responsible for assessing the accordance with Sec. 317 HGB and in compliance with Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial also have the responsibility for disclosing, as applicable, Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der matters related to going concern. In addition, they are Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always detect a material responsible for financial reporting based on the going misstatement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or concern basis of accounting, unless there is an error and are considered material if, individually or in intention to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to or there is no realistic alternative but to do so. influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements and Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible this group management report. for the preparation of the group management report that, as a whole, provides an appropriate view of the We exercise professional judgment and maintain Group’s position and is, in all material respects, professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements and • Identify and assess the risks of material appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of misstatement of the consolidated financial future development. In addition, the executive statements and of the group management report, directors are responsible for such arrangements and whether due to fraud or error, design and perform measures (systems) as they have considered necessary audit procedures responsive to those risks, and to enable the preparation of a group management obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and report that is in accordance with the applicable appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The German legal requirements, and to be able to provide risk of not detecting a material misstatement sufficient appropriate evidence for the assertions in the resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting group management report. from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 179 intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the and on the group management report. We are override of internal control. responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant responsible for our opinions. to the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of arrangements and measures (systems) • Evaluate the consistency of the group management relevant to the audit of the group management report with the consolidated financial statements, its report in order to design audit procedures that are conformity with law, and the view of the Group’s appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the position it provides. purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of these systems. • Perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by the executive directors in • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies the group management report. On the basis of used by the executive directors and the sufficient appropriate audit evidence we evaluate, in reasonableness of estimates made by the executive particular, the significant assumptions used by the directors and related disclosures. executive directors as a basis for the prospective information, and evaluate the proper derivation of • Conclude on the appropriateness of the executive the prospective information from these assumptions. directors’ use of the going concern basis of We do not express a separate opinion on the accounting and, based on the audit evidence prospective information and on the assumptions obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists used as a basis. There is a substantial unavoidable related to events or conditions that may cast risk that future events will differ materially from the significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue prospective information. as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and in the group management report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our respective opinions. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements present the underlying transactions and events in a manner that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial performance of the Group in compliance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Sec. 315e (1) HGB. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express opinions on the consolidated financial statements 180 Independent Auditor’s Report We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. Mannheim, 20 March 2019 Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Prof. Dr. Wollmert Matischiok Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor] 181 EDITORIAL INFORMATION Freudenberg Group Hoehnerweg 2 – 4 69469 Weinheim, Germany PUBLISHED BY: Freudenberg & Co. Kommanditgesellschaft Corporate Communications Phone: +49 6201 80 0 CorporateCommunications@freudenberg.com www.freudenberg.com April 2019 Item No. FRE1045EN PHOTOS: adiruch na chiangmai – stock.adobe.com (p. 34) LK Photographic, Inc. 2013 (p. 81) Aleksejs – stock.adobe.com (p. 23 bottom right) nd3000 – stock.adobe.com (p. 21 bottom left) BillionPhotos.com – stock.adobe.com (p. 15) Stephan Pedrosa Eilert (p. 29) Chikang Fan (p. 21 top right) photostriker – stock.adobe.com (p. 22 top) contrastwerkstatt – stock.adobe.com (p. 28) Andreas Pohlmann (p. 47, 75, 79) Robert Costolnick (p. 64) Andrey Popov – stock.adobe.com (p. 36) DieFotoGrafen (p. 27) Chikako Sakon (p. 77) Freudenberg Filtration Technologies (p. 25) Sasint – stock.adobe.com (p. 24) Freudenberg Group (p. 30) Gerald Schilling (p. 13, 68, 84) Freudenberg Sealing Technologies (p. 22 bottom) Marco Schilling (p. 16, 23 top left, 31, 41, 72) Matthias Haslauer (p. 70) Sikov – stock.adobe.com (p. 32) Craig Hensley (p. 35) Rainer Stratmann (p. 33, 39) Julio Hernandez (p. 23 bottom left) Jo Teichmann (p. 21 top left, 66) Martin Joppen (p. 2, 3, 6, 8) Luis Velazquez (p. 21 bottom right) kei907 – stock.adobe.com (p. 18) Nancy Wang (p. 20 top) Cristian Kerekes – stock.adobe.com (p. 20 bottom) Westend61 – Getty Images (p. 23 top right) Fritz Kopetzky (p. 61) PROJECT TEAM: Corporate Communications: Cornelia Buchta-Noack (Lead) Andreas Baldauf Angela Gerhardt Katrin Jacobi DESIGN: Corporate Controlling m&s communication, Düsseldorf, and Accounting: Germany Marco Altherr (Lead) GreenwoodFinch Corporate Laura Brüning Communications, Elmstein, Germany Katrin Fanenbruck Realization with firesys GmbH Tobias Feldrappe Ina Fütterer PRODUCTION: Dr. Frank Multerer ABT Print und Medien, Weinheim, Bodo Peisch Germany Frank Raetzer Daniel Schwarz Define Yalcinkaya To improve readability, registered trademarks are Markus Ziegler omitted in this Annual Report.
