 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Suzhou JUTZE Technologies Co.,Ltd. 24-Oct-2019 I am pleased to confirm that Suzhou JUTZE Technologies Co.,Ltd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Gordon Cui General manager Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.  Suzhou JUTZE Technologies Co.,Ltd. supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international standards. We believe in and adhere to the highest standards of ethical conduct in all business operations, even beyond the strict requirements of the law. On this respect JUTZE acknowledges commitment to extend managing adverse human rights impact by prevent any potential abuses our use of power to exercise any breach to the known code of conduct. JUTZE undertakes to achieve and take corrective actions against exploitation of its productivities. We acknowledge that we will not use or partner with any third party who will not respect human rights principals.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.  Employee Handbook that clearly stimulates the rights of the employee. The handbook is given to all new Employees, and is readily available in all our stores, facilities, offices and on our intranet. We have suggestion boxes available throughout our business for employees and customers to voice their opinions. JUTZE ensure that a good working environment is created within the workplace amongst employees. Training session for all employees to raise the public awareness on human rights issues. For example, guiding employees prevent and mitigate risks of undermining privacy rights and freedom expression.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Adhere to UN standards Suggestion boxes for productivities Training for staff and operators to be aware of human rights. A yearly questionnaire to all employees in our company to estimate their satisfaction status. Labor  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of labor rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights.  Suzhou JUTZE Technologies Co.,Ltd. believes that respecting labor rights is the key to the success of JUTZE Business. JUTZE complies with all laws governing fair employment and labor practices.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labor policies, address labor risks and respond to labor violations.  Company Employee Handbook is provided to all employees to familiarize with all the company’s policies and procedures.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  Labor resources policy of JUTZE is going to be evaluated once a year to make sure that the company follows the labor regulations in business plan review meeting and management review meeting. Environment  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection.  Suzhou JUTZE Technologies Co.,Ltd. is an environmentally conscious company. As such, we recycle and re-use as much as we possibly packing box, even used boxes as part of customer order. Raw material conforms to the RoHS, UL and REACH standard. Materials of JUTZE have to conform to environment standard.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Company organized employees to control and manage water saving and electrical energy saving, and define KPI to monitor them every month. Suggest the customer to keep any packaging materials from JUTZE in case they need to return the goods to us. Ask raw material suppliers update the newest RoHS, UL and REACH reports to JUTZE.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance.  JUTZE is applying ISO 14001:2015 certified. This certification by an independent registrar maintains that JUTZE has the highest appreciation for environmental impact and has policies in place to minimize our environmental footprint throughout JUTZE business practices Anti-Corruption  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption.  JUTZE strive to ensure transparency in all our operations and business transactions. We believe that only fair competition will bring us more profits in the future. We developed severe rules for any corruption. Management team signs off on a document confirming their understanding of the company’s policies and procedures regarding ethics.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents.  Suggestion Box Provide training of employees, show example about the company's policies regarding anti-corruption and extortion and define this policy in employee handbook to employee. HR send email with anti-corruption and extortion information to management team, and sign the Purchase contract and NDA with suppliers.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance.  JUTZE has developed risk management team that conducts annual internal audits on all functions within the organization.
