Simply important O G R E S S PR 2 0 1 8 ALDI North Group Interim Report 2018 INTERIM REPORT 2018 TA B L E OF CON TE N TS 02 Table of Contents 03 Foreword 11 Labour rights 21 Anti-corruption 03 Information on the continuous 12 Responsibility for our 22 Value-based management support of the UNGC supply chains 22 Our understanding 04 Highlight key figures 14 Employee appreciation of compliance at ALDI North 22 Well-structured Compliance 05 Overview of our 15 Environmental protection Management System CR programme 22 How we make compliance an 16 Climate protection in buildings integral part of ALDI North 09 Human rights 17 Co-operation for climate education at schools 23 Subject of the report 10 Human rights policy statement 17 Coffee: local environmental 10 Human rights due diligence 24 Imprint & Contact protection in our supply chains 17 Textiles: production 10 Continuous improvement process and projects in and transparency the countries of origin 18 Our new Water Protection Policy 18 Raising awareness 18 More sustainable assortments 19 A joint “packaging mission INTERIM REPORT 2018 FORE WORD 03 Back Simply Table of contents FOREWORD Foreword Highlight key figures important Overview of our CR programme Human rights Labour rights Environmental protection Anti-corruption Subject of the report Information on the continuous Imprint & Contact support of the UNGC Dear readers, ALDI North was the first food discounter to join the to an analysis of the actually required packaging. Global Compact of the United Nations (UNGC) in We continue our efforts to reduce the use of 2017. Hereby, we are committed to implement the packaging material or to make our packaging more ten principles of the UNGC in the area of human sustainable in order to protect the environment. rights, labour, the environment and anti-corrupIn this respect, we focus on the needs and wants tion in the scope of our corporate values as well of our customers and offer our products with the as in the course of our daily business. Together well-known attributes: simplicity, responsibility with the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of and reliability. The goals we have defined in this the United Nations (SDGs), the UNGC Principles field are very ambitious. By the end of 2022, 100 form the basis of the further development of our per cent of our own-brand packaging in Germany sustainability strategies. shall be recyclable. The next challenge will then be to initiate similar measures at the ALDI companies In 2018, we published a policy statement on human in the affiliated countries. By doing so, we want rights. This statement is a framework for systemto make a contribution to the promotion of closed atic measures to prevent violation of human rights loop recycling as well as any necessary resource as well as for the handling of potential risks. In conservation. this respect, we are aware that our due diligence related to human rights is a process of continuous This interim report shows the progress we have development which requires continuous improveachieved in 2018 with the implementation of the ment. We are going to follow this path consistently ten UNGC Principles. Our annual sustainability in the years to come. For this purpose, we will reporting is part of a permanent invitation to open co-operate with many committed partners – stakeholder dialogue. Should you have any queries because most of the global challenges can only be or comments, please do not hesitate to contact us. tackled with joint forces. I hope you will enjoy reading this report! Furthermore, climate protection remains a priority of our agenda. Because we recognize the need for Rayk Mende our active engagement as well. By 2021, we aim Managing Director Corporate Responsibility / to reduce our greenhouse emissions by 40 per Quality Assurance International cent compared to 2015. One essential element to ALDI Einkauf GmbH & Co. oHG achieve this goal is the continuous expansion of photovoltaic systems on the roofs of our stores. Another subject that was of particular importance to us in the reporting period under review – and will remain so in the future – is the reduction of packaging waste. In 2018, we therefore launched our packaging mission for own-brand product packaging in Germany, where each item is subject INTERIM REPORT 2018 HI GH L I GHT KE Y FI GURES 04 Highlighted In 2018, we achieved great progress in our sustainability commitment once again. Apart from a more sustainable structuring of our product ranges, we improvements dedicated our activities particularly to the topics of human rights and climate protection. Selected highlights in 2018 were: 2018 -1,660 tonnes of plastic per 10,300 tonnes of CO2 saved by using year by delisting electricity generated by our own single-use plastic bags systems. This is an increase of 55% compared to the previous year. FAIR 90 Fairtrade certified own-brand products 320 in our ranges – an More than 320 ALDI increase of 23% Social Assessments were carried out – an increase of 64% The first human rights policy statement FAIR was published for the ALDI North Group 1,024 products with EU organic logo – an increase of 28% INTERIM REPORT 2018 OVE RVI E W OF OUR CR PROGRAMME 05 Back Our fields of activity at one glance Table of contents Employee appreciation Foreword We want the employees to be proud of ALDI. Highlight key figures Supply chain responsibility CR-Programm OVERVIEW OF OUR im Überblick CR PROGRAMME We accept responsibility in our supply chains. Human rights Resource conservation Labour rights We act in an environmentally and climate friendly manner. Environmental protection Social commitment Anti-corruption We want to leverage our expertise and experiences, and contribute to finding Subject of the report a solution for societal challenges above and beyond our core business. Imprint & Contact Dialogue promotion We foster dialogue with our stakeholders transparently and openly. Concrete and measurable: our CR programme Field of action: Employee appreciation TARGET OBJECTIVE STATUS TARGET DATE TARGET VALUE RELEVANCE ALDI North Development of a training programme for enhancing managers’ skills 2020 Concept Group More channels of communication for ALDI North Increase in employee communication 2020 ALDI employees, Group among other things Goal achieved Ongoing process Goal not achieved Field of action: Supply chain responsibility TARGET OBJECTIVE STATUS TARGET DATE TARGET VALUE RELEVANCE Provision of verification for a social evaluation (GRASP or * ALDI North 2018 100% comparable) of all producers (growers) of fruit and vegetables Group Changeover of all flowers and plants for defined ownALDI North brand products to sustainably certified goods (e.g. 2019 100% Group GLOBALG.A.P. in combination with GRASP) * Majority has been converted, we strive to achieve the goal in 2019. Goal achieved Ongoing process Goal not achieved INTERIM REPORT 2018 OVE RVI E W ON OUR CR PROGRAMME 06 TARGET OBJECTIVE STATUS TARGET DATE TARGET VALUE RELEVANCE Ban on specific groups of substances in the manufacture of ALDI North own-brand products in the product groups clothing, home 2020 100% Group textiles and footwear (ALDI Detox Commitment) Expansion Use of sustainable cotton (e.g. GOTS, OCS 100/blended, depending on ALDI North Ongoing availability in Fairtrade, recycled cotton) for clothing and home textiles Group the respective quality category Use of sustainable cotton (e.g. in accordance with 2018 30% Germany the GOTS, OCS, Fairtrade standard) Increase in the certified share of green coffee (UTZ, Fairtrade, ALDI North 2020 Expansion Rainforest Alliance and organic) for defined own-brand products Group Changeover of black and green tea to sustainably ALDI North certified raw goods (UTZ, Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade, 2018 80% Group organic) for defined own-brand products Changeover of herbal and fruit tea for defined own-brand ALDI North products to sustainably certified raw goods (Rainforest 2018 30% Group Alliance, Fairtrade, UTZ, UEBT/UTZ, organic) Changeover of herbal and fruit tea for defined own-brand ALDI North products to sustainably certified raw goods (Rainforest 2020 40% Group Alliance, Fairtrade, UTZ, UEBT/UTZ, organic) Changeover to physically RSPO-certified palm oil for all own-brand * ALDI North 2018 100% products containing palm oil (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil – RSPO) Group Changeover of wood and wood-based products to sustainably certified ALDI North 2020 100% materials (FSC®, PEFC™, EU Ecolabel or comparable standards) Group Changeover of all newly purchased sales packaging, repackaging and transport packaging for products to recycled and/or ALDI North 2020 100% sustainably certified materials (FSC®, PEFC™, EU Ecolabel Group or comparable standards), depending on availability Expansion of the range of vegetarian and vegan ALDI North Ongoing Expansion products, including certification (e.g. V-Label) Group Expansion of test/certification systems and own ALDI North standards that go above and beyond the statutory Ongoing Expansion Group requirements and include animal welfare aspects * Majority has been converted, we strive to achieve the goal in 2019. Goal achieved Ongoing process Goal not achieved INTERIM REPORT 2018 OVE RVI E W ON OUR CR PROGRAMME 07 TARGET OBJECTIVE STATUS TARGET DATE TARGET VALUE RELEVANCE Increase in the number of meat products and products ALDI North Ongoing Expansion containing meat with the ALDI Transparency Code (ATC) Group Increase in the share of certified sustainable fish products and ALDI North 2018 50% products containing fish (MSC, ASC, GLOBALG.A.P. and EU organic) Group Expansion of efforts to reduce the salt and sugar ALDI North Ongoing Expansion content in additional own-brand products Group Labelling of all fruit and vegetable products grown in the 2019 100% Netherlands Netherlands with the PlanetProof environmental quality label Preparation Introduction of BEE FRIENDLY-certified products 2019 and France development Goal achieved Ongoing process Goal not achieved Field of action: Resource conservation TARGET OBJECTIVE STATUS TARGET DATE TARGET VALUE RELEVANCE 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by -40% compared ALDI North 2021 2021 compared to the reference year 2015 to 2015 Group Introduction of LED lighting in all new stores (interior and 2019 (and ALDI North outdoor lighting), and review of conversion of existing stores 100% ongoing) Group in the portfolio and distribution centres to LED lighting Continuation ALDI North Increasing the share of stores equipped with photovoltaic systems Ongoing and expansion Group Increasing the own-use rate for the energy generated in-house by photovoltaic systems at stores through combination with Continuation Ongoing Germany concepts for combined cooling and heating systems, and and expansion demand-led alignment of the photovoltaic systems Goal achieved Ongoing process Goal not achieved INTERIM REPORT 2018 OVE RVI E W ON OUR CR PROGRAMME 08 TARGET OBJECTIVE STATUS TARGET DATE TARGET VALUE RELEVANCE Introduction of a nationwide, digitised monitoring system for cooling systems in order to reduce emissions through optimised Ongoing 100% Germany leakage rates and/or more environmentally benign refrigerants Germany, Discontinuation of the plastic bag 2018 100% Netherlands, Belgium Establishment of a BREEAM-certified central warehouse (BREEAM 2019 Establishment Belgium – Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment) Nationwide ISO 50001 certification * 2018 100% Netherlands * We strive to achieve the goal in 2019. Goal achieved Ongoing process Goal not achieved Field of action: Field of action: Social commitment & dialogue promotion TARGET OBJECTIVE STATUS TARGET DATE TARGET VALUE RELEVANCE Development of pilot projects for sustainable consumption 2018 Project Germany Introduction of a guideline for dealing with food Preparation * ALDI North 2017 and introducthat is no longer saleable in the stores Group tion Continuation and expansion of efforts to foster health Continuation Ongoing Netherlands awareness among customers and employees and expansion Participation ALDI North Expansion of dialogue with major stakeholder groups Ongoing in sector Group initiatives * We strive to achieve the goal in 2020. Goal achieved Ongoing process Goal not achieved Further country-specific goals can be found online on the country websites. INTERIM REPORT 2018 HUM A N RI GHTS 09 Zurück Inhalt Vorwort Highlight-Kennzahlen CR-Programm im Überblick Menschenrechte Arbeitsnormen Umweltschutz Korruptionsbekämpfung Über diesen Bericht Impressum & Kontakt CONTENTS Human rights Human rights policy statement It is not just in the stores that we act sustainable. We strive to act sustainable Due diligence relating to human right from the cultivation of resources like palm oil and cocoa. We are rights in our supply chains working intensively to achieve improved working conditions at the production Continuous improvement facilities of our suppliers on a continuous basis. and transparency 1 2 Principle: Principle: Supporting Exclusion of human human rights rights abuses INTERIM REPORT 2018 HUM A N RI GHTS 10 Back HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY STATEMENT tries of origin in the future and implement targeted measures in the scope of international strategies Table of contents As an international retail company with very complex for a responsible sourcing. supply chains, we regard ourselves responsible to Foreword respect human rights and prevent any violation of Various steps have already been taken to reduce human rights. We therefore published a Human Rights human rights risks in our food and non-food supply Highlight key figures Policy Statement in 2018, committing ourselves to the chains. These include, among others, the qualifiOverview of our CR programme UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. cation of production facilities for apparel textiles Furthermore, we view the following frameworks as in the high-risk country Bangladesh in the scope HUMANRights Human RIGHTS relevant standards and guidelines: the Universal of the ALDI Factory Advancement (AFA) Project • Policy Humanstatement rights to Declaration of Human Rights of the UN, the Convention and the integration of established auditing and respect human rights policy statement on the Rights of the Child (CRC), the UN Convention on certification standards into the buying process. • Human rights due Due diligence diligence relating to human the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Furthermore, we have defined certain targets and in our supply rights chains chains in our supply Women, the core labour standards of the ILO (Internameasures for various resources and commodity •• Continuous Continuous improvement improvement tional Labour Organization) as well as the guidelines for groups in our purchasing policies. At the same and transparency and transparency multinational enterprises of the OECD (Organisation for time, we are increasing the number of social audits Labour rights Economic Co-Operation and Development). The values for food items. These are carried out on our own and standards defined therein are also reflected by our behalf as well as in co-operation with external Environmental protection own standards and basic rules. This also includes our companies. Corporate Responsibility (CR) Policy which has been Anti-corruption a binding standard for years as well as the „AddiWe are aware that many systemic challenges can Subject of the report tional Agreement on Social Standards: Commitment only be handled in co-operation with other partto humane and fair working conditions in our supply ners. We therefore participate in numerous multi-­ Imprint & Contact chains”, providing an obligatory scope of action for our stakeholder initiatives and are working in newly business partners and the ALDI employees. founded projects with various partners. In 2018 we launched a project at the Ivory Coast to provide HUMAN RIGHTS DUE DILIGENCE training for around 3,200 small palm oil farmers. On the site, the project was overlooked by the IN OUR SUPPLY CHAINS NGO Solidaridad International, promoting more We are aware that the production of goods sustainable supply chains. The small farmers throughout complex supply chains involves risks. completed an extensive training programme, upon Therefore, we analyse human rights risks on a which they were certified according to the criteria constant basis and take measures to reduce the of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). negative impacts within our supply chains. This is done, among other thing through continuous hotspot CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT analysis, monitoring, research and dialogue with AND TRANSPARENCY stakeholders. Implementing the due diligence relating to human Within non-food, we inform ourselves regularly on rights is a continuous development process. the working conditions in our suppliers’ producTherefore, we are constantly analysing our CR tion facilities located in risk countries. We do so by strategies, processes and tools. Our progress, the applying comprehensive social audits and certifimeasures taken and targets are disclosed transparcations carried out by external service providers as ently in the scope of our sustainability reporting on well as by our own audits in the production facilities www.cr-aldinord.com as well as on our websites. (ALDI Social Assessments – ASAs). We exchange experiences with local stakeholders and potentially affected parties for a better identification of human rights violations and early prevention. In 2018, we started a systematic and comprehensive analysis of the social and environmental human rights risks along our food supply chains. In this process, the following resources and commodity groups were regarded as particularly relevant: coffee, cocoa, nuts and tropical fruit, dressings, oils, sauces, condiments, fish, and seafood as well as canned fruit, vegetables, and deep-frozen food. Further information on the results of our risk analysis can be found on our websites. We will particularly focus on the determined risk resources in the relevant counINTERIM REPORT 2018 L A B OUR RI GH TS 11 Back Inhalt Vorwort Menschenrechte Arbeitsnormen Umweltschutz Korruptionsbekämpfung Anhang CONTENTS Responsibilty for our Labour rights supply chains Roughly 74,000 employees of ALDI North make a decisive contribution to our sustained Employee appreciation success. In exchange, they receive secure working conditions, attractive framework at ALDI North conditions and long-term career development prospects. We also assume responsibility throughout our supply chains and stand up for fair working conditions. 3 4 Principle: Principle: Safeguarding freedom Abolition of all forms of association of forced labour 5 6 Principle: Principle: Abolition child labour Avoidance of discriminations INTERIM REPORT 2018 L A B OUR RI GH TS 12 Back RESPONSIBILITY FOR Audit rate for producOUR SUPPLY CHAINS tion facilities of non-food Table of contents Supply chain responsibility is a key field of action commodity groups in of our Corporate Responsibility (CR) Policy. With risk countries (in per cent) Foreword regards to working conditions, we subject our Highlight key figures suppliers and the production facilities they place orders with to clearly defined requirements. In this 100 Overview of our CR programme 99 99 respect, some aspects are of particular importance Human rights for us as a food retailer as these to a greater extent can be influenced by our actions. For instance, LABOUR RIGHTS Arbeitsnormen these include, the issues of safety and health, • Responsibilty Verantwortungfor our entlang supply chains freedom of assembly, wages and working hours as erer Lieferkette well as the fight against discrimination, child and • Employee appreciation forced labour. at ALDI North Environmental protection In the Non-Food Supply Chains, we have committed ourselves and our suppliers to comply with the Anti-corruption amfori BSCI Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct Subject of the report is based on numerous international agreements including the core conventions of the International Imprint & Contact Labour Organization (ILO) and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the United Nations (UN). 2016 2017 2018 It contains eleven central employee rights, including the right to safety in the workplace and proper pay. It also excludes discrimination, child labour and forced labour. All production facilities that are commissioned by our suppliers must present a valid amfori BSCI audit with a sufficient result, a SA8000 certification or a comparable valid social audit with a sufficient result. In 2018, the audit rate for production facilities of non-food commodity groups in risk countries was 100 per cent. improvements as quickly as possible and monitor their implementation. In the year under review, we As part of the ALDI Social Assessments (ASAs), performed 327 ASAs in six countries, most of them we visit the production facilities that work on our in China (73 per cent). There were deficiencies at behalf together with our suppliers. An ASA covers roughly 24.5 per cent of the production facilities talks with the management, an accounting audit in 2018 within areas such as occupational health and an inspection of the production facility to audit and safety. Such deficiencies are often the result of working and social standards, as well as talks structural challenges in the production countries. with employees. In the event of deficiencies, we We also work to address these kind of findings work with suppliers and production facilities to through overarching initiatives such as the Bangladraw up action plans, aimed at achieving lasting desh Accord on Fire and Building Safety. Number of ALDI Social Assessments (ASAs) 2017 2018 Number of countries in which ASAs were carried out 8 6 Number of ASAs effected, 199 327 of which in China 135 240 Proportion of non-food production facilities in risk countries in which social risks were detected, relating to the total number 12.6% 24.5% of ASAs effected INTERIM REPORT 2018 L A B OUR RI GH TS 13 Back We continued to advance the ALDI Factory Advancetrade cocoa program since 2018. This allows us to ment (AFA) Project in the period under review. purchase certified cocoa from the Fairtrade Cocoa Table of contents The central focus is on dealing with issues such as Program for various own-brand products. In conhealth protection and safety in the workplace, fire trast to the traditional Fairtrade mark, the cocoa Foreword protection, pay, working hours and discrimination. program focuses on fair resource purchasing Currently, 38 production facilities take part in the rather than the composition and certification of Highlight key figures programme, covering around 53 per cent of the individual products. Moreover, ALDI Belgium Overview of our CR programme purchasing volume for apparel textiles (2015: 35 per joined the initiative Beyond Chocolate at the end of cent) from Bangladesh. More than 85,000 workers 2018. This initiative aims at making chocolate more Human rights benefit from this programme. As part of another sustainable, with the specific targets to eliminate project – AFA Project PLUS – the ALDI North Group child labour, stop deforestation and enable the LABOUR RIGHTS worked with an NGO from Bangladesh to achieve local cocoa producers to gain a living wage. We • Responsibilty for our improvements at in-house crèches at nine factories are also active in other projects in the countries supply chains by the middle of 2017. Seven other production faciliof origin of our coffee and cotton products. More • Employee appreciation at ALDI North ties completed the AFA Project PLUS in 2018. information can be found in the chapter on enviNorth ronmental protection. Environmental protection We also tackle the multifaceted challenges in the Anti-corruption textile industry in co-operation with other busiEMPLOYEE APPRECIATION AT ness enterprises, governments, NGOs and unions. ALDI NORTH Subject of the report Through our work in sector and multi-stakeholder initiatives such as the German Partnership for SusWhether in sales, buying, administration, logistics Imprint & Contact tainable Textiles or the international amfori organor IT, the roughly 74,000 ALDI employees make ization, we are making a contribution to developing a decisive contribution to the sustained success standards and achieving structural improvements. of the ALDI North Group. All of them can be proud to work for ALDI. In exchange, they receive Also, for our food products, we assume joint secure working conditions, attractive framework responsibility throughout the value chain in order to conditions and long-term career development achieve a more sustainable cultivation of resources. prospects. Open and respectful dealings in an Therefore, resource-specific purchasing policies approach based on partnership are very important and internal buying guidelines have been defined. to us. Our focus is on appreciating each and every At the same time, we are closely co-operating one of our employees and promoting their sense of with our suppliers and take part in industrial and connection with ALDI North. cross-stakeholder initiatives as well. Responsibility for human resource topics is organAll producers of fruit and vegetables sold by the ized by a decentralized management in all compaALDI North Group must provide verification of nies of the ALDI North Group. The common basis a valid GLOBALG.A.P. certification and a social for the work of the human resource departments evaluation in accordance with the additional are the Mission Statement, the Human Resources GLOBALG.A.P. module GRASP (GLOBALG.A.P. Risk (HR) concept as well as the leadership principles Assessment on Social Practice) or a comparable “Real Traders”. social evaluation. By the end of 2018, the proportion of evaluated producers of all ALDI companies The freedom of assembly is comprehensively was nearly 100 per cent. safeguarded at the locations of the group. Since the 1970s, an elected employee representative Our commitment to improved working condiorganization has been in place at ALDI North tions also covers the countries of origin of the Germany. Each of the 32 German regional ALDI resources. One example is cocoa. In 2018, we companies was represented by their own works inspected the conditions of the local producers council in 2018. They also exist in Belgium and the in the cocoa cultivation areas of the Ivory Coast. Netherlands. In other countries, the dialogue is Furthermore, we have been a partner of the Faireffected directly with the relevant trade unions. INTERIM REPORT 2018 L A B OUR RI GHTS 14 Back People from 120 nations work in the nine European The human resource work is adapted accordingly. countries in which the ALDI companies are repreIn this respect, we particularly focused on the Table of contents sented. This diversity is a part of the ALDI North development of management and junior staff in Group. It enriches our working relationships and 2018. The contents were selected in consideration Foreword reflects the diversity of our customers. We reject any of the results of our staff interviews in all counform of discrimination. In all countries, all employees tries conducted in 2017 and particularly cover Highlight key figures have the same opportunities irrespective of gender, the topics of management, time and self-manOverview of our CR programme age, religion or belief, sexual orientation, origin or agement, communication as well as appreciation physical disability. These values are also stipulated and fairness. At ALDI Netherlands 80 per cent of Human rights in our CR Policy. To create an even playing field for the store managers and 100 per cent of the upper all, we provide support for our employees and help management were trained in 2018. In Germany, 100 LABOUR RIGHTS Arbeitsnormen them get the work-life balance right between career, per cent of the upper management and operative • Responsibilty for our leisure time and family. In 2018, the proportion of managers took part in a training as well, e.g. in supply chains women in the total workforce amounted to roughly the scope of leadership conferences. Advanced • Employee appreciation Mitarbeiterwertschätzung at 67 per cent. The proportion of female employees in training for executive personnel was also provided beiALDI ALDINorth Nord management position was 28 per cent, and nearly in Belgium, France, Denmark, Poland, Portugal and Environmental protection half of our stores are managed by women. We see Spain in 2018. Here, the contents comprised further this as confirmation of our philosophy of placing subjects such as employee development, data Anti-corruption a clear focus on individual performance when protection, compliance and recruiting, depending Subject of the report filling management positions. Naturally, the ALDI on the national requirements. employees receive fair and performance-linked Imprint & Contact wages – irrespective of their gender. We have been pursuing clear modernization strategies by renovating our stores and restructuring our product ranges in all countries, which also entails changes for the employees of ALDI North. Women in management positions Proportion of female employees in management positions on the reference date 31 December (in per cent) 2016 2017 2018 Belgium/Luxembourg1 27.3 29.5 31.1 Denmark 20.0 21.3 27.0 Germany 26.7 27.8 28.4 France 21.4 23.1 21.7 Netherlands 16.3 17.9 17.7 Poland 40.3 36.7 33.7 Portugal 45.2 48.0 50.0 Spain 32.8 34.0 36.3 ALDI North Group 25.8 27.3 28.0 1 The information regarding the legally independent companies of the ALDI North Group in Belgium and in Luxembourg has been combined for the purposes of a simplified presentation (refer to “Subject of the report“). INTERIM REPORT 2018 E N VI RON M E N TA L PROTECTION 15 Zurück Inhalt Vorwort Highlight-Kennzahlen CR-Programm im Überblick Menschenrechte Arbeitsnormen Umweltschutz Korruptionsbekämpfung Über diesen Bericht Impressum & Kontakt CONTENTS Climate protection in buildings Environmental protection Co-operation for climate From stores to distribution centres and administrative offices, wherever we operate, education at schools we aim to steadily reduce the amount of energy and resources we consume. Coffee: local environmental Furthermore, it is very important for us to raise an environmental awareness. This protection is why we make our contribution to climate and environmental protection. 7 8 Textiles: Production process and projects in the countries of origin Principle: Principle: Our new Water Protection Policy Preventive environmental Initiatives for greater Raising awareness protection accountability awareness 9 More sustainable assortments for the environment Principle: A joint “packaging mission Development and dissemination of environmentally friendly technologies INTERIM REPORT 2018 E N VI RON M E N TA L PROTECTION 16 Back CLIMATE PROTECTION IN BUILDINGS energy consumption. In Germany and Spain, extensive systems of energy data management have Table of contents We are committed to reducing the impact our been in place since 2017. business operations have on the climate. Back in Foreword 2015, we specified in our Corporate Responsibility Between 2015 and 2018 we reduced emissions (CR) Policy that we aim to act in a climate friendly resulting from refrigerant losses by six per cent to Highlight key figures manner. We have set an ambitious climate target around 93,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents. This was Overview of our CR programme for ourselves in our Climate Protection Policy. achieved partly by the rollout of digital monitoring We plan to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions systems which have been in use nationwide at our Human rights throughout the group by 40 per cent by 2021 comlocations in Germany and Spain. ALDI France, too, pared to our 2015 levels. We apply a clear roadmap has been applying a digital monitoring system in Labour rights to achieve this goal. With innovative technologies, all new stores using CO2 as refrigerant since 2018. umweltschutz ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION we are improving the energy efficiency of our ALDI Spain is currently testing various building Climate protection • Environmental protection stores and logistics centres. At the same time, we automation systems which can also register refrigin buildings are streamlining our logistics processes as well erant losses. Whether these will actually be used in • Co-operation for climate as the refrigeration systems. Another key element the future is to be decided upon completion of the education in school of our climate strategies is to generate more test phase. • Coffee: local environmental electricity from renewable energies. Furthermore, protection climate protection is becoming an integrated part ALDI Belgium launched a new logistics centre in • Textiles: Production process and of our business processes. For this purpose, an Turnhout, meeting the state-of-the-art standards projects n the countries of origin internal price per ton of CO2 was fixed in Germany for sustainable buildings. The logistics centre was • Our new Water Protection Policy in the course of 2018. This price shall be applied certified according to the international BREEAM to all future investment decisions relating to system (Building Research Establishment Environ• Raising awareness emissions. mental Assessment Methodology) and is there• More sustainable assortments fore the most sustainable industrial building in • A joint “packaging mission We achieved further progress with the impleBelgium to date. Apart from the latest LED lighting mentation of our climate protection measures in technology controlled by motion sensors, enerAnti-corruption the period under review. ALDI Netherlands, for gy-efficient refrigeration technologies as well as a Subject of the report instance, introduced energy management sysmodern underfloor heating have been applied. tems according to the ISO 50001 standard in 2018, Imprint & Contactt allowing for a better evaluation and control of the Greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 and 2 (in tonnes of CO 2 equivalents) The greenhouse gas emissions were calculated on the basis of energy and fuel consumptions as well as refrigerant losses. The calculation complies with the standards of the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol using the DEFRA emission factors (DEFRA – Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) as well as the GEMIS (Global Emission Model of Integrated Systems) for emissions from district heating. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, Scope 2 emissions from electricity consumption have been calculated separately by location-based and market-based emission factors. While the location-based method is based on factors relating to a certain geographic region (such as a country), the market-based factors consider the company’s individual energy mix established on the basis of the actually generated emissions of the electricity provider, when possible. Calculation of the location-based greenhouse gas emissions is based on the factors specified by the International Energy Agency (IEA). 2016 2017 2018 Scope 22 Scope 22 Scope 22 Scope 22 Scope 22 Scope 22 Scope 11 “location“marketScope 11 “location“marketScope 11 “location“marketbased“ based“ based“ based“ based“ based“ Belgium/Luxembourg 3 40,328 18,656 13,246 38,639 22,674 14,859 38,325 16,328 22,312 Denmark 10,466 11,372 10,914 14,942 8,119 10,859 9,300 8,824 18,354 Germany 110,178 211,664 38,301 108,069 203,918 223,790 114,111 210,007 195,823 France 75,277 6,863 6,276 67,101 8,364 6,756 69,181 10,267 9,760 Netherlands 29,802 38,393 143 28,147 40,984 124 25,884 41,910 126 Poland 5,501 14,688 15,185 6,931 17,295 18,441 8,727 19,343 18,558 Portugal 2,817 3,793 4,334 5,728 5,695 5,080 3,455 5,709 5,711 Spain 12,267 20,096 26,774 10,980 25,718 29,854 8,379 26,340 169 ALDI North Group 286,636 325,525 115,173 280,537 332,767 309,763 277,362 338,728 270,813 1 Scope 1: Emissions from direct energy consumption of buildings, fuel consumption in logistics and refrigerant losses. 2 Scope 2: Emissions from energy and district heating consumption, including a breakdown by location-based and market-based emissions. 3 The information regarding the legally independent companies of the ALDI North Group in Belgium and in Luxembourg has been combined for the purposes of a simplified presentation (refer to “Subject of the report“). INTERIM REPORT 2018 E N VI RON M E N TA L PROTECTION 17 Back The roofs of many stores and distribution centres ALDI Netherlands, too, is implementing a school are equipped with photovoltaic systems. In 2018, project on climate education. For more information, Table of contents the installed capacity of our systems was nearly please refer to the section “Raising awareness“. 46,000 kWp (kilowatt peak) and produced more than Foreword 36,400 MWh of electricity. We avoided approxiCOFFEE: LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL mately 10,300 tonnes of CO2 emissions as a result – Highlight key figures PROTECTION an increase of about 55 per cent compared to 2017. Overview of our CR programme By 2021, we intend to install an additional nominal We want to promote the responsible cultivation of capacity of more than 50,000 kWp through more coffee in the countries of origin. Since 2016, our Human rights systems. In France alone, 120 systems are planned. International Coffee Purchasing Policy has stipuALDI Belgium has added four photovoltaic systems lated a continuous increase in the certified share Labour standards in 2018, so that 44 systems are now installed on the of green coffee in our own-brand products. At the umweltschutz ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION premises in total. Another 30 are already scheduled end of 2018 43.8 per cent of all the green coffee • Climate protection for installation. At the end of 2018, ALDI Portugal used in own-brand products throughout the entire in buildings also had 21 solar systems in place and plan to ALDI North Group featured the UTZ, EU organic, • Co-operation forfor climate climate install around 5,000 kWp of additional capacity by Fairtrade or Rainforest Alliance CertifiedTM label education atin schools school 2021. (2015: 13 per cent). • Coffee: local environmental Environmental protection on the site We currently use approximately 73 per cent of the Since March 2017, we have been working with Textilies:Production • Textiles: and processand Productionprocess generated electricity ourselves; the remainder is the Hanns R. Neumann Stiftung to promote more n the projects in the countries countries of origin fed into the power grid. We want to increase the sustainable coffee production in Colombia. A • Our new Water Protection Policy amount of energy for our own use, which is why total of 800 small farmers receive active support we test the use of storage technology that would over a period of two years through training and • Raising awareness enable us to use the generated electricity at a later workshops on sustainable cultivation methods, • More sustainable assortments time. ALDI North Germany has already equipped improved coffee processing methods, profes• A joint “packaging mission five pilot stores with the innovative ice storage sional farm management and business planning. system ESyCool green. In the summer, we use The project was completed in the beginning Anti-corruption the energy to cool our refrigerated shelves and in of 2019, with 800 smallholder farmers being Subject of the report winter to heat our stores. supported in total. In April 2019, coffee from the project was offered as a special item at ALDI Imprint & Contactt In order to meet our climate targets, we are curNorth Germany for the first time. rently planning to acquire more green electricity by 2021. ALDI Netherlands began fully sourcing its TEXTILES: PRODUCTION electricity from green sources back in 2015. In 2018 PROCESS AND PROJECTS IN – just like in the year before – the electricity came entirely from wind power produced in Europe. As THE COUNTRIES OF ORIGIN a result, we saved more than 40,000 tonnes of CO2 With our greenline products, we are promoting equivalents in 2018. We are currently developing the use of resource-conserving technologies in strict criteria for the purchasing of green electricity. the production process of textiles. One of those technologies is the so-called Dope-Dyed method. CO-OPERATION FOR CLIMATE When dyeing the polyester fibres, the pigments are not brought up to the surface of the fibre as EDUCATION AT SCHOOLS before, but are sprayed into the fibres during the In Germany, we have joined a new co-operation with spinning process. This saves up to 95 per cent of the climate protection organisation “atmosfair”, CO2, up to 85 per cent of water and up to 75 per cent aiming at raising the awareness of children and of energy. Furthermore, less chemicals is used. We young people for the issue of climate protection. are converting our textile range to the Dope-Dyed atmosfair offers lessons at schools to answer method wherever this is possible and economically various questions with relevance for our daily lives, reasonable. Furthermore, in co-operation with our such as; What is the carbon footprint left by food suppliers, we are constantly evaluating further on their way from production to the shelf? What environmentally-friendly technologies within the amount of CO2 do I generate when I travel by air? The supply chains. teaching units involve a playful approach to these and other questions around the topic of climate and In Germany, we published a National Cotton Purenvironment. atmosfair developed these modules chasing Policy in 2017 which already covers the in co-operation with Deutsche Umwelt-Aktion for majority of all items sold in the countries of the fourth-grade students. At secondary schools, the ALDI North Group due to joint international buying initiative “Germanwatch Klimaexpedition“ offers the practices of some articles for several countries. students a deeper insight on the global interrelaThe purchasing policy sets a target of raising tions of our climate and climate change. ALDI North the proportion of certified sustainable cotton to Germany supports this project with a total amount 30 per cent by 2018. With a rate of 33 per cent, of 250,000 €. Nationwide, an estimated number of we even exceeded this target at the end of 2018. 34,000 girls and boys are to take part. We currently rely on the Global Organic Textile INTERIM REPORT 2018 E N VI RON M E N TA L PROTECTION 18 Back Standard (GOTS), the Organic Content Standard RAISING AWARENESS (OCS), Fairtrade and organic as well as recycled Table of contents cotton. Moreover, we entered a partnership with the As a leading discounter, we provide our customers Initiative Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) in 2018 and with products that meet their daily needs. Every Foreword promote their activities in the countries of origin. year, consumers make 1.2 billion purchases at our stores. Our goal is to promote a healthy, sustainable Highlight key figures Since 2018, we have been supporting a project lifestyle – and make it possible for a broad group Overview of our CR programme in Central Asia in order to allow small farmers of society to engage in affordable, responsible the access to GMO-free cotton seeds. The proconsumption. Human rights ject is carried out in co-operation with Fairtrade Germany and the German organization Deutsche We use various tools to inform our customers Labour rights Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit about social and environmental aspects of our umweltschutz ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION (GIZ). The aim is not only to increase the proproducts: be it by the customer magazine ALDI • Climate protection duction volume of GMO-free cotton, but also to aktuell, through other advertising measures, in in buildings support small farmers by various trainings and our stores and by clear labelling of the product. • Co-operation for climate thus improve the quality of GMO-free cotton. This We raise awareness of special sustainability education in school would also allow for higher incomes to be achieved requirements through special campaigns and • Coffee: local environmental by the farmers. The projects in Kyrgyzstan and projects. ALDI Netherlands, for instance, co-opprotection Tadzhikistan will go on until April 2020. Furthererate with the Plastic Soup Foundation to raise the • Textiles: Production process and more, we have already been sourcing our highawareness of pupils for the topic of plastic waste. projects n the countries of origin quality bed linen made of regional Fairtrade cotton In 2018, ALDI Netherlands donated an amount of • Our new Water Protection Protection Policy Policy for several years and will offer this product once 20,000 € to the foundation, thus allowing the proagain in 2019. ject to reach a total number of 200,000 children. • Raising awareness In Germany, we are supporting the social start-up sustainable assortments • More sustainable ranges We took part in the sector comparison “Preferred Plastic Bank, campaigning against the further • A joint “packaging mission Fiber and Materials Market Report“ on textile fibres extension of plastic waste in the oceans. For this for the third time in 2018. The ranking was carried purpose, Plastic Bank set up collecting stations for Anti-corruption out by the NGO Textile Exchange. Among the bigplastic waste in countries with high poverty rates Subject of the report gest traders of organic cotton, we ranked eighth. and insufficiently developed waste industries. Furthermore, we were among the three members People disposing plastic waste at the collecting Imprint & Contactt having achieved the greatest progress with the stations before the plastic reaches waters or the use of sustainable fibres since the benchmark was ocean can earn money or be awarded social serlaunched in 2016. vices. Upon collection, the deposited waste is being sorted, processed and fed into the recycling value We also published a Progress Report on the Detox chain. In regions with high environmental polluCommitment in 2018. This voluntary commitment is tion, collecting stations are set up at which the resdesigned to emphasize our constant support of the idents can exchange their plastic waste for money, Greenpeace Detox campaign. goods or services. Thus, additional incentives are created to collect the waste from the nearby OUR NEW WATER areas. The project we are supporting is a collecting station on the Philippines. PROTECTION POLICY As an international retailer, we are aware of the MORE SUSTAINABLE ASSORTMENTS fact that many products on our shelves implicate water risks for the countries of production. This The central buying division and the respective particularly applies to agricultural products where national buying organizations are in charge of the production accounts for roughly 70 per cent organizing the buying process at ALDI North. They of the global water use. Another risk area that we jointly agree on the measures to be taken for a have identified is the refining process for textiles more sustainable product range. In our Purchasing and shoes. To live up to our responsibility, we have Policies we document the status quo and set targets defined ambitious targets for ourselves. In our for switching to certified resources. Furthermore, Water Protection Policy published for Germany in we rule out critical products or production methods March 2019, we stipulated binding measures for with the aid of negative lists. Moreover, the ALDI responsible handling of water. These cover the Transparency Code (ATC) enables our customers fields of food, textiles and operative water manto track the origin of various meat products agement. Further targets particularly relate to the throughout the ALDI North Group; in Germany, this reduction of micro-plastic entering the environalso applies to fish products, and fresh eggs, as ment. The Water Protection Policy is to be expanded well as – since 2018 – textiles made of sustainable to include further countries in the future. cotton. INTERIM REPORT 2018 E N VI RON M E N TA L PROTECTION 19 Back Number of Fairtrade items Number of sourced own-brand items with Fairtrade-certification in the product ranges1 Table of contents Foreword 2016 2017 2018 Highlight key figures Belgium/Luxembourg2 9 16 16 Denmark 11 19 22 Overview of our CR programme Germany 21 30 42 Human rights France 1 14 15 Labour rights Netherlands 41 29 34 Poland 1 6 17 umweltschutz ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Portugal 12 19 22 • Climate protection in buildings Spain 4 4 7 • Co-operation for climate ALDI North Group 70 73 90 education in school • Coffee: local environmental 1 Because certain products are purchased jointly for several countries, the total number of protection insourced products may be lower than the total of the breakdowns by country. • Textiles: Production process and 2 The information regarding the legally independent companies of the ALDI North Group in Belgium and in projects n the countries of origin Luxembourg has been combined for the purposes of a simplified presentation (refer to “Subject of the report“). • Our new Water Protection Policy • Raising awareness • More sustainable assortments • A joint “packaging mission “packaging mission We aim at further expanding our range of Fairtrade and make a contribution to promote closed loop Anti-corruption products in all countries. In 2018, we had 90 Fairrecycling management. Our International Timber Subject of the report trade-certified products in our range throughout Purchasing Policy stipulates clear targets on the the ALDI North Group, representing an increase of topic of packaging as well. Furthermore, national Imprint & Contactt 23 per cent compared with the previous year. FurALDI organizations are working on their own stratthermore, ALDI Belgium was the leading Fairtrade egies regarding the issue. retailer in 2018. Thanks to multiple-use systems for our transA JOINT “PACKAGING MISSION“ port and outer packaging as well as multiple-use boxes for our fruit and vegetable products, we Avoiding waste is a key pillar of sustainable evelopalready save 62 million non-returnable cardboard ment. Packaging waste accounts for the major part boxes and roughly 22,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. If of the total waste volume at ALDI North. In 2018, we non-returnable packaging is inevitable to suffitherefore launched the “packaging mission“ for our ciently protect our goods during transport, we rely AG I N G M I own-brand product packaging in Germany. We want on foils and cardboard boxes made of recycled CK S to reduce the total weight of our own-brand product and sustainable materials that can be completely packaging in Germany by 30 per cent – proportional re-used. Moreover, the non-returnable cardboard ALDI P SIO to sales – by 2025 (base year 2015). We strive for boxes used in many national ALDI organizations A N 100 per cent of our own-brand product packaging already consist of recycled and/or certified material being recyclable by 2022. The next step will be to to a certain extent. expand the mission throughout the company group. Furthermore, we have set ourselves the target to P reve n ti o n . In order to achieve our goals, we rely on the further promote the principle of the closed loop Re -u s e . principle “Prevention, re-use and recycling“. We recycling management in related projects. In 2019, Re cyc li n g . try to avoid packaging wherever this is possible. we developed the “ALDI waste sorting symbols” Furthermore, we strive to reduce the packaging which will be gradually introduced for our own-brand volume in the area of fruit and vegetables as far product packaging in Germany. The symbols inform as possible and to offer more unpackaged food. our customers on the correct recycling separation At the same time, we make sure that the product of the individual packaging components. Thus, we quality is maintained and food loss is prevented. are making a contribution to increased recycling The campaign logo of the ALDI packaging mission is quotas as well as the necessary con-sumer intended to mark ecologically beneficial packaging education. Moreover, we commit ourselves to for our customers in the future as well. increase our share of rPET (recycled polyester) to 25 per cent in the scope of the “Recycled Poly-ester We intend to define international packaging tarCommitment“ of the Textile Exchange organ-ization gets for the entire ALDI North Group in the near (base year 2016). In the range of textiles and shoes, future. For example, we want to make a common we already use recycled fibres. statement campaigning against packaging waste INTERIM REPORT 2018 E N VI RON M E N TA L PROTECTION 20 Back Moreover, all carrier bags were converted to the multiple-use principle and non-returnable plastic Table of contents bags were removed from the stores nationwide in Belgium, Germany, Luxembourg and the NetherForeword lands at the end of 2018. Hereby, we save approx. 1,660 tonnes of plastic per year. The proceeds genHighlight key figures erated by selling off the remaining non-returnable Overview of our CR programme bags will be used to promote sustainable projects in Germany and the Netherlands. Human rights In order to achieve further progress in the field Labour rights of sustainable packaging and plastic reduction in umweltschutz ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION our industry, we are supporting young start-ups • Climate protection developing innovative ideas for more sustainable in buildings packaging solutions. First, in co-operation with the • Co-operation for climate start-up accelerator programme “TechFounders“, education in school we identify potential start-ups for innovative part• Coffee: local environmental nership projects. The focus is not only on financial protection support of the start-ups. ALDI North will also serve • Textiles: Production process and as a driving force and mentor for the participants projects n the countries of origin within the scope of the partnership. • Our new Water Protection Policy Fighting food loss plays a central role for us as • Raising awareness a food retailer. Our planning principally seeks to • More sustainable assortments provide an optimal supply on the shelves, while • A joint “packaging “packaging mission mission minimizing the losses. Potential surpluses are donated as so-called food donations, whenever this Anti-corruption is possible. The national ALDI organizations have Subject of the report been working together with local food banks, in some parts already for many years. This cooperaImprint & Contactt tion is constantly extended. Particularly in Denmark and Portugal, the proportion of stores donating surplus food have increased considerably in 2018. 100 per cent of the stores in Belgium, Luxembourg and Portugal donate food, while the share in Denmark have been increased from 18.1 to 56.3 per cent. In the period under review, 77.3 per cent of all stores affiliated to the ALDI North Group donated surplus foods that were no longer marketable but still edible (2017: 75 per cent). INTERIM REPORT 2018 A N TI-CORRUPTI ON 21 Zurück Inhalt Vorwort Highlight-Kennzahlen CR-Programm im Überblick Menschenrechte Arbeitsnormen Umweltschutz Korruptionsbekämpfung Über diesen Bericht Impressum & Kontakt CONTENTS Value-based management Anti-corruption Our understanding “We keep our word“ – this is stipulated in our mission statement. of compliance We therefore expect all our employees and business partners to Well-structured Compliance act in a responsible and reliable way. Clear standards have been Management System defined for an ethically correct and compliant behaviour. 10 How we make compliance an integral part of ALDI North Principle: Measures against corruption INTERIM REPORT 2018 A N TI-CORRUPTI ON 22 Back VALUE-BASED MANAGEMENT WELL-STRUCTURED COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Table of contents Simplicity, responsibility and reliability – these values guide our actions and is an integrated part of The CMS, which serves as a standard for the Foreword our “Simply ALDI” mission statement. The mission companies of the ALDI North Group, is designed statement provides a clear sense of direction for to help employees live up to our ALDI North core Highlight key figures more than 74,000 ALDI employees. Our Corporate values at all times. Above all else, the CMS aims Overview of our CR programme Responsibility (CR) Policy is an integral part of the to ensure and promote ALDI North’s long-term entire ALDI North Group. It picks up on our corposuccess, and prevent any damage. The CMS is Human rights rate mission statement and presents our undermade available internationally to all ALDI compastanding of CR. It also specifies the fields of action nies. Country-specific adjustments are made in Labour rights where we put our corporate responsibility into consultation with the relevant person or persons Environmental protection practice. Within our CR Programme, we set clear responsible for the ALDI companies in the respecgoals for all fields of action and communicate our tive countries. As a part of CMS, we created further ANTI-CORRUPTION Korruptionsbekämpfung progress as part of the Sustainability Report. information channels in the form of whistleblowing •• management Valued-basedmanagement Value-based systems that serve to receive information on •• Our perception Our understandingof compliance of compliance OUR UNDERSTANDING compliance violations within the ALDI North Group; also anonymously. Any violations of applicable compliance • Well-structured compliance OF COMPLIANCE system management system law and internal rules (such as corruption, unfair Our values “simplicity, responsibility and reliability” competition and incorrect ethical behaviour, but • How we make compliance compliance an an integral part of ALDI North Aldi North also express the way the companies of the ALDI also non-compliance with work safety regulations, North Group view and approach Compliance. Our social standards and human rights) can be reported Subject of the report mission statement “Simply ALDI” states: “We keep through these channels. The whistleblowing sysour word”. ALDI North expects all employees and tems are available on the websites for internal and Imprint & Contact business partners to act with responsibility and external parties around the clock. reliability Mandatory rules, policies and agreements must be adhered to. This is also stipulated HOW WE MAKE COMPLIANCE AN in our “Compliance Goals“ document that all manINTEGRAL PART OF ALDI NORTH agers receive. We perform various kinds of training to raise Our corporate mission statement and the Comour employees’ awareness of the importance of pliance-Management-System (CMS) provide ALDI compliance. New employees receive training on North employees with clear guidelines for ensuring the key policies of the ALDI North Group compaethically and compliant behaviour. The respective nies. In Germany, ALDI Buying employees in the managers are responsible for seeing to that the Purchasing, Quality Assurance, CR and Corpocompliance rules are respected and using approrate Communication departments also regularly priate controls specified in our CMS. complete training, which covers topics such as antitrust law, unfair competition, protection of The General Terms and Conditions of Purchasing company and trade secrets, avoidance of corruption define clear rules that govern the relationship and the requirements of the Supply Chain Initiative. between suppliers and ALDI North. Anticompetitive Training takes place in the companies affiliated to conduct by suppliers and manufacturers are prothe ALDI North Group in other countries as well. In hibited, and sanctions have been designed to punish early 2018, we held training sessions in Germany any violations. The General Terms and Conditions of for approximately 700 managers of the individual Purchasing also specify the compliance requireregional companies where we addressed the CMS ments for contractual partners. In addition, service and the IT tool. The managers themselves are now providers must adhere to the Code of Conduct able to train employees at the regional companies. governing the observance of social standards for construction, works and services commissioned by the ALDI North Group. If there are reliable indications of a violation of these rules – whether by a supplier or an ALDI employee – the Compliance department and Compliance committee will ensure a comprehensive investigation. INTERIM REPORT 2018 S UBJE CT OF TH E RE PORT 23 Subject of the report Back Table of contents Foreword The purpose of the interim report is to transparThe report is available as a PDF document in ently inform our internal and external stakeholders German and further languages. In the interest of Highlight key figures on the sustainable progress by the companies of readability, the legal structure of companies is not Overview of our CR programme the ALDI North Group. The structure of the report specified and only the masculine form is used in the is based on the recommendations of the United report with both genders being referred to on equal Human rights Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and comply with terms. the requested Communication on Progress. The Labour rights report covers the four fields of human rights, Any contents of the report are also available on Environmental protection labour, the environment and anti-corruption as our platform www.cr-aldinord.com. Here, you can well as the Ten Principles of the UNGC. The next also find documents for download and additional Anti-corruption sustainability report is scheduled for 2020. information as well as our previous sustainability SUBJECT Über OFBericht diesen THE REPORT reports (2015–2017). The editor of the report is ALDI Einkauf GmbH & Imprint & Contact Co. oHG, Essen (hereinafter referred to as ALDI Einkauf). Partners of ALDI Einkauf are in particular the ALDI companies with the legal structure of GmbH & Co. KGs (limited partnership with a limited liability company as general partner), forming a group of equal subsidiaries in Germany. The foreign ALDI companies are licensees of ALDI Einkauf. All of these legally independent companies constitute the ALDI North Group which is the subject matter of this report. Any deviations within individual key figures or contents are marked accordingly. The procurement of goods for ALDI Luxemburg is effected by the commissioned purchasing and logistics division of ALDI Belgium. ALDI Luxemburg and ALDI Belgium, however, are legally independent companies whose figures were added regularly in the tables of this report for reasons of convenience. The period under review is from 1st January until 31st December 2018. The editorial deadline is 31st March 2019. INTERIM REPORT 2018 I M P RI N T & CON TACT 24 Imprint & Contact Back Table of contents Foreword EDITOR CONTACT Highlight key figures ALDI Einkauf GmbH & Co. oHG cr-reporting@aldi-nord.de Overview of our CR programme Eckenbergstraße 16A 45307 Essen EDITORIAL DEADLINE Human rights 31. March 2019 Labour rights RESPONSIBLE Rayk Mende CONCEPTION / EDITORIAL WORK / LAYOUT Environmental protection Managing Director Corporate Stakeholder Reporting GmbH, Hamburg Supression of corruption Responsibility / Quality Assurance International Subject of the report ALDI Einkauf GmbH & Co. oHG IMPRINT & CONTACT Impressum & Kontakt PROJECT MANAGEMENT Katharina Kücherer Manager Corporate Responsibility / Quality Assurance International ALDI Einkauf GmbH & Co. oHG Sarah Mager Manager Corporate Responsibility / Quality Assurance International ALDI Einkauf GmbH & Co. oHG We would like to thank all colleagues and all parties involved who joined forces to develop this report. LANGUAGE OF THE REPORT The language of the report is German. Furthermore, the current report is available in other languages, too. In case of any deviations from the German original and the translated cr-aldinord.com versions as well as in cases of doubt, the German original version shall prevail. DISCLAIMER This report contains statements relating to the future development of the ALDI North Group. These statement constitute assessments which were made The interim report 2018 on the basis of information that are currently available to ALDI North. Actual (PDF) is available in: future developments may deviate from the current assessments. Therefore, the ALDI North cannot be held responsible for such statements. German INTERIM REPORT 2018 OF THE ALDI NORTH GROUP1 English This report is also available online on our sustainability platform at cr-aldinord.com. Here, French we also provide further interesting contents, key figures, highlights and download options. Polish Portuguese Spanish 1 For information on the legal organisation of the company group, please refer to the section Subject of the report . INTERIM REPORT 2018 Kapitel 25 Zurück Inhalt Vorwort Highlight-Kennzahlen CR-Programm im Überblick Menschenrechte Arbeitsnormen Umweltschutz ANHANG Korruptionsbekämpfung Über diesen Bericht Impressum & Kontakt cr-aldinord.com
