Corporate Report For the year ended 30 June 2019 19 59 cents Our FY19 per stapled security distributed in FY19, growth of 5.4% on FY18 performance highlights 374K hours average workday travel-time savings Up to 78% safer roads than comparable alternatives 4 major projects opened to traffic New M4 Tunnels1, Logan Enhancement Project2, Purchased Gateway Upgrade North and 51% Inner City Bypass upgrade of WestConnex as part of Sydney Transport Partners Consortium 1 New M4 Tunnels were substantially completed in FY19 and opened to traffic on 13 July 2019 2 Logan Enhancement Project completion works are underway and expected to be finalised in August 2019 Linkt Assist hardship program established 2.0% average daily traffic growth Tunnelling completed on $15M reduction in fees due 2 to fee and enforcement projects reform enhancing positive outcomes for NorthConnex and New M5 customers Committed to Financial Inclusion Action Plan Contents 6 Introduction and overview Our Chairman and CEO begin the Corporate Report with a review of the year’s performance and their outlook for the future. This is followed by an overview of who we are and what we stand for, along with a summary of our roads and projects. We outline our strategy and how this helps us create value for all of our stakeholders. We also detail how we engage with our stakeholders and respond to their feedback. An overview of the major external factors influencing our business now and into the future concludes this section. 6 About this report 8 Chair’s message 9 CEO’s message 10 About us 12 Our strategy 14 Engaging our stakeholders 16 External influences Reporting suite— all available at 18 transurban.com/ investor-centre Our business FY19 Corporate Report— performance this report Here we detail our activities and progress against our business 60 The holistic performance of Transurban in FY19 including priorities. We have divided Directors’ our Financial Statements. the information into our main Report FY19 Results stakeholder groups to capture the value we have created for Presentation The Directors’ Report for each of them. Management presentation FY19 has been prepared in accordance with the of financial and non-financial As required by the Corporations results including nonAct 2001, this section also requirements of the statutory analysis. includes commentary on the Corporations Act 2001. Group’s financial performance FY19 Sustainability Data and position. and Climate Change The section concludes with our outlook for FY20 including near64 Disclosures Supplement to the Corporate term priorities and distribution Remuneration Report including information guidance. Report related to our assessment and management of climate19 Customers related impacts. 24 Community Detailed information on the 32 Our people remuneration of Directors and FY19 UN Sustainable key management personnel is Development Goals 36 Government and industry included in this section along Progress Report 40 Business partners with our remuneration strategy and suppliers and governance information. Progress report on the nine UN SDGs that are particularly 44 Investors relevant to Transurban, including associated targets, performance during the year 87 and summary of key initiatives 50 implemented. Financial Governance Statements Corporate Governance Statement and risk The Financial Statements and Corporate Governance accompanying notes are for Statement in accordance with This section provides an the ASX Council’s Corporate the year ended 30 June 2019 overview of our approach Governance Principles and for Transurban Holdings Limited to governance and risk Recommendations and controlled entities, including management, including how (3rd Edition). Transurban International Limited we manage and mitigate our and Transurban Holding Trust. key risks. Tax Transparency Report 51 Governance This section also includes our Overview of our corporate security holder information, structure, approach to tax 52 Board of directors including the 20 largest holders and tax position for FY18— 54 Risk management of our stapled securities. available late August 2019. Transurban 6 FY19 Corporate Report About this report The FY19 Corporate Report covers the PricewaterhouseCoopers has conducted Key changes period from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 an independent audit of the Financial unless otherwise specified. Statements and Remuneration Report. This year we have taken a Detailed information on the audit is We have used a variety of processes available in Section E of the Financial new approach to our annual and sources to pinpoint the topics Statements on page 176. report by providing a holistic discussed in this report, including the view of our business in a Global Reporting Index (core option), Additionally, KPMG has provided limited single document. the International Integrated Reporting assurance over the following selected Framework, stakeholder feedback and non-financial data points included in Along with our Financial external commentary. our reporting suite: Road Injury Crash Statements, the FY19 Index; Recordable Injury Frequency Rate; The United Nations’ Sustainable Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2e*); Scope 2 Corporate Report outlines Development Goals (SDGs) have also GHG emissions (tCO2e*); Customer how we have performed guided our reporting. We have identified vehicle GHG emissions (tCO2e*); Nitrogen and created value for our six nine SDGs (Figure 1) as being particularly oxides (NOx) emissions (tonnes*); and stakeholder groups. relevant to our business. A progress community investment. report detailing our performance against We have also enhanced our the nine goals is available at transurban. Select non-financial data points within Remuneration Report to com/fy19-sustainability-sdgs. this report are estimates informed by provide further context on part-year data and trend analysis of Since 2006, we have produced an annual previous years. This estimated data is our remuneration strategy Sustainability Report to detail our nonidentified by an asterisk (*). and governance. financial performance and contributions to the community. This information is now Further information on the methodology included in our annual Corporate Report, used for sustainability data in this recognising that sustainability benefits report, including limited assurance all our stakeholders. Additional detail is statement by KPMG, is available in the available in the FY19 Sustainability Data FY19 Sustainability Data and Climate and Climate Change Disclosures, available Change Disclosures. at transurban.com/investor-centre. The remaining information in this report is This report also includes our Financial derived from the group’s internal records Statements, which have been prepared and from information available in the in accordance with the Corporations Act public domain and has been through an 2001 and Australian accounting standards. internal review process. Detailed information on the basis of preparation of our Financial Statements is available on page 96. Figure 1: Aligning our Sustainability Strategy with the UN SDGs In FY19, we changed our Sustainability Strategy to better align with the nine UN SDGs most relevant to us and our stakeholders. In doing so, we reinforced our commitment to the UN Global Compact, and contribution to global sustainability efforts. Our strategy is supported by a set of objectives and work program. Throughout this report, we have used the UN SDG icons (left) to show how our activities are contributing to the global goals. Introduction and overview Introduction and overview 7 Our recognitions Global Real Estate Sustainability Dow Jones Sustainability FTSE4Good Benchmark—Infrastructure (2018) Index (2018) Member of Global Index for 1st globally for Transportation 1st toll road operator and 2nd for 15 years Infrastructure and 3rd overall globally Transportation and TransportationInfrastructure sector globally Ethibel Socially Responsible Workplace Gender Equality MSCI Investment Register Agency (Australia) AAA ESG Rating Excellence label in the 2019 Ethibel Employer of Choice Citation Investment Register for five years Our affiliations Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) UN Global Compact Task Force for Climate-related Utilised for our sustainability Participant since 2009 Financial Disclosures reporting for 14 years Implementing recommendations Carbon Disclosure Project IS and Envision Participant in 2019 Sustainability ratings for major projects Transurban 8 FY19 Corporate Report Lindsay Maxsted Chair and independent Non-executive Director Chair’s message The overall success of Transurban rests on our capacity to create mutually beneficial relationships with our many stakeholders. To that end, this year we have compiled a Corporate Report that highlights our balanced approach and goes beyond the numbers to provide a holistic view of the long-term value—financial and non-financial—we create. This Report includes more comprehensive information on our long-term strategy, the issues that may impact it Financial year 2019 has been a tremendously rewarding and how we are responding. It notes that we have revised period for Transurban, with significant achievements our business strategy to ensure it continues to be clearly across all facets of the business. aligned with the expectations of our various stakeholders. Our strategy is to provide sustainable transport solutions Our solid financial results and progress in operations and that offer choice, reliability, safety, transparency and development projects, clearly demonstrates the success value. Our purpose remains unchanged—to strengthen of our business strategy to produce positive outcomes for communities through transport. our customers, communities, government and business partners, our people and investors. Also, within the Corporate Report we have provided information such as our environmental performance During the period, the balance sheet has remained strong within major project delivery and operations and how we as highlighted by our investment grade credit metrics, are working with others in our industry to address risks achieved alongside significant portfolio development and improve outcomes. We have also provided examples activity. In addition, cash flow continues to grow as we of how we have practically responded to the challenges balance our objectives of growing distributions while that many growing cities face with increasing congestion creating long term value for security holders. and cost-of-living pressures. This includes establishing Key financial highlights of the period ended Our purpose remains a dedicated team to assist 30 June 2019: unchanged—to strengthen customers in social or financial • statutory net profit of $170 million hardship, building on our longcommunities through standing hardship policy. • 12.3 per cent growth in Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation transport. I hope this expanded (EBITDA) to $2,016 million1 commentary in the Corporate • distribution of 59 cents per security, a 5.4 per cent Report provides you with a greater understanding of the increase on the distribution paid in FY18. various initiatives supporting our overall strategy. Transurban constantly seeks to balance long-term value Finally, on behalf of the Board, I acknowledge the work of creation with maintaining distribution growth to our the Executive Team, led by Scott Charlton and that of all of investors. For the year ending 30 June 2020, the Board our employees. has issued distribution guidance of 62 cents per security, Their commitment and effort will form the basis for the an increase of 5.1 per cent on the FY19 distribution. Our continued success of Transurban in what promises to be guidance reflects the Board’s confidence in the strength of another extremely busy year. our underlying business. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our security holders for their continued support of Transurban and, in particular, support for the recent capital raisings that have underpinned the development projects that will create Lindsay Maxsted further value over the long term. Chair 1 Proportional EBITDA, excluding significant items Introduction and overview 9 CEO’s message It has been an exceptional year for Transurban as we Other major achievements in FY19 include: continued to build our portfolio for the long term, progressed development projects and expanded initiatives • 1.7 million trips, saving customers an average of in customer engagement, sustainability, technology and 374,000 hours every work day safety. • two per cent average daily traffic growth In September 2018 alongside our partners, we acquired • four major projects with lanes open: the Logan 51 per cent of Australia’s biggest road project— Enhancement Project, Gateway Upgrade North and WestConnex, and last month we opened the first Inner City Bypass upgrade in Brisbane and the New M4 underground section—the New M4 Tunnels. WestConnex Tunnels in Sydney which opened in July will be transformative for Sydney and provide significant • a revised Sustainability Strategy—aligned with the time savings for our customers with access to a critical link UN’s Sustainable Development Goals—and continued to the CBD, transport hubs and the city’s orbital network. development of our climate change management program. In May this year, just a few kilometres from Melbourne’s CBD, 500 workers completed construction of a giant After a period of sustained growth, we have set three nearlaunch site for our West Gate Tunnel Project. It’s from term priorities: deliver our committed projects; maximise here that the 90-metre long tunnel boring machines— the performance of operations; and enhance customer Vida and Bella—will begin digging out the twin tunnels and community offerings. that will change the face of transport in Melbourne by providing a much-needed alternative to the city’s busiest I am confident that we have a great team of highly skilled river crossing, the West Gate Bridge. The tunnels will also and committed people to continue to advance these remove thousands of trucks from local streets daily. priorities and realise the benefits of more efficient transport networks for our customers and the community. Once complete, these projects, along with our nine kilometre NorthConnex tunnels in Sydney’s northern suburbs and three Express Lanes projects in the USA, will offer valuable travel-time savings, safety and reliability for motorists, ultimately improving liveability and productivity Scott Charlton in these cities. Chief Executive Officer These projects are the highly visible demonstrations of how we go about achieving our company purpose, to strengthen communities through transport. What isn’t as obvious is the hard work of the thousands of Transurban people behind the scenes. These people are focused on making sure our roads operate as efficiently and safely as possible. They’re listening to and learning from our customers and the community to ensure their interactions and experiences with us are as easy as possible. Others are preparing for the future of transport through technology, working on initiatives to reduce our environmental footprint and developing industry-leading and diverse talent to take Transurban into the future. Scott Charlton Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director Transurban 10 FY19 Corporate Report About us 1996 Transurban was established in Melbourne 17 We design our roads toll roads in Australia for the long term, and North America ensuring they’ll deliver real and lasting benefits to cities and their 30.8 communities. weighted average concession length (in years) As one of the world’s largest toll-road Every day more than 1.7 million trips are operators, our business is about getting taken on our roads. We are persistent in 8 people where they want to go, as quickly looking for ways to make travel easier for and safely as possible to assist in achieving everyone by using technology to create our purpose—to strengthen communities more efficient roads and a better customer through transport. experience. projects scheduled for completion by FY24 Listed on the Australian Securities Exchange As an industry leader, we set high standards (ASX) in 1996, Transurban was established in for our performance on social and Melbourne with the development of CityLink, environmental issues, and we invest in both one of the city’s major transport corridors. in order to contribute to social inclusion and manage our environmental impacts. Today we have 17 toll roads in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, Australia, as well as in the Greater Washington Area and Montreal in North America. Our values We have eight projects underway that Our values set the agenda for the will offer major improvements in the way motorists move around our cities. way we work and how we interact with all of our stakeholders. We design our roads for the long term, ensuring they’ll deliver real and lasting These values are: benefits to cities and their communities. • integrity • respect • accountability • collaboration • ingenuity Introduction and overview 11 Our roads and projects Ownership USA (as at 30 June 2019) Virginia 495 Express Lanes1 100% 68 years Concession life 95 Express Lanes 2 100% 68 years remaining Canada Montreal A25 100% 23 years Australia Melbourne CityLink 100% 26 years Sydney M5 West4 65.38% 42 years West Gate Tunnel 100% 23 years 3 Hills M2 100% 29 years Eastern Distributor 75.1% 29 years Westlink M7 50% 29 years Brisbane Gateway Motorway 62.5% 33 years NorthConnex 50% 28 years3 Logan Motorway 62.5% 33 years Lane Cove Tunnel 100% 29 years Clem7 62.5% 32 years Cross City Tunnel 100% 16 years Go Between Bridge 62.5% 44 years New M4 5 25.5% 42 years Legacy Way 62.5% 46 years M5 East 6 25.5% 40 years3 AirportlinkM7 62.5% 34 years M4-M5 Link 7 25.5% 37 years3 1 495 Express Lanes concession includes the 495 Northern Extension Project, development framework agreed—project scope and timing subject to change 2 95 Express Lanes concession includes 395 Express Lanes and the Fredericksburg Extension both currently under construction 3 From expected opening 4 M5 West will form part of the WestConnex M5 concession through to December 2060, once concession expires in December 2026. As at 30 June, 2019, Transurban owned 65.38 per cent of M5 West and 25.5 per cent of WestConnex 5 M4 opened May 1994, M4 Widening opened July 2017, New M4 Tunnels substantially complete in FY19 and opened to traffic in July 2019 6 Including New M5 7 M4-M5 Link and Rozelle Interchange Transurban 12 FY19 Corporate Report Our strategy Purpose: To strengthen communities Stakeholder through engagement We strive to be a trusted partner transport to communities, customers, governments, our people, business partners and suppliers and investors Optimal networks We strive to maintain a leading understanding of the transport Strategy: needs of our markets Provide sustainable transport solutions that We do this by: offer choice, reliability, safety, transparency, Delivery and value and operations We invest in technology, innovation and people to make transport safe, reliable, simple and sustainable Disciplined investment We maintain a ‘best-for-network’ approach to value-adding, opportunity development Introduction and overview 13 The value we’re striving to create for our stakeholders: Customers The millions of people and More productive and liveable cities through: businesses that use our roads • faster and more reliable travel times and services. • safer roads • choice, convenience, transparency and value for customers in the travel routes they take and the way they interact with us. Community The communities of Sydney, Better connected and more sustainable communities through: Melbourne and Brisbane in • improved productivity and easier access to goods and services through Australia and the Greater direct transport connections Washington Area and Montreal • reduced through-traffic in local neighbourhoods in North America. • job creation through construction projects and flow-on employment opportunities • highest standards of community engagement to create local neighbourhood benefits • investment in community projects and partnerships • focus on environmental initiatives to improve local ecology and reduce the impact of our operations. Our people Our almost 3,000 strong Highly capable workforce through: workforce, our pipeline of • job creation and skills development emerging talent and the • development of emerging talent thousands of sub-contractors who represent Transurban across • focus on safety and employee wellbeing. our projects and operations every day. Government Our partners in federal, state Innovative and efficient transport infrastructure to cater for growing urban and local governments and populations through: and industry the transport and business • capital input freeing up government balance sheets for other priorities community we are active in. • potential to fast-track project delivery and for private sector to take on project or financial risks • private sector expertise in innovative design, construction and operations • contribution to public policy debate. Business The 1,600+ network of suppliers Better environmental and community outcomes through influence in our and partners that provide the extensive supply chain through: partners goods and services we rely on to • long-term relationships with lasting economic benefits in employment, and suppliers deliver for our customers. goods and services procurement • risk management within our supply chain • opportunities for innovation and sustainable outcomes within supply chain. Investors The institutional, superannuation, Sustainable investment proposition through: retail and debt investors that • balanced distribution growth and long-term value creation provide us with the capital to • disciplined approach to future opportunities deliver long-term, responsible growth. • superior ESG (environmental, social and governance) industry performance. Transurban 14 FY19 Corporate Report Engaging our stakeholders Customers Community Our people How we engaged • “Voice of Customer” continuous • Project community engagement teams • “Our Voice” continuous listening listening program who interact through information program • “Changing Gears” online customer sessions, meetings, and digital and • Regular employee town hall meetings research panel hard-copy communications • Internal communications channels • Customer service channels including • Corporate trust survey including intranet, Webex, emails, website, app, webchat, email, phone, • Community liaison groups signage mail and retail outlets • Social media • Learning event series (internal and • Social media external speakers) • Partnerships, grant programs and • Customer Resolutions team events • Quarterly awards and recognition • Qualitative and quantitative research program Key topics we heard • Ease and convenience of interactions • Role of the community in design of • Health, safety and wellbeing • Equity and accessibility matters responses to their concerns • Skills and capability development • Fees, charges and infringement • Direct benefits to the community • Access to flexible ways of working processes through projects and operations • Diversity and equity • Transparency of value • Processes and governance • Ongoing career opportunities • On-road experience factors such • Emissions and air quality as congestion • Impacts through project construction • Privacy and operations • Transparency of project design and delivery processes and decision making How we responded • Significant enhancements to digital • Demonstrated positive contributions to • Health and Safety Action Plans platforms communities through partnerships and mandatory for all teams in the business • Linkt Assist dedicated hardship social and environmental initiatives • Focus on mental wellbeing within assistance team and commitment to • Joined Australian National University’s our revised Belonging and Wellbeing Financial Inclusion Action Plan Next Generation Engagement Program Strategy • Changes to fees and charges and to promote best practice in achieving • Professional development plans infringement process improvements positive community outcomes developed through annual • Increased proactive communications • Consulted with community liaison performance review program including pre-empting potential groups on major projects design • Continuous learning platform account issues and delivery complemented by specific ‘lunch • Online and roadside tools to assist in • Invested in community through and learn’ series for example, macro choice and value assessment for our partnerships and distributed technology and policy trends roads community grants to 42 groups in • Flexible ways of working supported by Australia and 30 in North America new collaborative technologies and • Collaborate with government partners to improve on-road experience • Facilitated development of parks and capability (variable speed trials, lane and ramp community spaces including Hornsby • Women in Leadership program modifications, incident response) Quarry—where tunnel spoil was supporting gender diversity at a mid delivered from NorthConnex Project and senior level • Additional assurance and root cause review of customer enquiries • Air quality monitored on tunnels and • Pay reviews completed annually to projects with data published publicly maintain pay equity gap of less than one per cent Introduction and overview 15 Government Business partners and industry and suppliers Investors How we engaged • Submissions to State and Federal • Alignment and objective setting with • Annual program of institutional and government and government agency our major and long-term partners retail investor engagement including inquiries • Appointed representatives within domestic and offshore one-on-one • Appearance at public parliamentary our major partner engagements and meetings hearings formalised steering committees • Half year and full year results briefings • Industry partnerships and • Working groups and workshops with • Annual investor day memberships supply chain members • Quarterly traffic releases • Attendance and speaking at industry • Engagement with industry on intended • Asset tours events pipeline and future scope of works • Annual General Meeting • Meetings with political stakeholders, • Dedicated relationship managers and officials and regulators check-in meetings • Dedicated Investor Centre website • Bi-annual investor survey • Proxy adviser and ESG engagement Key topics we heard • Innovative and sustainable transport • Working with our supply chain to deliver • Asset performance solutions to meet needs of growing better outcomes for all stakeholders, • Long-term value creation cities including reducing environmental impact of business activity • Pipeline restocking • Future-ready infrastructure • Managing risks within supply chain, • Distribution growth • Road safety including human rights • Capital management • Visibility and confidence of long-term • Project delivery pipeline for suppliers • Current and emerging risks • Quality of relationships • ESG performance How we responded • Twelve road projects and upgrades • Implemented Sustainable Procurement • Delivered FY19 distribution of progressed with governments in FY19 Program including a revised Policy, 59.0 cents per stapled security, an • Worked with government partners Supplier Code of Practice and Sourcing increase of 5.4 per cent on last year’s and industry on three trials of Toolkit to address risk and promote distribution connected and automated vehicle (CAV) greater social, safety and sustainability • Acquired 51 per cent of WestConnex technologies on Transurban’s roads outcomes as part of consortium • Consultation with government on • Joined Social Traders to encourage • Advanced major project pipeline research from the Transurban Road partnerships with social enterprises with four projects opened to traffic Safety Centre • Collaborated with suppliers in readiness or substantially completed and eight • I-95 Corridor Coalition mileage-basedfor the Modern Slavery Act 2018 advanced user-fee feasibility study • Continued to work closely with our • Maintenance of strong investmentbusiness suppliers and deliver on grade credit metrics to access broad expected pipeline of work range of debt markets • Continued to work with partners to • Active management and review of identify and respond to cyber security emerging, strategic and operational and other risks within our supply chain risks Transurban 16 FY19 Corporate Report External influences Growth in population Like all businesses, identifying, responding and adapting to the external environment is critical to our longevity. For simplicity we have categorised the and urbanisation major external factors influencing our business into three major themes: Global Percentage • environmental considerations and impacts population2 urbanised3 • population growth, urbanisation and infrastructure demand • transport technology and policy trends. 2017/18 Information about how we identify and manage risks facing our business is available in our section on Risk Management, page 54. Environmental considerations and impacts With an average concession of 30.8 years, we need to prepare our business for a 7.6 billion future that is sometimes difficult to predict. Climate change and its impacts are at the forefront of a public debate. We are taking this threat seriously and are committed to reducing our environmental impact and preparing our assets to tolerate extreme weather events. More information is provided in our Sustainability Data and Climate Change 55% Disclosures. 2050 forecast Population growth, urbanisation and infrastructure demand The efficient movement of people, goods and services has become one of the greatest challenges for cities across the globe. Australia’s population is expected to grow from 24.5 million in 2016 to 30 million 9.8 billion by 20304. Propelling this growth is mass urbanisation with 80 per cent of jobs now located in cities5 and more than 90 per cent of Australia’s population living in urban areas6. In North America, 82 per cent of the population lives in urban areas7. Population growth and urbanisation is putting unprecedented demands on already-stretched transport infrastructure. 68% While network enhancements may alleviate this pressure, transport operators need to explore long-term technological solutions to manage demand by improving the efficiency of existing infrastructure. 2 United Nations Department of Economics and Social Affairs, World Population Prospects, 2017 3 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, World Urbanization Prospects, 2018 4 Australian Bureau of Statistics, Australian Demographic Statistics, June 2017 5 Grattan Institute, Mapping Australia’s Economy: cities as engines of prosperity, 2014 6 Australian Bureau of Statistics, Census data 2017 7 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, World Urbanization Prospects, 2018 Introduction and overview 17 Transport technology and policy trends Connected and automated vehicles Convergence of these Most experts agree that the move to connected and trends will be key to the autonomous vehicles (CAVs) has the potential to fundamentally change the way we move around cities. future of transport Low levels of automation such as adaptive cruise control and lane-keep assist are becoming increasingly available in the standard vehicle fleet. As we move into the 2030s we expect adoption rates of highly automated vehicles to increase significantly. Zero emission vehicles Low and zero emission vehicles (ZEVs)—mainly electric vehicles and hydrogen vehicles, will help minimise Zero emission the environmental impacts of road travel. Technology improvements and increasing demand will continue to vehicles improve cost competitiveness and model availability. Road user charging Improving vehicle fuel efficiency and greater numbers of ZEVs will have a profound bearing on the amount of revenue governments collect from fuel excise, which is Connected and used for the development of roads and infrastructure. automated vehicles Governments and transport sector experts have acknowledged the need to reform the way drivers pay for Road user roads to provide a fair system that generates a sustainable revenue stream and also offers ways to get more out of charging existing infrastructure by managing demand. This need will increase significantly over the next decade. Smart mobility Ride-hailing and ride-sharing services, multi-modal transport platforms and transport-on-demand apps are already giving people greater certainty, choice and Smart mobility convenience in how they travel. Smart mobility will become the most popular and affordable mode of personal travel and may contribute to the gradual decline of the cost of travel and private vehicle ownership. The implication—more kilometres travelled The nature, scale and timing of these changes are difficult to predict. We believe that their convergence will redefine urban mobility—creating a safer, more sustainable, integrated and automated road transport network. Impacts may include: • Increased demand—Population growth and urbanisation will continue to increase transport demand. • Improved efficiency—The introduction of platooning allows smaller headways and higher speeds for more efficient use of road space. Motorways are set to benefit earlier with CAV-designated lanes. • New mobility options—CAVs have the potential to provide new solutions for freight/delivery and for those otherwise unable to drive including the elderly, children and those with disabilities. • Favourable economics—Use of ZEVs, CAVs and rise in smart mobility will likely lead to lower travel costs. • Improved safety—Increasing interconnection and automation removes human error, reducing accidents and congestion. 18Our business performance Customers Business partners Pages 19–23 and suppliers Pages 40–43 Community Pages 24–31 Investors Pages 44 – 49 Our people Pages 32–35 Government and industry Pages 36–39 Our business performance: Customers 19 374K hours in travel time saved daily 1.7M trips per day globally 280K pieces of customer feedback collected annually Customers Strategic focus areas and UN SDGs relevant to this section Our customers make approximately 1.7 million trips each day, collectively travelling around six billion kilometres on our roads each year. In Australia we serviced more than 5 million three brands—Linkt (Australia), Express Lanes customers and over 3.6 million drivers chose our (US) and A25 (Canada). Our mandate is to roads in North America in FY19. make it easy, show we care and add value for our customers. When customers choose our toll roads, they expect faster, more reliable and safer trips than Listening and responding to their feedback helps alternative routes offer. They also expect their us improve customer satisfaction and enhance interactions with us to be easy, convenient our products and services. and intuitive. In this section we highlight our initiatives to We are focused on meeting those expectations improve customer experience and report on by providing an exceptional on-road experience our on-road performance. and seamless customer service through our Transurban 20 FY19 Corporate Report Faster, safer customer travel Travel-time savings are central to our customer-value In some cases, these technologies have improved speeds proposition and on an average workday in FY19, our by 34 per cent during peak periods and lane capacity by customers collectively saved 374,000 hours in travel more than six per cent. We leverage the traffic data we globally (refer to Figure 2). This has increased by 14 per cent collect to identify congestion pinch points as well as new since last financial year, due to increasing congestion on ways to improve travel times (refer to Figure 3). arterial roads and more efficient travel on our roads as well as the addition of travel benefits for customers on the M4 With new lanes and on-road technology added following and A25. the completion of the CityLink Tulla Widening project (in Melbourne), a six-month trial began in March 2018 Figure 2: Annualised benefits across each of to increase speeds from 80km/h to 100km/h in off-peak times when it was safe to do so. Technology was used our regions to continuously monitor the road, checking weather conditions and traffic volumes to set speeds. Following the Average Average daily success of the trial and overwhelmingly positive feedback daily trips travel-time savings8 from customers, speed limits on this section of CityLink Brisbane 406K 69K continue to be dynamically managed. Melbourne 854K9 89K Similarly, in FY19, a trial on Westlink M7 and the Hills M2 Sydney 817K 195K in Sydney showed that to improve safety and travel times North America 147K 21K during the morning peak hour, we needed to reduce speed limits just before congestion occurred. This proactive management of speed limits resulted in safer traffic flow The efficiency and safety of our roads is supported by the and reduced rear-end crashes. This strategy has since data-led approach we take to operating our motorways. been implemented as business as usual. We use technologies such as variable speed and message signs, ramp metering, vehicle detectors and CCTV cameras to create ‘managed motorways’ to keep traffic flowing. Figure 3: Data to detect traffic hot spots across our Sydney roads (AM peak hour—March 2019) Hills M2 Pennant Hills Road Westlink M7 Lane Cove Road Lane Cove Tunnel M4 Motorway Warringah Freeway Direction 10 9 8 7 6 5 am of travel Elizabeth Drive Moore Park Road Eastern Distributor Wentworth Avenue Southern Cross Drive Hume Motorway Marsh Street M5 M5 East The River Road King George Road Speed (kilometres per hour) 0–20 20–30 30–40 40–50 50–60 60–70 70–80 >80 8 Savings displayed are an average of workday travel-time savings in hours from July 2018 to June 2019. Australian and Montreal savings are calculated from TomTom data. Savings for Greater Washington Area are calculated from Regional Integrated Transportation Information System data 9 ADT in Melbourne is reflective of transactions Our business performance: Customers 21 Figure 4: Road Injury Crash Index 8 8,000 7 7,000 6 6,000 5.52 5 4.85 4.82 4.71 5,000 World-class incident response VKT (MILLION) 4.58 We monitor all our roads 24/7 and our incident response RICI 4 4,000 crews help motorists in need and keep traffic moving. 3 3,000 We use traffic data to identify ‘hot spots’ to help determine where incident response vehicles should be positioned 2 2,000 around the network. This ensures a fast response time. Other initiatives, such as the installation of barriers and 1 1,000 signage and lowering of speed limits, keep motorists and 0 0 our crews safe. FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 In FY19 in Brisbane, we ran an Australian-first trial using Road Injury Crash Index (RICI) motorbikes to expedite our incident response times on Vehicle kilometres travelled (VKT) the Gateway and Logan motorways. Within the first six months, our two motorbike responders attended more than 150 incidents—arriving two minutes earlier and clearing incidents eight minutes faster. The trial has been Safer roads extended until the end of 2019 and two extra motorbike responders will be added to the team. Our roads are among Australia’s safest and we are vigilant about finding new ways to improve safety. Transurban’s Road Safety Strategy is based on the Safe System Approach, which recognises road safety as a shared responsibility—from individuals and businesses who use the roads to the organisations and agencies that build and manage the network. In 2015, Transurban introduced the Road Injury Crash Index (RICI) and set ambitious targets to reduce serious road crashes on our network by 15 per cent over the coming five years. Since the establishment of RICI, we have acquired new roads and our vehicle kilometres travelled have increased by 38 per cent. In FY19, the Road Injury Crash Index (RICI) across all Transurban assets was 4.71 injury crashes per 100 million vehicle kilometres travelled. Our injury crash rate for FY19 was lower than FY18 (refer to Figure 4), but exceeded our ambitious target of 3.92, which we set five years ago. We engaged Monash University Accident Research Centre to compare injury crashes on our Australian network with other similar roads. Transurban’s roads were found to have significantly fewer crashes than similar roads with New South Wales10 being 78 per cent lower, Victoria10 ...clearing 72 per cent lower and Queensland11 44 per cent lower. incidents eight minutes faster... 10 Comparison is of 2018 data 11 Comparison is of 2017 data Transurban 22 FY19 Corporate Report Customer experience 31M Exceptional customer service is the expectation in our business and everything we do aims to deliver on our three customer promises to: make it easy, show we care, and add value. Our Customer Service and Customer Experience teams continuously look for ways to meet inbound interactions12 and exceed our customers’ expectations. A dedicated quality assurance team monitors our interactions with customers. In FY19 we completed the consolidation of all of our Australian retail brands into one national 9/10 brand, Linkt. The new brand replaced CityLink in Melbourne, go via in Brisbane, and Roam Express in Sydney to provide a simpler and easier experience for customers. We also acquired the Roam customer base in Sydney and transitioned these customers to Linkt in interactions are digital12 February 2019. More than just a name change, the introduction of Linkt also included a range of new products and services, reduced fees and a streamlined account experience. 28M Having a national brand has allowed us to make continued improvements to our website and apps to meet our customers’ preference for digital self-service. digital sessions Listening to our customers (67 per cent of these accessed via mobile)12 Through our Voice of the Customer continuous listening program, we analyse approximately 280,000 pieces of feedback from our Australian customers each year. Our mandate is to turn customer insights into actions. We have recently invested in a more advanced research platform which gives us greater insights 4.4/5 into customer behaviours, feedback and their service experience. We also implemented a process to follow up any feedback through the Voice of the Customer program and resolve customer enquiries. customer satisfaction rating for call centre12 Listening to our customers has helped us to improve customer satisfaction, reduce the number of complaints we receive and enhance our products and services to improve the overall experience. In FY19 we used feedback to inform a number of initiatives for our Australian customers, including: • increasing the functionality of our digital platforms to allow customers to add vehicles to their account; pay a toll notice; order new tags; and access their statements and financial history online or via their mobile device • proactively notifying customers of potential issues with their account • improving our assurance processes to help us identify and address the root cause of customer pain points. We also updated some of our products and services such as our Trip Compare online tool that allows drivers to make an informed choice about using a toll road (refer to Figure 5). It is available in Sydney and Melbourne on the Linkt website. Figure 5: Trip Compare online tool Our Trip Compare tool offers transparency to customers Tolled trip Untolled trip 18 59 traffic lights traffic lights 2.1L 2.5L fuel used fuel used CO2 5kg 5.8kg emitted emitted 12 Australian customer data only, does not include North America Our business performance: Customers 23 Case study Customers benefit from toll enforcement changes For two years we have been working closely with state governments in Australia to make changes to toll enforcement processes that help keep customers out of trouble. The program of work included: • sending proactive notifications to customers sooner • providing customers with more time to pay their tolls • issuing fewer fines • reducing fees. Each of these actions has contributed to lower rates of infringement for customers. For example, changes implemented as part of the West Gate Tunnel Project Agreement have reduced infringements in Victoria by 45 per cent. While this program has reduced fee revenue, it is part of our continued focus on listening and responding to customers. ...9,700 visitors Enhancing digital experience in to Linkt Assist North America website... In FY19, we refreshed our customer-facing tools for our North America Express Lanes brand—updating our website, mobile app and customer materials to make it clearer for customers where they need to go to pay a Linkt Assist toll, plan a trip or ask a question. We also developed a new mobile app to make it easier for customers without accounts to pay for tolls. The mobile app launches in FY20 and will be our first retail product in the Greater Washington Area. In Montreal, we are also developing In FY19 we launched Linkt Assist, our first dedicated solutions for infrequent customers to pay tolls without team to support Australian customers experiencing an account. social or financial hardship. The team was established after extensive consultation with the financial counselling, legal assistance and community welfare sectors and builds on our longstanding hardship policy. Linkt Assist has a dedicated website hub which includes information and tools to make it easier to get help and use our roads without incurring unnecessary fees and fines. Through the Linkt Assist consultation process, we identified an opportunity to create a foundational Financial Inclusion Action Plan (FIAP). Our FIAP will detail the steps we are taking to build the financial capability and economic security of our customers and employees, while also working to create accessible services and remove barriers to employment. Mobile app developed for our customers We look forward to launching our plan in August 2019. in the Greater Washington Area—to be launched in FY20 Transurban 24 FY19 Corporate Report 12 projects progressed or opened to traffic 72 grants and partnerships supporting local communities 2M plantings on West Gate Tunnel and WestConnex projects Strategic focus areas and UN SDGs relevant to this section Community Our roads and construction projects provide vital transport connections to ensure our growing cities continue to thrive and local neighbourhoods are relieved of heavy through-traffic. These projects not only create jobs during These relationships span the length of a road construction, but improve productivity by concession, which can be decades long. For us, providing easier access to goods and services it’s important to foster positive and sustainable through direct connections and more travel relationships with each community. options. In this section we highlight how we are providing We recognise that a good transport system transport connections while working with must include efficient roads and well-connected, communities to improve social, economic and easily accessible and reliable public transport, environmental outcomes. along with safe routes for walking and cycling. The nature of operating road infrastructure means Transurban has contact with the many diverse communities that border and benefit from each road. Our business performance: Community 25 N E W S O U T H W A L E S NorthConnex M7 M2 Lane Cove Hills M2 Tunnel M4 Motorway Gore Hill/Warringah Freeway M1 SYDNEY HARBOUR BRIDGE Military Road E-ramp SYDNEY HARBOUR TUNNEL New M4 SYDNEY CBD Westlink M7 Cross City Tunnel Proposed Western WestConnex Sydney Airport Eastern Distributor Southern Cross Drive Hume Highway M5 West Sydney M1 Airport Moorebank Port Intermodal Terminal Botany WestConnex, Sydney As Australia’s biggest road infrastructure project, WestConnex is being delivered in four stages and, once complete, will provide a 33-kilometre-motorway network transforming travel in Sydney’s western and south-western suburbs. The project is part of the NSW Government’s long-term transport plan and will move traffic and heavy vehicles underground, away from neighbourhood streets. More than 10,000 jobs have been created as Project updates well as thousands of traineeships for Sydney workers. The project provides up to 18 hectares of open space for the community, as well as 23 kilometres of new and improved cycleways and walkways. NorthConnex, Sydney FY19 milestones: This project will be a twin nine kilometre tunnel linking the M1 Pacific Motorway to the Hills M2. Due for completion • M4-M5 Link tunnelling works commenced with eight of in 2020, NorthConnex will provide a route free of traffic 27 road headers now operating. Due to open in 2023. lights from Newcastle to Melbourne. Up to 5,000 trucks • New M5 tunnelling works completed on the 9-kilometre are expected to be removed from Pennant Hills Road twin tunnels. Paving works more than 95 per cent every day. The project is creating 8,700 jobs across NSW. complete13. Due to open in 2020. • Works well underway at St Peters Interchange including FY19 milestones: rehabilitation of the former Alexandria Landfill site. • Major tunnel excavation was completed in October 2018. • Delivery of legacy projects for New M4 including The • Final spoil from tunnelling was delivered early to Sprinter statue, which became a well-known Sydney Hornsby Quarry in January 2019. Hornsby Shire Council artwork during the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games. will redevelop the quarry into a community parkland. • Paving underway with more than 85 per cent complete13. Infrastructure Sustainability rating Surface road works have added two new lanes at the • M4 Widening As Built: “Excellent” northern interchange at Wahroonga. • New M4 Tunnels design: “Leading” • New M5 design: “Leading” • The motorway control centre and northern ventilation facility topped out, reaching their full building height. Infrastructure Sustainability rating • Design: “Leading” 13 Paving complete as at 2 August 2019 Transurban 26 FY19 Corporate Report Hume Freeway M31 Calder Freeway M79 Melbourne Tullamarine Western Ring Road Airport Freeway M80 Western Freeway M8 Essendon Airport V I C T O R I A Western Ring Road CityLink M80 Western Link M2 Eastern Freeway M3 Deer Park Bypass M8 West Gate Swanson Dock Tunnel Western Ring Road Project BOLTE BRIDGE MELBOURNE CBD CityLink M80 BURNLEY TUNNEL Southern Link West Gate M1 Webb DOMAIN Freeway TUNNEL Dock M1 WEST GATE EastLink BRIDGE Monash Freeway M3 M1 Princes Freeway M1 West Gate Tunnel Project, Melbourne This project will provide a second river crossing between the western suburbs and CBD, providing a much-needed alternative to the West Gate Bridge. As well as removing up to 9,000 trucks off local streets in the inner west, the project will provide nine hectares of new parks, wetlands, cycle and walking tracks. Approximately 6,000 jobs are expected to be created by the project over five years of construction. FY19 milestones: • Two tunnel boring machines arrived in Melbourne in early 2019 and are being assembled on site with tunnelling to start in the first half of FY20. • A Community Information Centre opened at the site with more than 500 local residents attending the opening day activities in September. • Construction completed on a giant shed, 180 metres long and 90 metres wide, that will store spoil from the tunnelling to protect nearby residents from noise and dust. • About 3.5 kilometres of temporary noise walls have been installed to date, to protect residential properties from construction noise. Infrastructure Sustainability rating • Design and As Built aim: ”Excellent” One of the giant tunnel boring machines being assembled to start tunnelling on the West Gate Tunnel Project Our business performance: Community 27 B–W Parkway Dulles Greenway 295 Toll Road 495 Northern Extension John Hanson Project Highway 301 Dulles George Washington International Airport Memorial Parkway Dulles Toll Road Dulles Access Road WASHINGTON DC 267 V I R G I N I A Suitland Parkway I-66 Toll Road 66 Pennsylvania (inside the Beltway) Ronald Reagan Avenue Washington National Airport 4 495 Express Lanes 395 Express Lanes M A R Y L A N D Richmond Highway 1 95 Express Lanes 95 Express Lanes To Fredericksburg To Fredericksburg Fredericksburg 395 Express Lanes, Virginia, USA Extension This project will extend the northern end of the 95 Express Lanes for 13 kilometres (eight miles) reversible to the Washington DC border and provide quicker access to major employment hubs at the Pentagon and Crystal City. The lanes are due to open in late 2019. The project will generate up to 600 new jobs during construction. FY19 milestones: Fredericksburg Extension, Virginia, USA • Completion of Pentagon South Parking Lot, delivering improved transit and commuter connectivity. This project is extending the reversible 95 Express Lanes • Successful completion of the first three toll points. south by 16 kilometres (10 miles) along the I-95 median, to provide faster travel and easier access for residents • Project construction on schedule for customer opening and businesses along the corridor. This includes the in late 2019. 28,000 residents and employees of Marine Base Quantico, FBI Academy and Drug Enforcement Agency. 495 Northern Extension Project, FY19 milestones: Virginia, USA • Final design progressed and contractor engaged. A project to extend the 495 Express Lanes by • Ground-breaking ceremony was held in June 2019. 3.2 kilometres (two miles) north towards the Maryland border will provide further congestion relief for commuters • Construction activities are underway. through new connections to major commuter routes. Envision rating In January, Transurban and the Virginia Department of • Design and Post Construction aim: Verified Transportation reached agreement on a development framework. The final project scope and timing is still subject to change. Transurban 28 FY19 Corporate Report Gateway Upgrade North Brisbane Airport Port of M1 Brisbane Southern Cross Way AirportlinkM7 Australia Tradecoast Inner City Bypass Q U E E N S L A N D M3 Port of Brisbane Motorway Legacy Way BRISBANE CBD M4 GO BETWEEN BRIDGE Clem7 Western Gateway Freeway M5 Motorway M1 Pacific Motorway Ipswich M3 Motorway M7 Warrego Centenary Highway Motorway M2 M5 Logan Enhancement Project Cunningham Ipswich M2 Highway Motorway Pacific Motorway M15 M2 M1 Logan Motorway M2 Mt. Lindesay Highway Projects opened to traffic New M4 Tunnels14, Sydney Gateway Upgrade North, Brisbane The New M4 Tunnels were the first underground section This project upgraded the four-lane motorway between of WestConnex to be completed. The project connected the northern suburbs of Nudgee and Bracken Ridge. the M4 and extended it via twin motorway tunnels, Completed in March 2019, the project has reduced alleviating delays at the connection to suburban arterial congestion along the northern section of the motorway roads. Bypassing 22 sets of traffic lights, the tunnels will while also improving the safety and efficiency across provide more reliable trips for motorists and businesses. the network. The project, delivered by the Queensland Government with Transurban Queensland, included a new Infrastructure Sustainability rating shared pedestrian and cycle path. • Design: “Leading” Infrastructure Sustainability rating • As Built: “Excellent” • Design: “Excellent” Logan Enhancement Project , Brisbane 15 This project upgraded parts of the Logan and Gateway motorways to improve travel-time reliability, safety and Inner City Bypass, Brisbane connections to residential and business areas. Works included upgrades to key interchanges, new access This upgrade delivered an additional lane in both ramps, road widening, new cycling and walking paths and directions in a section of the bypass as well as a new better protection for wildlife. Travel times are expected to on-ramp and intelligent traffic management systems to improve by up to 10 minutes in the afternoon peak and improve safety and efficiency. Transurban Queensland accidents reduce by 60 per cent. funded and delivered the project, which was a Brisbane City Council initiative16. Infrastructure Sustainability rating • Design: “Excellent” 14 The New M4 Tunnels were opened to traffic on 13 July 2019 15 LEP completion works are underway and expected to be finalised in August 2019 16 IS rating not pursued due to project scale Our business performance: Community 29 Engaging communities Case study Driver’s licences All of our projects are located within communities so it is open pathways to imperative that we have strong and productive relationships education, employment with them. and social We aim for a consistent approach to our engagement with communities based on three principles of being: open and connections. honest, inclusive and genuine. Each of our projects has a dedicated team which engages with the community through every stage of the project through face-to-face meetings, and digital and hard-copy communications. Their mandate is to ensure that we achieve positive outcomes wherever possible by listening and truly understanding the unique needs of each community. Locals’ feedback informs design The $512 million Logan Enhancement Project is an example of community input directly shaping design. The project is located in a Queensland Governmentdesignated greenbelt linking the Karawatha Forest to the Flinders Range and is home to more than 200 species of wildlife. To consider how to protect native animals and improve their movement around the road, Transurban Queensland formed Driving an Environmental Reference Group. The group’s feedback was given to tenderers during the development phase to inform their tender submissions. community As a result of their feedback, the following initiatives were included in the project—and completed this year: connections • a fauna bridge over a busy local road to link forest areas Independence and connections are two of the • nearly 25 kilometres of fauna fencing outcomes we are helping people to achieve by supporting driver training partnerships in NSW, • 40 fauna escape poles (located approximately every Victoria and Queensland. 400 metres across the corridor) • retrofitting existing culverts to encourage the safe passage In Victoria, the Transurban DriveLink Program of animals under the road. provides driving lessons to disadvantaged migrants and refugees in the City of Moonee Valley area to help them gain their licence. Since Partnerships and grants the program started, volunteer mentors have provided more than 1,250 hours of supervised As part of being a good neighbour to our communities, driving, with 20 participants gaining their licence. we strive to find ways we can make long-term, positive contributions through partnerships or investments. In NSW, we have partnered with the Salvation Army’s Drive for Life program to help people Over the past 12 months we have implemented a new, aged 16 to 25 years get their driver’s licence. The consistent approach to social investment across our business. program is aimed at disadvantaged young people. This ensures we are focused on activities that benefit the community in the most meaningful way possible. In Queensland, we partner with a program called Women at the Wheel, which helps refugees and Our areas of focus are: safe and accessible transport, local migrant women in the Logan area learn to drive communities and education and training. and in turn, improve their employment and social opportunities. Since starting in early 2018, the The program also includes community grants. In Australia, program has supported 18 women to access more we awarded more than $180,000 to 42 community groups in than 150 driving lessons. Nearly half of these FY19. In North America, more than USD75,000 was awarded participants have successfully obtained their to over 30 organisations and programs. licence and the remaining women are very close. Transurban 30 FY19 Corporate Report Energy17 FY18 FY19* Minimising our impact The reality of climate change means that it is more important than ever to manage our energy use Scope 1 (fuel) and impacts on the environment. By reducing our consumption of resources, goods and services, we can create more efficient operations that reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We have set targets to reduce our energy consumption by 10 per cent by 202318 (compared to 2013) and halve our GHG emissions by 2030 (compared to 2016) and we consistently look for 53,412 GJ opportunities in our operations to achieve those goals. Energy and carbon 51,142 GJ Our major energy needs are fuel (Scope 1) for operations and maintenance activities and electricity (Scope 2) for lighting, tunnel ventilation and operation of our offices. In FY19 our Scope 1 and 2 energy use and GHG emissions remained stable despite growth in our business and a new acquisition, the A25 bridge in Montreal; and remained similar to the Scope 2 (electricity) previous year. Across our existing asset base, upgrades to roadside equipment continue to drive improvement in energy efficiency as we seek to reduce the energy intensity of our operations through the delivery of several longer-term projects. Electricity usage represents 97 per cent of our total emissions and we expect these emissions 514,958 GJ will decrease significantly over time as we continue to implement long-term energy reduction and renewable energy procurement initiatives. Detailed information about our emissions including individual assets is provided in the FY19 Sustainability Data and Climate Change Disclosures. We have continued a two-year trial of an alternative ventilation strategy for the Clem7 tunnel, 517,013 GJ which has resulted in energy savings and, in turn, reduced GHG emissions. Full implementation has the potential to reduce axial fan run times by up to 40 per cent and GHG emissions of 1,049 tCO2e* annually (refer to Figure 6). While our GHG emissions reduction target focuses on our direct Scope 1 and 2 emissions, we are continuing to examine how we can reduce the impact of our Scope 3 emissions (indirect emissions linked to supply chain). Detailed supply chain analysis in FY19 has allowed us to report comprehensive Scope 3 emissions for the first time and forms the basis of ongoing engagement with our supply chain to build long-term partnerships and reduce the carbon intensity of our GHG emissions17 supply chain and target processes such as cement production. FY18 FY19* We design and operate our roads in ways that reduce carbon emissions released by our customers’ vehicle use. This means reducing vertical grades in road/tunnel designs to limit engine labouring and using our smart motorway technology to drive greater efficiency and to reduce Scope 1 and 2 congestion as emissions are higher in stop-start conditions. In FY19, we estimated that emissions from vehicles on our roads would be slightly less than 1,000,000 tCO2e* (refer to Figure 7). Figure 6: Clem7 ventilation Figure 7: FY19 Scope 1, 2, 3 and trial savings* customer emissions*17 120,837 tCO2e GJ tCO2e tCO2e FY19 4,202 922 Scope 1 3,540 120,617 tCO2e Total trial (to date, end FY19) 5,133 1,126 Scope 2 117,077 Forecast annual 4,782 1,049 Scope 3 617,503 Customer emissions 993,961 17 Operational assets only, totals exclude M5 and M7. WestConnex data not included in FY19, will be included in future years as projects become fully operational. Total emissions are net ”market-based” emissions including GreenPower reductions 18 The 2013 baseline was updated in 2016 to include all new assets at that time. No new assets will be added to this baseline Our business performance: Community 31 Air quality Poor air quality can impact the liveability, health and safety of communities so maintaining good air quality is vital— particularly on our roads and projects. Tunnels can help reduce air pollution by moving traffic off roads where people live and work, putting vehicles underground. For example, our NorthConnex project is expected to remove around 5,000 trucks off Pennant Hills Road daily. In a tunnel, vehicle emissions can be controlled and dispersed more effectively. They are also monitored to ensure standards are met. On all our tunnel projects we are monitoring air quality around the site to understand current local conditions. This will help us measure any changes to local air quality once a tunnel opens. Transurban is required to meet stringent air quality Native trees and shrubs are measures within our operational tunnels, which are transforming a disused site reported to and enforced by the relevant environmental on the M2 authority in each state. Air quality monitoring includes in-tunnel conditions, ventilation outlet emissions, and ambient air quality around tunnel portals. Air quality data and links to detailed Local ecology public reporting are provided in the FY19 Sustainability Restoring the natural environment along our motorways Data and Climate Change Disclosures. and projects is important to local communities and to In FY19 Transurban fully complied with all air quality Transurban. In Melbourne we will be planting more than monitoring requirements and annual emissions from our 170,000 trees and a million shrubs and around nine operational tunnels were about a tenth of regulatory limits. hectares of parks and wetlands as part of the West Gate Tunnel project. Twelve local schools have joined in the project’s mulch recycling program, reusing trees cut down Greener roads to improve air quality during construction for playgrounds and landscaping. Plant ‘breathing walls’ have been installed on two of our In Sydney more than 18 hectares of new recreational green Sydney motorways—Hills M2 and Eastern Distributor— space will be created as part of the WestConnex project in a six-month trial to test their impact on air quality. while more than 900,000 trees and shrubs will be planted. We have partnered with Sydney business Junglefy, which We also look for opportunities to regenerate disused sites creates the plant walls to filter air pollutants. While the next to our motorways that have the potential to improve walls have shown much promise in the laboratory for or protect local biodiversity. We have partnered with improving urban air quality, the trial will provide real-world Landcare to regenerate two areas—the Power Street loop feedback. site in Melbourne and a five hectare site alongside the M2 in Sydney. Once the trial is complete in late 2019, the University of Technology Sydney will release a scientific paper discussing In Sydney, as tubestock grows into mature plants, fauna is the performance. We will then consider the results to expected to return to the site from the adjacent Lane Cove determine next steps. National Park. At the Melbourne site, a May 2019 Landcare survey showed weed cover had significantly decreased and nine bird species had been attracted to the site. Transurban 32 FY19 Corporate Report WGEA Employer of Choice citation 9K+ workforce 50% female senior executives Strategic focus areas and UN SDGs relevant to this section Our people We achieve success as a business by enabling the performance and achievements of our people. Transurban’s direct workforce is made up of Leaders at every level within the business are around 3,00019 people, however our day-to-day custodians of this culture and are expected to operations and major infrastructure projects create an environment where people have equal rely on a much larger workforce. In total, over chance to excel. 9,00020 people work as part of our broader workforce across construction and business In this section we highlight how we create a operations. safe and supportive workplace for our diverse workforce and facilitate productive and Through our people, we aim to create a resilient adaptive teams. and adaptive culture—underpinned by personal accountability and corporate responsibility— where diversity of thought is valued. 19 Direct workforce includes over 1,500 direct employees and temporary workers and over 1,400 workers contracted through our partner organisations primarily in customer service, technology and business operations 20 Excludes WestConnex and A25 workforce. WestConnex will be included in FY20 data Our business performance: Our people 33 Belonging and wellbeing Our workforce has a diverse skillbase so creating a culture We have 37 trained Mental Health First Aid Officers across that supports and develops all of our people is critical to our business and information about these roles is clearly our success. This year we have introduced a ‘continuous displayed in common spaces. listening’ platform and approach, which enables us to engage more regularly with our people to better understand what is important to them. Domestic violence awareness Measured through this new platform our employee We recognise that we have a role to play in supporting engagement is at 70 per cent and so far employees have a person who may be involved in a domestic violence told us that they want us to remain focused on creating an situation. Our domestic violence support policy—including environment where they can be themselves, feel respected domestic violence leave—is available for all employees. and that they belong. They also want to know they have More than 80 employees have participated in domestic an equal chance to succeed. By gaining regular feedback violence awareness training, and as a business, we from our employees, we can maintain a flexible approach promote anti-domestic-violence campaigns, such as United to these focus areas and ensure we are meeting their Nations International Day for the Elimination of Violence expectations. against Women. Gender equity Health and safety We remain committed to gender equity, including pay Everyone at Transurban is expected to help keep equity, within the business. themselves and colleagues healthy and safe, while minimising our impacts on the environment. This year we The work we have done to improve gender equality has introduced Health, Safety and Environment Action Plans, been recognised by the Australian Workplace Gender which required people leaders and their teams to outline Equality Agency (WGEA), which has issued Transurban how they take responsibility for ensuring a healthy and safe with its Employer of Choice for Gender Equality citation environment in their area. for five consecutive years. We review gender pay annually and continue to maintain a pay equity gap of less than In FY19, there were two employee recordable injuries one per cent. equating to an employee recordable injury frequency rate (RIFR) of 0.81 recordable injuries per million work hours. This was above our target of 0.0. The injuries required Mental wellbeing medical treatment for wellbeing and ergonomic-related factors in the corporate environment. All injuries are When it comes to wellbeing, a key area of focus is our investigated and the learnings applied to prevent future employees’ mental wellbeing. To help create a healthy incidents occurring. organisation, we have partnered with Australian group Heads Up, to provide a range of resources for employees While WestConnex is not included in Transurban’s overall and leaders to support good mental wellbeing. metrics for FY19, the employee recordable injuries per million work hours was 0.0. We intend to include In addition, we have run a range of mental-wellbeing WestConnex in our overall safety metrics from FY20. awareness programs including ‘Strengthening Resilient Mindset’ and mindfulness workshops for employees and leaders. Almost 20 per cent of employees attended in FY19. Total workforce Workforce by gender 15.1% Direct Senior Executives Board Direct employees employees (excl. CEO) (incl. CEO) 1.5% 59% 41% 50% 50% 67% 33% Contract workers Directly engaged by Transurban Male Female 15.2% Contract workers 68.2% Through partner organisations Sub-contractors such as technology and Major construction projects customer operations Transurban 34 FY19 Corporate Report Building capability Continuous learning Developing the skills and expertise of existing employees to reinforce our strong pipeline of talent is critical to our ongoing success. This year we launched a new learning platform offering on-demand, digital content on a range of career development topics. This flexible approach to professional learning allows employees to take control of their own development and complete courses at their own pace. Emerging talent Through our partnerships with local universities we support emerging talent by offering scholarships, internships and vacation programs as well as a graduate program. As part of these programs, we promote pathways to ...new encourage women into non-traditional roles such as platform offers engineering and technology. flexible learning This year, 34 female undergraduates completed our options... Females Excelling in Engineering and Technology (FEET) intern program, which offers students hands-on experience and one-on-one mentoring. Leadership development We have a range of development activities for our leaders including programs to support emerging and new leaders, 34 female through to continuing development for our senior undergraduates leadership. completed our This year, we continued our partnership with international business school, INSEAD, and held our sixth colloquium FEET program. for senior leaders. This year’s focus was on innovation and lessons learned from other companies and institutions around the world. Supporting our commitment to gender equality, we also run a Women in Leadership Program, which is now in its fifth year. In FY19, 15 current and emerging female leaders completed the program and an additional 15 started the program. Our business performance: Our people 35 Case study This is how we flex: what flexibility means to our people 88% of employees believe they have the flexibility to maintain a healthy work-life balance. Michele Andrew Kubilay Transurban encourages employees to manage their work for games I am able to make use of Transurban’s in a way that makes sense for them. Employees can enter technology to work remotely, in an airport lounge, or into a formal flexible work arrangement, or manage this in a hotel room at any time of the day.” informally with their team. Employees also have the This year, 11 per cent of people who took primary option to purchase up to six weeks of additional leave carer leave were men. One of them is Kubilay who each year through our Lifestyle Leave Policy. works in our People and Culture Team. In Australia, we have received the WORK180 Flex Able ”Having access to primary carer leave is a great Certification and our North American business has been benefit. Flexibility has allowed me to really embrace selected for the 2018 CARE (Companies As Responsive fatherhood and appreciate the new chapter I have Employers) Award for the second consecutive year. created with my family.” As part of our move into a state-of-the-art corporate Our Group Executive for the NSW Business, headquarters in Melbourne we implemented technology Michele has recently returned from 12 months’ designed to give all our people choice over where and parental leave and has taken advantage of our how they work. flexible work practices to transition back to work. This is what three of our employees say about working While on parental leave, I received wonderful flexibly at Transurban: support to enable me to stay in touch with and keep across the changes that occurred in the business. Andrew is a Senior Project Engineer working Flexibility has allowed me to re-join the business on major projects in Victoria and has a formal progressively, striking the balance between being a flexible working arrangement which lets him parent and overseeing our busy NSW business. pursue his career as an Australian Football League field umpire while also working at Flexibility is one of the reasons that more than 97 per cent Transurban. of our employees returned to work following parental “I’m not always in the office during the ‘conventional’ leave in FY19. nine-to-five work day. When I travel interstate Transurban 36 FY19 Corporate Report 12 projects progressed with Government partners in FY19 Road User Charging trial east coast, USA CAVtrials in all markets21 Strategic focus areas and UN SDGs relevant to this section Government and industry Public-private partnerships allow governments to deliver the infrastructure their communities need while focusing their own spending on other vital community services such as public transport, schools and hospitals. We are proud that our proven track record in the We also work with our industry partners on successful design and delivery of major projects initiatives and activities that contribute to as well as the safe operation of toll roads has transport policy development. made us a partner of choice for governments. In this section, we highlight how we are helping We partner with governments to invest in new governments deliver their transport agendas infrastructure and road upgrade projects—fast and prepare their transport networks for a tracking projects that will benefit motorists and connected and automated future. communities. 21 CAV trials have been completed in Melbourne, Brisbane, Sydney and GWA. GWA CAV trials were conducted in June 2018 Our business performance: Government and industry 37 Partnering to deliver Case study Over 800 governments’ people attended the WestConnex transport New M4 community day. agendas Last year, we progressed 12 projects with our local, state and federal government partners (refer to page 49). We continuously look for opportunities to create mutually beneficial outcomes with our government partners. Through our partnership on the Inner City Bypass Upgrade (ICB), the Brisbane City Council could reallocate its project budget to other priorities. In addition, the council will save $1 million annually by outsourcing the operations and maintenance of the ICB to us. The project will reap other benefits such as a significant improvement in incident response times and reduced congestion along the corridor and feeder roads. Similarly in North America our focus on developing transport solutions for the Virginia Government has WestConnex— partnership in resulted in a toll-road network that has tripled in size since the 495 Express Lanes opened in 2012. In the past 18 months we announced USD1 billion in Express practice Lanes projects. These projects address some of the region’s worst congestion by extending both the 495 and 95 Express Lanes to connect new business precincts and commuter routes together. Australia’s largest transport project, WestConnex, will transform Sydney, helping ease congestion in the city’s fast-growing western suburbs and improve connections Mutually beneficial outcomes—one million cubic tonnes of spoil from NorthConnex to the airport, port, inner west and CBD. project will help the Hornsby Quarry become In August 2018, a Transurban-led consortium, a space that the community can use called Sydney Transport Partners (also comprising AustralianSuper, Canada Plan Investment Board and Tawreed Investments) was announced as the preferred bidder for the sale of 51 per cent of the project. Sydney Transport Partners demonstrated its commitment to partnering with the NSW Government, by highlighting its track record in collaborating with Australian governments to create positive outcomes for the community. The NSW Treasurer Dominic Perrottet committed to reinvesting the $9.2 billion sale proceeds into other infrastructure across the State. Transurban has operated WestConnex in partnership with the NSW Government since September 2018. More than 800 people attended a community day in June with many having a sneak preview of the New M4 Tunnels. Transurban 38 FY19 Corporate Report Contributing to transport policy Case study development We regularly contribute to transport policy development through participation in state and federal government inquiries, industry thinktanks, and other thought-leadership activities. In FY19 we responded to several national and state-based inquiries and draft transport strategies including a Federal Government Parliamentary Inquiry into automated mass transit, the Queensland Government’s 30-year Draft Transport Strategy and the National Transport Commission’s phased reform agenda to support the introduction of vehicles with automated driving systems. The Queensland Parliament’s inquiry into the operation of the state’s toll roads was the most significant inquiry for us in FY19. ...chest clips The inquiry allowed us to demonstrate the value help keep our toll roads provide and the improvements we shoulders stable have made to our customer service and complaint resolution processes. We took this opportunity to in the event of provide elected representatives and the broader a crash... community with technical information and customer data as well as practical case studies about the benefits of our toll roads. Road-user-charging trials— Partnering to east coast, USA progress vehicle safety The development of road-user-charging policy remains a key focus for our policy engagement with industry and government. Building on our 2016 Melbourne Road Usage Study Report, Transurban is partnering with the I-95 Corridor Our partnership with Neuroscience Research Australia Coalition to conduct a feasibility study of mileage-based (NeuRA) to establish the Transurban Road Safety user-fee charging. The partnership was awarded a grant Centre—brings together the research, business and from the U.S. Department of Transportation—forming government sectors to identify how changes to driver part of the largest multi-state study in the eastern behaviour and vehicle design could reduce road trauma. United States of user-fee charging—and will be the first The first round of research completed in the world-class to integrate dynamically tolled managed lanes. facility looked into the safety of chest clips on child seats. While widely used overseas, currently the clips do not The trial will involve 400 vehicle participants from pass Australian safety guidelines. Virginia and will provide insights into how a road-user charging system could operate in the state. Planning NeuRA researchers put the clips to the test in the and technology development is underway with centre’s specially designed crash lab using state-ofcustomer trials expected to start late FY20. the art, child-sized-crash-test dummies. The research showed the chest clips helped to keep shoulders stable during a crash and, crucially, they did not come into Encouraging electric vehicles contact with the neck area. in Canada The findings will now go before the Australian Standards Committee, potentially leading to a change The Quebec Ministry of Transport, in partnership with in the decades-old policy and making a demonstrable Transurban, is testing a program that allows free travel improvement to road safety. for electric vehicles on our A25 bridge in Montreal. The program is just one component in a range of policy changes being trialled or implemented by federal and provincial governments to combat climate change. Our business performance: Government and industry 39 Shaping the future of urban transport To help inform policy discussions, we work with industry and government partners to CAV trials undertake trials of new transport technologies. Through these collaborations, we have built 12,610 strong relationships with a variety of national and international organisations, including government, auto manufacturing and technology sectors, as well as leading motoring bodies. kilometres travelled23 Connected and automated vehicle trials Industry experts expect connected and automated vehicles (CAVs) to reduce road accidents 17 by 90 per cent as well as improve transport accessibility for vulnerable community members. However, a lot of work needs to be done before these vehicles can be safely introduced on to roads. This year, following trials in Victoria, we conducted trials of partially automated passenger vehicles trialled23 vehicles in NSW (with nine vehicle manufacturers) and in Queensland (with seven manufacturers). Both sets of trials were run in partnership with the state governments and leading industry bodies, including the Queensland Centre for Accident Research and Road Safety and the 8,280 Queensland Trucking Association. Key findings from these trials pointed to areas such as certain types of line markings and road signage that may need to be addressed. observations23 In North America, we partnered with the Virginia Department of Transportation and the US Federal Highway Administration to run connected vehicle trials on our 95 Express Lanes22. Express Lanes provide the ideal testing ground for emerging technologies, especially CAVs, as the lanes offer a controlled, high-speed environment with free-flowing traffic. Full reports and video commentary from our trials are publicly available on our website. Work-zone-safety initiatives We are working with Australia’s leading telecommunications provider, Telstra, on a proofof-concept for remote-control traffic cones that would remove the need for road workers to manually place or move cones in traffic during road works or when attending incidents. Sensors in rumble strips will test the ability to communicate in real-time with workers via a wearable device such as a vest, which would light up, vibrate and sound an alarm when a vehicle enters the worksite, so they can get out of danger. The proof of concept will be tested in Melbourne and Brisbane later this year. In North America, we are also exploring how remote and automated technologies could increase safety for workers, and ultimately our customers. We joined forces with Silicon Valley start-up Phantom Auto to test remotely operated vehicles on the 95 Express Lanes. We are also partnering with Virginia Department of Transport, Virginia Tech and DBi Services to advance the development of Automated Truck Mounted Attenuator technology that could take some road operators out of harm’s way in the future. Through our trials in North America, we are investigating if these technologies could pave the way to fully automated vehicles. Testing of remotely operated vehicles on the 95 Express Lanes 22 North American CAV trials were conducted in June 2018 23 Data from NSW and QLD CAV trials Transurban 40 FY19 Corporate Report 1,600+ direct suppliers $1.85B annual managed spend USD 47M+ spent with certified social enterprises (North America) Strategic focus areas and UN SDGs relevant to this section Business partners and suppliers With 17 assets and 12 projects progressed or completed this year, Transurban is in a strong position to make long-term improvements in how we design, construct, operate and maintain our roads. To do this, we rely on a large network of suppliers. We know we can achieve more when we work In this section, we highlight how we work with a together, so we collaborate with our partners wide range of business partners and suppliers to mitigate risks, and encourage socially, to deliver better outcomes and drive industry environmentally and economically responsible innovation. business practices. Our business performance: Business partners and suppliers 41 Sustainable procurement Our sustainable procurement program supports our hands-on approach to supplier management and helps Connecting suppliers better direct our spend in sustainable ways. Our network of suppliers includes a wide range of businesses—from large established commercial The program addresses key government policies and businesses to smaller social enterprises looking to grow. legislative requirements, such as the Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act and the Virginia Small Business and In FY19, we joined Social Traders, who work to develop a Supplier Diversity initiative. connected community between buyers and certified social enterprises to generate jobs for disadvantaged Australians We understand that the recently passed Commonwealth or address environmental issues. Modern Slavery Act may result in a range of responses from organisations across Australia. We believe that it One of the ways we add value to our suppliers is by is a complex issue that will need to be tackled over the connecting them with our other business partners. long term. As such, we will work with like-minded industry partners to avoid taking a fragmented approach to the Outlook Victoria is a social enterprise creating sustainable market. employment and connection opportunities for people with disabilities. In FY19, we started working with our suppliers directly to identify possible exposures to modern slavery and This year, Transurban worked with Outlook Victoria to have joined the United Nations Global Compact Network identify how it could scale its business to meet increasing Australia’s Modern Slavery Community of Practice. We have demand and service a greater variety of industries. also partnered with the Infrastructure Sustainability Transurban connected Outlook Victoria with our business Council of Australia to establish the Modern Slavery Road partner and multinational engineering firm, AECOM to Construction Industry Coalition to work towards a common develop its growth strategy and to consider and progress approach to address shared risks in our supply chains. planning and approval requirements for future use of their site with relevant authorities. Transurban North America has exceeded all major project goals set by the Commonwealth of Virginia to support We have arranged a similar shared-value partnership small business and supplier diversity by utilising certified approach between Ability Works, a social enterprise Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) and Small providing employment opportunities for people with Women-owned and Minority-owned (SWaM) businesses. disabilities and those facing significant barriers to To date, we have spent more than USD866 million under employment, alongside one of our business partners these programs. Aurecon, a global engineering, design and advisory company. In FY19, we also set DBE and SWaM expenditure targets of USD84 million for the Fredericksburg Extension Project and We will continue to look for opportunities to support both USD100 million for our 495 Northern Extension Project. of these organisations and other opportunities within our supply chain such as provision of skilled support through our employee volunteering program. Our Procurement Policy and Supplier Sustainability Code of Practice and Sourcing Toolkit are aligned with the International Guidance Standard on Sustainable Procurement (ISO 20400:2017). They are available on our website transurban.com/ suppliers. Our partnership with Ability Works helps grow employment opportunities for people with disabilities Transurban 42 FY19 Corporate Report Improving safety in our supply chain 3.66 Transurban’s approach to positive Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) outcomes extends well beyond our own direct workforce. We collaborate with our supply chain partners on proactive measures to identify potential recordable injuries hazards and incidents to ensure HSE risks are identified and mitigated before an incident occurs. per million hours worked We also record and respond to outcomes of incident investigations and communicate lessons learnt across our regions. In FY19, a contractor recordable injury frequency rate (RIFR) of 3.66 recordable injuries per 128 million work hours was recorded. This was below our contractor RIFR target of 4.31. Although WestConnex is not included in Transurban’s overall metrics for FY19, the contractor recordable injuries per million work hours was 5.20, which is below their previous target. We intend to include tonnes of waste from WestConnex in our overall safety metrics from FY20. street sweeping and drain cleaning was diverted from Recordable injuries include lost time injuries, which lead a person to lose one or more full landfill and repurposed shifts from work and medical treatment injuries where medical treatment (other than first aid) is required. New truck standards to protect vulnerable road users The Victorian Government identified pedestrians, and cyclists’ safety as an emerging issue in 2016 due to an increase in construction trucks in urban areas—a result of the large number of infrastructure projects in Melbourne. Since then, working groups comprising representatives from Transurban and other industry sectors have met regularly to consider truck standards, route selection, traffic management and community engagement. An opportunity was identified to develop and introduce new truck safety standards. A number of changes have now been made to construction trucks on the West Gate Tunnel Project including protective barriers added to the side of the trucks to protect cyclists, blind-spot detection devices such as mirrors, cameras and sensors, audible left-turn warning systems as well as signs to warn road users of the danger of being too close to the vehicle. Our business performance: Business partners and suppliers 43 Reducing our Case study impacts …targets Building road infrastructure is resource intensive and generates waste which is why the design and identified to construction of our major road projects provides the reduce emissions greatest opportunity to reduce the environmental impact of our business. by 50–95%... By ensuring we partner with environmentally responsible contractors, we are able to push for, and deliver, better environmental outcomes. In Australia, a project must be designed to achieve an “Excellent” or above rating under criteria set out by the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia. Contractors are then required to achieve an “Excellent” or above rating for the build of the project. This rating system also includes considerations of sustainability across the life of the asset. For our major projects in the US, the project procurement process now includes a minimum requirement for contractors to achieve a rating using the Envision infrastructure sustainability rating system. There is also significant potential to work with our operations and maintenance contractors to reduce the environmental impact related to operating our roads. Rethinking In FY19, Transurban started working with two of our operations and maintenance partners to divert ‘waste’ materials that would have ended up as landfill. cement In Sydney, Transurban has partnered with Downer to recover and reuse material from street sweeping production and drain cleaning. Over the year about 154 tonnes of material was collected and approximately 128 tonnes Transurban has partnered with a leading Australian was diverted from landfill and ‘repurposed’ into climate change thinktank, Beyond Zero Emissions (BZE), reusable materials including aggregate, sand, organics to set ambitious targets to reduce carbon emissions suitable for composting, ferrous metals, and nonfrom cement production. ferrous metals. Cement production is a major contributor of carbon The aggregate and sand are used in asphalt production emission, accounting for about eight per cent of at Downer’s Rosehill Asphalt Plant. emissions globally. In FY19 in Melbourne, Lendlease Services and BZE’s research sets out strategies to reduce emissions Transurban started working with Repurpose It to collect from 50 to 95 per cent by 2030 to 2040. spoil and sediments from CityLink and process it into Strategies include using renewable energy in cleaned and washed sand as well as other aggregates manufacturing processes, greater and more consistent to sell back into the construction industry. This will use of cement alternatives such as fly ash and steel slag divert up to 80 per cent of this collected material from and working with road agencies to review and harmonise landfill annually. specifications. Next steps include detailed engagement with manufacturers, construction companies and road In Montreal, we have reduced our reliance on salt as an agencies. anti-icing agent on the A25 bridge by using natural beet juice. Along with the environmental benefits, beet juice This partnership is part of our commitment to increase is more efficient and longer lasting. One lane-kilometre the use of recycled materials in our roads and work requires only 45 litres of the beet liquid solution, which towards a circular economy. Information about our contains 8kgs of salt, compared to between 80 and annual waste management performance is available in 120kg of salt in more traditional applications. our Sustainability Data and Climate Change Disclosures. Transurban 44 FY19 Corporate Report 2.0% average daily traffic growth 12.3% EBITDA growth24 5.4% growth in distributions to 59 cents per stapled security in FY19 Strategic focus areas and UN SDGs relevant to this section Investors At Transurban, we recognise that for a business to provide value to investors, it must deliver more than just financial returns. To ensure our business is in a position to deliver underpins the sustainability of our investment value over the long term, we must take a holistic proposition. Throughout this report, we have approach and create value for each of our outlined how we are working with each of these stakeholder groups. groups to create value for them. Our relationship with these groups ultimately In this section, we report on our FY19 financial provides us with our social licence to operate— results, capital management activities, and the unwritten contract between a business and outline our near-term priorities, which support the community to support its operations—and cash flow and distributions. 24 Proportional EBITDA excluding significant items Our business performance: Investors 45 FY19 financial performance Management considers proportional results to be the best indicator of asset performance and a reflection of the contribution from individual assets to the Group’s operating performance. Proportional results are the aggregation of the results from each asset multiplied by Transurban’s percentage ownership as well as the contribution from central Group functions. Note B4 to the Financial Statements presents further detail on the proportional result for Transurban Group, including reconciliations to the statutory result. Group proportional results ADT growth 2.0% Revenue growth 11.6% EBITDA growth25 12.3% EBITDA margin26 75.4% • Group revenue growth of 11.6 per cent was driven by traffic growth and contributions from the acquisitions of WestConnex, the A25 and the additional M5 West interests. • Disciplined underlying cost growth of 2.0 per cent. Excluding foreign exchange impact cost growth of 0.7 per cent27. • Traffic growth of 2.0 per cent driven by a combination of assets impacted by construction, assets in ramp-up and mature assets across the portfolio. 25 Group EBITDA includes WestConnex, A25 and additional M5 West ownership since financial closes and excludes significant items 26 Excluding WestConnex, A25 and additional ownership of M5 West, Group EBITDA margin is 75.1 per cent 27 Excluding new assets and non-cash maintenance adjustment Transurban 46 FY19 Corporate Report Market updates 40.4% of Sydney Transurban ADT growth28 1.6% toll revenue Toll revenue growth 10.4% EBITDA growth29 12.2% EBITDA margin 82.0% • Toll revenue growth of 10.4 per cent inclusive of New M4 and additional M5 West interests30. • Average daily traffic grew by 1.6 per cent with large vehicle traffic impacted by reduced construction activity in Sydney market. • EBITDA margin increased from 80.7 per cent to 82.0 per cent in FY19. 31.5% of Melbourne Transurban 3.1% toll revenue ADT growth Toll revenue growth 4.2% EBITDA growth29 4.0% EBITDA margin 88.0% • Toll revenue growth of 4.2 per cent driven by strong traffic growth post the CityLink Tulla Widening. The revenue increase was partially offset by the reduction to customer fees and improved processes that were rolled out as part of the transition to Linkt in July 2018. • Average daily transaction growth of 3.1 per cent. • Large vehicle traffic has increased 5.5 per cent outpacing car growth. • EBITDA margin largely steady at 88.0 per cent despite reduction in revenue from customer fees. 28 ADT growth in Sydney includes traffic numbers for M4 prior to Transurban ownership and is shown for comparison purposes. M4 ADT is presented on a like-for-like basis to show underlying traffic growth 29 EBITDA presented is exclusive of significant items 30 Excluding M4 and additional M5 West ownership, toll revenue growth was 2.7 per cent. During FY19 Transurban acquired two additional equity interests in the M5 West of 8.24 per cent and 7.14 per cent taking its total equity ownership to 65.38 per cent. Financial close on the additional interests was reached on 18 September 2018 and 3 December 2018 respectively Our business performance: Investors 47 15.6% of Transurban Brisbane toll revenue ADT growth 0.4% Toll revenue growth 2.3% EBITDA growth31 5.4% EBITDA margin 73.1% • Toll revenue growth of 2.3 per cent was impacted by customer fee reductions with the full impact of changes now in effect. • Average daily traffic increased by 0.4 per cent impacted by disruption from the Gateway Upgrade North (GUN), Logan Enhancement Project (LEP) and Pacific Motorway Upgrade. Excluding Logan and Gateway motorways, traffic growth was 3.2 per cent. • EBITDA margin increased from 71.0 per cent in FY18 to 73.1 per cent in FY19. North America ADT growth 2.4% 12.5% of Toll revenue growth 45.0% Transurban EBITDA growth31 61.1% toll revenue EBITDA margin 65.0% • Greater Washington Area toll revenue growth was 19.1 per cent. • Traffic growth in Montreal strong at 6.0 per cent. • Development in the Greater Washington Area is progressing with financial close on the Fredericksburg Extension completed in July 2019 and the 395 Express Lanes on schedule for customer opening in late 2019. • EBITDA margin increased from 58.6 per cent in FY18 to 65.0 per cent in FY19. 31 EBITDA presented is exclusive of significant items Transurban 48 FY19 Corporate Report Capital management Capital summary • During FY19 $6.9 billion1 of proportional debt was raised, • Maintained high weighted average maturity of 8.3 years further diversifying funding sources—capital markets despite incorporation of new WestConnex acquisition debt issued at a weighted average maturity of 11 years and construction facilities. and weighted average cost of 4.2 per cent2. • Debt and equity funding program ongoing to maintain strong investment grade credit metrics. Figure 8: Corporate debt maturities (at 30 June 2019)3,4 2,000 1,500 150 $ MILLION 782 1,000 833 1,676 214 500 461 206 231 915 833 733 866 706 360 375 219 140 94 0 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY27 FY28 FY29 FY30 FY31 FY32-36 FY37-41 FY42+ Working capital facilities USPP EMTN 144A Letters of credit facilities Figure 9: Non-recourse debt (at asset level) maturity profile5,6,7 5,000 4,000 315 156 A$ MILLION 3,000 626 2,784 2,000 2,000 1,500 2,000 49 200 40 100 1,000 278 345 417 98 600 535 295 427 80 160 90 408 400 60 947 350 100 752 87 166 108 116 571 432 674 474 440 527 252 320 250 279 200 200 200 75 0 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY27 FY28 FY29 FY30 FY31 FY32-36 FY37-41 FY42+ TQ ED M2 M5 M7 LCT CCT WCX M4 WCX M5 WCX M4-M5 Link 495 95 A25 1 CAD, CHF, EUR, NOK and USD debt converted at the hedged rate where cross currency swaps are in place. USD debt is converted at the spot exchange rate (0.7391 at 30 June 2018 and 0.7015 at 30 June 2019) where no cross currency swaps are in place. CAD debt is converted at the spot exchange rate (0.9771 at 30 June 2018 and 0.9182 at 30 June 2019) where no cross currency swaps are in place 2 Debt calculated on a proportional available facility basis, inclusive of letters of credit. Includes $1.5 billion of acquired WestConnex debt 3 The full value of available debt facilities is shown. Debt is shown in the financial year in which it matures 4 Debt values are shown in AUD as at 30 June 2019. CAD, EUR, NOK and USD debt converted at the hedged rate where cross currency swaps are in place. USD debt is converted at the spot exchange rate (0.7015 at 30 June 2019) where no cross currency swaps are in place. CAD debt is converted at the spot exchange rate (0.9182 at 30 June 2019) where no cross currency swaps are in place 5 The full value of available debt facilities is shown. Debt is shown in the financial year in which it matures. Scheduled amortisation of less than $25M are not shown for graph purposes 6 Debt values are shown in AUD as at 30 June 2019. CAD, CHF and USD debt is converted at the hedged rate where cross currency swaps are in place. USD debt is converted at the spot exchange rate (0.7015 at 30 June 2019) where no cross currency swaps are in place. CAD debt is converted at the spot exchange rate (0.9182 at 30 June 2019) where no cross currency swaps are in place 7 A$320 million tranche of the 495 debt will be refinanced in FY21, per the financing structure agreed with the sole holder, J.P. Morgan Our business performance: Investors 49 Enhance Deliver Maximise customer and committed performance of community projects operations offerings Near-term Outlook priorities The Board has set FY20 distribution guidance of 62 cents While we are working on these projects, it is critical that per security, which is an increase of 5.1 per cent on we listen to, and understand the needs of each of the the FY19 distribution. This is driven by the underlying neighbouring communities as well as minimise the impacts performance of our assets and contribution of of construction work. development assets commencing full operation. Incremental enhancements to our assets and new and The near-term priorities for the business remain as to improved customer offerings will help us get the most out deliver committed projects, maximise performance of our day-to-day operations. In particular, we are tapping of operations and enhance customer and community into technology to develop offerings that will increase offerings. transparency and choice for customers and demonstrate the value of using our roads. In FY20 we will continue to work with our construction partners to advance the eight projects across Australia and North America due for delivery in the next five years (refer to Figure 10). The projects will give customers and communities better and more direct connections around cities, while also generating significant cash flow, allowing us to grow distributions for our investors. Figure 10: Four projects opened in FY19 and eight to be completed by FY24 Open Rozelle Interchange (WCX Stage 3B)2 Concession expires 2060 Expected project completion1 495 Express Lanes Northern Extension3 Concession expires 2087 M4-M5 Link (WCX Stage 3A) Concession expires 2060 Fredericksburg Extension Concession expires 2087 West Gate Tunnel Concession expires 2045 New M5 and M5 East (WCX Stage 2) Concession expires 2060 NorthConnex Concession expires 2048 395 Express Lanes Concession expires 2087 Logan Enhancement Project 4 Concession expires 2051 New M4 Tunnels (WCX Stage 1B) 5 Concession expires 2060 Gateway Upgrade North Transurban delivered in partnership with QLD Government Inner City Bypass Transurban delivered in partnership with Brisbane City Council FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 1 Project completion dates shown are approximations and are subject to final schedules. The Government completion estimate in any given jurisdiction is still the most appropriate estimate for media reporting and commentary 2 Rozelle Interchange is 100% funded and delivered by the NSW Government 3 Project not yet commenced, development framework agreed with Virginia Department of Transportation, project scope and timing still subject to change 4 LEP completion works are underway and expected to be finalised in August 2019 5 The New M4 Tunnels were substantially completed in FY19 and opened to traffic on 13 July 2019 Governance and risk Governance Page 51 Board of directors Pages 52–53 Risk management Pages 54–59 50 Governance and risk 51 Governance The Board32 is accountable to security holders for the Directors are invited to participate in asset or project tours performance of Transurban. The Board’s primary roles are outside the scheduled Board program. These tours are to demonstrate leadership and provide overall strategic an important element of each Director’s induction and guidance for Transurban and effective oversight of ongoing education and enable Directors to maintain the management in implementing our strategic objectives and required deep understanding of Transurban’s activities instilling our values. and operations within each region. The Board meets as often as necessary to discharge its Throughout the year ended 30 June 2019, Transurban’s responsibilities. Typically, this requires Board members governance arrangements complied with the ASX to attend at least eight scheduled meetings each year, Corporate Governance Council’s Corporate Governance the Annual General Meeting, Committee meetings, and Principles and Recommendations (3rd Edition). unscheduled meetings as required. For more detail please see our FY19 Corporate Governance Board meetings are held in each of our regions. In Statement available on our website at transurban.com/ addition to these meetings, Directors also attend regional corporate-governance. activities, including briefings, asset or project site visits and presentations, and opportunities for employee and Transurban also acknowledges the release of the stakeholder engagement. 4th Edition of the Corporate Governance Council’s Principles and Recommendations, which will take effect for The Board also meets with Transurban’s Executive the year ending 30 June 2021. Transurban intends to early Committee for biannual strategy sessions. adopt the 4th Edition and report against it for the year ending 30 June 2020. Figure 11: Corporate Governance Framework Board Delegation Accountability Assurance and oversight through Reporting Chief Executive Officer Remuneration Independent Audit and Risk Nomination People and Assurance Committee Committee Culture Committee External Auditor Board Committees Internal Auditors Executive Committee 32 The Boards of Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban International Limited, and Transurban Infrastructure Management Limited as responsible entity for Transurban Holding Trust (together, Transurban) have common directors and meet concurrently, and are collectively referred to as the Board Transurban 52 2019 Corporate Report Board of Mark Birrell BEc, LLB, FAICD—Age 61 directors Independent Non-executive Director since May 2018 Member of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee Skills and experience Mark is an experienced Director with credentials spanning the private and public sectors. He has deep industry knowledge in the fields of transport, infrastructure and logistics. Mark is Chair Lindsay Maxsted of Post Super Pty Ltd (since 2013) and immediate past President Dip Bus, FCA, FAICD—Age 65 of the Victorian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. His previous roles include Chair of Regis Healthcare Limited (2014 to 2018), Chair and independent Non-executive Director since August Infrastructure Australia, the Port of Melbourne Corporation, 2010 and March 2008 respectively Evans & Peck Limited, and Deputy Chair of Australia Post. He Chair of the Nomination Committee brings extensive legal experience and was National Leader of the Infrastructure Group at Minter Ellison. Skills and experience Mark was the founding Chair of Infrastructure Partnerships Lindsay is Chair (since 2011) and a Non-executive Director (since Australia, the nation’s peak infrastructure sector body, and has a 2008) of Westpac Banking Corporation, and a Non-executive significant public policy background through his earlier service as Director of BHP Group Limited and BHP Group plc (since 2011). a Cabinet Minister in Victoria. He is the Managing Director of Align Capital Pty Limited and the Honorary Treasurer of Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute. Neil Chatfield Lindsay was formerly a partner of KPMG Australia where he was CEO from 2001 to 2007. His principal area of practice prior to MBus, FCPA, FAICD—Age 65 this was in the corporate recovery field managing a number of Independent Non-executive Director since February 2009 Australia’s largest insolvency/workout/ turnaround engagements. Member of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration, People and Culture Committee, and the Nomination Committee Scott Charlton Skills and experience BSci, MBA (Texas)—Age 55 Neil is an established Executive and Non-executive Director with Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director since July 2012 extensive experience across all facets of company management, and with specific expertise in financial management, capital Skills and experience markets, mergers and acquisitions, and risk management. Scott joined Transurban from Lend Lease, where he held positions as Group COO and Group Director of Operations. Previously Scott Neil is the Chair and a Non-executive Director (since 2011) of held several senior positions across a range of infrastructure Costa Group Holdings Limited and Chair (since 2019) and a Nonentities and financial institutions, including as CFO of Leighton executive Director (since 2018) of Aristocrat Leisure Ltd. Neil is Holdings Limited and Managing Director of Deutsche Bank in also Chair of Launch Housing, a not-for-profit organisation. Australia and Hong Kong. He was previously the Chair (2012 to 2018) and a Non-executive Scott is Deputy Chair of Infrastructure Partnerships Australia Director of Seek Limited (2005 to 2018), a Non-executive Director and is a member of the Monash Industry Council of Advisors, the of Iron Mountain Incorporated (2013 to 2017) and a Non-executive Business Council of Australia and of Roads Australia. Director of Atomos Limited (2018 to 2019). Neil also previously served as Executive Director and the CFO of Toll Holdings. Robert Edgar BEc (Hons), PhD, FAICD—Age 73 Independent Non-executive Director since July 2009 Member of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration, People and Culture Committee, and the Nomination Committee Skills and experience Bob has over 30 years’ experience as a senior executive, with 25 years at Australia and New Zealand Banking Group in various senior roles. He retired as Deputy CEO of the Bank in 2009. Bob is a Non-executive Director of Djerriwahh Investments Limited and Linfox Armaguard Pty Ltd. He also serves as Chair of the Hudson Institute of Medical Research and was previously the Chair of Federation Centres Limited and a Non-executive Director of Asciano Limited (2009 to 2016). Governance and risk 53 From left to right Robert Edgar, Mark Birrell, Scott Charlton, Jane Wilson, Lindsay Maxsted, Christine O’Reilly, Peter Scott, Neil Chatfield and Sam Mostyn Samantha Mostyn Peter Scott BA, LLB—Age 54 BE (Hons), MEngSc, Hon FIEAust, MICE —Age 65 Independent Non-executive Director since December 2010 Independent Non-executive Director since March 2016 Chair of the Remuneration, People and Culture Committee and a Member of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Nomination member of the Nomination Committee Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience Sam has significant experience in the Australian corporate sector Peter has over 20 years’ senior business experience in publicly both in executive and non-executive capacities, in particular in listed companies and a breadth of expertise in the engineering the areas of human resources, corporate and government affairs, and finance sectors. He was formally the CEO of MLC and head of sustainability management and diversity. National Australia Bank’s Wealth Management Division and held a number of senior positions with Lend Lease. Sam is Chair and a Non-executive Director of Citigroup Pty Limited, and a Non-executive Director of Mirvac Group Limited. Peter is a Non-executive Director of Heathley Limited. His proShe is also a Director of the Sydney Swans Football Club and Chair bono activities include being Chair of Igniting Change Limited, of Carriageworks. She was previously a Non-executive Director of a not-for-profit organisation, a member of the Prime Minister’s Virgin Australia Holdings Limited (2010 to 2019) and Cover-More Community Business Partnership, and a Fellow of the Senate of Group Limited (2013 to 2017). the University of Sydney. He was previously Chair and a Nonexecutive Director of Perpetual Equity Investment Company Sam is a member of the NSW Climate Change Council, the Limited (2014 to 2017) and Perpetual Limited (2005 to 2017) and advisory boards of ClimateWorks Australia, a Board member of a Non-executive Director of Stockland Corporation Limited (2005 the GO Foundation and of the Centre for Policy Development, to 2016). and Chair of the Australian National Research Organisation for Women’s Safety. Jane Wilson Christine O’Reilly MBBS, MBA, FAICD—Age 60 BBus—Age 58 Independent Non-executive Director since January 2017 Independent Non-executive Director since April 2012 Member of the Remuneration, People and Culture Committee and the Nomination Committee Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience Jane has over 20 years’ experience as a Director of companies, government-owned corporations and not-for-profit organisations. Christine has over 30 years’ experience in the finance and She has considerable experience in finance, banking and infrastructure sectors in various roles including as Co-Head medicine. of Unlisted Infrastructure at Colonial First State Global Asset Management and as Chief Executive Officer of the GasNet Jane is a Guardian of the Future Fund, Australia’s Sovereign Wealth Australia Group. Fund, and a Non-executive Director of Sonic Healthcare Limited (since 2010) and Costa Group Holdings Limited (since 2019). She Christine is a Non-executive Director of CSL Limited (since 2011), is also a Non-executive Director of the General Sir John Monash Medibank Private Limited (since 2014) and Stockland Limited Foundation. Jane was previously a Non-executive Director of Opal (since 2018). She is also a Non-executive Director of Baker Heart Aged Care Limited and of the Winston Churchill Memorial Trust, and Diabetes Institute. She was previously a Non-executive and Deputy Chancellor of the University of Queensland. Director of Energy Australia Holdings Limited. Transurban 54 2019 Corporate Report Risk management Identifying and managing risks is a crucial practice for any sustainable business. Effective risk management is essential to delivering value for our stakeholders and requires involvement from employees at all levels of the business. We proactively implement strategies and contingency plans to manage risk, and assess the effectiveness of these activities through regular reviews so we can make changes where necessary. Central to our approach is our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework. This provides guidance on the identification, assessment, management and escalation of risks to ensure that those with the potential to have a material impact on the business, are managed and escalated appropriately. The ERM Framework is overseen by the Board Audit and Risk Committee and is actively managed by the CEO and Executive Committee in conjunction with senior managers. It includes a Risk Management Policy with guidelines, and outlines the level of risk that Transurban is prepared to accept, tolerate or avoid in the pursuit of its business strategy in a Risk Appetite Statement. The Risk Appetite Statement is reviewed by the Board annually and is critical in guiding our attitudes and behaviours towards risk. We have a dedicated ERM software system that has been embedded into our daily operations to support the efficient and proactive management of risks. Responsibility for management and reporting of business risks and compliance is delegated to each employee. After identifying and assessing our risks, we then plan and implement responses to address the risks in line with our stated appetite. Our process is captured in Figure 12. Figure 12: Enterprise Risk Management Process Monitor and review Validate and improve Risk Audit and appetite Plan Identify Assess Manage assurance Confirm the Set the What are Analyse and Address Test and boundaries context the risks evaluate the risks confirm Communicate Share the risks Governance and risk 55 Figure 13: Our risk identification and review process covers the full spectrum of our activities Across all of our Short and Both current Internal and operations and long term and emerging external factors activities Reviewing how we manage risks Measuring the effectiveness of We undertake formal reviews of emerging, strategic our approach and operational risks and their treatment strategies The ERM Framework is linked to our assurance and on a regular basis. The reviews span all levels of the governance processes—with outcomes from our risk organisation, covering road assets, projects, operations, processes used to define areas of focus for internal functions, and markets from both business and strategic audit. These reviews provide independent and objective perspectives, while also considering internal and external assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of our influences (refer to Figure 13). internal control environment and recommendations to Any risks identified as material to the business are improve efficiency. escalated to senior management and reported to the Internal Audit is resourced by utilising a co-sourced Board through the Audit and Risk Committee. Material and approach consisting of an external (big four) service emerging risks of note are reviewed quarterly by the Audit provider and a core internal team led by the Head of and Risk Committee. Internal Audit. This approach enables a balance of We also regularly review the effectiveness of our risk external experience and internal knowledge. management approach and culture, making improvements Internal Audit operates under a plan approved annually where appropriate. Recent improvements include by the Audit and Risk Committee and has full access to refinements to the Risk Appetite Statement, Risk all functions, records, property and personnel of the Management Policy and related processes. Transurban Group. Internal Audit administratively reports Key to the framework’s effectiveness is regular to the CFO and has a direct communication line to the communication and ongoing training and awareness Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee. The results of programs. Learnings are shared across the organisation internal audit activities are reported to the Audit and to facilitate continuous improvement and increase our Risk Committee. business resilience. Transurban 56 2019 Corporate Report Key risks—threats and opportunities33 Opportunities and Change in opportunity Example management description within year34 responses Harness technology and services to • horizon scanning and emerging technology reviews develop new projects and offerings • technology road map, including identification of suitable Implementation of technology and technology partners and solutions mobile app platforms have presented • strategic initiatives to test and pilot technology adaptations the opportunity to rapidly respond to customer opportunities within the • community and customer engagement market and establish differentiators • continued investment in digital offerings including apps and against our competitors. features. Leverage capabilities to enhance • harness knowledge and experience to drive operations and motorway networks maintenance Opportunity to enhance network • ongoing focus on relationships with stakeholders development, including but not limited • develop new service offerings utilising existing capabilities to core assets. • develop network opportunities based off of a deep understanding of transport needs of our markets. Sustainability initiatives to enhance • Customer Hardship Program and Financial Inclusion Action Plan road user and community experience • managed motorway risks such as pre peak-hour speed limit Opportunity to further pursue reductions to lower risks of rear-end crashes sustainability projects to enhance • Transurban Road Safety Centre at NeuRA research program social and environmental outcomes for communities and social licence • membership with Social Traders to identify opportunities to credentials. increase direct and indirect spend with certified social enterprises • Infrastructure Sustainability (IS) ratings for road assets • research and pilots of new technologies to reduce environmental impacts. New business opportunities in our • focus on the right opportunities aligned to Transurban’s business target markets strategy Entry into new markets has provided • continue to build relationships with partners opportunities to further grow the • demonstrate core capabilities and delivery credibility business and enhance existing assets and operations. • maintain leading understanding of the transport needs of our markets. Up Down Neutral 33 Transurban’s exposure to financial risks and the policies we have in place for managing that risk can be found in the Financial Risk Management notes—note B15 (refer to page 121). This section discusses our hedging policies, credit risk, interest rate risk and liquidity and funding policies Transurban considers the impacts of climate change as a potential contributing factor to many of our threats and opportunities. For more information on our climate change management strategies and our consideration of transition and physical risks refer to our TCFD on page 59 of this Report and page 20 of the Sustainability Data and Climate Change Disclosures 34 Directional arrows are a general assessment only of the risk change over the year, detailed risk reviews as outlined on page 55 are undertaken regularly to ensure alignment with our risk appetite statement Governance and risk 57 Threats and Change in risk Example management description within year responses Maintaining our social licence • continuous stakeholder listening program to enable practical to operate business responses Failure to live the Transurban values • proactive activities to enhance our social licence to operate when engaging with our stakeholders • program of communication activities that engage all stakeholder or failure to satisfactorily meet their groups. needs could result in a loss of trust in our business, with implications for our reputation and business operations. Cyber security and information • cyber security framework, including data protection management protection and third-party data risk management Failure of IT security controls or • cyber training and awareness programs an ineffective response to a cyber • business continuity planning incident could result in a disruption to operations, damage to equipment and/ • security assessments including penetration and resilience testing. or loss of sensitive or personal data. Unfavourable changes in the market • strategic and emerging risks and mitigations identified and or to operating conditions managed as part of the overall Risk Management Framework Key assumptions relating to the • ongoing regional and asset traffic analysis supplemented by third operating environment and/or budget party data and/or review. forecasts may prove to be incorrect. Failure of technical infrastructure • Transurban Asset Management System (TAMS) and associated Failure to adequately maintain or processes validate activities as required could lead • Supplier and Contractor Management Framework outlines to breaches of concession, possible requirement for regular audits, inspections and quality assurance safety risks and/or reputational damage. assessments of contractors and sub-contractors • asset reviews and Internal Audit Program. Changes in government policies or • contributions to policy discussions through submissions to regulatory interpretations government inquiries and draft strategies A change in government policy could • engagement with at all levels of government—political and impact on the ability to deliver the bureaucratic—to understanding policy positions and the potential business strategy. implications. Delivering our major projects to meet • due diligence throughout procurement and tender processes agreed outcomes • Project Steering groups, Internal Audit Program and Program Contractor performance or behaviour reviews could lead to a failure to deliver projects • Enterprise Risk Management Framework incorporating project risk on time and within budget resulting in reviews reputational issues which could impact on future opportunities. • ongoing focus on relationship with current and potential suppliers including Senior Executive engagement with major contractors. Ensuring the safety and wellbeing of • safety reporting and management systems that enable detailed employees and contractors analytics Due to the nature of some of our work • contractor management and engagement to ensure activities employees, workers and implementation of Transurban minimum requirements other stakeholders could be exposed • ongoing development and enhancement of the Transurban health to harm or suffer wellbeing issues if safety and environment (HSE) culture including delivery of mental business controls fail to be adequate health and wellbeing initiatives or due to third party behaviours. High risk activities include incident response, • HSE training and awareness including practical exercises. construction and operations and maintenance activities. Up Down Neutral Transurban 58 2019 Corporate Report Key risks—threats and opportunities Threats and Change in risk Example management description within year responses Customer and road safety • Australian Road Research Board (ARRB) assessment of the Failure to effectively manage road Australian network to determine International/Australian Road infrastructure and response to incidents Assessment Program (iRAP/AusRAP) safety ratings could impact customer and road safety. • Monash University Accident Research Centre (MUARC) analysis of serious injury crashes on Australian roads • Road Safety Action Plans and Community of Practice (CoP) • continued focus on emergency response capabilities and delivery of emergency management exercises • Transurban Road Safety Centre at NeuRA research program. Dependency on third parties and • due diligence throughout procurement processes critical suppliers • environmental scans and industry engagement Loss of a key strategic supplier due • Supplier and Contractor Management Framework which includes to liquidation, legal action, buyout/ requirements for Supplier Performance Management competitive takeover, or performance issues could lead to a disruption in • ongoing delivery of Sustainable Procurement Program including supply of a critical service to Transurban. preparation for Modern Slavery Act requirements and collaboration with suppliers to respond to potential risks within our supply chain. Up Down Neutral – Figure 14: Our whole of enterprise risks Opportunities Threats — — — — 1 Almost certain 17 10 — — — — — — 2 1 Likely 23 18 — — — — — 6 6 9 Possible 184 130 112 — — — — — 2 1 Unlikely 291 277 174 67 — 1 — — — — Rare 194 209 135 69 98 Significant Major Moderate Minor Insignificant Insignificant Minor Moderate Major Significant Numbers = Number of risks in our ERM system Governance and risk 59 Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures As a road operator with assets across three countries and in both hemispheres, it is undeniable that the impacts of climate change will influence how we operate our business into the future. These impacts may be caused by significant physical changes to our climate as well as technology, market and reputation changes as global and national economies transition to low-carbon solutions. Like all threats and opportunities, climate-related impacts are managed using our ERM Framework. Consistent with the recommendations of the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFDs), we have reviewed our climate management processes to help us better identify, manage and respond to our most material climate impacts. A key component of this review was using scenario analysis to confirm transition and physical risks that will have a short, medium or long-term impact on our operations. To make sure the full breadth of possible physical and transition risks were considered, three scenarios were selected and developed with advice from external experts (refer to Figure 15). A summary of the review and our performance against the four TCFD categories: Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets—as well as a description of the material threats and opportunities are included in the Sustainability Data and Climate Change Disclosures. Addressing the TCFD recommendations is a key initiative in our recently revised Sustainability Strategy. This includes our continuing support of climate mitigation efforts and initiatives that reduce the emissions from our operations and contribute to our science-based emissions reduction target to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 52 per cent by 2030. Figure 15: TCFD Scenarios Scenario TCFD scenario description 1.5 degree increase: Government-led rapid intervention to curtail greenhouse gas emissions with a government-led transition high degree of ‘penalty-led’ regulation. The worst physical impacts of climate change are avoided in this scenario. Consumption declines. 2 degree increase: Business-led greenhouse gas emission reduction, with supportive ‘incentive-led’ industry-led transition and market-based policy environment. Consumption increases, but it is only on a circular and green economy basis. Funding and investment supports new technologies that reduce use and demand for high carbon options, increase efficiencies and decreases resource consumption. 4 degree increase: Business as usual, with very limited regulation beyond that existing in 2018. current trajectory Severe physical climate change impacts build from 2020. This means that consumption increases until 2025 and then starts a gradual but significant decline as systems collapse, supply routes are disrupted and health and safety issues take precedence over discretionary items. Directors’ 60 Report Directors’ Report 61 Directors’ Report The Directors of Transurban Holdings Limited (‘the Company’, ‘the Parent’ or ‘THL’) and its controlled entities (‘Transurban’, ‘Transurban Group’ or ‘the Group’), Transurban International Limited and its controlled entities (‘TIL’), and Transurban Infrastructure Management Limited (‘TIML’), as responsible entity of Transurban Holding Trust and its controlled entities (‘THT’), present their report on the Transurban Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2019 (‘FY19’). The controlled entities of THL include the other members of the stapled group, being TIL and THT. The Directors’ Report for FY19 has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001. The Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 85 of this Corporate Report forms part of the Directors’ Report. Principal activities Company secretaries The principal activities of the Group during the year Amanda Street and Julie Galligan are Company Secretaries were the building and operation of toll roads in Sydney, of THL, TIML and TIL. Melbourne and Brisbane, Australia, as well as in the Greater Washington Area and Montreal in North America. Amanda Street Further details of our activities are on pages 10 to 11 of LLB (Hons), BComm this report. Amanda joined Transurban in September 2008 and was appointed as Company Secretary in February 2011. Operating and financial review Before joining Transurban, Amanda was Assistant A review of the Group’s operations and the results of those Company Secretary at AusNet Services, and Senior operations during the year, including likely developments in Corporate Counsel at National Australia Bank. She has over future financial years, are on pages 12 to 59 of this report. 20 years of legal, company secretariat and other relevant Further details of the Group’s results are provided in the experience. Prior to her in-house work, Amanda was a Financial Statements on pages 88 to 185 of this report. solicitor specialising in M&A work with Australian law firm King & Wood Mallesons. Directors’ details Julie Galligan The Board of THL, TIML and TIL have common Directors. LLB, BA The names of Directors who served during or since the end of FY19 are: Julie joined Transurban in November 2008 and was appointed as General Counsel in February 2012. Julie has • Lindsay Maxsted (Chairman) over 20 years of legal experience in private practice and • Scott Charlton (Chief Executive Officer) in-house roles in both Australia and the United Kingdom. • Mark Birrell Prior to joining Transurban, Julie worked in-house at • Neil Chatfield Associated British Ports and at law firms, SJ Berwin LLP and MinterEllison. • Robert Edgar • Samantha Mostyn • Christine O’Reilly • Peter Scott • Jane Wilson • Rodney Slater (retired 11 October 2018) Details of each Director’s appointment, qualifications, experience and special responsibilities, together with their recent directorships, are on pages 52 to 53. Transurban 62 FY19 Corporate Report Directors’ meeting attendance The Boards of THL, TIML and TIL have common Directors and meetings are held concurrently. The number of meetings of the Board and each Board Committee held during FY19, and the number of meetings attended by each Director, are set out below: Remuneration, People and Board Audit and Risk Culture Nomination Special Purpose of Directors Committee1 Committee2 Committee3 Sub-Committee4 Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Lindsay Maxsted (Chairman) 11 11 6 # 5 # 3 3 3 3 Scott Charlton (CEO) 11 11 6 # 5 # 2 # 3 3 Mark Birrell 11 11 4 # 4 # 3 3 – – Neil Chatfield 10 11 6 6 5 5 3 3 1 1 Robert Edgar 11 11 6 6 5 5 3 3 – – Samantha Mostyn 11 11 3 # 5 5 3 3 – – Christine O'Reilly 11 11 6 6 5 # 3 3 1 1 Peter Scott 11 11 6 6 4 # 3 3 1 1 Jane Wilson 11 11 1 # 3 5 3 3 – – Rodney Slater (retired 11 October 2018) 5 5 – # – # 1 1 – – # Not a member of the relevant Committee 1 L Maxsted, S Charlton, M Birrell, S Mostyn and J Wilson were not members of the Audit and Risk Committee but attended meetings as observers during the year 2 L Maxsted, S Charlton, M Birrell, C O’Reilly, P Scott were not members of the Remuneration, People and Culture Committee but attended meetings as observers during the year. S Charlton was excluded from discussions involving his remuneration during meetings that he attended 3 S Charlton was not a member of the Nomination Committee but attended meetings as an observer during the year 4 A number of Board sub-committees were formed during the year for special purposes Distributions Events subsequent to reporting date A distribution of 30.0 cents per stapled security will be paid for Details of any events that have arisen from 30 June 2019 to the the six months ended 30 June 2019 on 9 August 2019. This takes date of signing this report that has significantly affected, or may the total distribution for FY19 to 59.0 cents per stapled security, significantly affect, the Group’s operations, the results of those of which 3.0 cents will be fully franked. Further details of FY19 operations, or Group’s state of affairs, in the future years are distributions are provided in note B10 of the financial statements. provided in note B30 of the financial statements. Significant changes in the state of affairs Indemnification and insurance of Directors The financial position and performance of the Group was and officers particularly affected by the following transactions during Each officer (including each Director) of the Group is indemnified, the reporting period: to the maximum extent permitted by law, against any liabilities • Acquisition of additional equity interest in Interlink Roads incurred as an officer of the Group pursuant to agreements with (M5 South-West Motorway) the Group. Each officer is also indemnified against reasonable costs (whether legal or otherwise) incurred in relation to relevant • Group equity issuance in September 2018 to support proceedings in which the officer is involved because the officer is investment in WestConnex through Sydney Transport or was an officer. Partners JV • West Gate Tunnel Project legislation and associated The Group has arranged to pay a premium for a Director’s and parliamentary consents officer’s liability insurance policy to indemnify Directors and officers in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. • Commercial close of the Fredericksburg Extension Project. This policy is subject to a confidentiality clause which prohibits Further information is provided in note B2 of the disclosure of the nature of the liability covered, the name of the Financial Statements. insurer, the limit of liability and the premium paid for this policy. Directors’ Report 63 Environmental regulation The Group’s operations are subject to environmental regulation under both Commonwealth and State legislation. The Group is committed to achieving a high standard of environmental performance. The Sustainability Strategy—available on our website transurban.com—outlines our objectives, while our Risk Management processes provide regular monitoring of environmental exposure and compliance with environmental regulations. Based on the results of enquiries made, the Board is not aware of any significant breaches during the reporting period. Non-audit services and auditor independence PwC continues in office in accordance with section 327 of the Corporations Act 2001. The Group has an “External Auditor Independence” policy that is intended to support the independence of the external auditor by regulating the provision of services by the external auditor. The external auditor will not be engaged to perform any service that may impair or be perceived to impair the external auditor’s judgment or independence. The Board has considered the position and, in accordance with advice received from the Audit and Risk Committee, is satisfied that the provision of the non-audit services during the reporting period is compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors imposed by the Corporations Act 2001. The Directors are satisfied that the provision of non-audit services by PwC did not compromise the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 for the following reasons: • The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the non-audit services to ensure they did not impact the impartiality and objectivity of the auditor. • None of the services undermined the general principles relating to auditor independence as set out in APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, including reviewing or auditing the auditor’s own work, acting in a management or a decision making capacity for the Group, acting as advocate for the Group or jointly sharing economic risk and rewards. Details of the amounts paid for non-audit services are provided in note B33 of the Financial Statements. A statement of independence regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor is provided on page 86 of this report. Rounding of amounts The Group is of a kind referred to in Instrument 2016/191, issued by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, relating to the ‘rounding off’ of amounts in the Directors’ Report. Amounts in the Directors’ Report have been rounded off in accordance with that Instrument to the nearest million, or in certain cases, to the nearest dollar. This Directors’ Report is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors and is signed for and on behalf of the Directors: Lindsay Maxsted Scott Charlton Director Director Melbourne 7 August 2019 64Remuneration Report This Remuneration Report forms part of the Directors' Report commencing on page 60. Remuneration Report 65 66 Introduction from the Chair of Remuneration, People and Culture Committee 68 76 Who is covered How variable by this report remuneration is structured 69 Our remuneration 79 governance framework Minimum at a glance security holding 70 79 Our executive Service remuneration strategy agreements 72 80 Our business Non-executive performance Director remuneration 73 Executive KMP 82 remuneration outcomes Statutory tables TransurbanTransurban 66 FY19 Corporate Report 3 2019 Remuneration Report Introduction from the Chair of the Remuneration, People and Culture Committee Dear security holder The Remuneration, People and Culture Committee provides oversight of the performance and remuneration of Transurban’s On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the CEO and other Executive Committee members, along with the Transurban Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June Group remuneration framework and incentive schemes. Our 2019. philosophy is to ensure that financial reward balances tangible The report aims to provide our investors and other stakeholders performance with appropriate risk taking in order to create with an understanding of the links between Transurban’s alignment with our various stakeholder groups. strategy, our Group’s performance and Executive remuneration, The key principles underpinning our remuneration framework as well as the framework we have in place to ensure effective include: governance of remuneration matters. It provides a comprehensive overview of the remuneration strategy and  incentives based on financial measures and strategic framework and the resulting performance and remuneration objectives that are critical to sustained organisational growth outcomes for our Key Management Personnel (KMP). and success It has been another outstanding year for Transurban with  due consideration of business and operational risk and the significant achievements across all aspects of the business. This Group’s values and culture through the design of performance year built on a period of sustained growth for Transurban, and objectives, clawbacks and the exercise of Board discretion included refocusing the business on three near-term priorities: delivering our committed projects; maximising the performance  incentives that provide sufficient stretch and motivation and of operations; and enhancing customer and community also align the interests of executives to those of security offerings. holders  a suitable balance between fixed, on target and at risk pay to Our major achievements in FY19, which are expanded upon reward outperformance throughout this report include:  vesting periods for deferred incentives and remuneration  Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of 31 per cent practices and outcomes that are fair and reasonable, taking  maintaining a strong balance sheet during a period of into account stakeholder expectations. significant portfolio development Over the past 12 months, we have conducted a comprehensive  continued distribution growth with FY19 distributions totalling program of listening and would like to thank those stakeholders 59 cents per stapled security (5.4 per cent growth year-onwho have taken the time to share their views regarding year) remuneration practices at Transurban. We continue to review our remuneration strategy and framework, taking into  1.7 million trips made on our roads each work day, collectively consideration such feedback, market expectations and saving customers 374,000 hours in travel time regulatory developments.  Proportional EBITDA growth (excluding significant items) of 12 We have also taken the opportunity to refresh this report. We per cent and 2 per cent underlying cost growth reflecting have included a number of new sections designed to improve discipline in managing near-term priorities clarity and transparency. This includes a more detailed overview of our remuneration governance framework, remuneration  acquisition of 51 per cent of WestConnex in Sydney with our strategy and disclosure of the CEO’s individual Key Performance consortium partners Indicators (KPIs).  WestConnex and A25 performing ahead of investment cases We have also expanded our disclosure on methodologies providing evidence to support sound investment decisions relating to target setting, including: which metrics are used and  CityLink concession extension contributing more than three why; how hurdles are determined to ensure sufficient stretch; years to the Group’s weighted average concession length and what factors the Committee and the Board take into consideration when determining performance and remuneration  four major projects opened to traffic: WestConnex New M4 outcomes. Tunnels in Sydney; and the Logan Enhancement Project, Gateway Upgrade North and Inner City Bypass Upgrade in Brisbane  dedicated customer hardship team, Linkt Assist, established and $15 million of fee reduction and process improvement initiatives delivered 4 Remuneration Transurban Report 67 2019 Remuneration Report Alignment between performance and remuneration Executive KMP Three-year performance to FY19 Short Term Incentive (STI) The FY16 LTI plan vested on 13 August 2018 (performance In determining STI remuneration outcomes, the Board assesses period 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2018) with the following results: a number of factors including actual financial performance  TSR: Transurban ranked 14th highest out of 31 companies measured against targets and individual KPIs. Individual KPIs (56.6 percentile) include delivery against the Group’s key focus areas of Strategy, Customer, People and Leadership, Operations and  FCF: 15.1% cumulative average annual growth rate in FCF per Development. security over the performance period. The target range was FY19 Financial Performance (actuals and % to target) 8% to 11% FCF growth per security.  Proportional EBITDA of $1,939m, which was 69.3% of target What did Executives receive  Net Costs of $450m, which was 149.7% of target reflecting % of units vesting: the discipline in managing near-term priorities TSR = 63.2%  HSE of 88.3% of target FCF = 100% Total = 81.6% What did Executives receive STI outcomes: Fixed remuneration reviews were conducted with a small  the CEO received 102.7% of his STI opportunity (FY18 135.1%) number of adjustments made. Overall, there was no general increase in remuneration for Executive KMP.  other Executive KMP received between 87.3% and 133.4% (FY18 105% and 135.1%) with the exception of Andrew Head who received a once-off incentive of 150% of TEC Non-executive Directors As in FY18 there are no changes to our Non-executive Directors’ fees. The next Non-executive Director fee review is scheduled Long Term Incentive (LTI) for December 2019. Two performance measures underpin the LTI plan including relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) against a bespoke comparator group and Free Cash Flow (FCF) (each with an equal As a Board, we continue to set targets that reflect our focus on 50% weighting). delivering returns to investors and long-term sustainable business performance. I trust you find this Remuneration Before determining any vesting outcome, the Board reviews in Report transparent and informative in explaining our detail the actual performance against the budget underpinning remuneration structure and approach. the targets. This review enables the Board to exercise its judgement in determining any vesting outcome by considering:  whether there was sufficient and challenging stretch  key reasons for any variance  if adjustments may be appropriate Samantha Mostyn Chair, Remuneration, People and Culture Committee Further detail regarding FCF outcomes is on page 75 of this report. This details specific factors relating to management activities contributing to operational efficiency, improved This report has been prepared and audited in accordance with customer experience, portfolio development activities and section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001 (Corporations Act) funding strategy. Transurban 5 2019 Remuneration Report Transurban 68 FY19 Corporate Report Who is covered by the Report This report covers the key management personnel (KMP) of Transurban who have the authority and responsibility for Changes to Key Management Personnel planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group either directly or indirectly. This includes both the Executive Rodney Slater, Non-executive Director KMP as well as Non-executive Directors. Rodney Slater retired from his position as a Non-executive The following table lists the Group’s KMP during FY19. All KMP Director on 11 October 2018. held their positions for the duration of FY19 unless otherwise Andrew Head, Group Executive NSW Development stated. Transurban and its consortium partners were successful in the Non-executive Directors KMP bid to acquire a 51per cent stake in WestConnex on 31 August Lindsay Maxsted, Chair 2018. Andrew Head was appointed and seconded to the role of CEO of WestConnex on 28 September 2018 following the Mark Birrell financial close of the acquisition on 27 September 2018. Neil Chatfield As CEO of WestConnex, Andrew reports to the WestConnex Robert Edgar Board and his Key Performance Indicators relate solely to the WestConnex Group rather than the broader Transurban Samantha Mostyn business. While Andrew remains an employee of Transurban, he Christine O'Reilly no longer has authority and responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Transurban Group and as a Peter Scott result, he no longer meets the definition of a Transurban KMP. Rodney Slater (until 11 October 2018) Michele Huey, Group Executive NSW Jane Wilson Michele Huey returned from parental leave on 17 September 2018 to the permanent position of Group Executive New South Wales. Executive KMP Scott Charlton, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Tony Adams, Group Executive Project Delivery Jennifer Aument, President North America Wesley Ballantine, Group Executive Victoria and Strategy Andrew Head, Group Executive New South Wales Development (until 27 September 2018) Michele Huey, Group Executive New South Wales (from 17 September 2018) Sue Johnson, Group Executive Queensland Lisa Tobin, Group Executive Technology Adam Watson, Chief Financial Officer 6 Remuneration Transurban Report 69 2019 Remuneration Report Our remuneration governance framework at a glance Board Sets and oversees the implementation of the Remuneration Policy Remuneration, People and Culture Committee External advisors Assists the Board in fulﬁlling its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, people The Committee may seek and consider advice and culture policies and practices. from independent remuneration consultants The Committee is responsible for reviewing, and where appropriate making where appropriate. Any advice from recommendations to the Board on: consultants is used to guide the Committee and the Board, but does not serve as a • remuneration of Non-executive KMP substitute for thorough consideration by • remuneration for the CEO and other Group Senior Executives Non-executive Directors. • remuneration budgets for all employees Protocols are in place for the independent • remuneration strategies, policies, practices, and disclosures generally, in engagement of remuneration consultants relation to the context of the remuneration framework. and the provision of remuneration recommendations. The Committee comprises Non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent. The current members are Samantha Mostyn (Chair), Robert Edgar, Neil Chatﬁeld, During FY19, consultants provided and Jane Wilson. Further details regarding the Committee are set on page 62. As a benchmark data only to the Committee. matter of practice, the Chair of the Board (Lindsay Maxsted) and the Chair of the No further remuneration recommendations Audit and Risk Committee (Christine O’Reilly) also attend the Committee meetings. relating to KMP were provided. Committee papers are provided to all members prior to meetings to enable timely, considered and eﬀective decision making. The Committee may request additional information from management or external advisors where required. The Committee uses a range of inputs when assessing performance and outcomes of Executive KMP, including both what and how results have been achieved. Detailed performance assessments as well as audited ﬁnancial results, external remuneration benchmarking and an overarching view to the organisation’s values and risk proﬁle are taken into account. The Committee and the Board review relevant information and exercise discretion, and may adjust proposed remuneration outcomes, including application of malus and clawback. Management Provide management information on ﬁnancial, customer and risk matters which may impact remuneration. Where appropriate, the CEO and the Group Executive, People and Culture attend Committee meetings, however they do not participate in formal decision making or in discussions involving their own remuneration. TransurbanTransurban 70 FY19 Corporate Report 7 2019 Remuneration Report Our executive remuneration strategy At Transurban, our remuneration strategy is designed to support and reinforce our business strategy, including sustainable long-term growth. The remuneration components that are at risk reflect the successful execution of that strategy in both the short and long term. Our strategic drivers are reflected in our STI and LTI performance measures so that business performance, shareholder outcomes and executive remuneration are directly aligned. Our purpose To strengthen communities through transport Our strategy Provide sustainable transport solutions that offer choice, reliability, safety, transparency and value Our focus areas Stakeholder engagement Optimal networks Delivery and operations Disciplined investment Remuneration A total remuneration framework designed to attract, motivate and retain the most skilled, experienced and capable executives by rewarding strategy them for delivering on our business strategy and creating long-term, sustainable value for stakeholders Remuneration Aligns the interests of our Attracts, motivates and retains Balances financial and nonPays fairly for operational principles people with stakeholders the best people in the market financial priorities around delivery and longer-term culture, risk appetite and values value creation Remuneration Fixed remuneration At risk Outperformance components (and Target performance as defined by a Long-term business performance delivery combination of individual and group KPIs has measures determine opportunity for mechanisms) the potential to achieve a 100% outcome. security grants Opportunity for outperformance exists Salary including statutory Short Term Incentive (STI) Long Term Incentive (LTI) superannuation Annual incentive awarded 50% in cash and Annual award granted as three-year 50% as two-year deferred securities performance rights Purpose Set competitively in relation to the Current year performance Long-term sustainable performance external market; designed to attract and Designed to reward for performance Aligns performance focus with longer retain the most appropriately skilled and against annual, year-on-year business term business strategy and security experienced people in the market objectives and key performance holder returns; the three-year indicators (KPIs); deferral provides performance period provides additional retention and clawback additional retention and clawback optionality optionality Link to Individual key role accountabilities, Provides for differentiation of pay based Motivates the consideration of longer-term performance responsible for delivering on local on both individual contribution and implications of present-day decisions priorities aligned to the business strategy overall business performance Performance Key role accountabilities, size and complexity Financial Relative Total measures weighed up against individual responsibilities, Proportional EBITDA (20%), Net Costs (20%) Shareholder Return (TSR) (50%) knowledge, skills and experience Non-Financial Free Cash Flow (FCF) per security Individual KPIs (50%) growth rate (50%) Health Safety Environment (10%) Performance Measures are clearly aligned to security Measures are clearly aligned to security Relative TSR: Board review of companies targets / holder returns and value creation holder returns and value creation included in comparator group hurdles FCF: budget-setting process, plus Board considerations as to quantifiable risks and opportunities Further Minimum security holding requirements STI deferral into securities Measures are clearly aligned to security alignment to for Group CEO and KMP (equal in value to holder returns and value creation security holders fixed annual remuneration excluding superannuation; five-year period to accumulate) Governance The Board holds discretion in regards to the setting of targets and Strict protocols are in place for engaging independent hurdles, as well as decisions regarding performance and remuneration consultants and advisors remuneration outcomes; this includes taking into account any relevant significant items 8 Remuneration Transurban Report 71 2019 Remuneration Report Overview of executive remuneration framework Fixed Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 TEC (Base salary and superannuation) 100% Variable remuneration STI (Cash) 50% (Securities deferred for two years following the performance period) (Subject to two-year service requirement and Board discretion) 50% LTI 50% of award based on relative TSR (performance measured at the end of year three) 50% 50% of award based on FCF growth (performance measured at the end of year three) 50% Full LTI award vests at end of year three subject to above performance outcomes and service arrangements Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 (Performance period) Executive KMP remuneration The remuneration mix is designed to achieve a balanced reward CEO target Executive KMP target for achievement of short-term objectives and the creation of remuneration mix remuneration mix1 long-term sustainable value. The remuneration mix for FY19 for target performance (100% vesting of STI and LTI) for Executive KMP is outlined in the diagram to the right. 42% 29% 32% 41% TEC* is set with reference to the market median, using the ASX 10-30 as the primary reference. Remuneration packages 14.5% 13.5% (including TEC levels) are reviewed by the Remuneration, People and Culture Committee taking into consideration an individual's 14.5% 13.5% role, experience and performance, as well as relevant Fixed annual remuneration Variable STI—cash Variable STI—deferred Variable LTI comparative market data provided by remuneration consultants. TEC levels are also reviewed on a change in role. 1. For this period, Andrew Head’s target remuneration mix was 45% fixed annual remuneration, 11.5% variable STI deferred, 11.5% STI cash and 32% variable LTI with a maximum STI opportunity equivalent to 150% of TEC. * Total Employee Compensation—includes base salary and statutory superannuation TransurbanTransurban 72 FY19 Corporate Report 9 2019 Remuneration Report Our business performance Financial highlights for FY19 The Group’s toll road portfolio delivered strong EBITDA growth driven by increased traffic, toll price escalations across our networks, new acquisitions and disciplined cost control. The Group recorded proportional EBITDA excluding significant items of $2,016m for the financial year ended 30 June 2019, an increase of 12.3% on the prior corresponding period. Overview of Group performance The variable (or ‘at risk’) remuneration of the CEO and other senior executive KMP is linked to the Group’s performance by using measures based on the operating performance of the business. The table below shows the Group’s performance over the past five financial years including metrics used to determine components of STI and LTI awards. Five-year performance FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15 Underlying proportional EBITDA $m 2,016 1,796 1,629 1,480 1,289 Proportional net costs excluding significant items $m 450 406 380 342 270 2 3 Free cash per security Cents 57.1 56.8 59.6 46.8 40.2 Distribution paid per security Cents 59.0 56.0 51.5 45.5 40.0 1 Security price at 30 June $ 14.74 11.97 11.85 11.99 9.30 Market capitalisation $b 39.43 26.63 24.32 24.46 17.80 TSR at 30 June % 31 6 4 35 32 1. The opening share price in FY15 was $7.39. 2. The FY19 free cash flow of 57.1 cents per security included 4.6 cents per security relating to a capital release from the NorthWestern Roads Group and 6.7 cents per security from a capital release from Transurban Queensland. Excluding these capital releases, the 2019 free cash flow was 45.8 cents per security. 3. The FY17 free cash flow of 59.6 cents per security included 8.5 cents per security relating to a capital release from NorthWestern Roads Group. Excluding this capital release, the FY17 free cash flow was 51.1 cents per security. 10 Remuneration Transurban Report 73 2019 Remuneration Report Executive KMP remuneration outcomes STI outcomes  whether budgetary assumptions that were made when STI awards are determined with reference to an assessment of setting performance targets remain correct and whether performance against individual KPIs (50%) and Group conditions are potentially better or worse when compared performance measures (50%). When the Board and the with those assumptions Committee consider the performance against each element, a number of factors are taken into account that may result in the  the degree of difficulty and complexity associated with exercise of Board discretion for the benefit or detriment of the achieving the targets, as related to both the internal and employees. In assessing whether to exercise discretion for any external environment. of these factors, the Board will have regard for the interests of security holders. For example: Target performance, which is defined by a combination of individual and Group KPIs, provides the potential to achieve a  prevailing external business and economic factors beyond 100% of STI opportunity. Current KMP can achieve up to 150% the control of the business and which may impact of the target STI opportunity based on significant performance outperformance to agreed targets and measures and alignment to Group values.  unforeseen factors that may not have been known at the beginning of the performance period but which are relevant Transurban’s strategic priorities are cascaded, via the CEO’s KPIs to performance over the performance period to other Executives in combination with other functional measures. The Board assessed Group performance and the CEO’s KPIs as follows (KPIs that are commercially sensitive have been excluded). FY19 CEO Individual KPI outcomes (contributes 50% to total STI outcome) Priority / Area / Measure Performance Strategy  Stakeholder initiatives implemented including trip compare tool, decision-point signage, social investment program  Stakeholder listening  Support for customers in financial hardship assistance implemented (Linkt Assist)  West Gate Tunnel (WGT) strategy /  Community trust benchmark with three-year stretch target achieved in 12 months CityLink concession  WGT/CityLink concession legislation achieved with concession extended by 10 years Customer  Transitioned to one national brand, including single customer website, mobile app and alignment of fees and products  Linkt brand launch  Improvements in customer service and digital experience including simplifying and streamlining including app  Customer listening functionality  Significant improvement in key customer metrics relative to stretch targets People and leadership  Developed the capability and breadth of senior leaders through new programs and exposure to external markets and  Enterprise leadership operators  Workforce capability  Implemented digital learning platform, expanding scope and scale of learning opportunities  Diversity and gender pay equity  Achieved WGEA Employer Of Choice for Gender Equity citation for fifth consecutive year; continued focus on gender pay equity and Women in Management Operations  Completion of the following: WestConnex New M4 Tunnels in Sydney and the Logan Enhancement Project, Gateway  In-flight road projects Upgrade North and Inner City Bypass upgrade in Brisbane  Tolling as a service  Multiple projects progressing satisfactorily across all markets: WGT, NorthConnex, 395, FredEx, WCX Stage 2 and 3  Global Enterprise Resource  Tolling as a service proposition progressing Planning (ERP) system  ERP system implemented Development  WCX bid successful including Australian Competition and Consumer Commission and Foreign Investment Review Board  WestConnex (WCX) bid approvals and successful capital raising  New market opportunities  WCX integration ahead of acquisition case  US development  Disciplined investment assessment in identification of new market opportunities  Express lane development framework agreed on 495 Northern Express Lanes Extension project  395 Express Lanes commissioning underway  Design build procurement completed for Fredericksburg Extension In assessing overall performance, the Board concluded that the CEO has delivered another year of strong performance, assessing his individual performance outcome to be 100%. Importantly during this year, he achieved a number of significant outcomes including the successful WCX bid and integration and the CityLink concession extension. In addition, the CEO continued to drive investment in stakeholder initiatives and we continued to see an uplift in customer outcomes and community engagement that delivered benefits for all our stakeholders. TransurbanTransurban 74 FY19 Corporate Report 11 2019 Remuneration Report FY19 Group measures outcomes (contributes 50% to total STI outcome) Measure Target Performance STI Outcome Commentary % Proportional EBITDA (20%) $1,963m $1,939m 27.7 Excluding significant items, budget for discretionary research and development initiatives, WCX, and additional M5 acquisitions that occurred during the year. Proportional net costs (20%) $473m $450m 59.9 HSE (10%) (refer below for detail) 88.3 17.7 Overall performance / Group 105.3 outcome HSE in detail Target Score Outcome HSE leadership (60%) 3.50 3.23 86.5 51.9 Leader and employee accountability, participation and improvements against HSE system plans and targets Recordable Injury Frequency Rate 0.00 0.81 57.4 5.7 RIFR: recordable injuries (fatalities, lost time and (RIFR)—employees (10%)1 medical treatment injuries) per million work hours. Recordable Injury Frequency Rate 4.31 3.66 150.0 15.0 As above —Contractors (10%) 1 Road Injury Crash Index (RICI) (10%) 3.92 4.71 56.6 5.7 RICI: serious road injury (requiring medical treatment or where emergency medical care is required, other than first aid) crashes per 100 million vehicle kilometres travelled. Road Safety Action Plans (10%) Action plans in place 100.0 10.0 Road Safety Plan actions implemented and actions and tracking to target tracking to target. Total HSE 88.3 1. In the event of an employee or contractor fatality, the STI outcome for the corresponding RIFR will be zero for all Executive KMP and STI eligible employees. The STI performance outcomes and awards for the CEO and current Executive KMP are detailed in the following table: STI outcome (%) STI awarded3 ($) STI forfeited (%) 2 Executive KMP Individual KPIs Total S Charlton 100.0 102.7 2,360,950 – T Adams 95.0 97.5 490,020 2.5 1 J Aument 130.0 133.4 764,700 – W Ballantine 85.0 87.3 467,670 12.7 M Huey 85.0 87.3 283,160 12.7 S Johnson 95.0 97.5 457,350 2.5 L Tobin 95.0 97.5 457,350 2.5 A Watson 115.0 118.0 711,820 – 1. Jennifer Aument is remunerated in US Dollars. Her awarded STI has been translated to Australian dollars using the exchange rate of $0.7015 at 30 June 2019. 2. The total STI performance outcome is calculated: (Individual STI outcome % + (Individual STI outcome % x Group outcome %)) ÷ 2. The Group’s percentage outcome is 105.3%. 3. 50% is paid in cash and 50% is awarded in securities that are subject to a two-year restriction period following the end of the performance year. Andrew Head was Executive KMP for the period of 1 July 2018 – 27 Sept 2018. As part of the company’s growth strategy over the past two years, the Board approved a specific incentive arrangement in relation to Andrew Head’s role leading development opportunities in NSW. For this period he received an STI award of $318,750 representing his maximum STI opportunity equivalent to 150% of TEC. 12 Remuneration Transurban Report 75 2019 Remuneration Report LTI outcomes Value of performance awards vested and lapsed in FY19  new projects including the Logan Enhancement Project in Brisbane, the 395 Express Lanes in the Greater The FY16 LTI plan performance awards vested on 13 August Washington Area, the West Gate Tunnel Project and 2018 (performance period 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2018). The AirportLinkM7 outcome of the performance tests were as follows:  Funding—balanced mix of debt and equity to support the Test type Result of test % of units vest development pipeline while maintaining strong investment grade credit metrics including: TSR Transurban ranked 14th highest out 63.2% of 31 companies (56.6 percentile)  $15.7 billion in debt funding raised or refinanced extending the average tenor of debt by 1.4 years and reducing the Free Cash Flow 15.1% cumulative average annual 100.0% average cost of debt by 23 basis points growth rate in FCF per security over the performance period. Target  $2.9 billion of equity raised through two entitlement offers, range was 8% to 11% FCF growth per with securities issued at an average discount of 4.7% to the security. Theoretical Ex Rights Price Overall vesting 81.6% When preparing the FCF targets for the FY16 LTI plan, the FCF targets did not include an assumption associated with an equity Free Cash Flow measure raise to be undertaken to fund the West Gate Tunnel Project, which occurred within the performance period for the plan. The The target range for the FCF measure in the LTI plans takes into Group undertook an equity raising of $1.9 billion in December account forecast financial performance over the three years 2017 to fund this opportunity. The impact of this equity raising over which the award is measured. This three-year forecast did not change the outcome of the FCF component of the FY16 reflects near-term FCF growth generated by the business together with planned activities that deliver value over the LTI Plan. longer term. Looking ahead to FY20 The target free cash growth per security over the performance period of this FY16 LTI plan (1 July 2015 to 30 June 2018) was Performance awards to be granted in FY20 will have a target achieved at 100%. Having set the target at the beginning of the range for growth in FCF per security of between 5.5% and 7.5% plan period, the Board reviewed this outcome to ensure it had per annum. This is calculated using the FY19 distribution of 59.0 incorporated sufficient stretch over the three-year period and cents per security as the base. This target range is considered was not affected by one-off benefits that were outside of to be appropriately challenging for management taking into management endeavour. Management achievements were account the budget and forecast estimates of the Group over evaluated for demonstrable outcomes in key areas of the the plan period. This considers factors including the operating business strategy including: performance outcomes, the impact from development activities, the capital strategy and cost of funding and opportunities for  Operational efficiency—improvement in underlying capital releases. Should management achieve these outcomes proportional Group EBITDA year on year and deliver growth in free cash for security holders, the Board considers the outcomes for management and security holders  Customer experience—improvements delivered from would be strongly aligned. initiatives including:  improved fee arrangements for customers Value of performance awards to vest and lapse in FY20  investment in customer technology platforms The diagram below shows FCF and TSR performance parameters for current on-foot LTI Plans. Initial vesting  the launch of a new national retail brand calculations for the FY17 plan indicate that 87% of awards on  an improved customer hardship program issue will vest for eligible participants. The Board will conduct a detailed review of all contributing factors when finalising this  Portfolio development—disciplined investment including: outcome, which will be included in next year’s Remuneration Report.  completion of the Citylink Tulla widening project on time and ahead of budget Current on-foot LTI plans and associated performance parameters Base 59.0 cents / target 5.5%–7.5% FY2020 Plan Compared to select ASX150 Base 56.0 cents / target 5.5%–7.5% FY2019 Plan Compared to select ASX150 Base 51.5 cents / target 8%–10% FY2018 Plan Compared to select ASX150 Base 45.5 cents / target 9%–12% FY2017 Plan Compared to select ASX150 FCF performance TSR performance FY2016 Plan Vested 81.6% 1 July 2015 1 July 2016 1 July 2017 1 July 2018 1 July 2019 30 June 2020 30 June 2021 30 June 2022 TransurbanTransurban 76 FY19 Corporate Report 13 2019 Remuneration Report How variable remuneration is structured Short Term Incentive (STI)—how does it work? Description Eligible permanent Group employees, including the CEO and other Executive KMP, participate in the annual STI plan, which puts a proportion of remuneration 'at risk' subject to meeting specific pre-determined Group and individual performance measures linked to Group objectives. Performance period The performance period is the financial year preceding the payment date. Opportunity For ‘at-target’ performance, the CEO has the opportunity to receive 100% of TEC and all other Executive KMP have the opportunity to receive 67% of TEC. The minimum STI outcome is 0% (if targets are not met) and the maximum is capped at 150% of the STI opportunity awarded for exceptional performance. Payment and STI awards for the CEO and other Executive KMP are delivered 50% in cash and 50% is deferred into Transurban stapled securities deferral for two years following the performance year. The deferred securities participate in dividends and/or distributions paid. The number of deferred securities allocated is determined by dividing the amount to be deferred by a 10 day Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) of Transurban securities over the 10 business days immediately preceding the STI deferred plan offer. How is the annual The Board determines the total STI pool to be distributed. The total pool will not exceed 125% of the aggregate STI target pool determined opportunity. The pool is awarded on individual performance and Group performance in accordance with the following formula. Employee STI performance outcome is calculated: (Individual STI outcome % + (Individual STI outcome % x Group outcome %)) ÷ 2. This approach is designed such that higher performing employees receive a greater portion of the Group STI outcome than those who do not perform as well. Performance Individual measures (KPIs) (50%): are unique to the individual’s area of accountability. Individuals have a clear line of sight to KPIs measures and are able to directly affect outcomes through their own actions. Group measures (50%) comprise the following three components: Proportional Earnings before Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA)* (20%): is one of the primary measures the Board uses to assess the operating performance of the Group. It reflects the contribution from individual assets to the Group's operating performance and focuses on elements of the result that management can influence to drive improvements in short term earnings. This measure provides a better reflection of the performance of the Group’s assets than statutory EBITDA. Proportional Net Costs** (20%): reflects management’s ability to influence the expenditure of the business. Strong cost management throughout the business drives an increase in proportional EBITDA and free cash flow and ultimately security holder value. Health Safety and Environment (HSE) (10%): measures focus on improving the Group’s HSE culture and reducing workplace injuries for employees and contractors, as well as customer safety. The HSE measure is a combination of a lead indicator and four lag indicators. The diagram below illustrates the performance measures within the lag indicators. The Leading (leadership) KPI requires the submission of HSE reports and includes proactive HSE observations, HSE meetings and actions to reduce HSE risks. Employees are assessed against a five-scale rating according to their KPI. This result is then aggregated across the Group and averaged to provide the Group score. This is then benchmarked against the annual target. The Lagging KPIs focus on recordable incidents, planning and tracking, including injury frequency rates, crash rates and road safety action planning. 10% Leading indices 10% Lagging indices Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (employees) 60% 40% 10% Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (contractors) Road Injury Crash Index 10% Road Safety Action Plans Definitions * Proportional EBITDA is the aggregation of EBITDA from each asset multiplied by the Group's percentage ownership, as well as any contribution from Group functions. Proportional EBITDA figures used to assess performance are included in note B4 of the audited financial statements ** Proportional net costs are calculated as total costs less fee and other revenues 14 Remuneration Transurban Report 77 2019 Remuneration Report Targets Financials (proportional EBITDA and proportional net costs) The Board utilises the annual budget as the primary input to determine appropriate stretch financial targets. When approving the budget, the Board reviews the core principles and assumptions underpinning the budget. Specifically for proportional EBITDA, the budget incorporates base business growth derived from network-wide traffic performance, price growth and impacts of inflation and adjusts for events such as construction and project completion and the impact of acquisitions. Directly controllable initiatives including road safety, lane availability, operational efficiencies and the impact of development activity are also incorporated. Once the budget has been finalised, the Board determines the STI targets. In order to ensure that sufficient stretch is incorporated, consideration is given to the quantifiable risks and opportunities that can influence the Group’s financial performance. In some instances, the Board may deem it appropriate to exclude significant items and the budget for discretionary research and development initiatives. The targets use a constant currency for operations within the USA and Canada. HSE The Board reviews HSE targets each year with a view to continuously improving the HSE culture and performance of the Group. Individual KPIs Individual targets as set out in KPIs include consideration as to role-related accountabilities and responsibilities in the context of business strategic priorities. Executive KPIs consist of similar categories to those of the CEO (as disclosed on page 73) of this report) and reflect the individual’s role and areas of responsibility. Vesting The Board assesses performance against Group measures and the results of key elements are independently validated. The Board confirms final outcomes for individual and Group performance and has discretion to adjust the performance conditions and outcomes. Cessation of If employment ceases before performance is assessed, generally there is no entitlement to receive any STI award. If employment employment ceases before the end of the two-year restriction period, any unvested deferred securities will lapse, unless the plan rules provide otherwise or the Board otherwise resolves. Clawback Fraudulent or dishonest behaviour will result in the forfeiture or clawback of any unvested awards. Further, at the discretion of the Board, awards are subject to forfeiture or clawback where there is a financial misstatement circumstance or the allocation of awards was made in error, on the basis of the misrepresentation or an omission, or on the basis of facts or circumstances that were later proven to be untrue or inaccurate (applicable to both STI and LTI plans) TransurbanTransurban 78 FY19 Corporate Report 15 2019 Remuneration Report Long Term Incentive (LTI)—how does it work? Description Participation in the LTI plan is offered to the CEO and other Executive KMP and a very limited number of other employees nominated by the CEO and approved by the Board. Instrument Grants are made in the form of performance awards at no cost to the recipient. Each performance award is an entitlement to receive a Transurban stapled security, or an equivalent cash payment, on terms and conditions determined by the Board, subject to the achievement of vesting conditions. Performance awards do not carry dividend or voting entitlements prior to vesting. Performance period The three financial years commencing on 1 July in the year the grant is made eg. the FY19 grant has a performance period commencing 1 July 2018 and ending 30 June 2021 Opportunity The CEO’s opportunity is 147% of TEC and the opportunity for all other Executive KMP is 80% of TEC. The minimum vesting outcome an individual can receive is 0% of the award (if the performance measures are not achieved) and the maximum vesting outcome an individual can receive is capped at 100% of the award (if performance measures are achieved). Performance Two performance measures are used to determine the number of awards that will vest at the end of the performance period; measures relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) against a bespoke comparator group and Free Cash Flow (FCF) (each with an equal 50% weighting). Targets Relative TSR is measured against a bespoke comparator group comprising companies in the transport, utilities, real estate, construction and infrastructure Global Industry Classification standards sectors of the ASX150. The companies in this group for grants made during FY19 were: Abacus Property Group, AGL Energy Limited, APA Group, Atlas Arteria Group, Aurizon Holdings Limited, Ausnet Services Limited, BWP Trust Ord Units, Charter Hall Group, Charter Hall Retail Reit Unit, Chorus Limited, Cromwell Property Group, Dexus Property Group, Goodman Group, GPT Group, Growthpoint Properties Australia, Investa Office Fund, Lendlease Group, Mirvac Group, Qantas Airways Limited, Qube Holdings Limited, Scentre Group, Shopping Centres Australasia Property Group, Spark Infrastructure Group, Spark New Zealand Limited NZX, Stockland Corporation Limited, Sydney Airport, Telstra Corporation Limited, TPG Telecom Limited, Transurban Group, Vicinity Centres. The list below shows the companies that were excluded from the comparator group in FY19. There were no new companies to the group compared to the prior year. Companies excluded in FY19 Fell outside of ASX150: Aveo Group, Monadelphous Group Limited, Viva Energy Reit Limited, Vocus Communications Limited Other: Unibail Rodamco Westfield (Board approved exclusion), Westfield Corporation (de-listed). FCF per security targets are set by the Board utilising the annual budget and three-year forecast as the primary inputs (consistent with the approach taken for STI measures of proportional EBITDA and proportional net costs). Once the budget and forecast has been finalised, the Board determines the FCF targets by analysing the cash flow outcomes, ensuring sufficient stretch is incorporated. The actual FCF outcomes are reviewed in detail against targets to consider key reasons for variance and assess whether any adjustments should be made in determining management’s performance. The Board may make adjustments where a decision has been made, in the interests of the Transurban Group and its security holders that differs from the original budgeted assumptions. This may include factors such as significant equity raisings to fund growth opportunities or changes to the timing or quantum of anticipated capital releases. Factors that may cause FCF growth to fluctuate year on year include activities that are intended to generate long-term value for the business but may negatively impact FCF growth in the near term. The Group is currently in a significant development phase with seven major projects across all markets to be delivered over the next five years. The FCF calculation is included in note B10 of the audited financial statements. Why are these performance TSR is a relative, external, market-based performance measure against those companies with which the Group competes for measures used? capital. It provides a direct link between executive reward and security holder return. TSR measures total return on investment of a security, taking into account both capital appreciation and distributed and/or dividend income that was reinvested on a pre-tax basis. Growth in FCF per security reflects the Group’s continued focus on maximising available free cash. The Group seeks to consistently grow its distributions year on year and to align security holder distributions with FCF per security. Allocation Face value allocation methodology (discounted for distributions and/or dividends foregone throughout the performance period). For each grant cycle, the allocation calculations are performed on 1 July of the first performance year using a valuation determined by an independent third party. 16 Remuneration Transurban Report 79 2019 Remuneration Report Vesting TSR component The Group uses an independent report that sets out the Group's TSR growth and that of each company in the bespoke comparator group. A VWAP of securities for the 20 trading days up to and including the testing date is used to calculate TSR. The level of TSR growth achieved by the Group is given a percentile ranking in relation to the Group’s performance compared to the performance of other companies in the comparator group (the highest-ranking company is ranked at the 100th percentile). The TSR performance is tested at the end of the three-year performance period, and this ranking determines the extent to which performance awards, subject to this component, vest. FY19 TSR vesting schedule The TSR component of performance awards granted during FY19, will vest on a straight line basis in accordance with the following table: The Group’s relative TSR ranking in the comparator group % of performance awards that vest At or below the 50th percentile Zero Above the 50th percentile but below the 75th percentile Straight line vesting between 50 and 100 At or above the 75th percentile 100 FCF component The Group's FCF per security percentage growth rate is calculated over the three-year performance period. The Board uses its discretion to determine whether the performance awards are settled in Transurban stapled securities or a cash payment of equivalent value. Following testing, any awards that do not vest, lapse and any awards that vest are automatically exercised into Transurban stapled securities or settled in cash at the discretion of the Board. No price is payable on exercise. FY19 FCF vesting schedule The FCF per security component of performance awards granted during FY19 will vest based on the Group’s cumulative average annual growth targets translated into annual FCF per security over the three-year performance period, as set out below: % annual growth in FCF per security (distribution base of % of performance awards that vest 56.0 cents per security) Less than 5.5% Zero Between 5.5% and 7.5% Straight line vesting between 50 and 100 7.5% or more 100 Cessation of employment If employment ceases before the performance measures are tested, generally there is no entitlement to unvested performance awards and any unvested awards will lapse, unless the plan rules provide otherwise or the Board otherwise resolves. Clawback Treatment as per STI Minimum security Service holding agreements The Board has endorsed minimum security holding guidelines The remuneration and other terms of employment for the CEO for Non-executive Directors, the CEO and Executive KMP. The and other Executive KMP are formalised in service agreements guidelines recommend that all KMP build and maintain a that have no specified term. Under these agreements, the CEO minimum security holding of Transurban stapled securities and other Executive KMP are eligible to participate in STI and LTI equal in value to their fixed annual remuneration (excluding plans. Some other key aspects of the agreements in place for superannuation). The minimum stapled security holding can be FY19 are outlined below: accumulated over a five-year period. All KMP have either achieved and maintained their minimum security holding or, for Period of notice Period of notice those new to the Group, are on track to meet the five-year to terminate by to terminate by the Executive KMP the Group1 accumulation period. CEO 6 months 12 months Other Executive KMP 3 months 6 months 1. Payment in lieu of the notice period may be provided (based on the executive's fixed remuneration). The Group may also terminate at any time without notice for serious misconduct. TransurbanTransurban 80 FY19 Corporate Report 17 2019 Remuneration Report Non-executive Director remuneration Remuneration policy Remuneration arrangements The diagram below sets out the key objectives of the Group’s Maximum aggregate remuneration Non-executive Director remuneration policy and how they are achieved through the Group’s remuneration framework: The aggregate remuneration that may be paid to Non-executive Directors in any year is capped at a level approved by security holders. Security holders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting approved the current aggregate fee pool of $3,000,000 per year Securing and retaining talented, (inclusive of superannuation contributions). qualiﬁed Directors Director fee levels are set with regards to: Non-executive Director fees the responsibilities and risks attached to the role, The Remuneration, People and Culture Committee regularly the time commitment and workload expected, reviews Non-executive Director fees and such reviews include the Director’s experience and expertise, and periodic benchmarking against other publicly listed entities of market benchmark data similar size and complexity to Transurban. A review of Non-executive Director fees (base Director and Preserving independence Committee fees) was undertaken during FY19. The and impartiality Remuneration, People and Culture Committee recommended Director remuneration consists of base (Director) and the Board subsequently resolved that Non-executive fees and Committee fees. No element of Director Director fees remain unchanged for the 2019 calendar year. remuneration is 'at risk' (i.e. fees are not based on the performance of the Group or individual Current Director and Committee fees (per annum) are set out Directors) below: Board fees Chair $600,000 Aligning Director and security holder Member $205,000 interests Committee fees Audit and Risk Committee Directors are encouraged to hold Transurban securities and the Board has endorsed minimum Chair $50,000 security holding guidelines for Directors Member $25,000 Remuneration, People and Culture Committee Chair $45,000 Member $20,000 There are no fees for membership of the Nomination Committee. The Chair of the Board does not receive any additional fees for Committee responsibilities. The Chair of each Committee only receives the Chair fee (and not a member fee). Non-executive Directors are permitted to be paid additional fees for special duties or exertions. No such fees were paid during FY19. Non-executive Directors are also entitled to be reimbursed for all business-related expenses, including travel, as may be incurred in the discharge of their duties. Non-executive Directors are not entitled to any retirement benefits. 18 Remuneration Transurban Report 81 2019 Remuneration Report Non-executive Director related party information All Non-executive Director related party relationships are based on normal commercial terms. None of the Non-executive Directors were, or are, involved in any procurement or other Board decision-making regarding the companies or firms with which they have an association. The Group is not required to make the following disclosures but for transparency reasons notes the following relationships and transactions. Director Related party Services provided L Maxsted Mr Lindsay Maxsted is Chair and a non-executive director Westpac provides transactional banking and banking products and services to of Westpac Banking Corporation. Transurban on normal commercial terms. During FY19 Westpac participated in three new debt financings and was a CoAgent on an M7 placement conducted by Transurban. In addition to providing corporate working capital and letter of credit facilities to Transurban, Westpac participates in numerous debt facilities and acts as the facility agent for certain debt facilities, all on normal commercial terms. N Chatfield Mr Neil Chatfield was Chair and a non-executive director Seek provides employment advertising services to Transurban on normal of Seek Limited until 31 December 2018. commercial terms. S Mostyn Ms Samantha Mostyn is Chair and a non-executive During FY19 Citigroup was a Joint Lead Manager on a Corporate EMTN director of Citigroup Pty Limited. issuance and was Co-Agent on a Cardinal (A25) placement, all conducted by Ms Samantha Mostyn was a non-executive director of Transurban. Citigroup provides corporate working capital facilities to Virgin Australia Holdings Limited until 29 May 2019. Transurban as well as participating in the debt facility provided to M2, all on normal commercial terms. Virgin provides air travel services to Transurban on normal commercial terms. C O’Reilly Ms Christine O’Reilly was a non-executive director of Energy Australia is one of Transurban’s electricity providers in NSW and Energy Australia Limited until 6 August 2018. Queensland. This relationship is based on normal commercial terms. R Slater Mr Rodney Slater retired from the Board on 11 October Transurban used SPB for various lobbying activities and incurred USD120,000 2018. for services during FY19. Mr Slater is a partner in the public policy practice group of Washington DC firm Squire Patton Boggs (SPB). TransurbanTransurban 82 FY19 Corporate Report 19 2019 Remuneration Report Statutory tables The relevant values of the grants are as follows: Dealing in securities Value of Security In accordance with the Group’s Dealing in Securities Policy, awards at price employees who have equity awards under a Group equity plan allocation Value of awards at grant may not hedge against those equity awards. In addition, Recipient Grant date date at grant date date Executive KMP may not hedge against entitlements that have Relative FCF per vested but remain subject to a holding lock. Directors and Face value1 TSR2 security employees are also prohibited from entering into margin lending arrangements using Transurban stapled securities as Executive 22 August KMP 2018 $10.67 $4.65 $10.22 $11.65 security. CEO 19 October Number of STI deferred securities 2018 $10.67 $3.94 $9.76 $11.05 granted in FY19 1. Security price as at 1 July 2018 (allocation date) discounted for distributions and dividends forgone throughout the three-year performance period. 2. Fair value in accordance with AASB 2 – share-based payments treatment of market Balance Granted Matured Forfeited Balance conditions. Executive at start during year as and paid during at the end KMP of year remuneration during year2 the year of year The table below shows the number of LTI awards granted to S Charlton 210,396 126,861 (100,843) – 236,414 Executive KMP during FY19. T Adams 36,654 23,409 (18,021) – 42,042 Potential value Maximum (face Number of of grant yet to value) of J Aument 44,392 28,414 (24,179) – 48,627 Executive performance vest at Target potential value of W Ballantine 44,065 23,111 (23,353) – 43,823 KMP awards granted ($) grant to vest ($) S Charlton 316,870 2,170,560 3,501,414 A Head 1 39,281 25,527 (18,790) – N/A T Adams 56,233 418,092 655,114 M Huey 35,344 3,901 (18,146) – 21,099 J Aument 60,941 453,096 709,963 S Johnson 38,195 24,727 (17,867) – 45,055 W Ballantine 59,982 445,966 698,790 L Tobin 37,121 19,221 (15,860) – 40,482 A Head1 56,561 420,531 658,936 A Watson 40,922 25,527 (19,041) – 47,408 M Huey 48,735 362,345 567,763 1. Andrew Head ceased being a KMP on 27 September 2018. S Johnson 52,484 390,219 611,439 2. Securities vested during FY19 at the end of the two-year restriction period. L Tobin 52,484 390,219 611,439 A Watson 67,479 501,706 786,130 Performance awards granted in FY19 1. Andrew Head ceased being a KMP on 27 September 2018. Eligible Executive KMP (excluding the CEO) received performance awards with a grant date of 22 August 2018. Number of performance awards which Following the receipt of security holder approval at the 2018 AGM, the CEO received performance awards with a grant date vested and lapsed during FY19 of 19 October 2018. All performance awards granted in FY19 may vest subject to a performance period from 1 July 2018 Number of Value ($)3 of Number of through to 30 June 2021. Executive KMP Awards vested Awards vested Awards lapsed S Charlton 238,632 1,837,326 53,809 The target (100%) value of the grant has been estimated based on the award valuations at grant date which is a fair value T Adams 44,896 316,466 10,123 approach for the TSR component and a face value approach J Aument 1 53,167 374,768 11,988 discounted for distributions/and or dividends for the FCF W Ballantine 46,189 325,577 10,414 component. The fair value for TSR considers the probability that the Executive KMP may not derive value from the LTI award, A Head 2 55,372 390,309 12,485 along with other factors, including difficulty of achieving M Huey 41,440 292,107 9,344 performance hurdles and anticipated security price volatility. S Johnson 44,509 313,740 10,036 The maximum LTI opportunity for each Executive KMP is the L Tobin 46,735 329,431 10,538 face value of the award (i.e. the value the Executive KMP would A Watson 56,115 395,549 12,653 receive if all their performance awards vested, based on Transurban’s security price at the time the award was granted). 1. Jennifer Aument awards were settled in cash. The minimum total value of the grant, if the applicable 2. Andrew Head ceased being a KMP on 27 September 2018. performance measures are not met, is zero. 3. Based on the fair value at date of grant. 4. For each Executive KMP, 81.6% of their FY16 LTI vested and 18.4% lapsed. 20 Remuneration Transurban Report 83 2019 Remuneration Report Number of performance awards on issue as at 30 June 2019 Granted Matured and Lapsed or Balance at Balance at during year as paid during forfeited the end of start of year remuneration year during year year2 S Charlton 900,405 316,870 (238,632) (53,809) 924,834 T Adams 151,916 56,233 (44,896) (10,123) 153,130 J Aument 169,873 60,941 (53,167) (11,988) 165,659 W Ballantine 150,107 59,982 (46,189) (10,414) 153,486 1 A Head 182,696 56,561 (55,372) (12,485) N/A M Huey 136,691 48,735 (41,440) (9,344) 134,642 S Johnson 146,475 52,484 (44,509) (10,036) 144,414 L Tobin 149,302 52,484 (46,735) (10,538) 144,513 A Watson 186,985 67,479 (56,115) (12,653) 185,696 1. Andrew Head ceased being a KMP on 27 September 2018. 2. No closely related parties of Executive KMP held any performance awards during FY19. Securities held by Executive KMP as at 30 June 2019 Balance at Changes Balance at start of year during year end of year2 S Charlton 1,334,337 174,604 1,508,941 T Adams 27,425 33,958 61,383 J Aument – – – W Ballantine 89,089 (14,438) 74,651 A Head1 64,598 – N/A M Huey 91,596 64,812 156,408 S Johnson 95,445 20,221 115,666 L Tobin 170,883 (25,784) 145,099 A Watson 109,889 15,621 125,510 1. Andrew Head ceased being a KMP on 27 September 2018. 2. No Transurban securities were held nominally or held by closely related parties of Executive KMP during FY19. TransurbanTransurban 84 FY19 Corporate Report 21 2019 Remuneration Report Executive KMP remuneration Postemployment Long-term Short-term employee benefits Deferred STI6 benefits benefits Share-based benefits7 Total 4 Cash salary and Cash STI Non-monetary SuperLong service Equity awards Cash fees benefits5 annuation leave awards CEO S Charlton 2019 2,279,469 1,180,475 11,743 1,412,580 20,531 90,793 2,173,136 – 7,168,727 2018 2,179,951 1,486,370 11,281 1,241,158 20,049 66,630 2,049,698 – 7,055,137 Other Executive KMP T Adams 2019 729,469 245,010 4,438 254,560 20,531 24,149 372,479 – 1,650,636 2018 679,951 274,265 4,329 214,525 20,049 30,532 342,120 – 1,565,771 J Aument1 2019 838,457 382,350 1,445 299,734 15,372 – 275,979 198,050 2,011,387 2018 701,083 332,905 1,334 272,186 14,188 – 120,433 479,709 1,921,838 W Ballantine2 2019 900,265 233,835 5,448 260,233 20,531 (49,087) 371,960 – 1,743,185 2018 799,070 270,775 109,988 251,558 20,049 46,841 337,976 – 1,836,257 3 A Head 2019 196,824 159,375 2,002 67,849 4,962 5,163 102,209 – 538,384 2018 829,951 299,085 7,754 231,858 20,049 33,610 410,561 – 1,832,868 M Huey 3 2019 467,153 141,580 7,367 96,655 25,005 9,073 327,585 – 1,074,418 2018 307,820 45,695 6,799 203,967 20,049 6,850 307,918 – 899,098 2 S Johnson 2019 679,469 228,675 7,177 271,382 20,531 32,172 351,275 – 1,590,681 2018 745,443 289,710 117,608 226,967 20,049 27,246 329,967 – 1,756,990 L Tobin 2019 679,469 228,675 4,559 231,963 20,531 27,316 351,522 – 1,544,035 2018 619,951 225,195 4,445 226,233 20,049 19,757 335,892 – 1,451,522 A Watson 2019 879,469 355,910 4,559 283,607 20,531 14,370 451,896 – 2,010,342 2018 856,954 299,085 4,445 243,550 20,049 11,507 420,898 – 1,856,488 Total 2019 7,650,044 3,155,885 48,738 3,178,563 168,525 153,949 4,778,041 198,050 19,331,795 2018 7,720,174 3,523,085 267,983 3,112,002 174,580 242,973 4,655,463 479,709 20,175,969 1. Jennifer Aument is remunerated in US Dollars. The amounts shown in the table above have been converted to Australian Dollars using the average exchange rate over the reporting period, being $0.7156. 2. FY19: Wes Ballantine’s cash salary includes a cash allowance of $113,205 relating to his interstate relocation and a vehicle lease refund of $7,591. FY18: Wes Ballantine’s cash salary includes a cash allowance of $127,452 relating to his interstate relocation and Sue Johnson’s cash salary includes $125,492 for her interstate relocation. 3. Andrew Head ceased being a KMP on 27 September 2018; amounts reported above have been prorated for the period of time as KMP. Michele Huey returned to her KMP role from parental leave on 17 September 2018; amounts reported above for both 2018 and 2019 have been prorated for the period of time as KMP. 4. The amount represents the cash STI payment to the Executive KMP for FY19, which will be paid in September 2019. 5. Non-monetary benefits include Group employee insurance and relocation allowances (where applicable in 2018). 6. A component of STI award is deferred into securities. In accordance with accounting standards, the deferred component will be recognised over the three-year service period. The amount recognised in this table is the FY19 accounting charge for unvested grants. 7. In accordance with the requirements of the accounting standards, remuneration includes a proportion of the fair value of equity compensation granted or outstanding during the year (i.e. performance awards under the LTI plan). The fair value of equity instruments is determined as at the grant date and is progressively allocated over the performance period. The amount included, as remuneration may be different to the benefit (if any) that the Executive KMP may ultimately realise should the equity instruments vest. The fair value of performance awards at the date of their grant has been independently determined in accordance with accounting standards. The fair value of the performance awards has been valued applying a Monte Carlo simulation (using a Black-Scholes framework) to model Transurban’s security price and where applicable, the TSR performance against the comparator group performance. 22 Remuneration Transurban Report 85 2019 Remuneration Report Remuneration paid to Non-executive Directors Current Short-term Post-employment Non-executive benefits benefits Directors Fees Superannuation2 Total L Maxsted 2019 579,469 20,531 600,000 2018 554,951 20,049 575,000 M Birrell 2019 189,117 17,966 207,083 2018 31,202 2,964 34,166 N Chatfield 2019 229,469 20,531 250,000 2018 233,285 20,049 253,334 R Edgar 2019 229,469 20,531 250,000 2018 231,618 20,049 251,667 S Mostyn 2019 229,469 20,531 250,000 2018 216,250 19,583 235,833 C O'Reilly 2019 234,469 20,531 255,000 2018 221,939 19,728 241,667 P Scott 2019 210,046 19,954 230,000 2018 205,479 19,521 225,000 R Slater1 2019 71,997 – 71,997 2018 232,168 – 232,168 J Wilson 2019 205,479 19,521 225,000 2018 200,913 19,087 220,000 Total 2019 2,178,984 160,096 2,339,080 2018 2,127,805 141,030 2,268,835 1. Rodney Slater was remunerated in US Dollars. The amounts shown in the table above have been converted to Australian Dollars using the average exchange rate over the reporting period up until his retirement on 11 October 2018 of $0.7292. 2. Superannuation contributions made on behalf of Non-executive Directors to satisfy the Group’s obligations under applicable superannuation guarantee legislation. Securities held by Non-executive Directors as at 30 June 2019 and at the date of this Report Balance at Changes Balance at start of year during year end of year2, 3 L Maxsted 75,956 13,326 89,282 M Birrell 2,000 3,000 5,000 N Chatfield 70,443 4,399 74,842 R Edgar 40,605 7,124 47,729 S Mostyn 21,995 4,497 26,492 C O’Reilly 22,193 4,075 26,268 P Scott 23,587 4,823 28,410 R Slater1 13,000 – N/A J Wilson 4,000 8,702 12,702 1. Rodney Slater retired as a Director on 11 October 2018. 2. No Transurban securities were held nominally or held by closely related parties of Non-executive Directors during FY19. 3. Balance at date of this Report is same as balance at end of FY19. Transurban 86 FY19 Corporate Report Auditor’s Independence Declaration As lead auditor for the audit of Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited for the year ended 30 June 2019, I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, there have been: (a) no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and (b) no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit. This declaration is in respect of Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited and the entities they controlled during the period. Marcus Laithwaite Melbourne Partner 7 August 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 2 Riverside Quay, SOUTHBANK VIC 3006, GPO Box 1331, MELBOURNE VIC 3001 T: 61 3 8603 1000, F: 61 3 8603 1999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. Financial Statements 87 Transurban Section A: 88 FY19 Corporate Report GroupTransurban financialHoldings statements 2 Section A: Group financial statements Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Contents 89 Section A: Group financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated statement of cash flows 95 Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements Basis of preparation and significant B1 B2 B3 changes Corporate Summary of Basis of information significant changes preparation in the current reporting period Operating B4 B5 B6 B7 B8 performance Segment Revenue Significant Income Working information items tax capital Security holder outcomes B9 B10 Earnings per Dividends/distributions stapled security and free cash Capital and B11 B12 B13 B14 B15 borrowings Contributed Reserves Net finance Borrowings Derivatives and equity costs financial risk management Concession B16 B17 B18 B19 B20 B21 summary Goodwill Other intangible Concession Maintenance Construction Other assets financial asset provision obligation liabilities— provision concession liabilities Group B22 B23 B24 B25 B26 B27 structure Principles of Material Business Equity Non-controlling Deed of cross consolidation subsidiaries combinations accounted interests—other and investments intra-group guarantees Items not B28 B29 B30 recognised Contingencies Commitments Subsequent events Other B31 B32 B33 B34 B35 Related party Key management Remuneration Parent entity Changes in transactions personnel of auditors disclosures accounting compensation policies 153 Section C: Transurban Holding Trust (‘THT’) and Transurban International Limited (‘TIL’) financial statements Consolidated statements of comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheets Consolidated statements of changes in equity Consolidated statements of cash flows 159 Section D: Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements 176 Section E: Signed reports Directors’ declaration Independent auditor’s report to the stapled security holders 186 Security holder information Section A: Financial Group financial statements Statements 89 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section A: Group financial statements 3 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section A: Group financial statements 3 Section A: Group financial Section A: statements Group financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 June 2019 2019 2018 Note $M $M Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 June Revenue B5 2019 4,166 3,298 Expenses 2019 2018 Employee benefits expense (230) (200) Note $M $M Road operating costs (373) (326) Revenue B5 4,166 3,298 Construction costs (1,435) (989) Expenses Transaction and integration costs (25) (21) Employee benefits expense (230) (200) Corporate and other expenses (107) (113) Road operating costs (373) (326) Total expenses (2,170) (1,649) Construction costs (1,435) (989) Transaction and integration costs (25) (21) Earnings before depreciation, amortisation, net finance costs, Corporate and other expenses (107) (113) equity accounted investments and income taxes 1,996 1,649 Total expenses (2,170) (1,649) Amortisation B17 (882) (594) Earnings before depreciation, amortisation, net finance costs, Depreciation (113) (77) equity accounted investments and income taxes 1,996 1,649 Total depreciation and amortisation (995) (671) Amortisation B17 (882) (594) Net finance costs B13 (865) (722) Depreciation (113) (77) Share of net profit/(loss) of equity accounted investments B25 (334) 33 Total depreciation and amortisation (995) (671) Gain on revaluation of equity accounted investment B24 228 – Profit before income tax 30 289 Net finance costs B13 (865) (722) Share of net profit/(loss) of equity accounted investments B25 (334) 33 Income tax benefit B7 140 179 Gain on revaluation of equity accounted investment B24 228 – Profit for the year 170 468 Profit before income tax 30 289 Profit/(loss) attributable to: Income tax benefit B7 140 179 Ordinary security holders of the stapled group Profit for the year 170 468 ̶ ̶ Attributable to Transurban Holdings Limited (‘THL’) (40) (153) ̶ ̶ Attributable to THT/TIL 211 638 Profit/(loss) attributable to: Profit attributable to ordinary security holders of the stapled group B9 171 485 Ordinary security holders of the stapled group Non-controlling interests—other B26 (1) (17) ̶ ̶ Attributable to Transurban Holdings Limited (‘THL’) (40) (153) Profit for the year 170 468 ̶ ̶ Attributable to THT/TIL 211 638 Profit attributable to ordinary security holders of the stapled group B9 171 485 Other comprehensive income Non-controlling interests—other B26 (1) (17) Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in the future Profit for the year 170 468 Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges, net of tax (181) (123) Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of equity accounted investments, net of tax B25 (74) 1 Other comprehensive income Movement in share-based payments reserve 2 1 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in the future Exchange differences on translation of North American operations, net of tax (12) (22) Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges, net of tax (181) (123) Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax (265) (143) Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of equity accounted investments, net of tax B25 (74) 1 Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year (95) 325 Movement in share-based payments reserve 2 1 Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year is attributable to: Exchange differences on translation of North American operations, net of tax (12) (22) Ordinary security holders of the stapled group Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax (265) (143) ̶ Attributable to THL (81) (200) Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year (95) 325 ̶ Attributable to THT/TIL 16 571 Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year is attributable to: Non-controlling interests—other (30) (46) Ordinary security holders of the stapled group Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year (95) 325 ̶ Attributable to THL (81) (200) Cents Cents ̶ Attributable to THT/TIL 16 571 Earnings per security attributable to ordinary security holders of the stapled group: B9 6.6 22.7 Non-controlling interests—other (30) (46) Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year (95) 325 Cents Cents The above consolidated statement of comprehensive income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Earnings per security attributable to ordinary security holders of the stapled group: B9 6.6 22.7 The above consolidated statement of comprehensive income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Transurban Section A: 90 FY19 Corporate Report GroupTransurban financialHoldings statements 4 Section A: Group financial statements Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 4 Section A: Group financial statements Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 June 2019 2019 20181 Note $M $M Assets Consolidated Current assets balance sheet as at 30 June 2019 1 Cash and cash equivalents B8 2019 1,630 2018 1,130 Note $M $M Trade and other receivables B8 285 444 Assets Derivative financial instruments B15 10 21 Current assets Held-to-maturity investments B8 – 226 Cash and cash equivalents B8 1,630 1,130 Total current assets 1,925 1,821 Trade and other receivables B8 285 444 Derivative financial instruments B15 10 21 Non-current assets Held-to-maturity investments B8 – 226 Equity accounted investments B25 3,614 474 Total current assets 1,925 1,821 Financial assets at amortised cost B31 1,193 – Held-to-maturity investments B31 – 806 Non-current assets Derivative financial instruments B15 293 217 Equity accounted investments B25 3,614 474 Property, plant and equipment 414 374 Financial assets at amortised cost B31 1,193 – Concession financial asset B18 341 323 Held-to-maturity investments B31 – 806 Deferred tax assets B7 1,107 1,021 Derivative financial instruments B15 293 217 Goodwill B16 466 466 Property, plant and equipment 414 374 Other intangible assets B17 26,604 20,938 Concession financial asset B18 341 323 Total non-current assets 34,032 24,619 Deferred tax assets B7 1,107 1,021 Goodwill B16 466 466 Total assets 35,957 26,440 Other intangible assets B17 26,604 20,938 Total non-current assets 34,032 24,619 Liabilities Current liabilities Total assets 35,957 26,440 Trade and other payables B8 513 516 Borrowings B14 959 524 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments B15 7 11 Current liabilities Maintenance provision B19 156 149 Trade and other payables B8 513 516 Distribution provision B10 841 671 Borrowings B14 959 524 Other provisions 193 68 Derivative financial instruments B15 7 11 Construction obligation provision B20 831 – Maintenance provision B19 156 149 Other liabilities 291 293 Distribution provision B10 841 671 Total current liabilities 3,791 2,232 Other provisions 193 68 Construction obligation provision B20 831 – Non-current liabilities Other liabilities 291 293 Borrowings B14 17,507 14,871 Total current liabilities 3,791 2,232 Derivative financial instruments B15 496 441 Deferred tax liabilities B7 1,412 990 Non-current liabilities Maintenance provision B19 1,006 914 Borrowings B14 17,507 14,871 Other provisions 6 126 Derivative financial instruments B15 496 441 Construction obligation provision B20 1,391 – Deferred tax liabilities B7 1,412 990 Other liabilities 446 100 Maintenance provision B19 1,006 914 Total non-current liabilities 22,264 17,442 Other provisions 6 126 Construction obligation provision B20 1,391 – Total liabilities 26,055 19,674 Other liabilities 446 100 Total non-current liabilities 22,264 17,442 Net assets 9,902 6,766 Total liabilities 26,055 19,674 Equity Contributed equity B11 2,675 1,746 Net assets 9,902 6,766 Reserves B12 (149) (101) Accumulated losses (3,563) (3,455) Equity Equity attributable to other members of the stapled group (THT/TIL) 9,791 7,401 Contributed equity B11 2,675 1,746 Equity attributable to security holders of the stapled group 8,754 5,591 Reserves B12 (149) (101) Non-controlling interests—other B26 1,148 1,175 Accumulated losses (3,563) (3,455) Total equity 9,902 6,766 Equity attributable to other members of the stapled group (THT/TIL) 9,791 7,401 Equity The attributable security 30 June 2018tobalance holders sheet has of therestated been stapled to group 8,754 reflect the final fair value of the purchase price allocation balances of A25, which was acquired 5,591 on 5 June 2018. Refer to noteinterests—other Non-controlling B24. B26 1,148 1,175 Total equity 9,902 6,766 The above consolidated balance sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. The 30 June 2018 balance sheet has been restated to reflect the final fair value of the purchase price allocation balances of A25, which was acquired on 5 June 2018. Refer to note B24. The above consolidated balance sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Section A: Financial Group financial statements Statements 91 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section A: Group financial statements 5 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section A: Group financial statements 5 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 30 June 2019 Consolidated statement of changes Attributable in equitytofor theholders security yearofendedthe stapled30 June 2019 group Equity attributable to Nonother controlling Number of Attributable to security holders Contributed of the stapled group Accumulated members— interests— Total securities equity Reserves losses THTEquity & TIL Total other equity M $M $M $M attributable$M to $M $M Non$M Balance at 30 June 2018 as originally other controlling presented Number 2,225of Contributed 1,746 (101) Accumulated (3,455) members— 7,401 5,591 interests— 1,175 Total 6,766 Change in accounting policy1 securities– equity– Reserves– losses12 THT & TIL– Total 12 other(5) equity 7 M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2018 2,225 1,746 (101) (3,443) 7,401 5,603 1,170 6,773 Balance at 30 June 2018 as originally Comprehensive income presented 2,225 1,746 (101) (3,455) 7,401 5,591 1,175 6,766 Profit/(loss) for the year – – – (40) 211 171 (1) 170 Change in accounting policy1 – – – 12 – 12 (5) 7 Other comprehensive income/(loss) – – (41) – (195) (236) (29) (265) Balance at 1 July 2018 2,225 1,746 (101) (3,443) 7,401 5,603 1,170 6,773 Total comprehensive income/(loss) – – (41) (40) 16 (65) (30) (95) Comprehensive income Transactions with owners in their Profit/(loss) for the year – – – (40) 211 171 (1) 170 capacity as owners: Other comprehensive income/(loss) – – (41) – (195) (236) (29) (265) Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs2comprehensive income/(loss) Total 446– 915– (41)– (40)– 16 3,833 (65) 4,748 (30)– (95) 4,748 Transactions with owners Employee performance in their awards issued3 1 2 – – 9 11 – 11 capacity as owners: Distributions provided for or paid4 – – – (80) (1,497) (1,577) – (1,577) Contributions of equity, net of transaction Distribution reinvestment plan5 3 12 – – 29 41 – 41 costs2 446 915 – – 3,833 4,748 – 4,748 6 Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – – (183) (183) Employee performance awards issued3 1 2 – – 9 11 – 11 Recognition of non-controlling interest Distributions provided for or paid4 – – – (80) (1,497) (1,577) – (1,577) upon step-up acquisition and change 5 in Distribution ownership 7 reinvestment plan 3– 12– – – – – 29– 41– 191– 41 191 Distributions Transactions withto non-controlling non-controlling interests6 – – – – – – (183) (183) Recognition of non-controlling interest interests—other 7 – – (7) – – (7) – (7) upon step-up acquisition and change in 450 929 (7) (80) 2,374 3,216 8 3,224 ownership7 – – – – – – 191 191 Balance at 30 June 2019 2,675 2,675 (149) (3,563) 9,791 8,754 1,148 9,902 Transactions with non-controlling 7 interests—other Refer to note B35 for further details on the change in–accounting policy. – (7) – – (7) – (7) On 21 September 2018, the Group successfully completed 450 929underwritten institutional (7) the fully (80) components2,374 and retail of its pro-rata3,216 accelerated renounceable 8 103,224 for 57 entitlement Balance at 30 June offer. 2019 The institutional component raised gross proceeds 2,675 2,675 of $2,996 million at an issue (149) (3,563)price of $10.809,791per security. The8,754 1,148 raised gross retail component 9,902 proceeds of $1,222 million at an issue price of $10.80 per security. A further $600 million was raised on 12 September 2018 through a placement to AustralianSuper Refer to note B35 and Tawreed for further Investments details(Tawreed) Limited on the change in accounting at an issue policy. per security. The total gross proceeds of $4,818 million ($4,748 million net of transaction costs, price of $10.85 On 21 September including $5 million2018, the Group of non-cash successfully tax benefit) werecompleted used to fund thethe underwritten fullyGroup’s institutional investment and retail(WCX) components in WestConnex throughof its pro-rata Sydney accelerated Transport Partners Joint venture10 renounceable (STP forJV) 57 entitlement and for generaloffer. The institutional corporate purposes. component raised gross proceeds of $2,996 million at an issue price of $10.80 per security. The retail component raised gross proceeds From 2012ofit$1,222 million at is the Group's an issue policy that price of $10.80 a portion per security. of all Short A further issued Term Incentives $600 million CEOraised to thewas on 12senior September and other 2018are executives through deferreda placement for a period AustralianSuper to of 2 years. In and Tawreed addition to theInvestments Short TermLimited Incentives,(Tawreed) StapledatSecurities an issue price (including units per of $10.85 security. in the The total Trust) were gross issued proceeds of to executives $4,818 under themillion ($4,748 Long million Group's net of transaction Term Incentive share-based costs, including $5 million payment plans. of non-cash These securities tax held by were arebenefit) used to fund the executive but will Group’s theonly investment vest in accordance in WestConnex with the terms (WCX) plans. Sydney Transport Partners Joint venture (STP JV) through of the and for Refer togeneral note B10 corporate for furtherpurposes. details of dividends and distributions provided for or paid. From 2012 Under it is the Group's the Distribution policy thatPlan Reinvestment (DRP),of a portion holders of Term all Short stapled securitiesissued Incentives to the may elect haveand toCEO all or of theirexecutives partsenior other distributionareentitlements deferred forsatisfied a periodby issueIn 2 years. ofthe of new stapled to the Short additionsecurities Term rather Incentives, by cash. Stapled than The DRPSecurities was not in effect forunits (including in the the final Trust) were distribution forissued to executives FY2018, under paid in August the The 2018. DRPLong Group's appliedTermforIncentive the interim share-based FY2019 payment plans. These securities are held by the executive but will only vest in accordance with the terms of the plans. distribution. Refer to noteand Distributions B10dividends for furtherwere details paid theand dividends of during perioddistributions or paid.partners in Eastern Distributor, Transurban Queensland and Interlink Roads provided forinterest to the non-controlling Under the Distribution Reinvestment Plan (DRP), holders of stapled securities may elect to have all or part of their distribution entitlements satisfied by the issue of new (‘M5 Motorway’). stapled Refer tosecurities note B24 rather thandetails for further by cash.in The DRPtowas relation not in effect recognition for the final distribution of non-controlling for FY2018, interest upon paid in the step-up August 2018. acquisition The DRP of Interlink M5applied for the interim ($277 million) and other FY2019 distribution. with non-controlling interests including $86 million to acquire an additional interest in Interlink M5 and a related $7 million in payment for stamp duty on transactions Distributions this transaction. and dividends were paid during the period to the non-controlling interest partners in Eastern Distributor, Transurban Queensland and Interlink Roads (‘M5 Motorway’). Refer to note B24 for further details in relation to recognition of non-controlling interest upon the step-up acquisition of Interlink M5 ($277 million) and other transactions with non-controlling interests including $86 million to acquire an additional interest in Interlink M5 and a related $7 million in payment for stamp duty on this transaction. The above consolidated statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. The above consolidated statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Transurban Section A: 92 FY19 Corporate Report GroupTransurban financialHoldings statements 6 Section A: Group financial statements Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 6 Section A: Group financial statements Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 30 June 2018 Consolidated statement of changesAttributable in equity for the year ended 30 June 2018 to security holders of the stapled group Equity attributable to Nonother controlling Attributable to security holders of the stapled group Number of Contributed Accumulated members— interests— Total securities equity Reserves losses & TIL THTEquity Total other equity M $M $M $M attributable$M to $M $M Non$M Balance at 1 July 2017 2,052 1,450 (54) (3,195) other 6,289 4,490 controlling 1,309 5,799 Comprehensive income Number of Contributed Accumulated members— interests— Total securities equity Reserves losses THT & TIL Total other equity Profit/(loss) for the year – – – (153) 638 485 (17) 468 M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Other comprehensive income/(loss) – – (47) – (67) (114) (29) (143) Balance at 1 July 2017 2,052 1,450 (54) (3,195) 6,289 4,490 1,309 5,799 Total comprehensive income/(loss) – – (47) (153) 571 371 (46) 325 Comprehensive income Transactions with owners in their Profit/(loss) for the year – – – (153) 638 485 (17) 468 capacity as owners: Other comprehensive income/(loss) – – (47) – (67) (114) (29) (143) Contributions of equity, net of Total comprehensive transaction costs1 income/(loss) 167– 287– (47)– (153)– 571 1,580 371 1,867 (46)– 325 1,867 Transactions with owners Employee performance awards in their capacity issued2 as owners: 1 1 – – 5 6 – 6 Contributions of equity,for Distributions provided netorofpaid3 – – – (107) (1,091) (1,198) – (1,198) transaction costs1 167 287 – – 1,580 1,867 – 1,867 Distribution reinvestment plan4 5 8 – – 47 55 – 55 Employee performance awards Distributions 2 to non-controlling issued 5 1 1 – – 5 6 – 6 interests – – – – – – (80) (80) Distributions provided for or paid3 – – – (107) (1,091) (1,198) – (1,198) Transactions with non-controlling Distribution interest—other reinvestment plan4 5– 8– –– –– 47– 55– (8)– 55 (8) Distributions to non-controlling 173 296 – (107) 541 730 (88) 642 interests5 – – – – – – (80) (80) Balance at 30 June 2018 2,225 1,746 (101) (3,455) 7,401 5,591 1,175 6,766 Transactions with non-controlling interest—other On 30 January 2018, the Group successfully completed – its pro-rata – – accelerated renounceable – entitlement offer. 3 for 37 – The institutional– component(8) raised gross (8) proceeds of $1,345 million at an issue price of173 $11.40 per security.296 The retail component– raised gross (107) proceeds of $555 541 million at an (88) per security. 730issue price of $11.40 642 The total Balance at 30gross June 2018 from the entitlement proceeds offer were $1,900 2,225 1,746million ($1,867(101)million net of transaction (3,455) costs) and 7,401 to fund the construction will be used5,591 1,175 of the West 6,766 Gate Tunnel Project and for general corporate purposes. On 302012 From Januaryit is2018, the Group the Group’s successfully policy completed that a portion its pro-rata of all Short accelerated Term Incentives renounceable to the CEO 3and issued 37 entitlement forother offer. The senior executives areinstitutional deferred for component a period ofraised gross 2 years. In proceeds addition toofthe $1,345 Shortmillion Term at an issue Stapled Incentives, $11.40 per(including price of Securities security. units The retail in the issuedgross Trust) wereraised component to executives of $555 proceedsunder themillion Group’s at an issue Long Termprice of $11.40 Incentive per security. share-based The payment plans.proceeds total gross from the These securities entitlement are held by theoffer executive but willmillion were $1,900 ($1,867 only vest in accordance of transaction million netwith the terms of costs) and will be used to fund the construction of the West the plans. ReferTunnel Gate to noteProject B10 forand for general further corporate details of dividendspurposes. and distributions provided for or paid. Under2012 From the DRP, for Group’s it is the policypaid distributions the of a portion thatduring all Short period, TermofIncentives holders issued tomay stapled securities electand the CEO other to have or partexecutives allsenior are deferred of their distribution for a period entitlements of 2 years. satisfied In issue by the addition to the Short of new stapled Term securities Incentives, rather than byStapled Securities cash. This (including continued units to apply forinthe theinterim Trust) were FY2018issued to executives distribution under and was the Group’s suspended Long for the Term Incentive for theshare-based distribution six months payment ended 30plans. Thesepaid June 2018, securities are 2018. held by the executive but will only vest in accordance with the terms of the plans. in August Refer to notewere Distributions B10 for paidfurther during details of dividends the period and distributions to the non-controlling provided interest for orin partners paid. Eastern Distributor and Transurban Queensland. Under the DRP, for distributions paid during the period, holders of stapled securities may elect to have all or part of their distribution entitlements satisfied by the issue of new stapled securities rather than by cash. This continued to apply for the interim FY2018 distribution and was suspended for the distribution for the six months ended 30 June 2018, paid in August 2018. Distributions were paid during the period to the non-controlling interest partners in Eastern Distributor and Transurban Queensland. The above consolidated statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. The above consolidated statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Section A: Financial Group financial statements Statements 93 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section A: Group financial statements 7 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section A: Group financial statements 7 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2019 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2019 2019 2018 Note $M $M Cash flows from operating activities 2019 2018 Receipts from customers Note $M 2,873 $M 2,453 Cash flowstofrom Payments operating suppliers activities and employees (851) (769) Receipts from Payments customers of intangible assets for maintenance 2,873 (117) 2,453 (95) Payments Transaction suppliers toand and employees integration costs related to acquisitions (851) (25) (769) (20) Payments Other cashfor maintenance of intangible assets receipts (117) 112 (95) 66 Transaction Interest receivedand integration costs related to acquisitions (25) 36 (20) 33 Other Interestcash paid receipts 112 (771) 66 (615) received Interest taxes Income paid 36 (60) 33– Interest Net cash paid inflow from operating activities (a) (771) 1,197 (615) 1,053 Income taxes paid (60) – Net cash Cash flows fromfrom inflow operating investing activities activities (a) 1,197 1,053 Payments for held-to-maturity investments, net of fees – (219) Cash flowsfor Payments from investing financial assetsactivities at amortised cost (865) – Payments for Repayment ofheld-to-maturity financial assets at investments, net of fees amortised cost 330– (219)– Payments for Payments for financial equity accounted amortised cost assets at investments (865) (3,488) (5)– Repayment Payments for ofintangible financial assets assetsat amortised cost 330 (1,741) (1,129)– Payments for Payments equity accounted for property, plant and investments equipment (3,488) (133) (5) (131) Payments Distributions intangible forreceived assets from equity accounted investments (1,741) 190 (1,129) 219 Payments for Payments for property, acquisition plant and equipment of subsidiaries and term loan notes, net of cash acquired B24 (133) (65) (131) (846) Distributions Net cash outflow received fromfrom equity accounted investing activities investments 190 (5,772) 219 (2,111) Payments for acquisition of subsidiaries and term loan notes, net of cash acquired B24 (65) (846) Net cash Cash flowsoutflow from investing from financing activities activities (5,772) (2,111) Proceeds from equity issues of stapled securities (net of costs) 4,743 1,867 Cash flowsof Acquisition from financing activities non-controlling interest in subsidiary and term loan notes (106) – from borrowings Proceeds from Proceeds equity issues(net of stapled of costs)securities (net of costs) (b) 4,743 4,193 1,867 4,064 Acquisition of non-controlling Proceeds/(payments) made ininterest in subsidiary the provision of loan and term loan notes facilities (106) 215 (246)– Proceeds Repayment from borrowings (net of costs) of borrowings (b) (b) 4,193 (2,445) 4,064 (3,346) Proceeds/(payments) Dividends and distributions in thetoprovision made paid of loan the Group's facilities security holders B10 215 (1,357) (246) (1,064) Repayment Distributionsofpaid borrowings to non-controlling interests (b) B10 (2,445) (192) (3,346) (82) Dividends and Net cash inflow distributions from financingpaid to the Group's security holders activities B10 (b) (1,357) 5,051 (1,064) 1,193 Distributions paid to non-controlling interests B10 (192) (82) Net cash Net inflow increase fromand in cash financing activities cash equivalents (b) 5,051 476 1,193 135 Cash and cashin Net increase cash and cash equivalents at theequivalents beginning of the year 476 1,130 135 988 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 24 7 Cash Cash and andcash cashequivalents equivalents theend atat beginning of the year of the year B8 1,130 1,630 988 1,130 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 24 7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year B8 1,630 1,130 (a) Reconciliation of profit after income tax to net cash inflow from operating activities (a) Reconciliation Profit for the year of profit after income tax to net cash inflow from operating activities 170 468 Depreciation and amortisation 995 671 Profit Gain on for the year of equity accounted investments revaluation B24 170 (228) 468– Depreciation Non-cash and amortisation share-based payments expense 995 14 671 7 Gain on revaluation Non-cash net finance equity accounted investments ofcosts B24 (228) 112 34– Non-cash share-based Share of profits of equity payments accounted expense investments B25 14 334 (33)7 Non-cash net finance costs 112 34 Share Change ofin profits of equity operating accounted assets investments and liabilities: B25 334 (33) (Increase) in trade and other receivables (48) (29) Change in Increase concessionassets inoperating and liabilities: and promissory note liability 16 12 (Increase) in trade and Increase/(decrease) other receivables in operating creditors and accruals (48) (3) (29) 23 Increase in Increase in other concession and promissory provisions note liability operating 166 12 32 Increase/(decrease) Movement in deferred in operating and current taxes and accruals creditors (3) (204) 23 (179) Increase Increase inin other operating maintenance provisions provision 336 32 47 Movement Net cash inflowin deferred and currentactivities from operating taxes (204) 1,197 (179) 1,053 Increase in maintenance provision 33 47 Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,197 1,053 The above consolidated statement of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. The above consolidated statement of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 8 Section A: Transurban Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86Section A: 94 Group financial statements FY19 Corporate Report 098 143 429 Group financial statements 8 Section A: Group financial statements Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) (b) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities Debt principal related Consolidated statement of cash flows for theBorrowings year ended 30 June Borrowings (continued) 2019derivatives (included in Total debt related current non-current assets/liabilities)1 financial instruments $M $M $M $M (b) Reconciliation Balance at 1 July 2018 of liabilities arising from financing activities 524 14,871 (891) 14,504 Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) – 4,205 Debt principal related(12) 4,193 Repayment of borrowings (564) Borrowings (1,911) derivatives (included30 Borrowings in (2,445) Total debt related Capitalised premiums and discounts included in operating current non-current assets/liabilities)1 financial instruments and investing cash flows $M– $M– $M– $M– Balance Total cashatflows 1 July 2018 524 (564) 14,871 2,294 (891) 18 14,504 1,748 Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) – 4,205 (12) 4,193 Repayment Non-cash of borrowings changes (564) (1,911) 30 (2,445) Capitalised premiums and discounts included in operating Acquisitions 78 640 – 718 and investing Foreign cashmovements exchange flows (12)– 608– (428)– 168– Total cash flows Transfer (564) 933 2,294 (933) 18– 1,748– Capitalised interest – 6 – 6 Non-cash changes Amortisation of borrowing costs – 21 – 21 Acquisitions Total non-cash changes 78 999 640 342 (428)– 718 913 Foreign exchange Balance at 30 June movements 2019 (12) 959 608 17,507 (428) (1,301) 168 17,165 Transfer 933 (933) – – Total derivatives Capitalised interest balance at 30 June 2019 is a liability of $200 million. The difference in–carrying value to the table6above relates to interest rate – swap contracts, forward6 exchange contracts, Amortisation of borrowing thecosts interest portion of cross-currency interest rate swap contracts– and credit valuation and21debit valuation adjustments – which are excluded from 21 the balances above. Total non-cash changes 999 342 (428) 913 Balance at 30 June 2019 959 17,507 (1,301) 17,165 Total derivatives balance at 30 June 2019 is a liability of $200 million. The difference in carrying value to the table above relates to interest rate swap contracts, forward exchange contracts, the interest portion of cross-currency interest rate swap contracts and credit valuation and debit valuation adjustments which are excluded from Debt principal related the balances above. Borrowings Borrowings derivatives (included in Total debt related current non-current assets/liabilities)1 financial instruments $M $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2017 880 12,868 (624) 13,124 Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) – 4,064 Debt principal related– 4,064 Repayment of borrowings (882) Borrowings (2,456) Borrowings derivatives (included(8) in (3,346) Total debt related Capitalised premiums and discounts included in operating current non-current assets/liabilities)1 financial instruments and investing cash flows $M– $M 18 $M– $M 18 Balance Total cashatflows 1 July 2017 880 (882) 12,868 1,626 (624) (8) 13,124 736 Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) – 4,064 – 4,064 Repayment Non-cash of borrowings changes (882) (2,456) (8) (3,346) Capitalised premiums and discounts included in operating Acquisitions 3 384 – 387 and investing Foreign cashmovements exchange flows 10– 18 451 (259)– 18 202 Total cash flows Transfer (882) 513 1,626 (513) (8)– 736– Capitalised interest – 27 – 27 Non-cash changes Amortisation of borrowing costs – 28 – 28 Acquisitions Total non-cash changes 5263 384 377 (259)– 387 644 Foreign Balanceexchange at 30 June movements 2018 10 524 451 14,871 (259) (891) 202 14,504 Transfer 513 (513) – – Total derivatives Capitalised interest balance at 30 June 2018 is a liability of $214 million. The difference in–carrying value to the table27above relates to interest rate– swap contracts, forward 27 exchange contracts, the interest portion of cross-currency interest rate swap contracts Amortisation of borrowing costs – and credit valuation and28 debit valuation adjustments – which are excluded from 28 the balances above. Total non-cash changes 526 377 (259) 644 Balance at 30 June 2018 524 14,871 (891) 14,504 Total derivatives balance at 30 June 2018 is a liability of $214 million. The difference in carrying value to the table above relates to interest rate swap contracts, forward exchange contracts, the interest portion of cross-currency interest rate swap contracts and credit valuation and debit valuation adjustments which are excluded from the balances above. The above consolidated statement of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. The above consolidated statement of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial 95 9 financial statements Transurban for the year ended 30 June 2019 Holdings Limited Statements Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements ABN 86 098 143 429 for the year ended 30 June 2019 Section B: Notes to the Group financial statements Basis of preparation and significant changes B1 Corporate information Transurban Holdings Limited (‘the Company’, ‘the Parent’ or ‘THL’) is a Company incorporated in Australia and limited by shares that are publicly traded on the Australian Securities Exchange. These financial statements have been prepared as a consolidation of the financial statements of Transurban Holdings Limited and its controlled entities (‘Transurban’, ‘Transurban Holdings Limited Group’, ‘Transurban Group’ or ‘the Group’). The controlled entities of THL include the other members of the stapled group being Transurban International Limited and its controlled entities (‘TIL’) and Transurban Infrastructure Management Limited (‘TIML’) as the responsible entity of Transurban Holding Trust and its controlled entities (‘THT’). The equity securities of THL, THT and TIL are stapled and cannot be traded separately. Entities within the Group are domiciled and incorporated in Australia, the United States of America and Canada. The consolidated financial statements of the Transurban Group for the year ended 30 June 2019 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 7 August 2019. Directors have the power to amend and reissue the financial report. B2 Summary of significant changes in the current reporting period The financial position and performance of the Group was particularly affected by the following transactions during the reporting period: Interlink Roads (M5 Motorway) acquisition of additional equity interest On 18 September 2018, Transurban acquired an additional 8.24% equity interest in the M5 Motorway for a cash consideration of $116 million. This transaction took the Group’s total equity interest to 58.24%, resulting in the M5 Motorway being consolidated into the Group. On 3 December 2018, the Group acquired an additional 7.14% interest in the M5 Motorway and its corresponding shareholder loan notes for a total consideration of $99 million. This transaction took the Group’s total equity interest in M5 Motorway to 65.38%. Refer to note B24 for further information. Group equity issuances On 21 September 2018, the Group successfully completed the fully underwritten institutional and retail components of its pro-rata accelerated renounceable 10 for 57 entitlement offer. The institutional component raised gross proceeds of $2,996 million at an issue price of $10.80 per security. The retail component raised gross proceeds of $1,222 million at an issue price of $10.80 per security. A further $600 million was raised on 12 September 2018 through a placement to AustralianSuper and Tawreed at an issue price of $10.85 per security. The total gross proceeds of $4,818 million ($4,748 million net of transaction costs including $5 million of non-cash tax benefit) were used to fund the Group’s investment in WCX through the STP JV and for general corporate purposes. Investment in WestConnex through Sydney Transport Partners joint venture (‘STP JV’) On 27 September 2018, the STP JV acquired a controlling 51% stake in WCX Project Hold Trust and WCX Asset Hold Trust and their controlled entities (collectively referred to as WestConnex or WCX) from the NSW Government (WCX Acquisition). For the purposes of the WCX Acquisition, a consortium, STP JV was established, comprising Transurban (50%), AustralianSuper (20.5%), Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (‘CPPIB’) (20.5%) and Tawreed (9%). The Group’s effective equity interest in WCX through its equity investment in STP JV is 25.5%. Refer to note B25 for further information. West Gate Tunnel Project legislation and parliamentary consents On 21 March 2019, the West Gate Tunnel (Truck Bans and Traffic Management) Bill 2019 was passed by both houses of Victorian Parliament providing for a concession end date of 13 January 2045 for the West Gate Tunnel currently under construction. Additionally, on 21 March 2019 the CityLink Concession Deed Amendments for the West Gate Tunnel Project received the necessary parliamentary consents to provide for an extension of the concession end date for CityLink to 13 January 2045. The effective date for the legislation and parliamentary consents is 11 April 2019. Refer to notes B17 and B20 for further information. Fredericksburg Extension Project In April 2019, commercial close was reached on the Fredericksburg Extension project. The Fredericksburg Extension consists of the development, design, financing, construction, maintenance and operation of a 10-mile extension of the 95 Express Lanes in North America. Subsequent to 30 June 2019, the Group received $374 million for non-recourse Private Activity Bonds issued in connection with the project. Refer to notes B21 and B30 for further information. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 96 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 10 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B3 Basis of preparation The Group financial statements are general purpose financial statements which:  Have been prepared in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, Australian accounting standards, and other authoritative pronouncements of the Australian Accounting Standards Board;  Have adopted all accounting policies in accordance with Australian accounting standards, and where a standard permits a choice in accounting policy, the policy adopted by the Group has been disclosed in these financial statements;  Have applied the option under ASIC Corporations (Stapled Group Reports) Instrument 2015/838 to present the consolidated financial statements in one section (Section A), and all other reporting group members in a separate section (Section C);  Do not early adopt any accounting standards or interpretations that have been issued or amended but are not yet effective;  Comply with International financial reporting standards (‘IFRS’) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’);  Have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of other financial assets and liabilities (including derivative financial instruments);  Are presented in Australian dollars, which is the Group’s functional and presentation currency;  Have been rounded to the nearest million dollars, unless otherwise stated, in accordance with ASIC Corporations (Rounding in Financial/Director’s Reports) Instrument 2016/191; and  The presentation of comparative amounts has been restated, where applicable, to conform to the current period presentation. Going concern THL’s current liabilities exceed its current assets by $1,866 million as at 30 June 2019. This is primarily driven by borrowing facilities with maturities less than 12 months, the Group’s distribution provision and the recognition of a construction obligation provision for the West Gate Tunnel Project. The financial report has been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes the continuity of normal operations. This is based on the following:  The Group has generated positive cash inflows from operating activities of $1,197 million (2018: $1,053 million).  The Group has generated positive free cash of $1,527 million (2018: $1,215 million);  The Group expects to refinance or repay with available cash all borrowing facilities classified as a current liability at 30 June 2019;  The Group has paid $1,357 million of dividends and distributions to the Group’s security holders over the past 12 months. Payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the Board;  The Group has available a total of $1,650 million of undrawn general purpose borrowing facilities across a number of financial providers with a maturity beyond 12 months (total undrawn general purpose borrowing facilities is $1,677 million). Additionally, the Group has a further $64 million of undrawn borrowings facilities to provide funding for the Group's capital projects with a maturity beyond 12 months (total undrawn capital borrowings is $291 million);  Subsequent to 30 June 2019 the Group has received cash proceeds of $944 million from the issuance of debt instruments with maturities beyond 12 months including $570 million in Euro Medium Term Notes (EMTN) for Corporate and $374 million in Private Activity Bonds to fund the construction of the Fredericksburg Extension project; and  Subsequent to 30 June 2019 the Group has refinanced the Transurban Queensland capital expenditure facility for $500 million. The facility has a maturity beyond 12 months. Foreign currency translation Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in profit or loss, except when they are deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges or are attributable to part of the net investment in a foreign operation. Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined. Translation differences on assets and liabilities carried at fair value are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss. For example, translation differences on non-monetary assets and liabilities such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss and translation differences on non-monetary assets such as equities classified as available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in the fair value reserve in equity. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 97 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 11 B3 Basis of preparation (continued) Foreign currency translation (continued) Foreign operations The results and financial position of all of the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:  assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date;  income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates throughout the course of the year (unless this is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions); and  all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income. On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of any net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive income. New and amended standards and interpretations The Group has adopted the following new or revised accounting standards and interpretations which became effective for the annual reporting period commencing 1 July 2018. The Group’s assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below. Reference Description AASB 15 Refer to note B5 Revenue for disclosure of the impact of the new accounting standard. Revenue from Contracts with Customers AASB 9 Refer to note B35 Changes in accounting policy for disclosure of the impact of the new accounting standard. Financial instruments AASB 2016-5 Amendments made to AASB 2 clarify how to account for cash-settled share-based payments with performance conditions, Classification and measurement of modifications that change a cash-settled arrangement to an equity-settled arrangement, and equity-settled awards that include a share-based payment transactions ‘net settlement’ feature which requires employers to withhold amounts to settle the employee’s tax obligations. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Group. AASB 2017-1 Amendment to AASB 128 clarifies that an entity that is not an investment entity may elect to retain the fair value measurement Transfer of investment property, applied by its associates and joint ventures that are investment entities, when applying the equity method. annual improvements 2014-2016 cycle and other amendments The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Group. Interpretation 22 The interpretation clarifies how to apply the standard on foreign currency transactions, AASB 121, when an entity pays or receives Foreign currency transactions and consideration in advance for foreign currency-denominated contracts. advance currency The adoption of this interpretation did not have a material impact on the Group. Accounting standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published but are not mandatory for the year ended 30 June 2019. The Group's assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below. Application of Application Reference Description and impact on the Group the standard by the Group AASB 16 AASB 16 modifies accounting for leases by removing the current distinction between 1 January 2019 1 July 2019 Leases operating and finance leases. The standard requires recognition of an asset and a financial liability for all leases, with exemptions for short term and low value leases. Operating lease payments are currently required to be expensed. On transition the Group will recognise right-of-use assets and corresponding liabilities for the principal amount of lease payments, which will then result in amortisation and interest expenses being recognised in the income statement (replacing operating lease expenses). Further, in the statement of cash flows, the principal component of lease payments will be reclassified from operating to financing. The standard will primarily affect the accounting for the Group’s operating leases. As at the reporting date, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments with a nominal value of $196 million (see note B29). The Group expects to recognise right-of-use assets with a discounted value of approximately $133 million on 1 July 2019, lease liabilities of $138 million (after adjustments for prepayments and accrued lease payments recognised as at 30 June 2019) and deferred tax assets of $1 million. Overall net assets will be approximately $4 million lower, and net current assets will be $10 million lower due to the presentation of a portion of the liability as a current liability. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 98 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 12 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B3 Basis of preparation (continued) Accounting standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective (continued) Application of Application Reference Description and impact on the Group the standard by the Group AASB 16 The Group expects that net profit after tax will decrease by approximately $3 Leases (continued) million for the year ending 30 June 2020 as a result of adopting the new standard. Proportional EBITDA used to measure segment results is expected to increase by approximately $13 million, as the operating lease payments were previously included in EBITDA, but the amortisation of the right-of-use assets and interest on the lease liability are now excluded from this measure. Proportional net costs are also expected to decrease by approximately $13 million. Operating cash flows will increase and financing cash flows will decrease by approximately $10 million as repayment of the principal portion of the lease liabilities will be classified as cash flows from financing activities. Free cash is expected to remain consistent under the new standard and an adjustment will be made in the calculation to deduct the portion of cash flows that will be classified as financing. The Group plans to adopt the modified retrospective approach to adoption. Accordingly, the new standard will be adopted without restating comparative information and will be recognised in the opening balance sheet on 1 July 2019. Proportional EBITDA, Proportional net costs and free cash are measures used to assess executive performance and targets will be adjusted to factor in the impact of changes from the new standard. Interpretation 23 The interpretation clarifies how to apply the standard on income taxes, AASB 112, 1 January 2019 1 July 2019 Uncertainty over income tax treatment when an entity has to consider, recognise and measure the accounting impact of tax uncertainties. Management has undertaken an assessment of the impact of this interpretation and does not believe that the impact will be material based on the Group’s tax positions at 30 June 2019. AASB 2014-10 The AASB has made limited scope amendments to AASB 10 Consolidated financial 1 January 2022 1 July 2022 Amendments to Australian statements and AASB 128 Investments in associates and joint ventures. The Accounting Standards—Sale amendments clarify the accounting treatment for sales or contribution of assets or Contribution of Assets between an investor and its associates or joint ventures. They confirm that the between an Investor and its accounting treatment depends on whether the non-monetary assets sold or Associate or Joint Venture contributed to an associate or joint venture constitute a ‘business’ (as defined in AASB 3 Business Combinations). Where the non-monetary assets constitute a business, the investor will recognise the full gain or loss on the sale or contribution of assets. If the assets do not meet the definition of a business, the gain or loss is recognised by the investor only to the extent of the other investor’s investors in the associate or joint venture. The amendments apply prospectively. AASB 2018-1 Amendments were made to the following accounting standards as part of the 1 January 2019 1 July 2019 Annual improvements Annual Improvements 2015-2017 Cycle: 2015–2017 Cycle  AASB 3 Business Combinations and AASB 11 Joint Arrangements to clarify that an entity remeasures its previously held interest in a joint operation when it obtains control of the business;  AASB 112 Income Taxes to clarify that an entity accounts for all income tax consequences of dividend payments according to where the entity originally recognised the past transactions or events that generated the distributable profits;  AASB 123 Borrowing Costs to clarify that an entity treats any borrowing originally made to develop a qualifying asset as part of general borrowings when the asset is ready for its intended use or sale. Management has undertaken an assessment of the impact of this standard and does not believe that the impact will be material to the Group. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 99 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 13 B3 Basis of preparation (continued) Accounting standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective (continued) Application of Application Reference Description and impact on the Group the standard by the Group AASB 2018-6 Amendments to AASB 3 revise the definition of a business. To be considered a 1 January 2020 1 July 2020 Amendments to Australian business, an acquisition would have to include an input and a substantive process that Accounting Standards— together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. The new guidance Definition of a Business provides a framework to evaluate when an input and a substantive process are present. To be a business without outputs, there will need to be an organised workforce. The changes to the definition of a business will likely result in more acquisitions being accounted for as an asset acquisition. Application of the new standard is prospective for acquisitions following the application date by the Group. The changes to the standard are not expected to materially impact the Group. AASB 2018-7 Amendments are primarily to AASB 101 and AASB 108 to refine the definition of 1 January 2020 1 July 2020 Amendments to Australian material and its application by improving the wording and aligning the definition across Accounting Standards— AASB Standards and other publications. Materiality Application of the definition is not expected to significantly impact the Group. Conceptual Framework The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) has issued the revised 1 January 2020 1 July 2020 for Financial Reporting Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting. The primary purpose of the Framework is to assist the IASB (and the Interpretations Committee) in identifying concepts that it will use when setting accounting standards. Amendments were made to apply new definition and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses, and other relevant financial reporting concepts. The revised Framework will be used in future standard-setting decisions but no changes have been made to existing International Financial Reporting Standards. A formal assessment is yet to be completed on the impact of the revised Framework on the Group however management does not believe there will be a significant impact given there is no change to existing International Financial Reporting Standards. A detailed formal assessment is under way. Critical accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements are regularly evaluated by management and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that may have a financial impact on the Group and that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are found in the following notes:  Income taxes Note B7  Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments Note B15  Recoverability of goodwill, other intangibles assets and equity accounted investments Concession Summary  Construction risk of assets under construction Note B17  Provision for maintenance expenditure Note B19  Valuation of construction liability Note B20  Valuation of promissory notes and concession notes Note B21  Assessment of control of STP JV Note B25 Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 100 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 14 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Operating performance B4 Segment information In the segment information provided to the Transurban Group Executive Committee (certain members of which act as the chief operating decision maker), segments are defined by the geographical region in which the Group operates being Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and North America. The Group's corporate function is not an operating segment under the requirements of AASB 8 as its revenue generating activities are only incidental to the business. The Executive Committee assesses the performance of the region based on a measure of proportional earnings before depreciation, amortisation, net finance costs and income taxes (‘Proportional EBITDA’). This reflects the contribution of each region in the Group in the proportion of Transurban's equity ownership. Significant items are those items where their nature is sufficiently significant to the financial statements and not in the ordinary course of business. Refer to note B6 for further details. The diagram below shows the assets included in each geographical region, together with the ownership interests held by the Group for the current financial year: MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE NORTH AMERICA Lane Cove Hills M2 95 Express WHOLLY OWNED CityLink 495 Express Tunnel Motorway Lanes1 (100%) Lanes (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) West Gate Cross City A25 Tunnel Tunnel (100%) (100%) (100%) M1 Eastern Interlink M5 Logan Gateway NON-100% OWNED AND Distributor Motorway2 Motorway Motorway (75.1%) (65.38%) (62.5%) (62.5%) Go Between Clem 7 CONSOLIDATED Bridge (62.5%) (62.5%) Legacy Way AirportlinkM7 (62.5%) (62.5%) WestConnex NON-100% OWNED AND EQUITY Westlink M73 M44 (50%) (25.5%) WestConnex NorthConnex3 M54 ACCOUNTED (50%) (25.5%) WestConnex M4-M5 Link4 (25.5%) 395 Express Lanes and the Fredericksburg Extension are included in 95 Express Lanes. M5 Motorway additional equity interest of 8.24% was acquired on 18 September 2018, raising the equity interest to 58.24% and moving the M5 investment from non100% owned and equity accounted to the non-100% owned and consolidated category. An additional equity interest of 7.14% was acquired on 3 December 2018, bringing the equity ownership interest to 65.38%. Westlink M7 and NorthConnex form the NorthWestern Roads Group (NWRG). WCX (Transurban’s effective ownership of WCX is 25.5%) was acquired on 27 September 2018 through the STP JV. There are three WestConnex concessions comprising M4, M5 and M4-M5 Link. The M5 concession includes the existing M5 East, the New M5 (East) and will include the existing M5 West from December 2026. The M5 West concession is currently under concession to Interlink Roads Pty Ltd until the current concession expiration date in December 2026. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 101 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 15 B4 Segment information (continued) Segment information—proportional income statement 2019 $M Melbourne Sydney Brisbane North America Corporate and other Total Toll revenue 813 1,042 402 324 – 2,581 Other revenue 24 38 6 14 11 93 Total proportional revenue 837 1,080 408 338 11 2,674 Underlying proportional EBITDA 716 856 293 210 (59) 2,016 Significant items – (309) – (11) – (320) Proportional EBITDA 716 547 293 199 (59) 1,696 2018 $M Melbourne Sydney Brisbane North America Corporate and other Total Toll revenue 780 944 393 223 – 2,340 Other revenue 23 28 3 1 1 56 Total proportional revenue 803 972 396 224 1 2,396 Underlying proportional EBITDA 688 763 279 130 (64) 1,796 Significant items – – – (21) – (21) Proportional EBITDA 688 763 279 109 (64) 1,775 Reconciliation of segment information to statutory financial information The proportional results presented above are different from the statutory financial results of the Group due to the proportional presentation of each asset’s contribution to each geographical region and other adjustments relating to the contribution of revenue and the treatment of the financial income received in relation to the A25 availability payments and guaranteed toll income arrangements. Construction revenue and construction costs are also excluded from proportional results. Segment revenue Revenue from external customers comprises toll, service and fee revenues earned on toll roads. Segment revenue reconciles to total statutory revenue as follows: 2019 2018 Note $M $M Total segment revenue (proportional) 2,674 2,396 Add: Revenue attributable to non-controlling interests 374 274 Construction revenue from road development activities 1,435 989 Intragroup elimination1 14 13 Less: Proportional revenue of non-100% owned equity accounted assets (305) (372) Toll revenue receipts on A25 relating to concession financial asset2 (12) (1) Other revenue receipts on A25 relating to concession financial asset2 (14) (1) Total statutory revenue B5 4,166 3,298 Statutory revenue recognised in relation to arrangements with the equity accounted investments that are eliminated for segment purposes. The Executive Committee members acting as the chief operating decision maker assesses the performance of the Group using proportional results that include A25 income streams relating to availability payments and guaranteed toll income which are classified as revenue within the proportional results. These revenues form part of the ordinary activities of the A25 asset and are reflective of its underlying performance. For statutory accounting purposes, a portion of these income streams are included in finance income (see note B13) with the balance relating to cash received for the related concession financial asset receivable (see note B18). Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 102 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 16 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B4 Segment information (continued) Proportional EBITDA Proportional EBITDA reconciles to profit/(loss) before income tax as follows: 2019 2018 $M $M Proportional EBITDA 1,696 1,775 Add: EBITDA attributable to non-controlling interests 284 193 Less: Proportional EBITDA of non-100% owned equity accounted assets (253) (317) Less: Significant items incurred by equity accounted assets 1 295 – Less: Toll and other revenue on A25 concession financial asset relating to repayments received from Ministry of Transport of (26) (2) Quebec (MTQ)2 Statutory profit before depreciation, amortisation, net finance costs, equity accounted investments and income taxes 1,996 1,649 Statutory depreciation and amortisation (995) (671) Statutory net finance costs (865) (722) Share of net profit/(loss) from equity accounted investments (334) 33 Gain on revaluation of equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway 228 – Profit before income tax 30 289 Refer to note B6 for further information. The Executive Committee members acting as the chief operating decision maker assesses the performance of the Group using proportional results that include A25 income streams relating to availability payments and guaranteed toll income which are classified as revenue within the proportional results. These revenues form part of the ordinary activities of the A25 asset and are reflective of its underlying performance. For statutory accounting purposes, a portion of these income streams are included in finance income (see note B13) with the balance relating to cash received for the related concession financial asset receivable (see note B18). B5 Revenue 2019 2018 $M $M Toll revenue 2,643 2,249 Construction revenue 1,435 989 Other revenue 88 60 Total revenue 4,166 3,298 The Group adopted AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers from 1 July 2018 on a fully retrospective basis. AASB 15 establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts with customers. AASB 15 supersedes a number of current revenue standards, including AASB 118 Revenue, AASB 111 Construction Contracts and associated Interpretations. The Group’s principal revenue generating activities, being the service concession arrangements, are accounted for in accordance with AASB Interpretation 12 Service Concession Arrangements (IFRIC 12), which specifies that the construction services and operation or maintenance services provided under the Group’s service concession arrangements are two distinct types of services. The Group concluded that there is no material change to the presentation, recognition, and measurement of revenue as a result of the transition to AASB 15 and consequently, the information presented for the prior comparative period has not been restated. The Group’s service concession arrangements fall into two types of models, the intangible asset model and the financial asset model as discussed below. Service concession arrangements—intangible asset model The revenue streams covered by this model are Toll revenue and Construction revenue. Revenue recognition principles for these revenue streams are discussed below: Revenue type Recognition Toll revenue The customer with respect to the operation or maintenance services is the user of the infrastructure and, therefore, each use made of the toll road by users is considered a performance obligation, and the related revenue is recognised at the point in time that the individual service is provided. Revenue is recognised when the charge is incurred by the user and the amount is determined to be recoverable by the Group. Total toll revenue is net of any revenue share arrangements that the Group has triggered during the reporting period. Construction revenue The customer with respect to the construction services is the concession grantor. The revenue for the construction of service concession infrastructure assets will be accounted for as one performance obligation. The revenue will be recognised in line with the progress of construction services provided over time, which is measured at fair value, determined by reference to the stand-alone selling price. Revenue for the construction of service concession infrastructure assets is recognised in accordance with the percentage of completion method, which is measured by reference to costs incurred to date as a percentage of total forecast costs for each project. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 103 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 17 B5 Revenue (continued) Service concession arrangements—financial asset model The Group’s accounting policy for service concession arrangements under the financial asset model when applying AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers has not changed and is consistent with that disclosed at note B18 Concession financial asset. As at 30 June 2019, the Group’s concession financial assets relate only to A25. Revenue sharing Toll revenue for the year ended 30 June 2019 is recognised net of revenue share of $23 million (2018: $2 million ) to the grantor of A25, Ministry of Transport of Quebec (MTQ). Other revenue Other revenue includes management fee revenue, roaming fees and advertising revenue, and is recognised at the point in time the service is provided. Interest income—receivables Interest income (see note B13) from receivables and bank deposits is recognised using the effective interest method. B6 Significant items Significant items are items where their nature is sufficiently significant to the financial statements and not in the ordinary course of business. Such items included within the Group's results are detailed below: 2019 2018 Note Statutory Proportional Statutory Proportional $M $M $M $M Significant items included within total expenses Stamp duty on acquisition of M5 Motorway (8) (8) – – Costs relating to WCX acquisition incurred by Transurban (2019), transaction and integration costs relating to A25 (2019 and 2018) (17) (17) (21) (21) (25) (25) (21) (21) Significant items included within share of net profit / (loss) of equity accounted investments1 Stamp duty on acquisition of WCX by STP JV (278) (278) – – Transaction and integration costs relating to acquisition of WCX by STP JV (17) (17) – – (295) (295) – – Significant items relating to gain on revaluation of equity accounted investment Disposal of equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway in exchange for acquisition of controlling interest B24 228 – – – Total significant items (92) (320) (21) (21) Income tax benefit associated with above significant items 2 2 – – Net significant items (90) (318) (21) (21) 1. These costs are included within proportional EBITDA for segment reporting. Refer to the definition of proportional EBITDA at note B4 Segment information. B7 Income tax Income tax expense/(benefit) 2019 2018 $M $M Current tax 76 32 Deferred tax (154) (215) Under/(over) provision in prior years (62) 4 (140) (179) Deferred income tax benefit included in income tax expense/(benefit) comprises: Decrease in deferred tax assets 39 16 Decrease in deferred tax liabilities (193) (231) (154) (215) Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 104 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 18 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B7 Income tax (continued) Reconciliation of income tax expense/(benefit) to prima facie tax payable 2019 2018 $M $M Profit before income tax expense/(benefit) 30 289 Tax at the Australian tax rate of 30% (2018: 30%) 9 87 Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible/(taxable) in calculating taxable income: Trust income not subject to tax (107) (197) Equity accounted results 45 (10) Tax rate differential 3 5 Change in tax rate – 26 Non-deductible interest 28 14 Deductible tax depreciation (7) (3) Gain on revaluation of equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway (68) – Prior year tax losses utilised/(recognised) 2 (105) Non-deductible other expenses 13 – Assessable income from non-100% owned, controlled entities 4 – (Over)/under provision in prior years (62) 4 Income tax benefit (140) (179) Tax expense/(income) relating to items of other comprehensive income and equity Cash flow hedges (51) (47) Foreign currency translation 6 6 Other equity transactions (5) – (50) (41) Changes to US tax legislation On 22 December 2017, the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“the Tax Act”) was signed into law. Included in the Tax Act was a change to the US Federal Corporate Tax Rate from 35% to 21%. All deferred tax balances related to the US operations of the Group were adjusted to the lower enacted tax rate from 1 January 2018, resulting in an income tax expense of $26 million being recorded for the year ended 30 June 2018. There were no changes to the State Corporate Tax Rate for the State of Virginia. Prior year tax losses recognised The Group’s accounting policy is to record deferred tax assets for carry forward unused tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which unused tax losses can be utilised prior to expiry (if applicable). During the year ended 30 June 2018, the Group undertook a review of its unbooked tax losses in conjunction with updated forecast financial information of the relevant entities in the Group. As a result, the Group determined it is probable future taxable profit will be available to utilise previously unbooked tax losses in the Group’s US operations prior to their expiry. Accordingly, an additional deferred tax asset of $105 million was recorded as at 31 December 2017. The balance remains recoverable at 30 June 2019. (Over)/under provision in prior years Included in the (over)/under provision for the year ended 30 June 2019 is a $64 million adjustment to the tax base for the Legacy Way concession asset following confirmation in the period of the availability of certain deductions that existed at the acquisition date of Transurban Queensland in 2014. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 105 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 19 B7 Income tax (continued) Deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to: Provisions 439 375 (12) – Current and prior year losses 956 870 – – Fixed assets/intangibles 580 557 (2,174) (1,604) Concession fees and promissory notes – – (301) (300) Derivatives and foreign exchange 218 218 (40) (96) Other 29 11 – – Tax assets/(liabilities) 2,222 2,031 (2,527) (2,000) Set-off of tax (1,115) (1,010) 1,115 1,010 Net tax assets/(liabilities) 1,107 1,021 (1,412) (990) Movements: Closing balance 30 June 2,031 1,966 (2,000) (1,836) Change in accounting policy (see note B35) 5 – 2 – Opening balance at 1 July 2,036 1,966 (1,998) (1,836) Credited/(charged) to the statement of comprehensive income (39) 121 193 120 Change to US tax legislation credited/(charged) to the statement of comprehensive income – (137) – 111 Credited/(charged) to equity 60 85 (10) (44) Acquired 17 40 (592) (363) Foreign exchange movements 26 25 (35) (21) Transfer from deferred tax assets/liabilities (1) (33) 1 33 Current year losses recognised/(prior year losses utilised) and under/(over) provision in prior years 123 (36) (86) – Closing balance at 30 June 2,222 2,031 (2,527) (2,000) Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) to be recovered after more than 12 months 2,222 2,031 (2,527) (2,000) Accounting policy The income tax expense/(benefit) for the period is the tax payable or benefit on the current period's taxable income based on the applicable income tax rate for each jurisdiction, adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences and to unused tax losses. The current income tax expense is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period in the countries where the Company operates and generates taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. The Transurban stapled group comprises two corporate entities (THL and TIL) and a trust (THT). THT operates as a flow-through trust, and is not liable to pay tax itself. Instead, security holders pay tax on the distributions they receive from the trust at their individual marginal tax rates. The Group is structured in this way because the initial heavy capital investment and associated debt funding required for infrastructure investments results in accounting losses being generated in the initial years which would otherwise prevent a company from paying dividends. The trust enables distributions to be made to security holders throughout the life of the asset. Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences and losses. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised for temporary differences between the carrying amount and tax bases of investments in foreign operations where the Company is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate to the same taxation authority. Current tax assets and tax liabilities are offset where the entity has a legally enforceable right to offset and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 20 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 106 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 20 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B7 Income tax (continued) Accounting policy (continued) B7 Current Income and deferred tax (continued) tax is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Accounting policy (continued) Investment Current allowances and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly Companies in equity. within the Group may be entitled to claim special tax deductions for investments in qualifying assets (investment allowances). The Group accounts for such allowances as tax credits, which means that the allowance reduces income tax payable and current tax expense. A Investment allowances deferred tax asset is recognised for unclaimed tax credits that are carried forward as tax losses. Companies within the Group may be entitled to claim special tax deductions for investments in qualifying assets (investment allowances). The Tax Group consolidation accounts for such legislation allowances as tax credits, which means that the allowance reduces income tax payable and current tax expense. A deferred tax asset is recognised The Transurban Group has adopted for unclaimed tax credits the Australian that are carried tax consolidation forward legislation foras THL losses. taxand its wholly-owned Australian entities from 1 July 2005. Tax All consolidation entities within the legislation Australian tax consolidated groups continue to account for their own current and deferred tax amounts. These tax amounts are measured The Transurban if eachhas asGroup entity in the tax adopted Australian taxgroup theconsolidation is a separate consolidation taxpayer legislation within for THL andthe itstax consolidated wholly-owned group. entities from 1 July 2005. Australian The tax consolidated All entities groups within within the Australian the Group are tax consolidated summarised groups continue follows: asto account for their own current and deferred tax amounts. These tax amounts are measured as if each entity in the tax consolidation group is a separate taxpayer within the tax consolidated group. The tax consolidated groups within the Group are summarised as follows: TRANSURBAN GROUP THL THT2 TIL THL Transurban TRANSURBAN QUEENSLAND Queensland DRIVe TAX GROUP (TQ) TAX GROUP Airport US TAX GROUP Finance Motorway Pty Ltd CityLink Limited Melbourne Transurban TQ Holdings 1 Gateway (M1 Eastern Transurban Pty Limited TQ APL DRIVe Limited Limited Motorway Distributor) Finance Co Holdings LLC (CityLink) Pty Limited Pty Limited (Gateway The Hills Transurban Motorway) Motorway Finance Interlink Roads GBB TUSAH Limited Company Pty Limited Pty Limited Operations US TAX GROUP (Hills M2) Pty Limited (M5 Motorway) (Go Between Logan Bridge) Motorways Transurban LCT MRE Roam Pty Limited (USA) Pty Limited Tolling (Logan Holdings Inc (LCT) Pty Limited Motorway) LW Operations Capital Beltway CCT Pty Limited APL Co Express LLC Pty Limited Tollaust Pty Limited Pty Limited (Legacy Way) (495 Express (CCT) (AirportlinkM7) Lanes)1 95 Express Transurban Lanes LLC (95 WGT Co Express Pty Limited Lanes)1 (WGT) Concession A25 LP (A25)1 Entity is classified as a partnership for tax purposes. There are no tax groups under THT. Entity is classified as a partnership for tax purposes. There are no tax groups under THT. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 107 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 21 B7 Income tax (continued) THL tax consolidated group The entities in the THL tax consolidated group entered into a tax sharing agreement (‘TSA’) effective from 29 April 2009. The entities in the THL tax consolidated group have also entered into a tax funding agreement (‘TFA’) effective from 1 July 2008. Under the TFA the wholly-owned entities fully compensate THL for any current tax payable assumed and are compensated by THL for any current tax receivable and deferred tax assets relating to tax losses. The funding amounts are determined by reference to the amounts recognised in the wholly-owned entities’ financial statements. The amount receivable/payable under the TFA is calculated at the end of the financial year for each wholly-owned entity. THL determines and communicates the amount payable/receivable to each wholly-owned entity along with the method of calculation and any other information deemed necessary. Transurban Queensland tax consolidated group The entities in the Transurban Queensland Holdings 1 Pty Ltd (‘TQH1’) tax consolidated group entered into a TSA effective from 2 July 2014. The entities in the TQH1 tax consolidated group have also entered into a TFA effective from 2 July 2014. APL Hold Co Pty Ltd (‘AirportlinkM7’) and its controlled entities entered the Transurban Queensland tax consolidated group effective from 23 November 2015. Under the TFA the wholly-owned entities fully compensate TQH1 for any current tax payable assumed and are compensated by TQH1 for any current tax receivable and deferred tax assets relating to tax losses. The funding amounts are determined by reference to the amounts recognised in the wholly-owned entities financial statements. The amount receivable/payable under the TFA is calculated at the end of the financial year for each wholly-owned entity. TQH1 determines and communicates the amount payable/receivable to each wholly-owned entity along with the method of calculation and any other information deemed necessary. Airport Motorway tax consolidated group The entities in the Airport Motorway Holdings (‘AMH’) tax consolidated group entered into a TSA effective from 2 July 2009. The entities in the AMH tax consolidated group have also entered into a TFA effective from 2 July 2009. Under the TFA the wholly-owned entities fully compensate AMH for any current tax payable assumed and are compensated by AMH for any current tax receivable and deferred tax assets relating to tax losses. The funding amounts are determined by reference to the amounts recognised in the wholly-owned entities financial statements. The amount receivable/payable under the TFA is calculated at the end of the financial year for each wholly-owned entity. AMH determines and communicates the amount payable/receivable to each wholly-owned entity along with the method of calculation and any other information deemed necessary. Interlink Roads Pty Limited Interlink Roads Pty Limited is a stand-alone tax entity. Transurban International tax consolidated group The entities in the Transurban International Limited (‘TIL’) tax consolidated group entered into a TSA effective from 1 July 2018. The entities in the TIL tax consolidated group have also entered into a TFA effective from 1 July 2018. Under the TFA the wholly-owned entities fully compensate TIL for any current tax payable assumed and are compensated by TIL for any current tax receivable and deferred tax assets relating to tax losses. The funding amounts are determined by reference to the amounts recognised in the wholly-owned entities financial statements. The amount receivable/payable under the TFA is calculated at the end of the financial year for each wholly-owned entity. TIL determines and communicates the amount payable / receivable to each wholly-owned entity along with the method of calculation and any other information deemed necessary. Transurban DRIVe tax consolidated group Transurban DRIVe Holdings LLC (‘TDH’) is the head company of the DRIVe tax consolidated group. The DRIVe tax consolidated group is consolidated for US tax purposes in the sense that the 100% subsidiaries of TDH have elected to be treated as disregarded entities for US tax purposes. This treatment means that those entities are ignored for US tax purposes and that TDH, as head entity, carries any tax liability or benefits arising in the group. The DRIVe tax consolidated group currently owns partnership interests in both 495 Express Lanes and 95 Express Lanes and includes its share of each asset’s profits or losses in its US tax return. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 108 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 22 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B7 Income tax (continued) Transurban (USA) Holdings tax consolidated group Transurban (USA) Holdings LLC (‘TUSAH’) is the head company of the TUSAH tax consolidated group. The TUSAH tax consolidated group owns the remaining partnership interests in both 495 Express Lanes and 95 Express Lanes and includes its share of each asset’s profits or losses in its US tax return. Concession A25 LP Concession A25 LP (A25 LP) is treated as a partnership for tax purposes and is the main operating entity of the A25 Group. The partners of A25 LP includes its share of A25 LP’s profits or losses in its Canadian tax return. Goods and Services Tax (‘GST’) Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of associated GST, unless the GST incurred is not recoverable from the taxation authority. In this case it is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense. Receivables and payables are stated inclusive of the amount of GST receivable or payable. The net amount of GST recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included with other receivables or payables in the balance sheet. Cash flows are presented on a gross basis. The GST components of cash flows arising from investing or financing activities which are recoverable from, or payable to the taxation authority, are presented as operating cash flows. Key estimate The Group is subject to income taxes in Australia, the United States and Canada. Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations undertaken during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred tax assets and liabilities in the period in which such determination is made. The Group has recognised deferred tax assets relating to carried forward tax losses to the extent there are sufficient taxable temporary differences relating to the same taxation authority against which the unused tax losses can be utilised. However, the utilisation of tax losses also depends on the ability of the Group to satisfy certain tests at the time the losses are recouped. In the United States carried forward tax losses relating to periods on or before 30 June 2018 generally expire after a 20 year period and tax losses relating to periods post 30 June 2018 are generally carried forward indefinitely, subject to an 80 per cent limit on taxable income in any one year. In Canada tax losses generally expire after a 20 year period. Management has reviewed the potential future taxable profits and has recognised deferred tax assets in relation to tax losses. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 109 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 23 B8 Working capital The Group’s working capital balances are summarised as follows: 2019 2018 Note $M $M Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,630 1,130 Trade receivables 122 90 Other receivables 85 71 Concession financial asset B18 28 26 Loan receivable at call 31 246 Prepayments 19 11 285 444 Held-to-maturity investments – 226 1,915 1,800 Current liabilities Trade and other payables (513) (516) (513) (516) Net working capital 1,402 1,284 Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of presentation in the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, deposits held at call with financial institutions, other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities. All cash balances are interest bearing. The amount shown in cash and cash equivalents includes $503 million not available for general use at 30 June 2019 (2018: $380 million) of which $422 million (2018: $274 million) belongs to TIL. This comprises amounts required to be held in a construction account, maintenance and funding reserves and prepaid tolls, which are not available for general use. Current held to maturity investments as shown in the table above are short-term investments in US government treasuries that are due to mature within 12 months, which management intends to hold to maturity. Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at the amount of consideration that is unconditional unless they contain significant financing components in which case when they are recognised at fair value. The group holds the trade receivables with the objective to collect the contractual cash flows and therefore measures them subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Trade receivables are generally due for settlement no more than 30 days from revenue recognition. The Group applies the AASB 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables. The expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of toll revenue over historical periods and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced within this period. The historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect current and forwardlooking information on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of the customers to settle the receivables. The Group has identified the GDP and the unemployment rate of the countries in which it operates to be the most relevant factors, and accordingly adjusts the historical loss rates based on expected changes in these factors. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 110 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 24 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B8 Working capital (continued) Trade receivables (continued) On that basis, the loss allowance as at 30 June 2019 and 1 July 2018 (on adoption of AASB 9) was determined as follows for trade receivables: Up to 90 More than days past 90 days past Current due due Total 30 June 2019 Expected loss rate 1% 12% 88% NA1 Gross carrying amount ($M) 107 17 10 134 Loss allowance ($M) (1) (2) (9) (12) Up to 90 More than days past 90 days past Current due due Total 1 July 2018 Expected loss rate 1% 7% 92% NA1 Gross carrying amount ($M) 67 14 13 94 Loss allowance ($M) (1) (1) (12) (14) NA – Not applicable The closing loss allowances for trade receivables as at 30 June 2019 reconciles to the opening loss allowance as follows: $M 30 June 2018—calculated under AASB 139 4 Amounts restated through opening retained earnings upon adoption of AASB 9 10 Opening loss allowance as at 1 July 2018—calculated under AASB 9 14 Increase in loss allowance recognised in profit or loss during the year 2 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible (4) Unused amount reversed – 30 June 2019—calculated under AASB 9 12 Trade receivables are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery include the failure of a debtor to engage in a repayment plan with the Group, and a failure to make contractual payments for an extended period. Previous impairment accounting policy under AASB 139 Collectability of trade receivables was reviewed on an ongoing basis. Debts which are known to be unrecoverable are written off by reducing the carrying amount of trade debtors directly. An allowance for impairment is used when there is evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the allowance for impairment is the difference between the carrying amount and the amount expected to be recoverable. The additional amount of the allowance for doubtful debtors is recognised in profit or loss. As at 30 June 2018, the Group held an allowance for doubtful debtors of $4 million, recognised for current trade receivables that were considered potentially unrecoverable. As at 30 June 2018, trade receivables of $24 million were overdue but the Group concluded that these overdue amounts would be received in full. Other financial assets at amortised cost The group classifies its financial assets at amortised cost only if both of the following criteria are met:  the asset is held within a business model whose objective is to collect the contractual cash flows, and  the contractual terms give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 111 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 25 B8 Working capital (continued) Other financial assets at amortised cost (continued) Other financial assets at amortised cost include concession financial assets, other receivables and loan receivables at call recorded within trade and other receivables and treasury notes recorded within financial assets at amortised cost. Included within these balances at 30 June 2019, the Group has an outstanding receivable of $31 million (2018: $246 million) relating to the State of Victoria’s contribution for the design and construction works of the West Gate Tunnel Project. The outstanding balance is repayable on demand. Applying the expected credit loss model to the Group’s other financial assets at amortised cost resulted in the recognition of a loss allowance of $9 million on 1 July 2018 (loss allowance under AASB 139 at 30 June 2018 was $nil). There have been no movements impacting the loss allowance in the year ending 30 June 2019. With the exception of a subset of other receivables recorded at amortised cost, the Group’s other financial assets at amortised cost are considered to have low credit risk, and the loss allowance recognised on 1 July 2018 was therefore limited to 12 months expected losses and was immaterial. Management consider receivables to be ‘low credit risk’ when they have a low risk of default and the issuer has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow obligations in the near term. The subset of financial assets which have specific credit risk characteristics, have a loss allowance equivalent to the gross carrying amount of $9 million. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 112 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 26 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Security holder outcomes B9 Earnings per stapled security Reconciliation of earnings used in calculating earnings per security 2019 2018 Profit attributable to ordinary security holders of the stapled group ($M) 171 485 Weighted average number of securities (M) 2,578 2,138 Basic and diluted earnings per security attributable to the ordinary security holders of the stapled group (cents) 6.6 22.7 B10 Dividends/distributions and free cash Paid in Settled in Total cash securities Date paid $M $M $M Cents /payable Dividends/distributions paid by the Group 2018 Declared 23 May 2017 Franked THL 72 69 3 3.5 Unfranked THT 472 454 18 23.0 544 523 21 26.5 11 August 2017 Declared 4 December 20171 Franked THL 51 46 5 2.5 Unfranked THT 524 495 29 25.5 575 541 34 28.0 16 February 2018 Total paid FY18 1,119 1,064 55 54.5 2019 Declared 21 May 20181 Franked THL 56 56 – 2.5 Unfranked THT 567 567 – 25.5 623 623 – 28.0 10 August 2018 Declared 4 December 20182 Franked THL 27 26 1 1.0 Unfranked THT 748 708 40 28.0 775 734 41 29.0 15 February 2019 Total paid FY19 1,398 1,357 41 57.0 Dividends/distributions payable by the Group Declared 21 May 20192 Franked THL 53 – – 2.0 Unfranked THT 749 – – 28.0 802 – – 30.0 9 August 2019 1. Total declared FY18 is $1,198 million. Total declared FY19 is $1,577 million. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 113 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 27 B10 Dividends/distributions and free cash (continued) Distribution policy and free cash calculation The Group seeks to align distributions with free cash. The Group calculates free cash as follows: 2019 2018 $M $M Cash flows from operating activities 1,197 1,053 Add back transaction and integration costs related to acquisitions 25 20 Add back payments for maintenance of intangible assets 117 95 Less debt amortisation of 100% owned assets (3) – Less cash flow from operating activities from consolidated non-100% owned entities (502) (350) Less allowance for maintenance of intangible assets for 100% owned assets (62) (49) Adjust for distributions and interest received from non-100% owned entities M1 Eastern Distributor distributions 54 59 M5 Motorway dividends and term loan note interest1 133 82 Transurban Queensland distributions and shareholder loan note payments 306 164 NorthWestern Roads Group (‘NWRG’) distributions and shareholder loan note payments 240 141 STP distributions and shareholder loan note payments 22 – Free cash 1,527 1,215 Weighted average securities on issue (millions)2 2,673 2,140 Free cash per security (cents)—weighted average securities 57.1 56.8 From the date of the WCX acquisition debt amortisation from M5 West (Transurban proportional share) are also added back to this figure due to the M5 West concession arrangement being transferred to the WCX ownership consortium at the end of the current M5 West concession arrangement in 2026, in which Transurban holds a 25.5% ownership interest. M5 Motorway dividends and term-loan notes interest received of $133 million is adjusted for debt amortisation of $38 million from 1 October 2018. The weighting applied to securities is based on their eligibility for distributions during the year and is consequently different to weighted average securities calculated at note B9 Earnings per stapled security. Franking credits 2019 2018 $M $M Franking credits available for subsequent periods based on a tax rate of 30% (2018: 30%) 142 139 Franking credits available for subsequent periods relate to Airport Motorway Holdings Pty Ltd $117 million (2018: $132 million), Transurban Holdings Limited $21 million (2018: $7 million) and Interlink Roads Pty Ltd $4 million (2018: $nil). Distribution provision A provision for distribution is recognised for any distribution declared and authorised on or before the end of the reporting period, but not distributed by the end of the reporting period. These distributions are provided for once they are approved by the Board, are announced to equity holders and are no longer at the discretion of the entity. Movements in distribution provision Movements in the distribution provision during the financial year are set out below: Distributions to nonDistribution controlling to security interest— holders other Total $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2017 544 50 594 Additional provision recognised 1,198 80 1,278 Amounts paid (1,064) (82) (1,146) Amounts reinvested (55) – (55) Balance at 30 June 2018 623 48 671 Additional provision recognised 1,577 183 1,760 Amounts paid (1,357) (192) (1,549) Amounts reinvested (41) – (41) Balance at 30 June 2019 802 39 841 Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 114 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 28 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Capital and borrowings B11 Contributed equity 2019 2018 $M $M Fully paid stapled securities 2,675 1,746 Stapled securities Stapled securities are classified as equity and entitle the holder to participate in distributions and on winding up of the Group in proportion to the number of securities held. Every holder of a stapled security present at a meeting, in person or by proxy, is entitled to one vote. The issued units of the Group are made up of a parcel of stapled securities, each parcel comprising one share in THL, one unit in THT and one share in TIL. The individual securities comprising a parcel of stapled securities cannot be traded separately. Other contributed equity units attributable to security holders of the Group relating to THT and TIL of $15,954 million and $522 million respectively (2018: $12,243 million and $363 million respectively) is included within non-controlling interests—THT/TIL. B12 Reserves Transactions Share Foreign with nonCash flow based currency controlling hedges payments translation interests Total $M $M $M $M $M Balance 1 July 2017 (77) – 22 1 (54) Revaluation ̶ gross (74) – 14 – (60) Deferred tax 23 – (3) – 20 Transfers to profit – – (8) – (8) Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investments, net of tax 1 – – – 1 Balance 30 June 2018 (127) – 25 1 (101) Revaluation ̶ gross (80) 3 25 – (52) Deferred tax 19 – (6) – 13 Transactions with non-controlling interests – – – (7) (7) Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investments, net of tax (2) – – – (2) Balance 30 June 2019 (190) 3 44 (6) (149) Nature of reserves Purpose of reserves Cash flow hedges Used to record gains or losses on cash flow hedging instruments, which are used by the Group to mitigate the risk of movements in exchange rates and interest rates. Amounts are reclassified to profit or loss when the transaction to which the hedge is linked (such as the payment of interest) affects profit or loss. Share based payments Used to recognise the grant date fair value of securities issued to employees and deferred securities granted to employees but not yet vested. Foreign currency Exchange differences arising on translation of the United States and Canadian operations of the Group are recognised in this reserve. translation Transactions with The Group uses the economic entity approach when accounting for transactions with non-controlling interests. non-controlling interests Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 115 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 29 B13 Net finance costs 2019 2018 $M $M Finance income Interest income on financial assets at amortised cost 46 – Unwind of discount on financial assets at amortised cost 23 – Interest income on held-to-maturity investments – 60 Interest income on bank deposits held at amortised cost 26 29 Income from concession financial asset 23 2 Net foreign exchange gains – 6 Total finance income 118 97 Finance costs Interest and finance charges paid/payable (839) (739) Unwind of discount on liabilities—maintenance provision (44) (55) Unwind of discount on liabilities—construction obligation (66) – Unwind of discount on liabilities—promissory and concession notes (8) (6) Unwind of discount on liabilities—other liabilities (19) (19) Net foreign exchange losses (7) – Total finance costs (983) (819) Net finance costs (865) (722) An additional $52 million (2018: $25 million) of financing costs have been capitalised and included in the carrying value of assets under construction. Income from concession financial asset See note B5 for the revenue recognition policy relating to recognising finance income from the concession financial asset. B14 Borrowings 2019 2018 $M $M Current Capital markets debt – 255 U.S. private placement 227 246 Term debt 732 23 Total current borrowings 959 524 Non-current Capital markets debt 10,232 8,232 U.S. private placement 3,445 2,466 Term debt 2,149 2,622 Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (‘TIFIA’) 1,325 1,243 Shareholder loan notes 356 308 Total non-current borrowings 17,507 14,871 Total borrowings 18,466 15,395 Accounting policy Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption amount is recognised in profit or loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw down occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates. Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability that has been extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss as finance income or finance costs. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting period. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 116 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 30 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B14 Borrowings (continued) Accounting policy (continued) Borrowing costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred, except to the extent to which they relate to the construction of qualifying assets in which case specifically identifiable borrowing costs are capitalised into the cost of the asset. Borrowing costs include interest on short-term and long-term borrowings. Costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings are capitalised and amortised over the effective period of the funding. Financing arrangements and credit facilities During the reporting period Transurban executed a number of financing activities including:  August 2018 Corporate letter of credit facilities for a total of $676 million were established across 1 and 5 year tenors. At 30 June 2019, $280m remain outstanding. All other letter of credit facilities were returned and facilities cancelled during FY19.  November 2018 Corporate priced CAD650 million of senior secured 10-year notes under its Euro Medium Term Note Programme. The notes are to remain in Canadian dollars to provide a balance sheet hedge for Transurban’s Canadian dollar investment in the A25. Transurban Cardinal Holdings Limited priced CAD200 million of 4-year fixed rate senior secured notes which remain in Canadian dollars to also provide a hedge for Transurban’s Canadian dollar investment in the A25 foreign operation.  April 2019 A Corporate Letter of Credit facility was refinanced from a $75 million facility to a USD150 million facility, with a tenor of 3 years.  May 2019 Transurban Queensland raised $875million of senior secured notes in the US private placement market, consisting of USD144 million and $30 million of 10-year notes, USD245 million of 12-year notes and USD180 million and $40 million of 15 year notes. Corporate issued €600 million of senior secured 10-year notes under the Euro Medium Term Note Programme. During the reporting period, the equity accounted investments of the Group executed a number of financing activities including:  September 2018 STP JV raised $1.1 billion under a bridge facility to partially fund the upfront WCX purchase price. The facility was fully repaid in October 2018 using proceeds from the Stage 1 WCX debt raising.  October 2018 WCX raised $4.0 billion of non-recourse debt for the WCX New M4 (Stage 1) via a new senior bank debt facility split evenly across 3 and 5 year tenors.  December 2018 Westlink M7 issued $345 million of 12-year, $195 million of 15-year and $75 million of 20-year senior secured notes in the U.S. private placement market. WCX established a $600 million non-recourse senior bank debt construction facility for the WCX M4-M5 Link. The facility has a tenor of 7 years. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 117 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 31 B14 Borrowings (continued) Financing arrangements and credit facilities (continued) Credit facilities are provided as part of the overall debt funding structure of the Group. The drawn component of each facility is shown below: Carrying value 2019 2018 Maturity $M $M Capital markets debt EMTN CAD 250m Mar 2019 – 255 EMTN EUR 500m Oct 2020 811 789 EMTN EUR 600m Sep 2024 973 946 EMTN EUR 500m Aug 2025 811 788 US 144A USD 550m Feb 2026 784 744 US 144A USD 550m Mar 2027 784 744 EMTN NOK 750m Jul 2027 126 125 EMTN EUR 500m Mar 2028 811 788 EMTN CAD 650m Nov 2028 708 – EMTN EUR 600m May 2029 974 – Net capitalised borrowing costs (53) (53) U.S. private placement Nov 2006—Tranche B USD 136m (plus accreted interest) Nov 2018 – 246 Dec 2004—Tranche C USD 109m Dec 2019 155 147 Dec 2004—Tranche D AUD 72m Dec 2019 72 72 Aug 2005—Tranche C USD 157m Aug 2020 223 212 Nov 2006—Tranche C USD 121m (plus accreted interest) Nov 2021 231 219 Nov 2006—Tranche D USD 50m (plus accreted interest) Nov 2026 96 91 Net capitalised borrowing costs – – Total corporate debt, net of capitalised borrowing costs 7,506 6,113 Non-recourse debt Capital markets debt Airport Motorway Trust—Domestic bond AUD 300m Dec 2020 300 300 Transurban Queensland Finance—Domestic bond AUD 250m Dec 2021 250 250 Transurban Queensland Finance—EMTN CHF 200m Jun 2023 293 272 Transurban Queensland Finance—Domestic bond AUD 200m Oct 2023 200 200 Transurban Queensland Finance—Domestic bond AUD 200m Dec 2024 200 200 Transurban Queensland Finance—EMTN CHF 200m Dec 2025 293 272 Transurban Queensland Finance—EMTN CHF 175m Nov 2026 256 238 Transurban Queensland Finance—EMTN Reg S USD 500m Apr 2028 713 676 95 Express Lanes—Private activity bonds USD 72m Jul 20341 102 97 95 Express Lanes—Private activity bonds USD 107m Jul 20341 152 145 95 Express Lanes—Private activity bonds USD 170m Jan 20401 243 230 95 Express Lanes—Private activity bonds USD 126m Jan 20401 180 171 495 Express Lanes—Private activity bonds USD 225m Dec 2047 320 304 Net capitalised borrowing costs2 1 6 This represents final maturity. Net capitalised costs paid have been offset by $23m of Private activity bonds (PABs) premiums received during FY18. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 118 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 32 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B14 Borrowings (continued) Financing arrangements and credit facilities (continued) Carrying value 2019 2018 Maturity $M $M U.S. private placement Transurban Cardinal Holdings—Nov 2018 CAD 200m Feb 2023 218 – Transurban Queensland Finance—Sep 2015—Tranche A USD 155m Sep 2025 221 210 Transurban Queensland Finance—Dec 2016—Tranche A USD 130m Dec 2026 185 176 Transurban Queensland Finance—Dec 2016—Tranche D AUD 35m Dec 2026 35 35 Transurban Queensland Finance—Sep 2015—Tranche B USD 230m Sep 2027 328 311 Transurban Queensland Finance—Dec 2016—Tranche B USD 225m Dec 2028 321 304 Transurban Queensland Finance—May 2019—Tranche A AUD 30m May 2029 30 – Transurban Queensland Finance—May 2019—Tranche C USD 144m May 2029 205 – Transurban Queensland Finance—Sep 2015—Tranche C USD 256m Sep 2030 365 346 Transurban Queensland Finance—Sep 2015—Tranche D AUD 70m Sep 2030 70 70 Transurban Queensland Finance—May 2019—Tranche D USD 245m May 2031 349 – Transurban Queensland Finance—Dec 2016—Tranche C USD 78m Dec 2031 111 106 Transurban Queensland Finance—Dec 2016—Tranche E AUD 75m Dec 2031 75 75 Transurban Queensland Finance—May 2019—Tranche B AUD 40m May 2034 40 – Transurban Queensland Finance—May 2019—Tranche E USD 180m May 2034 257 – Transurban Queensland Finance—Jan 2017—Tranche F AUD 100m Jan 2035 100 100 Net capitalised borrowing costs (15) (8) Term debt Transurban Queensland—Term debt AUD 960m Oct 2019 – 43 Cross City Tunnel Trust—Term debt AUD 278m Dec 2019 278 278 Transurban Queensland Finance—Capex facility AUD 227m1 Dec 2019 – 303 Hills Motorway Trust—Term debt AUD 350m Mar 2020 350 350 M5 Motorway AUD 272m2 Dec 2020 122 – Lane Cove Tunnel Trust—Term debt AUD 160m May 2021 160 160 Airport Motorway Trust—Term debt AUD 226m2 May 2022 206 226 Hills Motorway Trust—Term debt AUD 408m Nov 2022 408 408 M5 Motorway AUD 180m Dec 2022 180 – Concession A25 LP—Term debt CAD 383m2 Feb 2023 407 385 Lane Cove Tunnel Trust—Term debt AUD 60m May 2025 60 60 M5 Motorway AUD 275m Jun 2025 275 – Lane Cove Tunnel Trust—Term debt AUD 200m May 2028 200 200 Transurban Queensland Finance—Term debt AUD 200m Apr 2030 200 200 Lane Cove Tunnel Trust—Term debt AUD 40m May 2031 40 40 Net capitalised borrowing costs (5) (8) 1. This facility was reduced by $593m during FY19. 2. These facilities require principal repayments throughout their life, with $104m due within one year of 30 June 2019 and are classified as current borrowings. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 119 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 33 B14 Borrowings (continued) Financing arrangements and credit facilities (continued) Carrying value 2019 2018 Maturity $M $M Non-recourse debt (continued) TIFIA loans 495 Express Lanes—Facility limit USD 589m (plus accreted interest) Oct 20471,2 959 905 95 Express Lanes—Facility limit USD 300m (plus accreted interest) Jan 20481,2 366 338 Shareholder loan notes Loan from M5 Motorway consortium partners—AUD 65m Jun 2022 65 – Loan from Transurban Queensland consortium partners—AUD 281m Dec 2048 281 281 Loan from Transurban Queensland consortium partners—AUD 39m3 Jul 2053 10 27 Total non-recourse debt, net of capitalised borrowing costs 10,960 9,282 Total borrowings 18,466 15,395 This represents final maturity. These facilities require principal repayments throughout their life, with the first of such payment due in 2033 for 495 Express Lanes and 2035 for 95 Express Lanes. A portion of these shareholder loan notes was repaid during FY18 and FY19. Working capital facilities  The corporate facilities are secured by first ranking charges granted by Transurban Finance Company Pty Ltd, Transurban Finance Trust, Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust, Transurban International Limited and Transurban Limited; and  The Transurban Queensland Finance facility is secured against the respective rights of Transurban Queensland Holdings 1 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Holdings 2 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Invest Trust and their assets. At 30 June 2019 the facility was undrawn. Capital markets debt  A corporate secured Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) program was established in October 2011 with a program limit of USD2 billion, which increased to USD5 billion in May 2015. Under the program the Group may from time to time issue notes denominated in any currency. These facilities are secured by first ranking charges granted by Transurban Finance Company Pty Ltd, Transurban Finance Trust, Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust, Transurban International Limited and Transurban Limited;  The corporate US 144A notes are secured by first ranking charges granted by Transurban Finance Company Pty Ltd, Transurban Finance Trust, Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust, Transurban International Limited and Transurban Limited;  The Airport Motorway Trust domestic bond was secured against the respective rights of Airport Motorway Limited and Airport Motorway Trust and their assets;  The Transurban Queensland Finance domestic bonds are secured against the respective rights of Transurban Queensland Holdings 1 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Holdings 2 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Invest Trust and their assets;  A Transurban Queensland Finance EMTN program was established in March 2016 with a program limit of USD2 billion. Under the program, Transurban Queensland Finance may from time to time issue notes denominated in any currency. These notes are secured against the respective rights of Transurban Queensland Holdings 1 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Holdings 2 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Invest Trust and their assets;  The 95 Express Lanes Private Activity Bonds (‘PABs’), including the PABs issued in relation to the 395 Express, are secured against the rights of 95 Express Lanes LLC and its assets; and  The 495 Express Lanes PABs are secured against the rights of Capital Beltway Express LLC and its assets. U.S. private placement  Corporate U.S. private placement facilities are secured by first ranking charges granted by Transurban Finance Company Pty Ltd, Transurban Finance Trust, Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust, Transurban International Limited and Transurban Limited;  The Transurban Queensland Finance U.S private placement facilities are secured against the respective rights of Transurban Queensland Holdings 1 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Holdings 2 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Invest Trust and their assets; and  The Cardinal Hold Co Canadian Notes were a Private Placement issuance and are secured against the rights of Transurban Cardinal Holdings Ltd. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 120 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 34 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B14 Borrowings (continued) Term debt  The Airport Motorway facility is secured against the respective rights of Airport Motorway Limited, the Airport Motorway Trust and their assets;  The Hills Motorway Trust facilities are secured against the respective rights of Hills Motorway Limited, Hills Motorway Trust and their assets;  The Lane Cove Tunnel facility is secured against the respective rights of LCT-MRE Pty Limited, LCT-MRE Trust and their assets;  The Cross City Tunnel facility is secured against the respective rights of Transurban CCT Pty Limited, Transurban CCT Trust and their assets;  The M5 Motorway facility is secured against the respective rights of Interlink Roads Pty Limited and their assets;  The Transurban Queensland Finance facilities are secured against the respective rights of Transurban Queensland Holdings 1 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Holdings 2 Pty Limited, Transurban Queensland Invest Trust and their assets; and  The A25 credit facility is secured against the respective rights of Concession A25 Funding Limited and Concession A25, L.P. and their assets. Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (‘TIFIA’)  The 495 Express Lanes TIFIA facility is secured against the rights of Capital Beltway Express LLC and its assets; and  The 95 Express Lanes TIFIA facility is secured against the rights of 95 Express Lanes LLC and its assets. Virginia Transportation Infrastructure Bank (‘VTIB’)  The 95 Express Lanes VTIB facility is secured against the rights of 95 Express Lanes LLC and its assets. Shareholder loan notes  The loans to Transurban Queensland from the acquisition consortium partners are unsecured.  The loans to M5 Motorway from the non-controlling interests are unsecured. Letters of credit and corporate credit facilities 2019 2018 $M $M Facility Amount Facility Amount Maturity Amount Issued Amount Issued Letter of credit facility1 Aug 2019 140 140 – – Letter of credit facility Nov 2019 75 64 75 62 General credit facility2 Dec 2019 6 5 6 5 Letter of credit facility3 Jan 2020 240 240 240 240 Letter of credit facilities Jul 2020 150 104 225 170 Letter of credit facility Apr 2022 214 154 – – Letter of credit facility Feb 2023 13 13 12 12 Letter of credit facility Dec 2023 140 140 – – Total 978 860 558 489 1. Refinanced in July 2019 through to August 2020. 2. The general credit facility covers corporate requirements including credit card facilities, online banking and an overdraft facility. 3. Refinanced in July 2019 through to January 2021. There are no claims against any of the issued letters of credit and therefore no liability is recorded (2018: nil). Covenants A number of the Group's consolidated borrowings include financial covenants, which are listed below. There have been no breaches of any of these covenants during the year. Corporate Debt Covenant Threshold Senior interest coverage ratio Greater than 1.25 times Group Market Capitalisation Gearing must not exceed 60%1 CityLink Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.1 times Based on the balance sheet as at 30 June 2019, the Group’s average closing security price over 20 consecutive business days would need to be below $4.86 (2018: $3.92) per security to trigger this clause. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 121 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 35 B14 Borrowings (continued) Non-Recourse Debt Covenant Threshold A25 Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.05 times M5 Motorway Debt Service Cover Ratio Greater than 1.10 times Airport Motorway Trust Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.15 times Hills Motorway Trust Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.15 times 495 Express Lanes Senior Debt Service Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.15 times Lane Cove Tunnel Trust Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.15 times Cross City Tunnel Trust Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.15 times Transurban Queensland Finance Interest Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.20 times Transurban Cardinal Holdings Senior Debt Service Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.30 times 95 Express Lanes Senior Debt Service Coverage Ratio Greater than 1.45 times B15 Derivatives and financial risk management Derivatives 2019 2018 $M $M Current Non-current Current Non-current Assets Interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges – – – 5 Forward exchange contract—cash flow hedges 1 – 1 – Cross-currency interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges 9 293 20 212 Total derivative financial instrument assets 10 293 21 217 Liabilities Interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges 7 330 – 185 Forward exchange contracts—cash flow hedges – – 1 – Cross-currency interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges – 166 10 256 Total derivative financial instrument liabilities 7 496 11 441 Accounting policy Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. The accounting for subsequent changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either:  hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedges);  hedges of a particular risk associated with the cash flows of recognised assets and liabilities and highly probable forecast transactions (cash flow hedges); or  hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (net investment hedges). At the inception of the hedging transaction the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions have been and will continue to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. When forward contracts are used to hedge forecast transactions, the Group generally designates the entire fair value of the forward contract as the hedging instrument. The fair values of various derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in this note. Movements in the cash flow hedging reserve in equity are shown in note B12. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months. Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings is recognised in profit or loss within finance costs, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged fixed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss. If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used, is amortised to profit or loss over the period to maturity using a recalculated effective interest rate. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 122 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 36 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B15 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Accounting policy (continued) Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in reserves in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to profit or loss. Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in reserves in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in profit or loss when the foreign operation is partially disposed or sold. Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in profit or loss. Hedging strategy and instruments used by the Group The Group uses derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business in order to hedge exposures to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates in accordance with the Group’s financial risk management policies. The Group’s policies allow derivative transactions to be undertaken for the purpose of reducing risk and do not permit speculative trading. The instruments used by the Group are as follows: Interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges The Group uses interest rate swap contracts to manage the Group’s exposure to variable interest rates related to borrowings. Interest rate swap contracts currently in place cover 100% (2018: 89%) of the variable debt held by the Group (excluding working capital facilities). Forward exchange contracts—cash flow hedges The Group currently uses forward exchange contracts to protect against exchange rate movements between the AUD and foreign currencies. The Group has hedged a portion of its USD interest commitments and a portion of its capital expenditure commitments. Cross-currency interest rate contracts—cash flow hedges The Group has entered into cross-currency interest rate swap contracts to remove the risk of unfavourable exchange rate movements on borrowings held in foreign currencies. Under these contracts, the Group receives foreign currency at fixed rates and pays AUD at either fixed or floating rates. The Group then uses the interest rate swap contracts to hedge the floating interest rate commitments back to fixed interest rates. Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Currently there is no right or basis to present any financial assets or financial liabilities on a net basis, and as such no financial assets or financial liabilities have been presented on a net basis in the Group's balance sheet at the end of the financial year. Hedge of net investment in foreign entity Transurban's investment in its US and Canadian based assets (495 Express Lanes and 95 Express Lanes in the US, A25 in Canada) act as a natural hedge against the exposure to foreign currency movements for a portion of the Group’s USD denominated borrowings and CAD denominated borrowings. Exchange differences arising on the revaluation of these financial instruments are recognised in profit or loss in the separate financial statements of the relevant subsidiaries. In the Group financial statements these exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve in equity and will be transferred to profit or loss when the Group disposes its interest in either the US or Canadian based assets. As at 30 June 2019, the Group has deferred $148 million in losses (2018: $91 million losses) related to exchange differences on the revaluation of financial instruments and $104 million in gains (2018: $67 million gains) related to exchange differences on the net assets of its US and Canadian assets. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 123 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 37 B15 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Financial risk management The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk and interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The financial risk management function is carried out centrally under the policies approved by the Board. The Group review operations actively to identify and monitor all financial risks and to mitigate these risks through the use of hedging instruments where appropriate. The Board is informed on a regular basis of any material exposures to financial risks. The Group continuously monitors risk exposures over time through review of cash flows, price movements, market analysis and ongoing communication within the Group. When measuring financial risk, the Group considers the positive and negative exposures, existing hedges and the ability to offset exposures where possible. Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk when future transactions and recognised assets and liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. Foreign currency exposures are viewed as either investment exposures or operating exposures. Exposures from investments in foreign assets are generally managed using foreign currency debt. All known material operating exposures out to 12 months are hedged, either using hedging instruments, or are offset by drawing on foreign currency funds. The effects of the foreign currency related hedging instruments on the Group’s financial position and performance are as follows: 2019 $M Net investment in foreign operation—USD Carrying amount 1,378 USD carrying amount 967 Hedge ratio 1:1 Change in carrying amount of loan as a result of foreign currency movements since 1 July 2018 70 Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness 59 Net investment in foreign operation—CAD Carrying amount 708 CAD carrying amount 650 Hedge ratio 1:1 Change in carrying amount of loan as a result of foreign currency movements since 1 July 2018 26 Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness 23 Cross-currency interest rate swaps Carrying amount 135 Notional amount 8,662 Hedge ratio 1:1 Change in discounted value of outstanding hedging instruments since 1 July 2018 115 Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness (112) Maturity profile—notional value of cross-currency interest rate swaps, are as follows: 2019 Total nominal $M Less than 12 months 1 – 5 years Over 5 years amount Cross-currency swaps (AUD:USD) 109 (148) 2,810 2,771 Average AUD-USD exchange rate 0.74 0.75 0.75 NA1 Average fixed interest rate2 2.2% 2.5% 5.1% NA1 Cross-currency swaps (AUD:EUR) – 500 2,200 2,700 Average AUD-EUR exchange rate – 0.71 0.68 NA1 Average fixed interest rate2 – 4.8% 4.8% NA1 Cross-currency swaps (AUD:CHF) – 200 375 575 Average AUD-CHF exchange rate – 0.71 0.68 NA1 Average fixed interest rate2 – 4.6% 4.5% NA1 Cross-currency swaps (AUD:NOK) – – 750 750 Average AUD-NOK exchange rate – – 6.42 NA1 Average fixed interest rate2 – – 4.5% NA1 1. NA – Not applicable Based on average fixed rate of cross currency swap contracts, which does not include any margins that may be applicable on the hedged debt instrument. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 124 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 38 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B15 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Market risk (continued) Foreign exchange risk (continued) Effectiveness of hedging relationships designated Amount reclassified Hedge gain/(loss) Hedge ineffectiveness Line item in profit or from other 2019 recognised in other recognised in profit or loss that includes hedge comprehensive income Line item in profit or $M comprehensive income loss ineffectiveness to profit or loss loss for reclassification Foreign currency risk (115) 5 Net finance costs (36) Net finance costs Exposure to foreign currency risk at the reporting date, denominated in the currency in which the risk arises, was as follows: 2019 Local 2018 Local $M $M USD EUR CAD CHF NOK USD EUR CAD CHF NOK Net investment in foreign operation 818 – 583 – – 820 – 868 – – Borrowings (3,738) (2,700) (650) (575) (750) (3,350) (2,100) (250) (575) (750) FX forwards 26 – 27 – – – – – – – Cross-currency interest rate swaps 2,771 2,700 – 575 750 2,383 2,100 (596) 575 750 Net exposure (123) – (40) – – (147) – 22 – – Sensitivity Sensitivity to exchange rate movements based on the translation of financial instruments held at the end of the period is as follows: 2019 2018 $M $M Movement in Increase/(decrease) Movement in Increase/(decrease) post-tax profit in equity post-tax profit in equity AUD/USD + 10 cents – (68) – (62) 10 cents – 94 – 82 AUD/EUR + 5 cents – (35) – (47) 5 cents – 41 – 62 AUD/CAD + 10 cents – 3 – (1) 10 cents – (4) – 1 AUD/CHF + 10 cents – (8) – (19) 10 cents – 10 – 32 AUD/NOK + 50 cents – (1) – (2) 50 cents – 1 – 3 The Group revalues its foreign currency denominated borrowings each period using market spot rates and, where these borrowings have been appropriately hedged, defers these movements in the cash flow hedge reserve in equity. The volatility in the cash flow hedge reserve is caused mainly by fair value movements of the cross-currency interest rate swaps, which are affected by changes in forward Australian dollar/foreign currency exchange rates. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 125 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 39 B15 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Market risk (continued) Interest rate risk The Group’s main exposure to interest rate risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, and long-term borrowings. The Group manages interest rate risk by entering into fixed rate debt facilities or by using interest rate swaps to convert floating rate debt to fixed interest rates. Generally, the Group raises long term borrowings at floating interest rates and swaps them into fixed interest rates that are lower than those available if the Group borrowed at fixed rates directly. The Group’s policy is to hedge interest rate exposure in compliance with the covenant requirements of funding facilities and up to 100%. At 30 June 2019, 100% (2018: 89%) of the Group’s interest rate exposure on variable rate borrowings was hedged. The effects of the interest rate related hedging instruments on the Group’s financial position and performance are as follows: 2019 $M Interest rate swaps Carrying amount 210 Notional amount 2,807 Maturity dates September 2019 – May 2034 Hedge ratio 1:1 Change in fair value of outstanding hedging instruments since 1 July 2018 (85) Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness 114 Maturity profile – notional value of interest rate swaps 2019 Total nominal $M Less than 12 months 1 – 5 years Over 5 years amount Interest rate swaps 847 980 980 2,807 Average fixed interest rate1 3.2% 2.8% 3.2% – Based on average fixed rate of interest rate swap contracts, which does not include any margins that may be applicable on the hedged debt instrument. Effectiveness of hedging relationships designated Hedge gain/(loss) Line item in profit or loss Amount reclassified from 2019 recognised in other Hedge ineffectiveness that includes hedge other comprehensive Line item in profit or loss $M comprehensive income recognised in profit or loss ineffectiveness income to profit or loss for reclassification Interest rate risk 154 2 Net finance costs – Net finance costs As at the reporting date, the Group had the following cash balances, variable rate borrowings and interest rate swap contracts outstanding: 2019 2018 $M $M Cash and cash equivalents 1,630 1,130 Floating rate borrowings (3,438) (3,149) Interest rate swaps (notional principal amount) 3,438 2,803 Net exposure to interest rate risk 1,630 784 Sensitivity Sensitivity to interest rate movements based on variable rate cash balances, variable rate borrowings and interest rate swap contracts is as follows: Movement in post-tax profit and equity 2019 2018 $M $M Interest rates +100bps 16 8 Interest rates –100bps (16) (8) Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 126 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 40 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B15 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk from operating activities, and has policies in place to ensure that transactions are made with commercial customers with an appropriate credit history. However, as an operator of large infrastructure assets, the Group is exposed to credit risk with its financial counterparties through entering into financial transactions in the ordinary course of business. These include funds held on deposit, cash investments and the market value of derivative transactions. The Group assesses the credit strength of potential financial counterparties using objective ratings provided by multiple independent rating agencies. The Board approved policies ensure that higher limits are granted to higher rated counterparties. The Group also seeks to mitigate its total credit exposure to counterparties by only dealing with credit worthy counterparties, limiting the exposure to any one counterparty, minimising the size of the exposure where possible through netting offsetting exposures, diversifying exposures across counterparties, closely monitoring changes in total credit exposures and changes in credit status, and taking mitigating action when necessary. Liquidity risk The Group maintains sufficient cash and undrawn facilities to maintain short term flexibility and enable the Group to meet financial commitments in a timely manner. The Group assesses liquidity over the short term (up to 12 months) and medium term (1 to 5 years) by maintaining accurate forecasts of operating expenses, committed capital expenditure and payments to security holders. Long term liquidity requirements are reviewed as part of the annual strategic planning process. Short term liquidity is managed by maintaining a strategic liquidity reserve. This reserve is based on the Group’s forecast annual operating costs and certain risk exposure scenarios as maintained by the Group’s strategic risk register, and is maintained as cash and undrawn facilities. The reserve is maintained on a rolling 12 month basis. Medium term liquidity forecasting is maintained on a rolling five year horizon. Financing arrangements The Group had access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities1 at the end of the reporting period: 2019 2018 $M $M Floating rate Expiring within one year 252 – Expiring beyond one year 1,716 2,253 1,968 2,253 As at 30 June 2019, the Group has letter of credit facilities and general credit facilities in place with undrawn capacity of $118 million (2018: $69 million). The facilities are committed for the duration of the facility and the undrawn portion cannot be withdrawn by the lenders without notice. Contractual maturities of financial liabilities The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of the Group’s financial liabilities. For interest rate swaps, the cash flows have been estimated using forward interest rates applicable at the end of the reporting period. Total 2019 1 year or Over 1 to 2 Over 2 to 3 Over 3 to 4 Over 4 to 5 contractual Carrying $M less years years years years Over 5 years cash flows amount Trade payables 513 – – – – – 513 513 Borrowings 1,379 2,184 1,304 1,922 755 17,783 25,327 18,466 Interest rate swaps1 66 54 45 37 32 142 376 337 Cross-currency swaps1 152 168 155 155 145 518 1,293 (137) Concession and promissory notes – – – – – 546 546 107 Other liabilities 83 4 335 4 4 155 585 412 Total 2,193 2,410 1,839 2,118 936 19,144 28,640 19,698 1. The carrying value of the interest rate and cross-currency swaps have been presented on a net basis. The gross position is disclosed in the first table of note B15. Total 2018 1 year or Over 1 to 2 Over 2 to 3 Over 3 to 4 Over 4 to 5 contractual Carrying $M less years years years years Over 5 years cash flows amount Trade payables 516 – – – – – 516 516 Borrowings 859 1,734 2,029 1,068 1,508 14,573 21,771 15,395 Interest rate swaps 40 31 20 13 101 21 226 180 Cross-currency swaps 142 140 102 126 86 (647) (51) 34 Concession and promissory notes – – – – – 519 519 90 Other liabilities 155 – – – – – 155 149 Total 1,712 1,905 2,151 1,207 1,695 14,466 23,136 16,364 The undrawn borrowing facilities include $291 million (2018: $578 million) of undrawn borrowing facilities to provide funding for the Group’s capital projects. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 127 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 41 B15 Derivatives and financial risk management (continued) Capital management The Group is subject to a gearing ratio covenant imposed by senior secured lenders and it monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio to ensure compliance with the covenant. There have been no breaches of the covenant during the current financial year. For further information refer to the Borrowings note B14. The Group's objectives when managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital, so that it can continue to provide returns to security holders and benefits for other stakeholders. Fair value measurements The carrying value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities approximate fair value. This is also generally the case with borrowings since either the interest payable on those borrowings is close to current market rates or the borrowings are of a short-term nature. The fair values of noncurrent borrowings are determined based on discounted cash flows using a current borrowing rate. They are classified as level 2 fair values in the fair value hierarchy due to the use of observable inputs. Fair value is categorised within the fair value hierarchy based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:  Level 1—quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities  Level 2—inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (as prices) or indirectly (derived from prices)  Level 3—inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). All of the Group’s financial instruments measured, recognised and disclosed at fair value were valued using market observable inputs (Level 2). There were no transfers between levels during the period and there has been no change in the valuation techniques applied. Key estimate The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques. The Group uses its judgement to select a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each reporting date. The fair value of both cross-currency interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the end of the reporting period. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 128 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 42 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Concession summary The table below summarises the key balance sheet items of the Group’s concession assets by geographical region: Equity Service accounted concession investment intangible Concession 2019 carrying assets net financial Assets under Maintenance $M amount book value assets construction1 Goodwill provision Melbourne – 3,039 – 3,811 1 (155) Sydney 3,610 6,742 – – 260 (228) Brisbane – 7,566 – 445 205 (620) North America 4 4,045 369 856 – (159) Net book amount 3,614 21,392 369 5,112 466 (1,162) Equity Service accounted concession investment intangible Concession 2018 carrying assets net financial Assets under Maintenance $M amount book value assets construction1 Goodwill provision Melbourne – 3,188 – 675 1 (135) Sydney 469 4,933 – 3 260 (183) Brisbane – 7,736 – 300 205 (627) North America 5 3,917 349 165 – (118) Net book amount 474 19,774 349 1,143 466 (1,063) Assets under construction are included within other intangible assets in the consolidated balance sheet. Key estimate The Group makes certain assumptions in calculating the recoverable amount of its goodwill (Note B16), other intangible assets (Note B17) and equity accounted investments (Note B25). These include assumptions around expected traffic flows and forecast operational costs. In performing the value-in-use calculation for Goodwill, the Group has applied the assumptions noted in the table in Note B16. Management does not consider that any reasonable possible change in the assumptions will result in the carrying value of a cash generating unit exceeding its recoverable amount. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 129 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 43 B16 Goodwill 2019 $M Cost 466 Net book amount 466 2018 $M Cost 466 Net book amount 466 Goodwill primarily relates to the Group's Sydney Network and Brisbane Network and has arisen from the acquisition of Hills Motorway Group, Tollaust Pty Limited and the Sydney Roads Group in Sydney and the Queensland Motorways Group in Brisbane. Impairment testing of goodwill The Group assesses whether there is an indication of impairment at each reporting period and tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, regardless of whether an indicator of impairment exists. Recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets (cash-generating units). Where the carrying amount of an intangible asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount through profit or loss. The decrement in the carrying amount is recognised as an expense in profit or loss in the reporting period in which the impairment occurs. The recoverable amount of the Group’s cash generating units (CGU) have been determined based on value-in-use calculations. The following table sets out the key assumptions on which management has based its cash flow projections. The calculations use 3 year cash flow projections based on financial plans reviewed by the Board. Cash flows beyond this period are modelled using a consistent set of long-term assumptions up to the end of the applicable concession period: Melbourne Sydney Brisbane 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Long term CPI (% annual growth) 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.7% 2.7% Long term average weekly earnings (% annual growth) 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% Pre-tax discount rate (%) 8.2% 8.2% 8.2% 8.2% 8.2% 8.2% Management has determined the values assigned to each of the below key assumptions as follows: Assumption Approach used to determined values Traffic volume Based on historical trends and the Group’s long term traffic forecasting models Long term CPI (% annual growth) Based on independent external forecasts Long term average weekly earnings (% annual growth) Based on independent external forecasts Pre-tax discount rate Discount rates consider specific risks relating to the CGU. In performing the value-inuse calculations for each CGU, the Group has applied post-tax discount rates to discount the forecast future attributable post tax cash flows. The equivalent pre-tax discount rates are disclosed in the table above. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 130 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 44 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B17 Other intangible assets 2019 Concession Assets under Other $M assets construction intangibles Total Cost 27,539 5,112 106 32,757 Accumulated amortisation (6,147) – (6) (6,153) Net book amount 21,392 5,112 100 26,604 2018 Concession Assets under Other $M assets construction intangibles Total Cost 25,032 1,143 21 26,196 Accumulated amortisation (5,258) – – (5,258) Net book amount 19,774 1,143 21 20,938 Movement in other intangible assets Concession Assets under Other assets construction intangibles Total $M $M $M $M Opening balance 1 July 2017 17,793 1,071 – 18,864 Additions – 1,188 21 1,209 Acquisition of subsidiary 1,338 – – 1,338 Foreign exchange movements and other adjustments 120 1 – 121 Transfers 1,117 (1,117) – – Amortisation charge (594) – – (594) Net book amount 30 June 2018 19,774 1,143 21 20,938 Additions 23 4,019 85 4,127 Acquisition of subsidiary 2,196 – – 2,196 Foreign exchange movements and other adjustments 215 10 – 225 Transfers 60 (60) – – Amortisation charge (876) – (6) (882) Net book amount 30 June 2019 21,392 5,112 100 26,604 Concession assets Concession assets represent the Group's rights to operate roads under Service Concession Arrangements. Service Concession Arrangements are accounted for in accordance with AASB Interpretation 12 Service Concession Arrangements (IFRIC 12), which establishes a framework for classification of the assets based on an intangible asset model and a financial asset model (bifurcated arrangements can also exist). Assets under construction are accounted for as contract assets in accordance with AASB15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers until they are available for use. The Group classifies assets under construction based on whether the consideration provides rights to an intangible asset or a financial asset. Intangible asset model Concession assets that do not meet the criteria of the financial asset model are classified as intangible assets and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of the concession arrangement. Transurban has the right to toll the concession assets for the concession period. Extensions to the concession period have been granted for a number of individual concessions as a result of road development projects and improvements. At the end of the concession period, all concession assets are to be returned to the respective Government. The remaining terms of the right to operate period are reflected below: 2019 years 2018 years Melbourne—Victorian State Government 26 17 Sydney—New South Wales State Government 7–29 18–30 Brisbane—Queensland State Government and Brisbane City Council 32–46 33–47 North America—Commonwealth of Virginia and Ministry of Transport of Quebec (MTQ) 23–68 24–69 During the year ended 30 June 2019 the CityLink Concession Deed in Melbourne was amended and the concession end date was extended from January 2035 to January 2045. Additionally, in relation to the controlling interest acquired for the M5 Motorway in Sydney, the concession end date is December 2026. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 131 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 45 B17 Other intangible assets (continued) Indicators of impairment At each reporting period the Group assesses whether there is an indication of impairment. Where an indicator of impairment is identified, impairment testing is performed using the same approach as the Group’s annual goodwill impairment testing. There were no indicators of impairment as of 30 June 2019. Assets under construction In April 2019, legislation and parliamentary consents came into effect in connection with the West Gate Tunnel Project in Melbourne. The West Gate Tunnel Project is being funded by the right to toll from the amended CityLink Concession Deed and the right to toll the West Gate Tunnel once construction is completed. With funding sources from the amended CityLink Concession Deed confirmed, the Group has recognised an incremental asset under construction and a corresponding liability of $2,343 million, as of 11 April 2019. The incremental asset and corresponding liability represents the Group’s obligation to complete the construction of the West Gate Tunnel attributable to the remaining CityLink funding sources payments, discounted to their present value. Funding sources in connection with the CityLink Concession Deed will begin to be received from 1 July 2019, at which time the asset under construction attributable to the CityLink funding sources will begin to amortise through to the concession end date of January 2045. There has been no change to the accounting for funding source payments attributable to future West Gate Tunnel tolling income and the incremental asset value is being recorded progressively as incurred. Assets under construction at 30 June 2019 include the construction of the West Gate Tunnel Project in Melbourne, the Logan Enhancement Project in Brisbane, and the 395 Express Lanes and Fredericksburg Extension in North America. Construction costs relating to completed works are transferred to the concession asset upon final completion of the projects. In the current period this related to costs associated with the Inner City Bypass in Brisbane. Key estimate As at 30 June 2019 the Group has a number of construction projects at varying stages of completion. The Group is exposed to direct and indirect construction risk including through its third party contractors. Construction risk includes exposures to claims made on the Group and claims that the Group may pass through or initiate on others. The Group continuously monitors its exposure to construction risk, assessing impacts to the financial statements at the conclusion of each reporting period. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 132 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 46 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B18 Concession financial asset The Group’s financial assets relate only to A25 as at 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2018. 2019 2018 $M $M Opening carrying value 1 July 349 – Acquisition of subsidiary B24 – 351 Additional finance income recognised B13 23 2 Cash received (26) (2) Foreign exchange movements and other adjustments 23 (2) Closing carrying value 369 349 Including: Current asset B8 28 26 Non-current asset 341 323 Total concession financial asset 369 349 The financial asset model within IFRIC 12 applies to service concession arrangements whereby the Group has an unconditional contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset as the consideration for the construction services provided to the grantor of the concession. The unconditional contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset arises under two scenarios:  the respective Government authority guarantees to pay the Group specified amounts throughout the term of the concession arrangement (such as availability payments) provided certain asset operating conditions are met; or  the respective Government authority guarantees to pay the Group any shortfall between amounts received from users of the asset and an amount specified within the concession agreement (guaranteed toll revenue arrangements). For amounts received under these arrangements the traffic risk is not borne by the Group. The portion of concession arrangements accounted for under the financial asset model in IFRIC 12 are presented as a financial receivable within the Group’s consolidated balance sheet. The group classifies its Concession financial assets at amortised cost as the objective of the Group’s business model is to collect the contractual cash flows and the contractual terms give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest. Applying the expected credit loss model to the Group’s Concession financial assets at amortised cost resulted in $Nil loss allowance being recorded (loss allowance under AASB 139 at 30 June 2018 was $nil). There have been no movements impacting the loss allowance in the year ending 30 June 2019. The fair value of the receivable is determined at the inception of the service concession arrangement based on the discounted present value of cash flows to be received over the concession life. A portion of the receivable is recognised with corresponding revenue recorded for construction services based on the progress of the construction services provided in each period. Post completion of construction services, interest income is recorded to recognise the unwind of discounted future cash flows, while also increasing the receivable balance. Amounts received from the respective Government authority are offset against the financial asset receivable. The concession assets of the A25 asset in Canada are accounted for using a bifurcated model, being:  Financial asset model for the income streams of an unconditional contractual right to receive cash from MTQ, including the availability payments and the minimum guaranteed toll income; and  Intangible asset model for the remaining income streams (see note B17). B19 Maintenance provision Movement in maintenance provision Current Non-current $M $M Carrying value at 1 July 2017 99 895 Additional provision recognised – 88 Acquisition of subsidiary 1 18 Amounts paid/utilised (95) – Unwinding of discount – 55 Transfer 144 (144) Foreign exchange movements – 2 Carrying value at 30 June 2018 149 914 Additional provision recognised – 129 Acquisition of subsidiary 2 38 Amounts paid/utilised (120) – Unwinding of discount – 44 Transfer 125 (125) Foreign exchange movements – 6 Carrying value at 30 June 2019 156 1,006 Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 133 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 47 B19 Maintenance provision (continued) Movement in maintenance provision (continued) Key estimate As part of its obligations under the service concession arrangements, the Group assumes responsibility for the maintenance and repair of installations of the publicly owned roads it operates (including associated tolling equipment and systems). The Group records a provision for its present obligation to maintain the motorways held under concession deeds. The Group periodically reassesses the estimate of its present obligation, which includes consideration of the results of routine inspections performed over the condition of the roads it operates. Any incremental maintenance and repair activities identified through this process are assessed for whether they are the sole responsibility of the Group or whether they are the responsibility of other parties. To the extent the Group believes other parties are responsible for the maintenance or repair or remediation, the Group may initiate claims on those parties. These assessments inform the timing and extent of planned future maintenance activities, notwithstanding the provision recorded at period end continues to capture the Group’s maintenance and repair obligations under the concession deeds. The provision is included in the financial statements at the present value of expected future payments. The calculations to discount these amounts to their present value are based on the estimated timing and profile of expenditure occurring on the roads. B20 Construction obligation provision West Gate Tunnel Project The West Gate Tunnel Project is being funded by tolling income from the amended CityLink Concession Deed and the receipt of future tolling income from the West Gate Tunnel Project. Amendments to the CityLink Concession Deed came into effect in April 2019, requiring the recognition of an incremental asset and corresponding liability. The liability represents the Group’s obligation to complete construction of the West Gate Tunnel Project, attributable to the remaining CityLink funding sources payments. The liability will reduce as payments are made in connection with the CityLink funding sources. The nominal value of the remaining funding sources payments attributable to CityLink is $2,401 million at 30 June 2019. Current Non-current West Gate West Gate Tunnel Tunnel Project Project Total $M $M $M Net book amount 30 June 2018 – – – Liability recognised on date of transaction 1,018 1,325 2,343 Amounts paid/utilised (187) – (187) Unwinding of discount – 66 66 Net book amount 30 June 2019 831 1,391 2,222 Key estimate The Group has a construction liability for the West Gate Tunnel Project attributable to the CityLink funding sources from the CityLink Concession Deed Amendments. The construction liability is measured at the present value of the remaining CityLink funding sources payments. Assumptions are made in determining the timing and profile, based on the expected cash flows to be paid through completion of construction of the West Gate Tunnel Project. A discount rate is used to value the construction liability to its present value, which is determined with reference to the Group’s cost of debt. A discount rate of 5.1% has been used on recognition of the liability at 11 April 2019. The current balance represents the payments Group expects to be made within 12 months from the reporting date, with the non-current portion being the present value of payments beyond 12 months from the reporting date. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 134 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 48 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B21 Other liabilities—concession liabilities 2019 2018 $M $M M1 Eastern Distributor concession note 44 40 M2 Motorway promissory note 63 50 Fredericksburg Extension payable 363 – M1 Eastern Distributor The Eastern Distributor project deed between Airport Motorway Limited, Airport Motorway Trust and the New South Wales Roads and Maritime Services (‘RMS’) provides for annual concession fees of $15 million during the construction phase and for the first 24 years after completion of construction of the M1 Eastern Distributor. Until a certain threshold return is achieved, payments of concession fees due under the Project Deed will be satisfied by means of the issue of non-interest bearing concession notes. The face value of concession notes on issue at 30 June 2019 is $330 million (2018: $315 million). M2 Motorway The Hills Motorway Trust has entered into leases with the RMS. Annual lease liabilities under these leases total $12 million (2018: $12 million), indexed annually to the consumer price index over the estimated period that the M2 Motorway will be used. Until such time as a threshold return is achieved, payments under these leases can be made at any time at the discretion of the trustee of the Hills Motorway, by means of the issue of non-interest bearing promissory notes to the RMS. The face value of promissory notes on issue at 30 June 2019 is $216 million (2018: $204 million). Fredericksburg Extension project The 95 Express Lanes service concession agreement was amended following commercial close of the Fredericksburg Extension project in April 2019. A series of payments are due to the Virginia Department of Transportation (VDOT) in connection with the construction of the project, payable between commercial close and construction completion. As at 30 June 2019, a current liability of $78 million and a non-current liability of $285 million has been recorded. The nominal value of the payable is $408 million. Key estimate Concession and promissory notes The Group has non-interest bearing long term debt, represented by promissory notes and concession notes payable to the Government, measured at the present value of expected future payments. The calculations to discount these notes to their present value are based on the estimated timing and profile of the repayments. Assumptions are made in determining the timing and profile, based on expected available equity cash flows of the Group's cash generating units. A discount rate is used to value the promissory notes and concession notes to their present value, which is determined through reference to other facilities in the market with similar characteristics. A discount rate of 7.9% (2018: 9.1%) has been used for notes issued during the period, which recognises the subordinated nature of these notes. A lower discount rate has been used in the current financial year following a review of discount rates applicable for liabilities across the Group. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 135 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 49 Group structure B22 Principles of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date the Group gains control of the subsidiary and are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases. In preparing the consolidated financial statements of the Group, all inter-entity transactions and balances have been eliminated. The accounting policies adopted by the individual entities comprising the Group are consistent with the parent company. Non-controlling interests consist of two components:  Non-controlling interest—other: external non-controlling interests relating to the results and equity of Transurban Queensland, M5 Motorway and Eastern Distributor subsidiaries are shown separately in the Group financial statements.  Non-controlling interests that relate to THT and TIL are presented separately, and relate to equity holders of the stapled group. Associates and joint ventures Associates are entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies. The Group currently has an interest in one associate being BlueDot. A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities. The Group’s investments in joint ventures during the period comprised WCX (from 27 September 2018), NorthWestern Roads Group (NWRG) (which holds the Westlink M7 and NorthConnex assets) and, until 18 September 2018, Interlink Roads Pty Ltd (which holds the M5 Motorway asset). Interests in the associate and the joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. They are initially recognised at cost, which includes transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the profit or loss and OCI of equity accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases. When the Group’s cumulative share of losses in an associate exceeds its investment in the asset, the Group does not recognise any further losses from this point. Dividends received from the entities listed above reduce the carrying amount of the investment. Changes in ownership interest The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in a loss of control, as transactions with equity owners of the Group. A change in ownership interest results in an adjustment between the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests to reflect their relative interests in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount of the adjustment to non-controlling interests and any consideration paid or received is recognised in a separate reserve within equity. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 136 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 50 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B23 Material subsidiaries The Group’s material subsidiaries as at 30 June 2019 are outlined in the Group structure diagram below. 50 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 TRANSURBAN TRANSURBAN TRANSURBAN HOLDINGS LIMITED HOLDING TRUST INTERNATIONAL LIMITED CORPORATE ROAD/OPERATING OTHER ROAD/OPERATING CORPORATE ENTITIES ENTITIES ENTITIES ENTITIES ENTITIES B23 Material subsidiaries CityLink Melbourne Ltd CityLink Trust Transurban Finance Transurban Transurban Ltd 495 Express Lanes LLC (CityLink) (CityLink) Trust (USA) Inc The Group’s material subsidiaries as at 30 June 2019 are outlined in the Group structure diagram below. Transurban Finance The Hills Motorway Ltd Hills Motorway Trust Transurban NCX M7 Transurban DRIVe 95 Express Lanes LLC Company Pty Ltd (Hills M2) (Hills M2) Hold Trust Holdings LLC 100% OWNED Transurban Funding LCT MRE Pty Ltd LCT MRE Trust Transurban STP Asset Concession A25 LP Pty Ltd (LCT) (LCT) Holding Trust Transurban Infrastructure Transurban CCT Pty Ltd Transurban CCT Trust Transurban STP Project Management Ltd (CCT) (CCT) Hold Co Pty Ltd Transurban WGT Co Pty Ltd Tollaust Ltd / Roam Tolling Pty Ltd Airport Motorway Ltd Airport Motorway Trust 75.1% (M1 Eastern Distributor) (M1 Eastern Distributor) Interlinks Roads Pty Limited1 65.38% (M5 Motorway) Logan Motorway Pty Ltd 62.5% CONSOLIDATED (Logan Motorway) Transurban Queensland Transurban Queensland Property Trust Finance Pty Ltd Gateway Motorway 62.5% Pty Ltd Project T Partnership 62.5% The acquisition of M5 occurred on 18 September 2018. (Clem7) GBB Operations Pty Ltd 62.5% (Go Between Bridge) LW Operations Pty Ltd 62.5% (Legacy Way) APL Co Pty Ltd TQ APL Asset Trust TQ APL Finance Co 62.5% (AirportlinkM7) (AirportlinkM7) Pty Ltd The acquisition of M5 occurred on 18 September 2018. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 137 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 51 B24 Business combinations Accounting policy Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred also includes the fair value of any contingent consideration arrangement and the fair value of any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest's proportionate share of the acquiree's net identifiable assets. The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Group's share of the net identifiable assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If those amounts are less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the subsidiary acquired and the measurement of all amounts has been reviewed, the difference is recognised directly in profit or loss as a gain on bargain purchase. Where settlement of any part of cash consideration is deferred, the amounts payable in the future are discounted to their present value as at the date of obtaining control. The discount rate used is the entity's incremental borrowing rate, being the rate at which a similar borrowing could be obtained from an independent financier under comparable terms and conditions. Contingent consideration is classified either as equity or a financial liability. Amounts classified as a financial liability are subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss. Year ended 30 June 2019 acquisitions M5 Motorway On 18 September 2018, the Group completed the acquisition of an additional 8.24% equity interest of the company that holds the M5 Motorway concession in Sydney, New South Wales (and a corresponding additional interest in the M5 Motorway term loan notes) through an all cash offer of $116 million. After this acquisition, the Group’s overall equity ownership interest in M5 Motorway increased to 58.24%. The Group has determined that this increased equity ownership provides the Group with control over the M5 Motorway. The transaction has been accounted for as a step-up acquisition, being a disposal of the Group’s existing 50% equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway at its fair value on 18 September 2018 in exchange for the acquisition of a 58.24% controlling interest in M5 Motorway as if this is a business acquisition. During the current financial year the Group incurred $8m of transaction costs relating to the acquisition of the additional interest in the M5 Motorway. These costs primarily relate to stamp duty and have been included in the Group’s consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 June 2019 and disclosed as a significant item (see note B6). Reconciliation of valuation of existing 50% equity accounted investment on date of consolidation $M Fair value of 50% equity interest in M5 Motorway 332 Less: Carrying value of equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway (net of Reserves: $2 million) (104) Gain on revaluation of equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway 228 Reconciliation to consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2019 $M Total cash consideration paid 116 Cash and cash equivalents acquired (51) Payments for acquisition of subsidiaries and term loan notes, net of cash acquired 65 Consideration transferred The following table summarises cash paid on acquisition: $M Total cash consideration paid 116 Less: fair value of 8.24% of M5 Motorway debt notes acquired (15) Cash consideration for 8.24% equity investment in M5 Motorway 101 Total value of net assets acquired $M Cash consideration for 8.24% equity investment in M5 Motorway 101 Fair value of 50% equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway 332 Proportionate share of 41.76% non-controlling interest in M5 Motorway 277 Total 710 Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 138 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 52 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B24 Business combinations (continued) Year ended 30 June 2019 acquisitions (continued) Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed The provisionally determined fair values of the assets and liabilities of M5 Motorway as at acquisition date are as follows: $M Cash and cash equivalents 51 Trade and other receivables 10 Concession intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 2,202 Trade and other payables (69) Provisions (54) Interest bearing liabilities (654) M5 Motorway term loan notes (185) Financial derivatives liabilities (16) Deferred tax liabilities (575) Total identified assets acquired 710 Net assets attributable to non-controlling interest (277) Net assets attributable to Transurban Group’s security holders 433 The M5 Motorway term loan notes have been eliminated through the consolidation of the M5 Motorway. On consolidation a liability owing to the non-controlling interest is recorded. Goodwill The assets and liabilities of the M5 Motorway were measured at fair value at the acquisition date of 18 September 2018 with fair values having been determined on a provisional basis. The total provisional fair value is allocated to M5 Motorway concession asset and no goodwill has been recognised. Revenue and profit contribution From the date of acquisition to 30 June 2019, revenue of $248 million and a statutory loss after taxation of $25 million was included in the profit or loss with regard to the M5 Motorway. Excluding significant items related to the acquisition, M5 Motorway contributed a net loss after taxation of $16 million. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 July 2018, revenue of $317 million, and a statutory loss after taxation of $31 million would have been recognised for the year ended 30 June 2019. Excluding significant items related to the acquisition, the net loss after taxation would have been $22 million. These amounts have been calculated using the subsidiaries’ results and adjusting for one-off costs not related to the ongoing operations of the business. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 139 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 53 B24 Business combinations (continued) Year ended 30 June 2019 acquisitions (continued) Additional ownership acquisition from non-controlling interest On 3 December 2018, the Group acquired an additional 7.14% interest in M5 Motorway for a total consideration of $99 million, comprising $86 million for the additional equity interest and $13 million to acquire an additional 7.14% of the M5 Motorway term loan notes. As there is no change in control from this transaction, it has been accounted for as a transaction between shareholders within equity, with no impact to profit or loss. Transaction costs on acquisition of the additional 7.14% interest relate to stamp duty of $7 million and are also recorded as a transaction between shareholders within equity. This transaction took the Group’s total equity interest in the M5 Motorway to 65.38%. Year ended 30 June 2018 acquisitions A25 On 5 June 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the entities that hold the A25 concession in Montreal, Canada. Fair values of acquired assets and liabilities as at acquisition were reported on a provisional basis in the 30 June 2018 financial statements and have been adjusted within the 12 month measurement period as outlined below. The final fair values of the assets and liabilities of A25 as at acquisition date are as follows: Adjustments to Provisional fair value provisional fair value Final fair value $M $M $M Cash and cash equivalents 23 – 23 Trade and other receivables 16 – 16 Concession asset—financial asset model 351 – 351 Concession asset—intangible asset model 1,324 14 1,338 Other assets 1 – 1 Trade and other payables (20) – (20) Provisions (29) (9) (38) Borrowings (387) – (387) Derivative financial instruments (92) – (92) Deferred tax liabilities (318) (5) (323) Net identified assets acquired 869 – 869 Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 140 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 54 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B25 Equity accounted investments Below is the reconciliation of the equity accounted carrying value of investments: STP JV NWRG M5 Motorway Other Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Opening carrying value at 1 July – – 347 488 122 166 5 – 474 654 Acquisition 3,411 – – – – – – 5 3,411 5 Acquisition costs 9 – – – – – – – 9 – Group’s share of net profit/(loss)1,2 (343) – – – 10 33 (1) – (334) 33 Group’s recognised share of other comprehensive income/(loss) (74) – – – – 1 – – (74) 1 Dividends received (18) – (142) (141) (30) (78) – – (190) (219) NWRG shareholder loan modification – – 290 – – – – – 290 – Disposal due to M5 Motorway step-up acquisition – – – – (102) – – – (102) – Acquisition of and capital contributions to STP JV 68 – – – – – – – 68 – Fair value adjustment on issuance of shareholder loans to STP JV 62 – – – – – – – 62 – Closing carrying value at 30 June 3,115 – 495 347 – 122 4 5 3,614 474 Cumulative losses not recognised2 – – 401 450 – – – – 378 450 STP JV Group’s share of losses includes stamp duty on acquisition of WCX. Refer to note B6. The Group’s share of profits from the investment in the NWRG are currently not recognised until such time as cumulative losses have been fully utilised. Cumulative losses not recognised above are disclosed at 100%. For the year ended 30 June 2019, the Group has eliminated a gain disclosed within the NWRG summarised financial information of $47 million ($24 million at 50%) relating to the sale of the Roam customer base to the Group. Joint ventures STP JV (50% ownership interest) To facilitate the WCX acquisition, the STP JV was established by Transurban (50%), AustralianSuper (20.5%), CPPIB (20.5%) and Tawreed (9%). The STP JV and its subsidiaries is jointly controlled by Transurban, AustralianSuper and CPPIB. On 27 September 2018, the STP JV acquired a controlling 51% stake in WCX from the NSW State Government. On the same date, Transurban also executed a Master Services Agreement with WCX to provide operational services over the concession life of WCX. WCX has long-dated concessions through to 2060 and includes 33-kilometres of new or improved motorway linking Sydney’s west and southwest with the CBD, and the corridor to Sydney Airport and Port Botany. To fund STP JV’s acquisition of WCX, the Group contributed $3,411 million equity into STP JV and also subscribed to shareholder loan notes (SLNs) with a face value of $700 million. The SLNs earn interest at a rate equivalent to the weighted average of the interest rate applicable to WCX’s senior secured debt plus a margin. The agreement includes a mechanism to capitalise interest should funds not be available to settle accrued interest. The SLNs are repayable 10 years after their respective issuance date. The SLNs are presented within non-current financial assets at amortised cost in the consolidated balance sheet. The Group has measured the SLNs at fair value on initial recognition and the SLNs are being subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The difference between the nominal value of the SLNs and the fair value on the date of issuance has been treated as a contribution to the equity accounted investment in STP JV. The following entities are part of the STP JV Group:  STP Project Trust  STP Asset Trust  STP PT Pty Ltd  STP AT Pty Ltd. Key estimate The Group’s assessment that it does not control STP JV has been made by considering the terms of the Investment Agreement signed by the JV partners. This Agreement requires a supermajority vote of at least 82.5% of all shareholders for the decisions on the significant relevant activities made by the JV. As such, noting this and other factors, the Group concluded that it, together with AustralianSuper and CPPIB, jointly controls the STP JV and its controlled entities. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 141 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 55 B25 Equity accounted investments (continued) Joint ventures (continued) NWRG (50% ownership interest) The Group has a 50% ownership interest in NWRG, which holds 100% of the Westlink M7 Group and the NorthConnex Group. Westlink M7 holds the concession to design, construct, finance and operate the Westlink M7 Motorway in Sydney for a period of 43 years from the date of operation (16 December 2005) until June 2048, and NorthConnex holds the concession to design, construct, finance and operate the NorthConnex Tunnel in Sydney until 2048. The following entities are a part of the Westlink Group:  WSO Co Pty Limited (the operator of the Motorway).  Westlink Motorway Limited (the nominee manager of the Westlink Motorway Partnership).  WSO Finance Pty Limited (the financier of the Motorway).  Westlink Motorway Partnership (was responsible for the construction of the Motorway). The following entities are part of the NorthConnex Group:  NorthConnex Company Pty Limited (the operator of the Motorway).  NorthConnex Finance Company Pty Limited (the financier of the Motorway).  NorthConnex State Works Contractor Pty Limited (responsible for the construction of the Motorway). NWRG shareholder loan modification During the period the NWRG and its shareholders modified the existing SLNs on issue. The modified SLNs include an at call facility (maturity date is greater than 12 months). The at call loan has been recorded at fair value on initial recognition and will be subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The difference between the nominal value of the at call loan and the fair value has been treated as a contribution to the equity accounted investment in NWRG. M5 Motorway (50% ownership interest as of 1 July 2018 through to date of disposal of the Group’s equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway) Tolls are collected on the M5 Motorway in both directions, with four toll collection points. The concession for the M5 Motorway was extended to December 2026 following completion of the M5 Motorway widening. Disposal due to M5 Motorway step-up acquisition As described in note B24, the acquisition of the additional interest in the M5 Motorway in September 2018 has resulted in the Group obtaining control over the M5 Motorway and this has resulted in the derecognition of the Group’s equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway at that. Bluedot (20% ownership interest) Bluedot Innovation is an advanced location services technology company. The Group leverages Bluedot’s location services technology for the Group’s LinktGo application which allows the use of a smartphone’s GPS and other sensors to identify when a driver has entered and exited a toll road. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 142 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 56 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B25 Equity accounted investments (continued) Summarised financial information of equity accounted investments Set out below is the summarised financial information for those investments accounted for using the equity method. The summarised financial information presented below is on a 100 per cent basis for each equity accounted investment. STP JV1 NWRG M5 Motorway2 Other Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Summarised balance sheet—100% Cash and cash equivalents 1,283 – 115 133 – 66 1 1 1,399 200 Other current assets 101 – 234 166 – 9 – 1 335 176 Non-current assets 21,549 – 3,209 3,202 – 344 – – 24,758 3,546 Current liabilities (310) – (426) (565) – (158) (1) – (737) (723) Non-current liabilities (9,179) – (2,990) (3,268) – (777) (2) – (12,171) (4,045) Net (liabilities)/assets 13,444 – 142 (332) – (516) (2) 2 13,584 (846) Summarised statement of comprehensive income—100% Revenue 200 – 486 442 68 302 1 1 755 745 Construction revenue 1,211 – 148 128 – – – – 1,359 128 Depreciation and amortisation (126) – (81) (80) (9) (43) – – (216) (123) Other expenses (647) – (70) (70) (10) (40) (5) (3) (732) (113) Construction expenses (1,211) – (148) (128) – – – – (1,359) (128) Net finance costs (144) – (180) (212) (9) (41) – – (333) (253) Income tax benefit/(expense) (10) – (59) – (13) (58) – – (82) (58) Profit/(loss) (727) – 96 80 27 120 (4) (2) (608) 198 Other comprehensive income/(loss) (284) – 9 10 – 1 – – (275) 11 Total comprehensive income/(loss) (1,011) – 105 90 27 121 (4) (2) (883) 209 The following table reconciles the above summarised financial information presented on a 100 per cent basis to the proportional amounts recognised by the Group: Ownership interest 50% 0% 50% 50% 50% 50% 20% 20% Proportional total comprehensive income/(loss) (417) – 53 45 14 61 (1) – (351) 106 Amortisation of fair value uplift – – – – (4) (27) – – (4) (27) Group's share of comprehensive income/(loss) (417) – 53 45 10 34 (1) – (355) 79 Profits not recognised (excluding other comprehensive income) – – (48) (40) – – – – (48) (40) Group's recognised share of total comprehensive income/(loss) (417) – – – 10 34 (1) – (408) 34 Group's share of dividends/distributions received 18 – 142 141 30 78 – – 190 219 1. The summarised statement of comprehensive income for STP JV is presented above from the date of acquisition which is 27 September 2018. 2. The summarised statement of comprehensive income for M5 Motorway is presented above through 18 September 2018, the date of disposal of the Group’s equity accounted investment in M5 Motorway. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 143 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 57 B26 Non-controlling interests—other Set out below is the summarised financial information for each material subsidiary (see note B23) that has non-controlling interests (NCI) that are material and external to the Group and the total external non-controlling interest. The amounts disclosed are before intercompany eliminations. Transurban Queensland Airport Motorway M5 Motorway1 Total non-controlling 37.5% 24.9% 34.62% interests 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Summarised balance sheet Current assets 128 142 11 11 23 – 162 153 Non-current assets 9,148 9,019 1,467 1,642 1,992 – 12,607 10,661 Current liabilities (345) (278) (193) (230) (168) – (706) (508) Non-current liabilities (6,500) (5,999) (925) (1,046) (1,263) – (8,688) (7,045) Net assets 2,431 2,884 360 377 584 – 3,375 3,261 Carrying amount of NCI 911 1,081 90 94 147 – 1,148 1,175 Summarised statement of comprehensive income Revenue 653 632 153 147 248 – 1,054 779 Expenses (650) (702) (130) (108) (270) – (1,050) (810) (Loss)/profit for the year 3 (70) 23 39 (22) – 4 (31) Other comprehensive income (OCI) (62) (80) (5) 6 (13) – (80) (74) Total comprehensive income (59) (150) 18 45 (35) – (76) (105) (Loss)/profit allocated to NCI 1 (27) 6 10 (8) – (1) (17) OCI allocated to NCI (23) (31) (1) 2 (5) – (29) (29) Summarised cash flows Cash flows from operating activities 159 155 90 80 125 – 374 235 Cash flows from investing activities (252) (188) – – – – (252) (188) Cash flows from financing activities 98 35 (92) (79) (168) – (162) (44) Net (decreases)/increases in cash and cash equivalents 5 2 (2) 1 (43) – (40) 3 1. The summarised statement of comprehensive income for M5 Motorway is presented above subsequent to 18 September 2018, following the step up acquisition of the Group’s controlling interest in M5 Motorway. B27 Deed of cross and intra-group guarantees Deed of cross guarantee Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Limited, Tollaust Pty Limited, Roam Tolling Pty Limited, Sydney Roads Limited, Sydney Roads Management Limited, Statewide Roads Limited, M4 Holdings No. 1 Pty Limited, M5 Holdings Pty Limited and Devome Pty Limited, Transurban Funding Pty Limited (from FY19), Transurban STP AHT Pty Limited (from FY19), Transurban STP AT Pty Limited (from FY19), Transurban STP Project Hold Co Pty Limited (from FY19) and Transurban STP Project Co Pty Limited (from FY19) are party to a deed of cross guarantee under which each company guarantees the debts of the others. By entering into the deed, the wholly-owned entities have been relieved from the requirement to prepare a financial report and Directors’ report under Instrument 2016/785 issued by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. The companies represent a 'closed group' for the purposes of the Instrument, and as there are no other parties to the deed of cross guarantee that are controlled by THL, they also represent the 'extended closed group’. The extended closed group adopted AASB 9 Financial Instruments and AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on 1 July 2018. The adoption of AASB 9 Financial Instruments resulted in the recognition of an expected credit loss allowance of $11 million at 1 July 2018. The counterparties were assessed to have low credit risk and the loss allowance recognised on 1 July 2018 was therefore limited to 12 months expected losses. There were no significant movements in the expected credit loss allowance through to 30 June 2019. There was no impact from the adoption of AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Set out on the next page is the summary financial information of the closed group. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 144 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 58 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B27 Deed of cross and intra-group guarantees (continued) Deed of cross guarantee (continued) 2019 2018 $M $M Summarised statement of comprehensive income Revenue 310 535 Operating costs (294) (273) Depreciation and amortisation expense (103) (83) Net finance costs (59) (78) Profit before income tax (146) 101 Income tax benefit 78 57 Profit for the year (68) 158 Total comprehensive income for the year (68) 158 Summarised movements in retained earnings Accumulated losses at the beginning of the year (406) (457) Accumulated losses of entities that joined the ‘closed group’ 3 – Change in accounting policy—AASB 9 (11) – Profit for the year (68) 158 Dividends provided for or paid (80) (107) Retained earnings at the end of the year (562) (406) Summarised balance sheet Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 494 388 Trade and other receivables 5,002 3,996 Total current assets 5,496 4,384 Non-current assets Other financial assets 2,606 2,539 Equity accounted investments 985 – Property, plant and equipment 324 326 Intangible assets 97 21 Deferred tax assets 442 385 Total non-current assets 4,454 3,271 Total assets 9,950 7,655 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 1,483 5,887 Provisions 90 93 Total current liabilities 1,573 5,980 Non-current liabilities Payables 6,234 304 Deferred tax liabilities 22 19 Provisions 5 11 Total non-current liabilities 6,261 334 Total liabilities 7,834 6,314 Net assets 2,116 1,341 Equity Contributed equity 2,675 1,746 Other reserves 3 1 Retained earnings (562) (406) Total equity 2,116 1,341 Intra–group guarantees As at 30 June 2019, the Transurban Group comprises Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited, traded and quoted on the ASX as one triple stapled security. Under the stapling arrangement, each entity is able to provide direct and/or indirect support to each other entity and its controlled entities within the Group on a continual basis. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 145 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 59 Items not recognised B28 Contingencies Contingent liabilities Contingent consideration As a result of the acquisition of the Legacy Way tunnel, the Group may be required to make further payments to the vendors in the event that the traffic and toll revenue performance of the relevant asset exceeds certain criteria. The contingent consideration is recorded at the end of each reporting period at its fair value based upon the same traffic and revenue assumptions as outlined in note B16. The following table details the current carrying value of the contingent consideration recognised within ‘Other provisions’ in the consolidated balance sheet, the maximum nominal value that could be paid and the date at which the contingent consideration is assessed and becomes payable: Maximum consideration Carrying Value payable $M $M Assessment / payment date Legacy Way Tunnel 122 Unlimited1 Jun 2020 The maximum consideration payable will reflect a portion of the cumulative outperformance of the concession asset as compared against an internal rate of return agreed between Transurban Queensland and the Brisbane City Council. Parent entity The parent entity does not have any contingent liabilities at reporting date (2018: nil). Equity accounted investments The equity accounted investments of the Group do not have any contingent liabilities at reporting date (2018: nil). B29 Commitments Operating lease Capital commitments commitments 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M Within 1 year 270 1,669 16 12 Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 342 1,917 64 51 Later than 5 years – – 116 92 612 3,586 196 155 The Group’s capital commitments as of 30 June 2019 relate primarily to the Fredericksburg Extension and 395 Express Lanes in North America (2018: 395 Express Lanes in North America, Logan Enhancement Project in Queensland and West Gate Tunnel Project in Melbourne). Share of commitments for equity accounted investments STP JV NWRG Total 50% 50% 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M $M $M Capital commitments 2,693 – 219 441 2,912 441 The Group’s equity accounted investment capital commitments as of 30 June 2019 primarily relate to WestConnex M5 and WestConnex M4-M5 Link in STP JV and NorthConnex in NWRG (2018: NorthConnex in NWRG). Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 146 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 60 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B30 Subsequent events M5 acquisition and equity raising On 6 August 2019 the Group executed a share sale agreement for the remaining 34.62% minority interest in the company that holds the M5 Motorway concession, taking the Group’s ownership interest to 100%. The 34.62% minority interest, including minority interest debt notes, will be acquired for $468 million excluding stamp duty and transaction costs. As of 7 August 2019, the completion of the transaction is subject to receiving the necessary consents. On 7 August 2019 the Group announced it plans to raise $500 million via a fully underwritten ‘pro-rata’ institutional placement1. Additionally, a nonunderwritten Security Purchase Plan (SPP) will also be in place for eligible security holders to raise up to $200 million. Under the SPP, eligible security holders will be invited to subscribe for up to $15,000 of new securities per security holder, free of transaction and brokerage costs. Proceeds from the equity raisings will be used to fund the acquisition of the remaining interests in the M5 Motorway and for general corporate purposes. If consents for the M5 Motorway acquisition are not obtained and the acquisition does not proceed, the proceeds will be retained for general corporate purposes. Eligible institutional security holders who bid in excess of their 'pro-rata' share determined by Transurban and the underwriters are expected to be allocated a minimum of their 'pro-rata' share on a best endeavours basis, and any excess may be subject to scale back. Financing activities Subsequent to 30 June 2019 the Group completed a number of financing activities including:  Corporate settled EUR 350 million ($570 million) privately placed senior secured 15 year notes under its EMTN programme;  95 Express Lanes priced and settled USD 262 million ($374 million) of Private Activity Bonds maturing in 2044 and 2049, to fund the construction of the Fredericksburg Extension; and  Transurban Queensland completed the refinancing of its capital expenditure borrowing facility, establishing a new 3-year $500 million facility with a maturity of August 2022. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 147 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 61 Other B31 Related party transactions Joint ventures 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Transactions with related parties Revenue from services 37,199 28,523 Interest income 68,402 59,955 105,601 88,478 Outstanding balances with related parties Financial assets at amortised cost NorthConnex shareholder loan notes 550,185 – STP JV shareholder loan notes 642,805 – Held-to-maturity investments M5 Motorway debt notes – 70,000 NorthConnex shareholder loan notes – 735,501 Other liabilities NWRG payable for acquisition of customer base (49,428) – 1,143,562 805,501 Transactions with related parties Revenue for services Revenue relates to tolling and management services provided to related parties. Interest income Interest income relates to interest earned on held-to-maturity investments as noted below. Financial assets at amortised cost Debt financial assets carried at amortised cost relate to NorthConnex and STP JV SLN’s. The Group intends to hold the assets to maturity and to collect contractual cash flows and these cash flows consist solely of payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The SLNs are not classified as an investment for equity accounting purposes, and therefore have not been affected by equity accounting losses from the associate. All SLNs are denominated in Australian currency. NorthConnex shareholder loan notes The NorthConnex SLNs were modified during the year ended 30 June 2019 and as of 30 June 2019 include an interest free at call loan (maturity date is greater than 12 months) and a facility at a revised interest rate of 5.9%. The at call loan has been recorded at fair value on initial recognition and will be subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The difference between the nominal value of the at call loan and the fair value has been treated as a contribution to the equity accounted investment in NWRG. Any unpaid interest is capitalised and deemed to subscribe for further loan notes with an aggregate principal amount equal to that unpaid interest. The nominal value of the NorthConnex SLNs at 30 June 2019 is $550,185 thousand (30 June 2018: $735,501 thousand). STP JV shareholder loan notes The STP JV SLNs earn interest at a rate equivalent to the weighted average of the interest rate applicable to WCX’s senior secured debt plus a margin. The agreement includes a mechanism to capitalise interest should funds not be available to settle accrued interest. The SLNs are repayable 10 years after their respective issuance date. The SLNs are presented within non-current financial assets at amortised cost in the consolidated balance sheet. The Group has measured the SLNs at fair value on initial recognition and the SLNs will be subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The difference between the nominal value of the SLNs and the fair value has been treated as a contribution to the equity accounted investment in STP JV. The nominal value of the STP JV SLNs at 30 June 2019 is $642,805 thousand (30 June 2018: Nil). Expected credit loss Applying the expected credit loss model to these financial assets at amortised cost resulted in the recognition of a loss allowance of $3 million at 1 July 2018 (previous loss allowance was $nil). The loss allowance increased by $1 million in the year ending 30 June 2019 to $4 million and was impacted by the initial recognition of a loss allowance for the STP JV SLNs of $2 million, and decrease in the loss allowance of NorthConnex SLNs of $1 million; all movements were recorded through finance expenses. The Group’s debt financial assets at amortised cost are considered to have low credit risk, and the loss allowance recorded as of 1 July 2018 and 30 June 2019 is therefore limited to 12 months of expected losses. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 148 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 62 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B31 Related party transactions (continued) Held to maturity investments—2018 No provision for doubtful debts has been raised in relation to any outstanding balances, and no expense has been recognised in respect of bad or doubtful debts from related parties. M5 Motorway debt notes The M5 Motorway debt notes are Transurban’s debt funding contribution to the M5 West Widening Project. The fixed maturity date of the notes in 2022 of the M5 West Widening Project. The interest rate charged on these notes is currently fixed at 5.0%. NorthConnex shareholder loan notes The SLNs earn interest at a fixed rate of 9.0% until the final day of the NorthConnex concession period. Any unpaid interest is capitalised and deemed to subscribe for further loan notes with an aggregate principal amount equal to that unpaid interest. The SLNs are classified as a held-to-maturity receivable. They are not classified as an investment for equity accounting purposes, and therefore have not been affected by equity accounting losses from the associate. All SLNs are denominated in Australian currency. B32 Key management personnel compensation 2019 2018 $ $ Short-term employee benefits 13,033,651 13,639,047 Post-employment benefits 328,621 315,610 Long-term benefits 153,949 242,973 Share-based payments 4,976,091 5,135,172 Deferred short term incentives 3,178,563 3,112,002 21,670,875 22,444,804 Detailed remuneration disclosures including the key management personnel are made in the remuneration report in the Directors' report. B33 Remuneration of auditors During the year the following fees were paid or payable for services provided by the auditor of the Group and its related practices. Remuneration of auditors in the year ended 30 June 2019 was influenced by acquisitions and changes in the Group’s finance systems. (a) Amounts received or due and receivable by PricewaterhouseCoopers Australia 2019 2018 Audit and other assurance services $ $ Audit and review of financial reports 3,010,505 1,902,207 Other assurance services 857,000 713,000 3,867,505 2,615,207 Other consulting services – 500,000 Total remuneration of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australia 3,867,505 3,115,207 (b) Amounts received or due and receivable by network firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australia 2019 2018 Audit and other assurance services $ $ Audit and review of financial reports 804,595 1,275,076 Other assurance services 500,000 – 1,304,595 1,275,076 Other consulting services – – Total remuneration of network firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australia 1,304,595 1,275,076 Total auditors remuneration 5,172,100 4,390,283 Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 149 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 63 B34 Parent entity disclosures The financial information for the parent entity, Transurban Holdings Limited, has been prepared on the same basis as the consolidated financial statements, except as set out below. Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are accounted for at cost in the parent entity financial statements of Transurban Holdings Limited. Dividends received from associates are recognised in the parent entity's profit or loss, rather than being deducted from the carrying amount of these investments. Tax consolidation legislation In addition to its own current and deferred tax amounts, Transurban Holdings Limited also recognises the current tax liabilities (or assets) and the deferred tax assets arising from unused tax losses and unused tax credits assumed from controlled entities in the tax consolidated group. Assets or liabilities arising under tax funding agreements with the tax consolidated entities are recognised as amounts receivable from or payable to other entities in the Group. Any difference between the amounts assumed and amounts receivable or payable under the tax funding agreement are recognised as a contribution to (or distribution from) wholly owned tax consolidated entities. Summary financial information The individual financial statements for the parent entity report the following aggregate amounts: 2019 2018 $M $M Balance sheet Current assets 2,720 3,442 Total assets 7,629 7,175 Current liabilities 3,520 1,830 Total liabilities 4,629 5,046 Net assets 3,000 2,129 Shareholders' equity Contributed equity 2,675 1,746 Reserves 3 2 Retained earnings 322 381 Total equity 3,000 2,129 Profit for the year 28 223 Total comprehensive income 28 223 Transurban Holdings Limited adopted AASB 9 Financial Instruments and AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on 1 July 2018. The adoption of AASB 9 Financial Instruments resulted in the recognition of an expected credit loss allowance of $7 million at 1 July 2018. The counterparties were assessed to have low credit risk and the loss allowance recognised on 1 July 2018 was therefore limited to 12 months expected losses. There were no significant movements in the expected credit loss allowance through to 30 June 2019. There was no impact from the adoption of AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Guarantees entered into by the parent entity There are cross guarantees given by Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Limited, Tollaust Pty Limited, Roam Tolling Pty Limited, Sydney Roads Limited, Sydney Roads Management Limited, Statewide Roads Limited, M4 Holdings No 1 Pty Limited, M5 Holdings Pty Limited and Devome Pty Limited as described in note B27. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 150 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 64 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B35 Changes in accounting policies This note explains the impact of the adoption of AASB 9 Financial Instruments on the Group’s financial statements. AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers did not have an impact on the Group’s financial statements as disclosed at note B5 Revenue. Adoption of AASB 9 Financial Instruments AASB 9 replaces the provisions of AASB 139 that relate to the recognition, classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, derecognition of financial instruments, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting. AASB 9 was adopted without restating comparative information. The reclassifications and the adjustments arising from the new standard are therefore not reflected in the restated balance sheet as at 30 June 2018, but are recognised in the opening balance sheet on 1 July 2018. AASB 9 eliminates the previous AASB 139 categories for financial assets of held to maturity, loans and receivables and available for sale. Under AASB 9, on initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as measured at: amortised cost; fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI)—debt investment; FVOCI—equity investment; or at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL). The classification of financial assets under AASB 9 is generally based on the business model in which a financial asset is managed and its contractual cash flow characteristics. AASB 9 largely retains the existing requirements in AASB 139 for the classification and measurement of financial liabilities. The adoption of AASB 9 has not had a significant effect on the Group’s accounting policies related to financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments. The following table shows the adjustments recognised for each individual line item. Line items that were not affected by the changes have not been included. As a result, the sub-totals and totals disclosed cannot be recalculated from the numbers provided. Section B: Notes to the consolidated Financial financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 151 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 65 B35 Changes in accounting policies (continued) As at As at 30 June AASB 9 1 July 2018 Impact 2018 $M $M $M Balance sheet (extract) Assets Current assets Trade and other receivables 444 (19) 425 Derivative financial instruments 21 – 21 Held-to-maturity investments 226 (226) – Financial assets at amortised cost – 226 226 Total current assets 1,821 (19) 1,802 Non-current assets Held-to-maturity investments 806 (806) – Financial assets at amortised cost – 733 733 Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL) – 92 92 Derivative financial instruments 217 – 217 Deferred tax assets 1,021 5 1,026 Total non-current assets 24,605 24 24,629 Total assets 26,426 5 26,431 Liabilities Current liabilities Derivative financial instruments 11 – 11 Total current liabilities 2,223 – 2,223 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 985 (2) 983 Derivative financial instruments 441 – 441 Total non-current liabilities 17,437 (2) 17,435 Total liabilities 19,660 (2) 19,658 Net assets 6,766 7 6,773 Equity Contributed equity 1,746 – 1,746 Reserves (101) – (101) Accumulated losses (3,455) 12 (3,443) Non-controlling interests held by security holders of the stapled group (THT/TIL) 7,401 – 7,401 Equity attributable to security holders of the stapled group 5,591 12 5,603 Non-controlling interests—other 1,175 (5) 1,170 Total equity 6,766 7 6,773 The total impact on the Group’s equity as at 1 July 2018 is as follows: Total equity $M Total equity as at 30 June 2018 6,766 Reclassification of held-to-maturity assets to financial assets at FVPL1 22 Increase in provision for trade receivables at amortised cost (10) Increase in provision for other financial assets at amortised cost (9) Increase in provision for debt financial assets at amortised cost (3) Increase in deferred tax assets relating to impairment provisions 7 Net adjustment to accumulated losses, including non-controlling interest—other, from adoption of AASB 9 on 1 July 2018 7 Total equity as at 1 July 2018 6,773 The M5 Motorway debt notes have been eliminated subsequent to 1 July 2018, following the Group’s consolidation of this business from 18 September 2018. Refer to note B13 for further information. Transurban Section B: Notes to the consolidated 152 FY19 Corporate Report financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 66 Section B: Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holdings Limited ABN 86 098 143 429 B35 Changes in accounting policies (continued) Impact of transition to AASB 9 (i) Classification and measurement On 1 July 2018 (the date of initial application of AASB 9), the Group has assessed which business models apply to the financial assets held by the Group and has classified its financial instruments into the appropriate AASB 9 categories. Reclassification from held-to-maturity to financial assets at amortised cost NorthConnex shareholder loan notes (‘SLNs’) (previously disclosed within non-current held-to-maturity assets) are now classified and disclosed as financial assets at amortised cost within non-current assets. The Group intends to hold the assets to maturity to collect contractual cash flows and these cash flows consist solely of payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. There was no difference between the previous carrying amount and the revised carrying amount of the financial asset at 1 July 2018 to be recognised in opening retained earnings. An increase of $3 million in the provision for impairment of this asset was recognised in opening retaining earnings for the period (tax impact $1 million). Treasury notes (previously disclosed within current held-to-maturity assets) are now classified and disclosed as other financial assets at amortised cost within current assets. The Group intends to hold the assets to maturity to collect contractual cash flows and these cash flows consist solely of payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. There was no difference between the previous carrying amount and the revised carrying amount of the financial asset at 1 July 2018 to be recognised in opening retained earnings. There was no change in the provision for impairment of these assets recognised in opening retaining earnings for the period (tax impact $nil). Reclassification from held-to-maturity to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss On initial application of AASB 9, the M5 Motorway debt notes (previously disclosed as held-to-maturity assets) were reclassified to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss within non-current assets. The cash flows of the debt notes do not consist solely of payments of principal and interest due to a portion of cash flows being linked to the performance of the underlying toll road and as such they are required to be classified and measured at fair value through profit or loss. An increase in value of $22 million (tax impact $nil) was recorded between the previous carrying amount and the revised carrying amount of the financial asset at 1 July 2018 and was recognised in opening retained earnings. (ii) Derivatives and hedging activities The foreign currency forwards and interest rate swaps in place as at 30 June 2018 qualified as cash flow hedges under AASB 9. The Group’s risk management strategies and hedge documentation are aligned with the requirements of AASB 9 and these relationships are therefore treated as continuing hedges. Accordingly, there is no impact from adopting AASB 9 on the Group’s accounting for derivatives and hedging activities. (iii) Impairment of financial assets The Group has three types of financial assets that are subject to AASB 9’s new expected credit loss model:  trade receivables for toll revenue,  other financial assets at amortised cost, and  debt financial assets carried at amortised cost. The Group has revised its impairment methodology under AASB 9 for each of these classes of assets. The impact of the change in impairment methodology on the Group’s retained earnings and equity is disclosed in the previous table above. While cash and cash equivalents are also subject to the impairment requirements of AASB 9, the identified expected credit loss was immaterial. Section C: THT & TIL financial statements Financial 153 67 for the year Transurban ended Holding Trust30 June (THT) and2019 Statements Section C: THT & TIL financial statements Transurban International Limited (TIL) for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Section C: THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 67 Section C: THT Section andC:TIL financial statements THT and TIL financial statements Consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Transurban Holding Trust International Limited Consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the year ended2019 30 June 2018 2019 2019 2018 Note $M $M $M $M Revenue D4 1,068 Transurban901 551 Transurban 322 Holding Trust International Limited Expenses 2019 2018 2019 2018 Employee benefits expense Note $M– $M– $M (23) $M (18) Revenue Road operating costs D4 1,068– 901– 551 (82) 322 (54) Construction costs (231) (199) (239) (100) Expenses Transaction and integration costs – – (11) (21) Employee benefits Corporate and other expense expenses (8)– (7)– (23) (26) (18) (22) Road Total operating expensescosts (239)– (206)– (82) (381) (54) (215) Construction costs (231) (199) (239) (100) Transaction Earnings and integration before depreciation costs and amortisation, net finance costs, – – (11) (21) Corporate and other equity accounted expenses and income tax investments (8) 829 (7) 695 (26) 170 (22) 107 Total expenses (239) (206) (381) (215) Depreciation and amortisation expense (309) (310) (97) (42) Earnings Net finance before depreciation and amortisation, net finance costs, income/(costs) D9 28 272 (261) (175) equity Share of accounted investments net profit/(loss) and of equity income tax accounted investments D15 829 (153) 695 22 170 (1) 107– Profit/(loss) before income tax 395 679 (189) (110) Depreciation and amortisation expense (309) (310) (97) (42) Net finance Income income/(costs) tax benefit/(expense) D9 28 (1) 272– (261) 35 (175) 98 Profit/(loss) profit/(loss) Share of net for the year of equity accounted investments D15 (153) 394 22 679 (1) (154) (12)– Profit/(loss) before income tax 395 679 (189) (110) Profit/(loss) is attributable to: Income Ordinarytax benefit/(expense) security holders of TIL (1)– –– 35 (154) 98 (12) Profit/(loss) Ordinary unitfor the year holders of THT 394 409 679 672 (154)– (12)– Non-controlling interests D16 (15) 7 – – Profit/(loss) is attributable to: 394 679 (154) (12) Ordinary Other security holders comprehensive of TIL income – – (154) (12) Items thatunit Ordinary may holders of THT to profit or loss be reclassified 409 672 – – Non-controlling Changes in the fair interests value of cash flow hedges, net of tax D16 (15) (106) (74)7 (10)– 2– Share of other comprehensive income from equity accounted investments, net of tax D15 394 (67) 679 5 (154)– (12)– Other Exchange comprehensive differences onincometranslation of North American operations, net of tax – – (35) (25) Items Movementthat may be reclassified in share-based or loss to profitreserve payments (2) 1 1 – Changes in the fair value Other comprehensive of cash flowfor income/(loss) hedges, netnet the year, of tax of tax (106) (175) (74) (68) (10) (44) 2 (23) Share of other comprehensive Total comprehensive incomefor income/(loss) year accounted investments, net of tax theequity from D15 (67) 219 611 5 (198)– (35)– Exchange differences on translation of North American operations, net of tax – – (35) (25) Movement in share-based Total comprehensive paymentsfor income/(loss) reserve the year is attributable to: (2) 1 1 – Other comprehensive income/(loss) Ordinary security holders of TIL for the year, net of tax (175)– (68)– (44) (198) (23) (35) Total comprehensive Ordinary unit holders ofincome/(loss) THT for the year 219 259 611 633 (198)– (35)– Non-controlling interests (40) (22) – – Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year is attributable to: 219 611 (198) (35) Ordinary security holders of TIL Cents– Cents– (198) Cents (35) Cents Earnings unit Ordinary holders of per security THT attributable to ordinary security holders of the group: 259 633 – – Non-controlling interests Basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per security D7 (40) 15.9 (22) 31.5 (6.0)– (0.6)– 219 611 (198) (35) Cents Cents Cents Cents Earnings per security attributable to ordinary security holders of the group: Basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per security D7 15.9 31.5 (6.0) (0.6) The above consolidated statements of comprehensive income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. The above consolidated statements of comprehensive income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Transurban Section C: THT & TIL financial statements 154 FY19 Corporate Report for the year ended 30 June 2019 68 Section C: THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) 68 Section C: THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Consolidated balance sheets as at 30 June 2019 Transurban Holding Trust Transurban International Limited Consolidated balance sheets as at 30 June 2019 2019 2018 2019 20181 Note Transurban $M Holding Trust SM Transurban $M International Limited $M Assets 2019 2018 2019 20181 Current assets Note $M SM $M $M Assets Cash and cash equivalents 119 113 512 346 Current Loans toassets related parties 1,508 884 – – Cash and Trade andcash other equivalents receivables 119 22 1135 512 68 346 55 Loans to related Concession notesparties 1,508 106 884 100 – – – – Trade and other receivables Held-to-maturity investments 22– 5– 68– 55 226 Concession Total current notes assets 106 1,755 100 1,102 580– 627– Held-to-maturity investments – – – 226 Total currentassets Non-current assets 1,755 1,102 580 627 Equity accounted investments D15 2,539 364 4 5 Non-current assetsinstruments Derivative financial D11 56 19 – – Equity accounted Related investments party receivables D15 2,539 8,871 364 10,410 4– 5– Derivative financial Concession notes instruments D11 56 923 19 965 – – – – Related Concession party receivables financial asset 8,871– 10,410– 341– 323– Concession Financial notes assets at amortised cost D17 923 643 965– – – –– Concession Property, financial plant asset and equipment – – – – 341 51 323 28 Financial assets Deferred at amortised cost tax assets D17 D5 643 92 66– 250– 271– Property, Other plant and intangible equipment assets D12 9,870– 9,601– 51 4,905 28 4,082 Deferred tax assetsassets Total non-current D5 92 22,994 21,42566 250 5,551 271 4,709 Other intangible assets D12 9,870 9,601 4,905 4,082 Total non-current Total assets assets 22,994 24,749 21,425 22,527 5,551 6,131 4,709 5,336 Total assets Liabilities 24,749 22,527 6,131 5,336 Current liabilities Liabilities Related party payables 413 632 1,658 1,644 Current Trade and liabilities other payables 74 73 110 56 Related party payables Borrowings D10 413 648 632 20 1,658 4 1,644 3 Trade and other Maintenance payables provision 74– 73– 110 19 565 Borrowings payable Distribution D10 D6 648 788 20 615 4– 3– Maintenance provision Derivative financial instruments D11 2– – – 19– 5– Distribution payable Construction obligation provision D6 788 133 615– – – –– Derivative Other financial instruments liabilities D11 402 97– 111– 31– Total currentobligation Construction liabilities provision 133 2,098 1,437– 1,902– 1,739– Other liabilities 40 97 111 31 Total current liabilities Non–current liabilities 2,098 1,437 1,902 1,739 Maintenance provision – – 140 113 Non–current Deferred liabilities tax liabilities D5 – – 357 406 Maintenance Related party provision payables 4,585– 5,567– 140 876 113 890 Deferred tax liabilities Borrowings D5 D10 6,426– 6,361– 357 2,959 406 2,591 Related party Derivative payables financial instruments D11 4,585 149 5,567 160 876 194 890 140 Borrowings obligation provision Construction D10 6,426 208 6,361– 2,959– 2,591– Derivative Other financial instruments liabilities D11 149 63 160 52 194 287 1402 Construction Total non–current obligation provision liabilities 208 11,431 12,140– 4,813– 4,142– Other liabilities 63 52 287 2 Total non–current Total liabilities liabilities 11,431 13,529 12,140 13,577 4,813 6,715 4,142 5,881 Net liabilities Totalassets/(liabilities) 13,529 11,220 13,577 8,950 6,715 (584) 5,881 (545) Net assets/(liabilities) Equity 11,220 8,950 (584) (545) Contributed equity – – 522 363 Equity units Issued 15,954 12,243 – – Contributed Reserves equity D8 (233)– (83)– 522 (207) 363 (163) Issued units losses Accumulated 15,954 (5,363) 12,243 (4,255) (899)– (745)– Reserves Non-controlling interests D8 D16 (233) 862 (83) 1,045 (207)– (163)– Total equity losses Accumulated (5,363) 11,220 (4,255) 8,950 (899) (584) (745) (545) Non-controlling interests D16 862 1,045 – – Total allocation balances of 30 June 2018 balance sheet has been restated to reflect the final fair value of the purchase price11,220 Theequity 8,950 (584) on 5 June 2018. A25, which was acquired (545) Refer to note B24. The 30 June 2018 balance sheet has been restated to reflect the final fair value of the purchase price allocation balances of A25, which was acquired on 5 June 2018. Refer to note B24. The above consolidated balance sheets should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. The above consolidated balance sheets should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Section C: THT & TIL financial statements Financial for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 155 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Section C: THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 69 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Section C: THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 69 Consolidated statements of changes in equity for the year ended 30 June 2019 THT Attributable to security holders of Consolidated statements of changes in equity for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holding Trust NonAccumulated controlling THT No of units IssuedAttributable units to security holders Reserves lossesof interests Total M $M Transurban $M Holding Trust $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2017 2,052 10,665 (44) (3,836) Non1,147 7,932 Accumulated controlling Comprehensive income No of units Issued units Reserves losses interests Total Profit/(loss) for the year – – – 672 7 679 M $M $M $M $M $M Other comprehensive income/(loss) – – (39) – (29) (68) Balance at 1 July 2017 2,052 10,665 (44) (3,836) 1,147 7,932 Total comprehensive income/(loss) – – (39) 672 (22) 611 Comprehensive income Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs1 167 1,528 – – – 1,528 Profit/(loss) for the year – – – 672 7 679 Employee performance awards issued 1 5 – – – 5 Other comprehensive income/(loss) – – (39) – (29) (68) Distributions provided to or paid – – – (1,091) – (1,091) Total comprehensive income/(loss) – – (39) 672 (22) 611 Distribution reinvestment plan 5 45 – – – 45 Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs1 167 1,528 – – – 1,528 Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – (80) (80) Employee performance awards issued 1 5 – – – 5 173 1,578 – (1,091) (80) 407 Distributions provided to or paid – – – (1,091) – (1,091) Balance at 30 June 2018 as originally presented 2,225 12,243 (83) (4,255) 1,045 8,950 Distribution reinvestment plan 5 45 – – – 45 Change in accounting policy – – – (21) – (21) Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – (80) (80) Balance at 1 July 2018 2,225 12,243 (83) (4,276) 1,045 8,929 173 1,578 – (1,091) (80) 407 Comprehensive income Balance at 30 June 2018 as originally presented 2,225 12,243 (83) (4,255) 1,045 8,950 Profit/(loss) for the year – – – 409 (15) 394 Change in accounting policy – – – (21) – (21) Other comprehensive income/(loss) – – (150) (25) (175) Balance at 1 July 2018 2,225 12,243 (83) (4,276) 1,045 8,929 Total comprehensive income/(loss) – – (150) 409 (40) 219 Comprehensive income Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs1 446 3,676 – – – 3,676 Profit/(loss) for the year – – – 409 (15) 394 Employee performance awards issued 1 8 – 1 – 9 Other comprehensive income/(loss) – – (150) (25) (175) Distributions provided to or paid – – – (1,497) – (1,497) Total comprehensive income/(loss) – – (150) 409 (40) 219 Distribution reinvestment plan 3 27 – – – 27 Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs1 446 3,676 – – – 3,676 Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – (143) (143) Employee performance awards issued 1 8 – 1 – 9 Balance at 30 June 2019 2,675 15,954 (233) (5,363) 862 11,220 Distributions provided to or paid – – – (1,497) – (1,497) Distribution reinvestment plan 3 27 – – – 27 Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – (143) (143) Attributable to security holders of Balance at 30 June 2019 2,675 15,954 (233) (5,363) 862 11,220 TIL Transurban International Limited No. of Contributed Reserves Accumulated Total Securities equity $M losses equity M Attributable $M to security holders$M of $M TIL Transurban International Limited Balance at 1 July 2017 2,052 309 (140) (733) (564) No. of Contributed Reserves Accumulated Total Comprehensive income Securities equity $M losses equity Profit/(loss) for the year – – – (12) (12) $M M $M $M Other comprehensive income/(loss) – – (23) – (23) Balance at 1 July 2017 2,052 309 (140) (733) (564) Total comprehensive income/(loss) – – (23) (12) (35) Comprehensive income Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs1 167 52 – – 52 Profit/(loss) for the year – – – (12) (12) Employee performance awards issued 1 – – – – Other comprehensive income/(loss) – – (23) – (23) Distribution reinvestment plan 5 2 – – 2 Total comprehensive income/(loss) – – (23) (12) (35) 173 54 – – 54 Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs1 167 52 – – 52 Balance at 30 June 2018 as originally presented 2,225 363 (163) (745) (545) Employee performance awards issued 1 – – – – Change in accounting policy – – – – – Distribution reinvestment plan 5 2 – – 2 Balance at 1 July 2018 2,225 363 (163) (745) (545) 173 54 – – 54 Comprehensive income Balance at 30 June 2018 as originally presented 2,225 363 (163) (745) (545) Profit/(loss) for the year – – – (154) (154) Change in accounting policy – – – – – Other comprehensive income/(loss) – – (44) – (44) Balance at 1 July 2018 2,225 363 (163) (745) (545) Total comprehensive income/(loss) – – (44) (154) (198) Comprehensive income Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs1 446 157 – – 157 Profit/(loss) for the year – – – (154) (154) Employee performance awards issued 1 – – – – Other comprehensive income/(loss) – – (44) – (44) Distribution reinvestment plan 3 2 – – 2 Total comprehensive income/(loss) – – (44) (154) (198) Balance at 30 June 2019 2,675 522 (207) (899) (584) Contributions of equity, net of transaction costs1 446 157 – – 157 1.Employee Refer to theperformance awards issued Group’s Consolidated statement of changes in equity for further information. 1 – – – – Distribution reinvestment plan 3 2 – – 2 Balance at 30 June 2019 2,675 522 (207) (899) (584) 1. Refer to the Group’s Consolidated statement of changes in equity for further information. The above consolidated statements of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. The above consolidated statements of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Transurban Section C: THT & TIL financial statements 156 70 FY19C:Corporate Section Report THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended Transurban Holding30 June Trust 2019 (THT) and 70 Section C: THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Transurban International Limited (TIL) Consolidated statements Consolidated statements of of cash cash flows flows forfor the the year year ended ended 30 30 June June 2019 2019 Transurban Transurban Transurban Transurban Holding Holding Trust Trust International International Limited Limited 2019 2019 2018 2018 2019 2019 2018 2018 Note Note $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Cash flows Cash flows fromfrom operating operating activities activities Receipts from customers Receipts from customers 831 831 701 701 319 319 223 223 Payments to Payments to suppliers suppliers (40) (40) (41) (41) (83) (83) (72) (72) Payments for Payments for maintenance maintenance of of intangibles intangibles – – – – (5) (5) (3) (3) Transaction costs Transaction costs related related to to acquisitions acquisitions – – – – (11) (11) (20) (20) Other cash receipts Other cash receipts – – – – 15 15 – – Interest received Interest received 365 365 265 265 7 7 3 3 Interest paid Interest paid (601) (601) (558) (558) (112) (112) (47) (47) Income Income taxes taxes paidpaid – – (1) (1) – – Net cash Net cash inflow/(outflow) inflow/(outflow) from from operating operating activities activities (a) (a) 555 555 367 367 129 129 84 84 Cash flows Cash flows fromfrom investing investing activities activities Payments for Payments for acquisition acquisition of subsidiary (net of subsidiary (net of of cash cash acquired) acquired) – – – – – – (846) (846) Payments Payments for for equity equity accounted accounted investments investments (2,487) (2,487) – – – – (5) (5) Payments for Payments property, plant for property, and equipment plant and equipment – – – – (24) (24) (15) (15) Payments Payments for for intangible intangible assets assets (285) (285) (209) (209) (288) (288) (128) (128) Payment Payment for/Repayment of for/Repayment financial assets of financial assets atat amortised amortised cost cost (700) (700) – – 233 233 – – Payments for Payments held-to-maturity investments, for held-to-maturity investments, net of fees net of fees – – – – – – (55) (55) Receipts Receipts from from concession concession notesnotes 96 96 239 239 – – – – Distributions received Distributions received fromfrom equity equity accounted accounted investments investments 154 154 141 141 – – – – Net cash Net inflow/(outflow) from cash inflow/(outflow) investing activities from investing activities (3,222) (3,222) 171 171 (79) (79) (1,049) (1,049) Cash Cash flows flows fromfrom financing financing activities activities Loans (to)/from Loans (to)/from related parties related parties (b) (b) (7,894) (7,894) (2,885) (2,885) 115 115 896 896 Repayment of Repayment of loans loans from/(to) from/(to) related related parties parties (b) (b) 7,815 7,815 1,640 1,640 (377) (377) (82) (82) Proceeds from issue of stapled securities Proceeds from issue of stapled securities (net(net of of costs) costs) 3,676 3,676 1,528 1,528 157 157 52 52 Proceeds Proceeds from from borrowings borrowings (net (net of of costs) costs) (b) (b) 1,158 1,158 2,714 2,714 201 201 301 301 Repayment of borrowings Repayment of borrowings (b) (b) (656) (656) (2,491) (2,491) (3) (3) (30) (30) Distributions Distributions paidpaid toto Transurban Transurban Group'sGroup's security security holders holders (1,275) (1,275) (951) (951) – – – – Distributions Distributions paidpaid toto non-controlling non-controlling interests interests in in subsidiaries subsidiaries (151) (151) (82) (82) – – – – Net Net cash cash inflow/(outflow) inflow/(outflow) from from financing financing activities activities 2,673 2,673 (527) (527) 93 93 1,137 1,137 Net Net increase/(decrease) increase/(decrease) in in cash cash and and cash cash equivalents equivalents 6 6 11 11 143 143 172 172 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning the year of the year 113 113 102 102 346 346 167 167 Effects of of exchange Effects exchange rate rate changes changes on on cash cash and and cash equivalents cash equivalents – – – – 23 23 7 7 Cash and Cash and cash equivalents at cash equivalents at end end of of year year 119 119 113 113 512 512 346 346 (a) (a) Reconciliation Reconciliation of profit after of profit after income income tax to net tax to net cash inflow from cash inflow from operating operating activities activities Transurban Transurban Transurban Transurban Holding Holding Trust Trust International Limited International Limited 2019 2019 2018 2018 2019 2019 2018 2018 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Profit/(loss) for Profit/(loss) for the the year year 394 394 679 679 (154) (154) (12) (12) Depreciation Depreciation and and amortisation amortisation 309 309 310 310 97 97 42 42 Non-cash Non-cash net net finance finance costs costs 18 18 13 13 171 171 114 114 Capitalised interest income Capitalised interest income (226) (226) – – – – – – Non-cash net Non-cash net income income on on concession concession notes notes (60) (60) (347) (347) – – – – Share of profit/(loss) Share of profit/(loss) from equity from equity accounted accounted investments investments 153 153 (22) (22) 1 1 – – Change Change in operating assets in operating assets andand liabilities: liabilities: (Increase)/decrease in (Increase)/decrease trade and in trade other receivables and other receivables (18) (18) (1) (1) (4) (4) 4 4 (Decrease)/increase (Decrease)/increase in in related related party party operating operating loans loans (28) (28) (267) (267) 9 9 (2) (2) (Decrease)/Increase in trade creditors and (Decrease)/Increase in trade creditors and accruals accruals (1) (1) 3 3 12 12 (6) (6) Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in other other operating operating provisions provisions – – – – – – 17 17 Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in deferred deferred and and current current taxes taxes 1 1 – – (35) (35) (98) (98) Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in maintenance maintenance provisionprovision – – – – 32 32 28 28 Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in other other liabilities liabilities 13 13 (1) (1) – – (3) (3) Net cash Net cash inflow/(outflow) inflow/(outflow) from from operating operating activities activities 555 555 367 367 129 129 84 84 The above The consolidated statements statements of above consolidated cash flows flows should of cash be read read in should be conjunction with in conjunction with the the accompanying accompanying notes. notes. Section C: THT & TIL financial statements Financial for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 157 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Section C: THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 71 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Section C: THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 71 Consolidated statements of cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) Consolidated statements of cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) (b) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities (b) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities THT Debt THT principal related Debt derivatives principal Total debt (included related in related Net related Borrowings Borrowings assets / derivatives financial Total debt party 1 current non-current liabilities) (included in instrumentsrelated (receivables) Net related Borrowings $M Borrowings $M assets $M/ $M financial $M party 1 Balance at 1 July 2018 current 20 non-current 6,361 (221) instruments liabilities) 6,160 (receivables) (5,095) Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) $M– $M 1,158 $M– $M 1,158 $M– Balance Repayment at 1ofJuly 2018 borrowings 20 (20) 6,361 (636) (221)– 6,160 (656) (5,095) – Proceeds Loans from borrowings (to)/from related parties (net of costs) – – 1,158– – – 1,158– (7,894)– Repayment of Repayment borrowings of loans from/(to) related parties (20)– (636)– – – (656)– 7,815– Loans (to)/from Total cash flows related parties (20)– 522– – – 502– (7,894) (79) RepaymentChanges Non-Cash of loans from/(to) related parties – – – – 7,815 Total cash flows Transfer (20) 648 522 (648) – – 502– (79)– CapitalisedChanges Non-Cash Interest – – – – (202) Transfer Amortisation of borrowing costs 648– (648) 7 – – 7– –Capitalised Intercompany Interest non-cash settlements – – – – – – – – (202) (30) Amortisation of borrowingofcosts Provision for impairment intercompany loans – – 7– – – 7– 23Intercompany Foreign exchangenon-cash movementssettlements – – 184– (88)– 96– (30)– Provision for impairment Total non-cash changes of intercompany loans 648– (457)– (88)– 103– 23 (209) Foreign exchange movements – 184 (88) 96 – Balance at 30 June 2019 648 6,426 (309) 6,765 (5,383) Total non-cash changes 648 (457) (88) 103 (209) Balance 2019 at 30 June 2019 is a liability of $95 million. The difference in carrying value to the at 30 Junebalance Total derivatives 648table above6,426 (309)rate swap 6,765 relates to interest contracts, forward (5,383) exchange contracts, the interest portion of cross-currency interest rate swap contracts and credit valuation and debit valuation adjustments which are excluded from Totalbalances the derivatives balance at 30 June 2019 is a liability of $95 million. The difference in carrying value to the table above relates to interest rate swap contracts, forward above. exchange contracts, the interest portion of cross-currency interest rate swap contracts and credit valuation and debit valuation adjustments which are excluded from the balances above. Debt principal related Debt derivatives principal Total debt (included related in related Net related Borrowings Borrowings assets / derivatives financial Total debt party 2 current non-current liabilities) (included in instrumentsrelated (receivables) Net related Borrowings $M Borrowings $M assets $M/ $M financial $M party 2 Balance at 1 July 2017 current 405 non-current 5,648 (204) instruments liabilities) 5,849 (receivables) (3,573) Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) $M– $M 2,714 $M– $M 2,714 $M– Balance Repayment at 1ofJuly 2017 borrowings 405 (405) 5,648 (2,086) (204)– 5,849 (2,491) (3,573)– Proceeds from borrowings Loans (to)/from related parties (net of costs) –– 2,714– –– 2,714– (2,885)– Repayment of Repayment of loans borrowings from/(to) related parties (405)– (2,086)– – – (2,491)– 1,640– Loans (to)/from Capitalised relatedand premiums parties discounts included in operating cash flows –– (5)– – – (5)– (2,885)– Repayment of Total cash flows loans from/(to) related parties (405)– 623– – – 218– 1,640 (1,245) CapitalisedChanges Non-Cash premiums and discounts included in operating cash flows – (5) – (5) – Total cash flows Transfer (405) 20 623 (20) –– 218– (1,245)– CapitalisedChanges Non-Cash Interest – – – – (258) Transfer Amortisation of borrowing costs 20– (20) 19 –– 19– –– Capitalised Intercompany Interest non-cash settlements – – – – – – – – (258) (16) Amortisation Foreign exchange of borrowing movements costs –– 19 91 (17)– 19 74 (3)– Intercompany Total non-cash non-cash changessettlements 20– 90– (17)– 93– (16) (277) Foreign exchange Balance at 30 June movements 2018 20– 6,36191 (17) (221) 74 6,160 (5,095)(3) Total non-cash changes 20 90 (17) 93 (277) Balance 2018 at 30 June 2018 is a liability of $141 million. The difference in carrying value to the at 30 Junebalance Total derivatives 20 table above 6,361 (221) rate swap6,160 relates to interest contracts, forward (5,095) exchange contracts, the interest portion of cross-currency interest rate swap contracts and credit valuation and debit valuation adjustments which are excluded from Totalbalances the derivatives balance at 30 June 2018 is a liability of $141 million. The difference in carrying value to the table above relates to interest rate swap contracts, forward above. exchange contracts, the interest portion of cross-currency interest rate swap contracts and credit valuation and debit valuation adjustments which are excluded from the balances above. The above consolidated statements of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. The above consolidated statements of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Transurban Section C: THT & TIL financial statements 158 FY19 Corporate Report for the year ended 30 June 2019 72 Section C: THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Consolidated statements of cash flows for the year ended 30 June 2019 (continued) (b) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities (continued) TIL Net related Borrowings Borrowing Total party current non-current borrowings payables $M $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2018 3 2,591 2,594 2,534 Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) – 201 201 – Repayment of borrowings (3) – (3) – Loans (to)/from related parties – – – 115 Repayment of loans from/(to) related parties – – – (377) Total cash flows (3) 201 198 (262) Non-Cash Changes Transfer 3 (3) – – Capitalised interest – 6 6 124 Intercompany non-cash settlements – – – 10 Amortisation of borrowing costs – 11 11 – Foreign exchange movements 1 153 154 128 Total non-cash changes 4 167 171 262 Balance at 30 June 2019 4 2,959 2,963 2,534 Net related Borrowings Borrowing Total party current non-current borrowings payables $M $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2017 12 1,780 1,792 1,591 Proceeds from borrowings (net of costs) – 301 301 – Repayment of borrowings (12) (18) (30) – Loans (to)/from related parties – – – 896 Repayment of loans from/(to) related parties – – – (82) Capitalised premiums and discounts included in operating and investing cash flows – 23 23 – Total cash flows (12) 306 294 814 Non-Cash Changes Acquisition 3 384 387 – Capitalised interest – 27 27 68 Amortisation of borrowing costs – 9 9 – Foreign exchange movements – 85 85 61 Total non-cash changes 3 505 508 129 Balance at 30 June 2018 3 2,591 2,594 2,534 The above consolidated statements of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial Financial 159 73 statements Transurban for the Holding (THT) ended Trustyear and 30 June 2019 Statements Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements Transurban International Limited (TIL) for the year ended 30 June 2019 Section D: Notes to the THT and TIL financial statements Basis of preparation D1 D2 and significant changes Introduction Trust formation and termination Operating D3 D4 D5 performance Segment Revenue Income tax information Security holder D6 D7 outcomes Distributions Earnings per stapled security Capital and D8 D9 D10 D11 borrowings Reserves Net finance Borrowings Derivatives and income/(costs) financial risk management Concession D12 D13 D14 summary Other intangible Concession Other liabilities—concession assets financial asset liabilities Group D15 D16 structure Equity accounted Non-controlling investments interests Other D17 D18 D19 Related party Parent entity Changes in accounting policies transactions financial information Transurban Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial 160 FY19 Corporate Report statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 74 Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Basis of preparation and significant changes D1 Introduction The Transurban Holding Trust Group consists of Transurban Holding Trust and the entities it controls (‘THT’) and the Transurban International Limited Group consists of Transurban International Limited and the entities it controls (‘TIL’). THT and TIL form part of the stapled Transurban Group. THT is registered as a managed investment scheme under Chapter 5C of the Corporations Act 2001, and as a result requires a responsible entity. The responsible entity of the THT is Transurban Infrastructure Management Limited (‘TIML’). TIML is the responsible entity of the Trust and is responsible for performing all functions that are required under the Corporations Act 2001 of a responsible entity. THT is a Trust registered and domiciled in Australia. TIL is a public company limited by shares and incorporated in Australia. Going concern THT’s current liabilities exceed its current assets by $343 million as at 30 June 2019. This is in part attributable to $413 million of loans payable to another entity within the Transurban Group. Excluding this loan, the THT Group has net current assets of $70 million. The financial report has been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes the continuity of normal operations. This is based on the following:  THT has generated positive cash inflows from operating activities of $555 million for the year ended 30 June 2019;  THT expects to refinance or repay with available cash all borrowing facilities classified as a current liability at 30 June 2019;  THT has paid $1,275 million of dividends and distributions to Transurban Group’s security holders over the past 12 months. Payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the Board; and TIL’s current liabilities exceed its current assets by $1,322 million as at 30 June 2019. This is primarily attributable to $1,658 million of loans payable to another entity within the Transurban Group. Excluding this loan, the TIL Group has net current assets of $336 million. The financial report has been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes the continuity of normal operations. Under the stapling arrangement, each entity is able to provide direct and/or indirect support to each other entity and its controlled entities within the Transurban Group. D2 Trust formation and termination The Transurban Holding Trust was established on 15 November 2001 and has no termination date. The Trust was registered as a managed investment scheme by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission on 28 November 2001. Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial Financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 161 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 75 Operating performance D3 Segment information Refer to note B4 for further information around the structure of the segments for the Transurban Group. THT operating segments Management has determined that THT has one operating segment. THT operations involve the leasing of assets and the provision of funding to the Transurban Group or associates of the Transurban Group. All revenues and expenses are directly attributable to these activities. The management structure and internal reporting of the Trust are based on this one operating segment. TIL operating segments Management has determined that TIL has one operating segment. TIL operations involve the development, operation and maintenance of toll roads in North America. All revenues and expenses are directly attributable to these activities. The management structure and internal reporting of TIL are based on this one operating segment. Reconciliation of segment information to statutory financial information Segment information for TIL as disclosed in the Transurban Group segment note at B4 is reconciled to the TIL statutory financial information below. Segment revenue Revenue from external customers is through toll and service and fee revenues earned on toll roads. There are no inter-segment revenues within the North America segment. Segment revenue reconciles to total statutory revenue as follows: 2019 2018 TIL $M $M Total segment revenue (proportional) 338 224 Add: Construction revenue from road development activities 239 100 Toll revenue receipts on A25 relating to concession financial asset (12) (1) Other revenue receipts on A25 relating to concession financial asset (14) (1) Total revenue 551 322 Reconciliation of proportional EBITDA to statutory profit for the year Proportional EBITDA reconciles to statutory net profit as follows: 2019 2018 TIL $M $M Proportional EBITDA 199 109 Add: EBITDA attributable to TIL corporate activities (disclosed in corporate and other) (3) – Toll and other revenue on A25 concession financial asset recognised as repayment of concession financial asset (26) (2) Statutory earnings before depreciation and amortisation, net finance costs, equity accounted investments and tax 170 107 Statutory depreciation and amortisation expense (97) (42) Statutory net finance costs (261) (175) Share of net loss from equity accounted investments (1) – Loss before tax for the year from continuing operations (189) (110) Transurban Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial 162 FY19 Corporate Report statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 76 Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) D4 Revenue THT TIL 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M Toll revenue – – 312 222 Rental income 796 667 – – Construction revenue 231 199 239 100 Other revenue 1 1 – – Concession fees 40 34 – – Total revenue 1,068 901 551 322 For accounting policies on Toll revenue, construction revenue and other revenue, refer to note B5. AASB 15 does not apply to the rental income revenue stream, which comprises rental income on the property held by THT. This income is recognised in accordance with the terms of the lease contract. Revenue type Recognition Rental income Rental income is derived from property held by THT and is recognised in profit and loss in accordance with the lease contract. Concession fees Other income from concession fees relates to the CityLink concession notes. Pursuant to the Agreement for the Melbourne CityLink Concession Deed (the Concession Deed), CityLink Melbourne Limited (‘CityLink’) (a member of the Transurban Group), is required to pay annual concession fees for the duration of CityLink's concession period. Until a certain threshold rate of return on the project is achieved, the payment of concession fees due under the Concession Deed can be satisfied by means of non-interest bearing concession notes. Following agreements reached with the State of Victoria (the State), the Group paid a total of $765 million to the State to have all current concession notes issued by the State assigned to Transurban Holding Trust, and the State directed CityLink to pay future concession notes to Transurban Holding Trust. Accordingly, CityLink continues to issue notes semi-annually to Transurban Holding Trust, and Transurban Holding Trust recognises concession note income from the issue of these notes, at the present value of expected future repayments D5 Income tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities—TIL Asset Liability 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M The balance comprises temporary difference attributable to: Accrued expenses 2 2 (1) – Provisions 52 40 – – Current and prior year losses 376 341 – – Fixed assets/intangibles 18 26 (626) (602) Derivatives and foreign exchange 72 58 – – Tax assets/(liabilities) 520 467 (627) (602) Set off of tax (270) (196) 270 196 Net tax assets/(liabilities) 250 271 (357) (406) Movements: Opening balance at 1 July 467 418 (602) (321) Credited/(charged) to the statement of comprehensive income 5 121 11 (15) Change to US tax legislation credited/(charged) to the statement of comprehensive income – (137) – 111 Credited/(charged) to equity 5 (14) (1) – Foreign exchange movements 26 25 (35) (21) Acquired – 40 – (363) Transfer from deferred tax assets/liabilities – (6) – 6 Current year losses recognised 20 18 – – Other (3) 2 – 1 Closing balance 30 June 520 467 (627) (602) Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) to be recovered after more than 12 months 520 467 (627) (602) Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial Financial statements for the Trustyear (THT) ended 30 June 2019 Statements 163 Transurban Holding and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 77 Security holder outcomes D6 Distributions Refer to note B10 of the THL financial statements for the dividends/distributions paid and payable by the Group. Movements in distribution provision—THT Distributions to nonDistribution controlling to security interest in holders subsidiaries Total $M $M $M Balance at 1 July 2017 472 50 522 Additional provision recognised 1,091 80 1,171 Amounts paid (951) (82) (1,033) Amounts reinvested (45) – (45) Balance at 30 June 2018 567 48 615 Additional provision recognised 1,497 143 1,640 Amounts paid (1,275) (152) (1,427) Amounts reinvested (40) – (40) Balance at 30 June 2019 749 39 788 D7 Earnings per stapled security THT TIL 2019 2018 2019 2018 Profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary security holders ($M) 409 672 (154) (12) Weighted average number of securities (M) 2,578 2,138 2,578 2,138 Basic and diluted earnings per security attributable to the ordinary security holders (Cents) 15.9 31.5 (6.0) (0.6) Transurban Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial 164 FY19 Corporate Report statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 78 Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Capital and borrowings D8 Reserves Refer to note B12 for a description of the nature and purpose of each reserve. THT Cash flow Share-based hedges payments Total $M $M $M Balance 1 July 2017 (51) 7 (44) Revaluation—gross (66) 1 (65) Deferred tax 21 – 21 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investments, net of tax 5 – 5 Balance 30 June 2018 (91) 8 (83) Revaluation—gross (98) – (98) Share based payments – (2) (2) Deferred tax 17 – 17 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investments, net of tax (67) – (67) Balance 30 June 2019 (239) 6 (233) TIL Transactions Foreign with nonCash flow Share-based currency controlling hedges payments translation interests Total $M $M $M $M $M Balance 1 July 2017 – – (82) (58) (140) Revaluation—gross 13 – – – 13 Deferred tax (11) – (3) – (14) Currency translation differences – – (22) – (22) Balance 30 June 2018 2 – (107) (58) (163) Revaluation—gross (14) 1 – – (13) Deferred tax 4 – – – 4 Currency translation differences – – (35) – (35) Balance 30 June 2019 (8) 1 (142) (58) (207) D9 Net finance income / (costs) THT TIL 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M Finance income Interest income from related parties 589 595 – – Interest income on financial assets at amortised cost 21 – – – Unwind of discount on financial assets at amortised cost 8 – – – Other interest income 2 1 7 3 Interest income from concession financial asset – – 23 2 Net foreign exchange gains 4 3 6 – Re-measurement of concession notes receivable 20 324 – – Total finance income 644 923 36 5 Finance costs Interest and finance charges paid/payable (605) (641) (290) (170) Unwind of discount on liabilities—other liabilities (2) (2) (2) – Unwind of discount on liabilities—promissory note (9) (8) – – Unwind of discount on liabilities—maintenance provision – – (5) (8) Net foreign exchange losses – – – (2) Total finance costs (616) (651) (297) (180) Net finance income / (costs) 28 272 (261) (175) Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial Financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 165 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 79 D9 Net finance income / (costs) (continued) Re-measurement of concession notes Re-measurement of concession notes represents the discount unwinding over the passage of time on these notes and the change in the payment profile of the concession notes. D10 Borrowings Refer to note B14 for a description of each facility type. THT TIL 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M Current Term debt 648 20 4 3 648 20 4 3 Non-current Capital markets debt 2,491 2,395 1,015 965 U.S. private placement 2,686 1,726 215 – Term debt 1,249 2,240 404 383 TIFIA – – 1,325 1,243 6,426 6,361 2,959 2,591 Total borrowings 7,074 6,381 2,963 2,594 D11 Derivatives and financial risk management The instruments used by the Group are described in note B15. 2019 2018 $M $M Current Non-current Current Non-current THT TIL THT TIL THT TIL THT TIL Assets Interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges – – – – – – 5 – Cross currency interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges – – 56 – – – 14 – Total derivative financial instrument assets – – 56 – – – 19 – Liabilities Interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges 2 – 90 194 – – 16 140 Cross currency interest rate swap contracts—cash flow hedges – – 59 – – – 144 – Total derivative financial instrument liabilities 2 – 149 194 – – 160 140 Market risk Foreign exchange risk The effects of the foreign currency related hedging instruments on THT’s and TIL’s financial position and performance are as follows: THT TIL 2019 2019 $M $M Net investment in foreign operation—CAD Carrying amount – 321 CAD carrying amount – 167 Hedge ratio – 1:1 Change in carrying amount of loan as a result of foreign currency movements since 1 July – 19 Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness – 11 Cross-currency interest rate swaps Carrying amount 3 – Notional amount 3,640 – Hedge ratio 1:1 – Change in discounted value of outstanding hedging instruments since 1 July (2) – Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness 4 – Transurban Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial 166 FY19 Corporate Report statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 80 Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) D11 Derivative and financial risk management (continued) Market risk (continued) Foreign exchange risk (continued) Maturity profile—notional value of cross-currency interest rate swaps THT 2019 Less than 12 Total nominal $M months 1 – 5 years Over 5 years amount Cross-currency swaps (AUD:USD) – – 2,143 2,143 Average AUD-USD exchange rate – – 0.75 NA1 Average fixed interest rate2 – – 5.0% NA1 Cross-currency swaps (AUD:CHF) – 200 375 575 Average AUD-CHF exchange rate – 0.72 0.74 NA1 Average fixed interest rate2 – 4.6% 4.5% NA1 1. NA—Not applicable Based on average fixed rate of cross currency swap contracts, which does not include any margins that may be applicable on the hedged debt instrument. Effectiveness of hedging relationships designated THT Line item in profit or loss Amount reclassified Line item in profit or 2019 Hedge gain/(loss) Hedge ineffectiveness that includes hedge from OCI to profit or loss for $M recognised in OCI recognised in profit or loss ineffectiveness loss reclassification Foreign currency risk 2 – Net finance costs – Net finance costs Exposure to foreign currency risk at the reporting date, denominated in the currency in which the risk arises, was as follows: THT TIL 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 USD USD CHF CHF AUD AUD CAD CAD $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Net investment in foreign operation – – – – – – 167 348 Receivables 964 1,146 – – – – – – Payables (1,045) (1,095) – – – (6) (294) (348) Borrowings (2,143) (1,574) (575) (575) – – – – Cross-currency interest rate swaps 2,143 1,574 575 575 – – – – Net exposure (81) 51 – – – (6) (127) – Sensitivity THT Movement in Increase / (decrease) post-tax profit in equity 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M AUD/USD + 10 cents 10 (8) (53) (21) 10 cents (13) 11 71 28 AUD/CHF + 10 cents – – (8) (18) 10 cents – – 10 32 TIL Movement in Increase / (decrease) post-tax profit in equity 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M AUD/CAD + 10 cents – (13) – – 10 cents – 16 – – Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial Financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 167 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 81 D11 Derivative and financial risk management (continued) Interest rate risk The effects of the interest rate related hedging instruments on THT’s and TIL’s financial position and performance are as follows: THT TIL 2019 2019 $M $M Interest rate swaps Carrying amount 92 67 Notional amount 2,062 320 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 Change in fair value of outstanding hedging instruments since 1 July (92) (11) Change in value of hedged item used to determine hedge effectiveness 95 24 Weighted average hedged rate for the year 100% 100% Maturity profile—notional value of interest rate swaps THT 2019 Less than 12 Total nominal $M months 1-5 years Over 5 years amount Interest rate swaps 628 774 660 2,062 Average fixed interest rate1 2.2% 2.1% 2.7% NA1 Based on average fixed rate of interest rate swap contracts, which does not include any margins that may be applicable on the hedged debt instrument. TIL 2019 Less than 12 Total nominal $M months 1-5 years Over 5 years amount Interest rate swaps – – 320 320 Average fixed interest rate – – 4.0% NA1 1. NA—Not applicable Effectiveness of hedging relationships designated Hedge Line item in Amount THT ineffectiveness profit or loss that reclassified from Line item in profit 2019 Hedge gain/(loss) recognised in includes hedge OCI to profit or or loss for $M recognised in OCI profit or loss ineffectiveness loss reclassification Interest rate risk 92 – Net finance costs – Net finance costs Hedge Line item in Amount TIL ineffectiveness profit or loss that reclassified from Line item in profit 2019 Hedge gain/(loss) recognised in includes hedge OCI to profit or or loss for $M recognised in OCI profit or loss ineffectiveness loss reclassification Interest rate risk 67 2 Net finance costs – Net finance costs THT and TIL are not materially impacted by movements in interest rates. As at the reporting date, the Group had the following variable rate borrowings and interest rate swap contracts outstanding: THT TIL 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M Cash and cash equivalents 119 113 512 346 Floating rate borrowings (2,062) (2,388) (727) (689) Interest rate swaps (notional principal amount) 2,062 2,042 727 689 Net exposure to interest rate risk 119 (233) 512 346 Sensitivity Sensitivity to interest rate movements based on variable rate obligations is as follows: THT TIL 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M Interest rates +100bps 1 8 5 8 Interest rates –100bps (1) (8) (5) (8) Transurban Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial 168 FY19 Corporate Report statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 82 Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) D11 Derivative and financial risk management (continued) Liquidity risk Contractual maturities of financial liabilities The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of the Group’s financial liabilities. For interest rate swaps, the cash flows have been estimated using forward interest rates applicable at the end of the reporting period. For further information refer to note B15. THT Total 2019 1 year Over 1 to 2 Over 2 to 3 Over 3 to 4 Over 4 to 5 Over contractual Carrying $M or less years years years years 5 years cash flows amount Trade payables 74 – – – – – 74 74 Borrowings 843 700 650 901 388 5,579 9,061 7,074 Related party loans 649 1,148 311 73 73 2,795 5,049 4,998 Interest rate swaps1 22 21 18 12 10 18 101 92 Cross-currency swaps1 44 43 43 43 33 101 307 3 Concession and promissory notes – – – – – 216 216 63 Total 1,632 1,912 1,022 1,029 504 8,709 14,808 12,304 1. The carrying value of the interest rate and cross-currency swaps have been presented on a net basis. The gross position is disclosed in the first table of note D11. Total 2018 1 year Over 1 to 2 Over 2 to 3 Over 3 to 4 Over 4 to 5 Over contractual Carrying $M or less years years years years 5 years cash flows amount Trade payables 73 – – – – – 73 73 Borrowings 209 1,208 668 587 875 4,688 8,235 6,381 Related party loans 935 495 1,259 462 201 4,800 8,152 6,199 Interest rate swaps 9 6 3 1 – (8) 11 16 Cross-currency swaps 48 48 48 48 10 (100) 102 144 Concession and promissory notes – – – – – 204 204 50 Other liabilities 47 – – – – – 47 47 Total 1,321 1,757 1,978 1,098 1,086 9,584 16,824 12,910 TIL Total 2019 1 year Over 1 to 2 Over 2 to 3 Over 3 to 4 Over 4 to 5 Over contractual Carrying $M or less years years years years 5 years cash flows amount Trade payables 110 – – – – – 110 110 Borrowings 141 133 134 736 78 4,847 6,069 2,963 Related party loans 1,757 52 52 52 52 2,206 4,171 2,534 Interest rate swaps 19 21 21 20 20 122 223 194 Other liabilities 78 – 331 – – – 409 363 Total 2,105 206 538 808 150 7,175 10,982 6,164 Total 2018 1 year Over 1 to 2 Over 2 to 3 Over 3 to 4 Over 4 to 5 Over contractual Carrying $M or less years years years years 5 years cash flows amount Trade payables 56 – – – – – 56 56 Borrowings 88 128 132 132 697 3,557 4,734 2,594 Related party loans 1,705 – – – – 2,253 3,958 2,534 Interest rate swaps 16 13 13 13 101 29 185 140 Total 1,865 141 145 145 798 5,839 8,933 5,324 Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial Financial statements for the Trustyear (THT) ended 30 June 2019 Statements 169 Transurban Holding and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 83 Concession summary Refer to the Concession summary section of the Group financial statements for the intangible assets, concession note and promissory note accounting policies. D12 Other intangible assets 2019 $M Concession Assets under assets construction Total THT TIL THT TIL THT TIL Cost 11,595 4,297 818 860 12,413 5,157 Accumulated amortisation (2,543) (252) – – (2,543) (252) Net book amount 9,052 4,045 818 860 9,870 4,905 2018 $M Concession Assets under assets construction Total THT TIL THT TIL THT TIL Cost 11,594 4,065 243 165 11,837 4,230 Accumulated amortisation (2,236) (148) – – (2,236) (148) Net book amount 9,358 3,917 243 165 9,601 4,082 Movement in intangible assets Concession Assets under assets construction Total THT TIL THT TIL THT TIL $M $M $M $M $M $M Opening balance 1 July 2017 9,579 2,489 121 58 9,700 2,547 Additions – – 203 137 203 137 Acquisition of subsidiary – 1,338 – – – 1,338 Foreign exchange movements and other adjustments – 97 – 5 – 102 Transfer 89 35 (81) (35) 8 0 Amortisation charge (310) (42) – – (310) (42) Net book amount 30 June 2018 9,358 3,917 243 165 9,601 4,082 Additions 2 – 576 686 578 686 Foreign exchange movements and other adjustments – 225 – 9 – 234 Transfer 1 – (1) – – – Amortisation charge (309) (97) – – (309) (97) Net book amount 30 June 2019 9,052 4,045 818 860 9,870 4,905 D13 Concession financial asset TIL’s financial assets relate only to A25 as of 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2018. Refer to Note B18 for a reconciliation of movements in the A25 Concession financial asset. D14 Other liabilities—concession liabilities M2 Motorway The face value of promissory notes on issue at 30 June 2019 is $216 million (2018: $204 million). The net present value at 30 June 2019 of the redemption payments relating to these promissory notes is $63 million (2018: $50 million). M1 Eastern Distributor The face value of promissory notes on issue at 30 June 2019 is $330 million (2018: $315 million). The net present value at 30 June 2019 of the redemption payments relating to these promissory notes is $44 million (2018: $40 million). Fredericksburg Extension Project The nominal value of payables to VDOT relating to the Fredericksburg Extension at 30 June 2019 is $408 million (2018: Nil). As at 30 June 2019, a current liability of $78 million and a non-current liability of $285 million has been recorded. Transurban Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial 170 FY19D:Corporate Notes to THTReport statements for the year ended Holding30 June 2019 84 Section & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Group structure D15 Equity accounted investments Set out below is the summarised financial information for the THT Group’s investments accounted for using the equity method. The summarised financial information presented below is on a 100 per cent basis. Refer to note B25 for the details of the STP JV and NWRG. THT THT NorthWestern THT TIL STP JV1 Roads Trust Total Other 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Summarised balance sheet—100% Current assets 1,349 – 159 84 1,508 84 1 1 Non-current assets 15,430 – 2,304 2,312 17,734 2,312 – 1 Current liabilities (233) – (19) (29) (252) (29) (1) – Non-current liabilities (7,870) – (1,841) (1,639) (9,711) (1,639) (2) – Net assets/(liabilities) 8,676 – 603 728 9,279 728 (2) 2 Summarised statement of comprehensive income—100% Revenue 39 – 136 134 175 134 1 1 Construction revenue 1,201 – – – 1,201 – – – Construction costs (1,201) – – – (1,201) – – – Depreciation and amortisation (11) – (34) (34) (45) (34) – – Other expenses (309) – (2) (2) (311) (2) (5) (3) Net finance cost (87) – (22) 67 (109) 67 – – Income tax expense – – (1) (7) (1) (7) – – Profit/(loss) for the year (368) – 77 158 (291) 158 (4) (2) Other comprehensive income/(loss) (285) – 9 10 (276) 10 – – Total comprehensive income/(loss) (653) – 86 168 (567) 168 (4) (2) The following table reconciles the above summarised financial information presented on a 100 per cent basis to the proportional amounts recognised by the Group: Ownership interest 50% 0% 50% 50% 20% 20% Proportional total comprehensive income/(loss) (263) – 43 84 (220) 84 (1) – Profits not recognised – – – 57 – 57 – – Group's share of comprehensive income/(loss) (263) – 43 27 (220) 27 (1) – The summarised statement of comprehensive income for STP JV is presented above from the date of acquisition which is 27 September 2018. Reconciliation of summarised financial information Set out below is the reconciliation of the summarised financial information presented to the carrying amount of the Group’s interest in associates. THT THT NorthWestern THT TIL STP JV Roads Trust Total Other 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Opening carrying value 1 July – – 364 478 364 478 5 – Acquisition 2,425 – – – 2,425 – – 5 Group’s share of net profit/(loss) (191) – 38 22 (153) 22 (1) – Acquisition of and capital contributions to STP JV 68 – – – 68 – – – Fair value adjustment on issuance of shareholder loan notes to STP JV 62 – – – 62 – – – Group’s recognised share of other comprehensive income/(loss) (72) – 5 5 (67) 5 – – Distributions received (18) – (142) (141) (160) (141) – – Closing carrying value 30 June 2,274 – 265 364 2,539 364 4 5 Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial Financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 171 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 85 D16 Non-controlling interests Set out below is summarised financial information for each material subsidiary that has non-controlling interests that are material to THT. The amounts disclosed for each subsidiary are before inter-company eliminations. THT Transurban Airport Queensland Trust Motorway Trust 37.5% 24.9% Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M $M $M Summarised balance sheet Current assets 81 246 20 21 101 267 Non-current assets 7,346 7,014 819 877 8,165 7,891 Current liabilities (56) (70) (175) (213) (231) (283) Non-current liabilities (5,186) (4,524) (490) (504) (5,676) (5,028) Net assets 2,185 2,666 174 181 2,359 2,847 Carrying amount of NCI 819 1,000 43 45 862 1,045 Summarised statement of comprehensive income Revenue 337 335 23 102 360 437 (Loss)/profit for the year (38) (27) (1) 69 (39) 42 Other comprehensive (loss)/income (62) (80) (5) 6 (67) (74) Total comprehensive (loss)/income (100) (107) (6) 75 (106) (32) (Loss)/profit allocated to NCI (15) (10) – 17 (15) 7 OCI allocated to NCI (24) (30) (1) 1 (25) (29) Summarised cash flows Cash flows from operating activities 168 100 (1) 79 167 179 Cash flows from investing activities (216) (156) – – (216) (156) Cash flows from financing activities 57 61 1 (79) 58 (18) Net increases/(decreases) in cash and cash equivalents 9 5 – – 9 5 Transurban Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial 172 FY19D:Corporate Notes to THTReport statements for the year ended Holding30 June 2019 86 Section & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Other D17 Related party transactions THL1 Joint THT ventures 2019 2018 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Transactions with related parties Rental income 796,177 666,639 – – Concession fee income 39,602 33,679 – – Interest income 588,927 595,024 – – Finance income on financial assets at amortised cost – – 28,933 – Interest expense 300,731 343,589 – – Other expenses 4,525 4,441 – – Outstanding balances with related parties Current receivables 1,508,346 883,505 – – Current concession notes 106,254 99,528 – – Non-current receivables 8,871,221 10,410,144 – – Financial assets at amortised cost – – 642,805 – Non-current concession notes 923,105 965,496 – – Current liabilities 412,887 632,329 – – Non-current liabilities 4,585,156 5,567,027 – – Expected credit loss Applying the expected credit loss model to THT’s receivables resulted in the recognition of a loss allowance of $21 million at 1 July 2018 (previous loss allowance was $nil). There were no significant movements in the expected credit loss allowance through to 30 June 2019. THT’s financial assets at amortised costs are considered to have low credit risk, and the loss allowance recorded as of 1 July 2018 and 30 June 2019 is therefore limited to 12 months of expected losses. TIL THL1 2019 2018 $’000 $’000 Transactions with related parties Interest expense 72,284 70,421 Other expenses 8,362 6,276 Outstanding balances with related parties Current liabilities 1,657,674 1,643,726 Non-current liabilities 876,065 889,774 Transactions and outstanding balances between THT/TIL and THL. Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial Financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 173 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 87 D18 Parent entity financial information Summary financial information The individual financial statements for the parent entities (THT and TIL) show the following aggregate amounts: THT TIL 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M $M $M $M Balance sheet Current assets 2,357 1,883 545 409 Total assets 18,439 16,619 1,041 855 Current liabilities 1,763 1,168 6 409 Total liabilities 4,570 5,826 428 411 Net assets 13,869 10,793 613 444 Issued units/contributed equity 15,954 12,243 522 363 Reserves 6 8 103 74 (Accumulated losses)/Retained earnings (2,091) (1,458) (12) 7 Shareholders’ equity 13,869 10,793 613 444 Profit/(loss) for the year 878 987 (19) 6 Exchange differences on translation of USD balances, net of tax – – 29 18 Movement in share based payments reserve 1 1 1 – Total comprehensive income/(loss) 879 988 11 24 The parent entities adopted AASB 9 Financial Instruments and AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on 1 July 2018. The adoption of AASB 9 Financial Instruments resulted in the recognition of an expected credit loss allowance of $14 million for THT and Nil for TIL at 1 July 2018. The counterparties were assessed to have low credit risk and the loss allowance recognised on 1 July 2018 was therefore limited to 12 months expected losses. During the period there was a reduction in the expected credit loss allowance of $3 million due to a corresponding decrease in the receivable balances. There was no impact on either parent entity from the adoption of AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. D19 Changes in accounting policies This note explains the impact of the adoption of AASB 9 Financial Instruments on the Group’s financial statements. AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers did not have an impact on THT and TIL’s financial statements as disclosed at note B5 Revenue. The following table shows the adjustments recognised for each individual line item. Line items that were not affected by the changes have not been included. As a result, the sub-totals and totals disclosed cannot be recalculated from the numbers provided. Transurban Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial 174 FY19 Corporate Report statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 88 Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) D19 Changes in accounting policies (continued) Adoption of AASB 9 Financial Instruments As explained below, AASB 9 was adopted without restating comparative information. The reclassifications and the adjustments arising from the new impairment rules are therefore not reflected in the balance sheet as at 30 June 2018, but are instead recognised in the opening balance sheet on 1 July 2018. THT TIL As at As at As at As at 30 June 1 July 30 June 1 July 2018 AASB 9 2018 2018 AASB 9 2018 $M impact $M $M impact $M Balance Sheet (extract) Assets Current assets Loans to related parties 884 (1) 883 – – – Trade and other receivables 5 – 5 55 – 55 Concession notes 100 – 100 – – – Held-to-maturity investments – – – 226 (226) – Financial assets at amortised cost – – – – 226 226 Total current assets 1,102 (1) 1,101 627 – 627 Non-current assets Derivative financial instruments 19 – 19 – – Related party receivables 10,410 (20) 10,390 – – – Concession notes 965 – 965 – – – Concession financial asset – – – 323 – 323 Deferred tax assets 66 – 66 271 – 271 Total non-current assets 21,425 (20) 21,405 4,695 – 4,695 Total assets 22,527 (21) 22,506 5,322 – 5,322 Liabilities Current liabilities Derivative financial instruments – – – – – – Total current liabilities 1,437 – 1,437 1,730 – 1,730 Non–current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities – – – 401 – 401 Derivative financial instruments 160 – 160 140 – 140 Total non-current liabilities 12,140 – 12,140 4,137 – 4,137 Total liabilities 13,577 – 13,577 5,867 – 5,867 Net assets/(liabilities) 8,950 (21) 8,929 (545) – (545) Equity Contributed equity – – – 363 – 363 Issued units 12,243 – 12,243 – – – Reserves (83) – (83) (163) – (163) Accumulated losses (4,255) (21) (4,276) (745) – (745) Non-controlling interests 1,045 – 1,045 – – – Total equity 8,950 (21) 8,929 (545) – (545) Accounting policies applied from 1 July 2018—AASB 9 Financial Instruments Refer to Notes B8, B15, B30 and B34 for a summary of accounting policies adopted upon transition to AASB 9. Impact of transition to AASB 9 Impairment of financial assets The group was required to revise its impairment methodology under AASB 9 for each class of financial assets measured at amortised cost (there are no financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income). Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial Financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 Statements 175 Transurban Holding Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Section D: Notes to THT & TIL financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2019 89 D19 Changes in accounting policies (continued) Related party receivables for Transurban Holding Trust Applying the expected credit loss model resulted in the recognition of a loss allowance of $21 million on 1 July 2018 (previous loss allowance was $nil). The Group’s related party receivables at amortised cost are considered to have low credit risk, and the loss allowance recognised on 1 July 2018 was therefore limited to 12 months expected losses. Transurban Section E: Directors’ declaration for 176 FY19E:Corporate Report the year ended Holding30 June 2019 90 Section Directors’ declaration for the year ended 30 June 2019 Transurban Trust (THT) and Transurban International Limited (TIL) Section E: Signed reports In the opinion of the Directors of Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Infrastructure Management Limited (as the responsible entity of Transurban Holding Trust) and Transurban International Limited (collectively referred to as ‘the Directors’): a. the financial statements and notes of Transurban Holdings Limited and its controlled entities, including Transurban Holding Trust and its controlled entities and Transurban International Limited and its controlled entities set out on pages 88 to 175 are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: i. complying with Accounting Standards, the Corporations Regulations 2001 and other mandatory professional reporting requirements, and ii. giving a true and fair view of the Transurban Holdings Limited Group's, Transurban Holding Trust Group’s and Transurban International Limited Group’s financial position as at 30 June 2019 and of its performance for the year ended on that date, and b. there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Transurban Holdings Limited Group, Transurban Holding Trust Group and Transurban International Limited Group will be able to pay their debts as and when they become due and payable, and c. at the date of this declaration, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the members of the Extended Closed Group identified in note B27 will be able to meet any obligations or liabilities to which they are, or may become liable, subject by virtue of the deed of cross guarantee described in note B27. Note B3 confirms that the financial statements also comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. The Directors have been given the declarations by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001. Lindsay Maxsted Director Scott Charlton Director Melbourne 7 August 2019 Financial Statements 177 Independent auditor’s report To the stapled security holders of Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Holding Trust and Transurban International Limited Report on the audit of the financial report Our opinion In our opinion: The accompanying financial reports of Transurban Holdings Limited (THL or the Company) and its controlled entities (together the Transurban Group or the Group), Transurban Holding Trust (the Trust) and its controlled entities (together THT) and Transurban International Limited (the International Company) and its controlled entities (together TIL) are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: (a) giving a true and fair view of the Transurban Group, THT and TIL’s financial positions as at 30 June 2019 and of their financial performance for the year then ended (b) complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001. What we have audited The Transurban Group, THT and TIL financial reports (the financial report) comprise: • the consolidated balance sheets as at 30 June 2019 • the consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended • the consolidated statements of changes in equity for the year then ended • the consolidated statements of cash flows for the year then ended • the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies • the directors' declaration. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence We are independent of the Transurban Group, THT and TIL in accordance with the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 and the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to our audit of the financial report in Australia. We have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 2 Riverside Quay, SOUTHBANK VIC 3006, GPO Box 1331, MELBOURNE VIC 3001 T: 61 3 8603 1000, F: 61 3 8603 1999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. Transurban 178 FY19 Corporate Report Our audit approach An audit is designed to provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial report is free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial report. We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial report as a whole, taking into account the geographic and management structure of the Transurban Group, THL and TIL, their accounting processes and controls and the industry in which they operate. Materiality • For the purpose of our audit we used overall Group materiality of $50 million, which represents approximately 2.5% of the Group's earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation expenses (EBITDA). • We applied this threshold, together with qualitative considerations, to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements on the financial report as a whole. • We chose EBITDA as the benchmark because, in our view, it is the metric against which the performance of the Transurban Group is most commonly measured and is a generally accepted benchmark in the infrastructure industry. We chose 2.5% based on our professional judgement, noting that it is within the common range relative to EBITDA benchmarks. Audit Scope • Our audit focused on where the Group made subjective judgements; for example, significant accounting estimates involving assumptions and inherently uncertain future events. • We conducted an audit of the financial report for each of the Transurban Group, THT and TIL, including substantive audit procedures in respect of the operation of each of the toll road concessions and equity accounted investments. Specific audit procedures were also performed for interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation expenses. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial report for the current period. The key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial report as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Further, any commentary on the outcomes of a particular audit procedure is made in that context. We communicated the key audit matters to the Audit and Risk Committee. Financial Statements 179 Recording of toll revenue Group – Note B5 THT TIL – Note D4 Toll revenue: $2,643m Toll revenue – not applicable Toll Revenue: $312m How our audit addressed the key Key audit matter audit matter The Transurban Group operates toll roads in 4 geographic Our procedures included, amongst others: segments: Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane in Australia and North America. Each toll road records and recognises revenue • Testing a selection of Information through the use of technology, specifically, road side equipment Technology General Controls (ITGCs) supported by tolling and billing systems. supporting the integrity of the tolling systems' operation, including access, Tolling equipment and systems are customised complex systems operations and change management that are built with the purpose of correctly identifying vehicle type, controls. calculating correct fare and linking the vehicle to the customer’s • Performing tests of the design and account for billing purposes or obtaining information from local operation of relevant controls over transport authorities for vehicles that have not made a valid billing revenue adjustments, write offs, image arrangement. processing and exception reporting. Every toll road operates under a different concession deed which • Performing testing of the review and governs the means by which customers are charged. approval of a selection of toll price In May 2018 the Group acquired the A25 concession in Montreal increases for each toll road during the (North America). This is the first financial year in which A25 year. revenue is included for the full 12 month period. The M5 • Performing data analysis of manual Concession (Interlink Roads) was consolidated in September journals and adjustments to revenue 2018. to test a sample of material postings to revenue and checking that they were As of 1 July 2018 the Group adopted a new revenue accounting generated by the tolling systems. policy due to the mandatory introduction of AASB 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The new policy is disclosed in • Using data analytics to recalculate the Note B5. toll revenue for each toll road in Australia for the full 12 month period. We considered this to be a key audit matter for the Group and TIL • Testing a selection of cash collected due to the large volume of transactions that were processed in the by the North America toll roads. year, the unique nature of each toll road and the reliance on bespoke information technology systems and controls. • Using data analytics to supplement our testing of revenue transactions on the A25 toll road. • For a sample of contracts, developing an understanding of the key terms of the arrangements, term dates, performance obligations and payments made in regard to AASB 15. • Assessing the Group's identification of performance obligations and allocation of prices to the performance obligations for a sample of contracts. • Evaluating the appropriateness of the disclosures for AASB 15 made in Note B5 in light of the requirements of Australian Accounting Standards. Transurban 180 FY19 Corporate Report Borrowings Group – Note B14 THT – D10 TIL – D10 Current borrowings: $959m Current borrowings: $648m Current borrowings: $4m Non-Current borrowings: $17,507m Non-Current borrowings: $6,426m Non-Current borrowings: $2,959m How our audit addressed the key Key audit matter audit matter Borrowings are an integral part of the Transurban Group’s Our procedures included, amongst others: business model as it is the key source of funds used by the business to fund new projects and upgrades to existing • Obtaining confirmations from banks to concession assets. Borrowings represent the largest liability on confirm a selection of borrowings. the balance sheets. • Reading the most up-to-date borrowing agreements with the During the year the Transurban Group refinanced around $3 financiers to develop an billion of borrowings through bond issuances, private placements understanding of the terms associated and new bank facilities. with the facilities and the amount of Each of the borrowing agreements has its own set of terms facility available for drawdown. and conditions and therefore audit work was required to assess • Where debt is regarded as nonthe treatment of the agreements and their impact on the current, considering the Group's financial statements. assessment whether there is an We considered this to be a key audit matter for the Group, THT unconditional right to defer payment and TIL given the size of the borrowings balance, the number of such that there were no repayments borrowing agreements in place and the importance of the funding required within 12 months from the structure for continued growth. balance date. • Assessing accounting treatment of the capitalised borrowing costs arising from new arrangements and borrowing costs related to terminated facilities. • Evaluating the debt maturity profile and funding plan in light of our understanding of the debt agreements in place. • Performing tests of the design and operation of relevant controls over treasury function including funding plan and board review and approval of debt agreements and financial institutions used. Financial Statements 181 Service concession arrangements Group – Notes B17 – B21, B28 THT – Notes D12, D14 TIL – Note D12 – D14 Concession assets: $21,392m Concession assets: $9,052m Concession assets: $4,045m Assets under construction: $5,112m Assets under construction: $818m Assets under construction: $860m Concession financial assets: $369m Concession notes receivable: $1,029m Concession financial asset: $341m Maintenance provision: $1,162m Construction obligation: $342m Maintenance provision: $159m Construction obligation: $2,222m Other liabilities: $107m Other liabilities: $363m Other liabilities: $470m Other provisions: $122m How our audit addressed the key Key audit matter audit matter Each of the concession assets in the Transurban Group’s portfolio We evaluated the concession agreements represents a contractual right under a concessional agreement to toll a for each toll road to develop an road in return for the capital and expertise needed to build, maintain understanding of the nature of the and operate the road. agreements with the concession grantors Every concession asset is governed by its own concession agreement and assess the accounting implications of between the Group and the concession grantor (typically government or the contractual arrangements. a local transport authority of the region in which concession is granted). Our other procedures included, amongst As a result, the Transurban Group is subject to a number of contractual others: obligations, some of which have a direct impact on the financial • Performing tests of the design and statements. Whenever the Group undertakes a new project to operation of controls over a selection construct, acquire or upgrade the asset, its contractual arrangements of the forecast and modelling with concession grantors are altered either through a new concession processes impacting the models. agreement or an amendment of the existing concessional agreement. • Considering the relevant obligations in The right to receive future economic benefits is recognised on the the concession agreements having balance sheet as a concession asset. The asset is recognised at cost of regard to the calculations in the construction or price paid at acquisition. The Group monitors models and corresponding balance performance of the assets for indicators of impairment at the end of sheet line items. each reporting period. Where indicators are identified during the period, the Group compares the carrying amount to its estimate of the • Involving valuation specialists to recoverable amount of the asset. assess the calculation methodology and reasonableness of the key The concession agreements also contain clauses that require the assumptions used within the models. Transurban Group to make cash outflows in the future, resulting in the recognition of concession liabilities such as maintenance liabilities, • Evaluating the impairment indicator concession note liabilities and contingent consideration liabilities. assessment. The concession asset recoverable amount and concession liabilities • Assessing the mathematical accuracy recognised are calculated by estimating the net present value of future of the models and agreeing key data cash flows of the concession agreements using discounted cash flow to the latest approved budgets and models (the models). This area requires significant judgement by the forecasts. Group due to a number of uncertain assumptions that impact the timing • Assessing the adequacy of the and quantum of future cash flows generated by the toll road, specifically disclosures in the financial report in assumptions such as future traffic expectations, operating costs, respect of contractual arrangements maintenance cash outflows and finance cost forecasts. having regard to the requirements of In April 2019 the Victorian Parliament approved the CityLink Concession Australian Accounting Standards. Deed Amendments for the West Gate Tunnel Project. Additionally, in April 2019 the Group reached commercial close in relation to the Fredericksburg Extension in North America. We considered this to be a key audit matter for the Group, THT and TIL due to the accounting complexity of the arrangements and judgement required to interpret the accounting requirements and calculate their impact on the financial statements. Transurban 182 FY19 Corporate Report Income taxes Group – Note B7 THT TIL – Note D5 Income tax benefit: $140m Income tax benefit: $35m Deferred tax assets: $1,107m Income taxes – not applicable Deferred tax assets: $250m Deferred tax liabilities: $1,412m Deferred tax liabilities: $357m How our audit addressed the key Key audit matter audit matter The Transurban Group is subject to income taxes in Australia Our procedures included, amongst others: and North America. Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes, specifically those industry specific • Assessing the processes for tax rules and provisions which require significant judgement identifying uncertain tax positions and detailed understanding of the legislation and relevant case and the related accounting policy of law. provisioning for tax exposures. • Using tax specialists to gain an Some of the tax provisions are subject to interpretation and understanding of the current status therefore for some transactions the ultimate tax determination of tax assessments and is uncertain. investigations and assessing the Deferred tax assets relating to carried forward tax losses are impact of selected new tax laws and recognised to the extent there are sufficient taxable temporary guidance on the tax balances differences relating to the same taxation authority against recognised. which the unused tax losses can be utilised. The assumptions • Reading recent rulings and supporting this position are dependent on future cash flows correspondence with local tax generated from the toll roads operating in each tax group. authorities, as well as external Future taxable profits will need to be generated in order to advice provided to the Group and support the recognition of the deferred tax assets. TIL where relevant, to assess the Due to the stapled structure of the Group, tax calculations are associated tax provisions. complex and require the Group to make judgements and • Testing a sample of deferred and assumptions. Furthermore, as described in Note B7 the income tax calculations for each tax Transurban Group consists of six different tax consolidated group. groups with their own Tax Sharing and Tax Funding • Assessing the key assumptions used agreements, each of which creates additional complexities in to support the recognition of tax the calculations. losses and their future utilisation. We considered this to be a key audit matter for the Group and The key assumptions included TIL due to the accounting complexity of the calculations, judgements over future traffic growth judgmental nature and expertise required to estimate the tax and pricing assumptions. positions recorded. Financial Statements 183 Recoverability of equity accounted investments – Sydney Transport Partners Group (STP) Group – Note B25 THT – Note D15 TIL Equity accounted investment: $3,115m Equity accounted investment: $2,274m Equity accounted investment – not applicable How our audit addressed the key Key audit matter audit matter In September 2018 the Sydney Transport Partners Group (STP) Our procedures included, amongst others: acquired a stake (51%) in the WestConnex Project. The Transurban Group hold a 50% share in the STP joint venture and • Performing tests of the design and equity account for its investment. operation of controls over a selection of the forecast and modelling The Group makes certain assumptions in assessing impairment processes impacting the impairment for its investment. These include assumptions around expected assessment. traffic flows, forecast operational costs, construction completion • Evaluating the impairment indicator timing and budget construction costs. assessment considering the We considered this to be a key audit matter for the Group and requirements under the Australian THT, due to the size of the investment and the complexity and Accounting Standards. judgement involved in the impairment assessment. • Involving valuation specialists to assess the reasonableness of key assumptions used within the impairment indicator assessment. Transurban 184 FY19 Corporate Report Other information The directors of Transurban Holdings Limited, Transurban Infrastructure Management Limited (as the responsible entity of Transurban Holding Trust) and Transurban International Limited (collectively referred to as “the directors”) are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the Group’s Corporate Report for the year ended 30 June 2019, but does not include the financial report and our auditor’s report thereon. Prior to the date of this auditor’s report, the other information we obtained included the Corporate Report, FY19 Results Presentation, FY19 Sustainability Data and Climate Change Disclosures, FY19 UN Sustainable Development Goals Progress Report, Corporate Governance Statement and Security Holder Information. We expect the remaining other information to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report. Our opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information and we do not and will not express an opinion or any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial report, our responsibility is to read the other information above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. When we read the other information not yet received, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to the directors and use our professional judgement to determine the appropriate action to take. Responsibilities of the directors for the financial report The directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Act 2001 and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view and is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial report, the directors are responsible for assessing the ability of the Transurban Group, THT and TIL to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Transurban Group, THT or TIL or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial report as a whole is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial report. Financial Statements 185 A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial report is located at the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: http://www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_responsibilities/ar1.pdf. This description forms part of our auditor's report. Report on the remuneration report Our opinion on the remuneration report We have audited the remuneration report included in pages 64 to 85 of the Directors’ Report for the year ended 30 June 2019. In our opinion, the remuneration report of Transurban Holdings Limited for the year ended 30 June 2019 complies with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Responsibilities The directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the remuneration report in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the remuneration report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. PricewaterhouseCoopers Marcus Laithwaite Melbourne Partner 7 August 2019 Transurban FY19 Corporate Report Security holder information The security holder information set out below was applicable as at 5 July 2019. Distribution of stapled securities The number of holders of stapled securities, which comprise one share in Transurban Holdings Limited, one share in Transurban International Limited and one unit in Transurban Holding Trust, was 117,707. The voting rights are one vote per stapled security. The percentage of total holdings held by or on behalf of the 20 largest holders of these securities was 79.69 per cent. The distribution of holders was as follows: Security grouping Total holders Stapled securities Percentage of issued stapled securities 1–1,000 42,187 18,340,187 0.68 1,001–5,000 53,266 130,960,379 4.90 5,001–10,000 13,195 92,393,566 3.45 10,001–100,000 8,764 185,633,757 6.94 100,001 over 295 2,247,970,456 84.03 Total 117,707 2,675,298,345 100.00 There were 2,425 holders of less than a marketable parcel of stapled securities. There were 2,675,298,345 stapled securities on issue. Twenty largest holders of stapled securities Name Number of stapled Percentage of issued securities held stapled securities HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED 928,970,599 34.72 J P MORGAN NOMINEES AUSTRALIA PTY LIMITED 463,271,244 17.32 BNP PARIBAS NOMINEES PTY LTD <AGENCY LENDING DRP A/C> 345,399,379 12.91 CITICORP NOMINEES PTY LIMITED 166,626,834 6.23 NATIONAL NOMINEES LIMITED 90,189,092 3.37 BNP PARIBAS NOMS PTY LTD <DRP> 20,120,901 0.75 AUSTRALIAN FOUNDATION INVESTMENT COMPANY LIMITED 19,821,908 0.74 CITICORP NOMINEES PTY LIMITED <COLONIAL FIRST STATE INV A/C> 13,394,838 0.50 HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED <NT—COMNWLTH SUPER CORP A/C> 11,460,774 0.43 CUSTODIAL SERVICES LIMITED <BENEFICIARIES HOLDING A/C> 10,814,455 0.40 NATIONAL NOMINEES LIMITED <N A/C> 8,944,380 0.33 HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED—GSCO ECA 8,773,777 0.33 ARGO INVESTMENTS LIMITED 8,123,736 0.30 AMP LIFE LIMITED 7,567,247 0.28 NETWEALTH INVESTMENTS LIMITED <WRAP SERVICES A/C> 6,934,724 0.26 HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED 5,749,244 0.21 MILTON CORPORATION LIMITED 4,592,153 0.17 AUSTRALIAN EXECUTOR TRUSTEES LIMITED <IPS SUPER A/C> 3,932,763 0.15 BKI INVESTMENT COMPANY LIMITED 3,697,584 0.14 HSBC CUSTODY NOMINEES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED—A/C 2 3,550,691 0.13 Total 2,131,936,323 79.69 Substantial holders Substantial security holders as at 5 July 2019 were as follows: Name Number of stapled Percentage of issued securities held stapled securities UNISUPER 333,423,165 12.48 BLACKROCK GROUP 130,922,279 6.01 THE VANGUARD GROUP 111,240,857 5.00 Key contacts and advisers Registered office Level 31, Tower 5, Collins Square 727 Collins Street Docklands VIC Australia 3008 Phone: +61 3 8656 8900 Share registry Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited Yarra Falls 452 Johnston Street Abbotsford VIC Australia 3067 Mailing address: GPO Box 2975 Melbourne VIC Australia 3001 Phone: 1300 360 146 Outside Australia: +61 3 9415 4315 Email: computershare.com.au Investor Relations Team Email: investor.relations@transurban.com General enquiries Email: corporate@transurban.com Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers 2 Riverside Quay Southbank VIC Australia 3006 Mailing address: GPO Box 1331 Melbourne VIC Australia 3001 Phone: +61 3 8603 1000 Whistleblower service Website: kpmgfaircall.kpmg.com.au/Transurban Phone (toll free): 1800 500 965 (Australia) 1866 8849 435 (Greater Washington Area) 1800 241 9148 (Montreal—operated in English and French) Mailing address: The FairCall Manager, KPMG Forensic PO Box H67, Australia Square Sydney NSW Australia 1213 transurban.com
