Tryg A/S · Klausdalsbrovej 601, 2750 Ballerup · Denmark · CVR no. 26460212 Corporate Responsibility report 2018 Contents Tryg at a glance 3 Business areas 3 Introduction by the Group CEO 4 Overview of governance, targets and performance 5 Corporate Responsibility strategy and business model 6 Peace of mind in society 7 Safety 7 Traffic 9 Health 9 At home 10 Responsible workplace 11 The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 11 Workplace responsibility 12 Human rights 13 Climate and environmental sustainability 14 Business ethics and compliance 15 Corporate governance 16 Strategic partnerships 18 Customer relations 19 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) data 20 Editor Corporate Responsibility | Publication 22 January 2019 | Layout Marketing | Compliance review Ernst & Young | Proofreading Semantix Tryg at a glance Business areas Tryg is one of the largest non-life insurance companies in the Nordic region. We are the largest player in Denmark and the third-largest in Norway. In Sweden, we are the fifth-largest insurance company in the market. Private 1,105 3 13.2% Private provides insurance products to private customers Employees Market position Market share in Denmark and Norway. Private offers a range of insurance products including car, contents, house, accident, travel, 55% 1,329 motorcycle, dog and health. Portfolio Employees 402 5 3.0% Employees Market position Market share Commercial Commercial provides insurance products including motor, property, liability, workers' compensation, travel and health to small and medium-sized businesses in Denmark and 20% 516 Norway. Portfolio Employees 2,520 1 21.8% Employees Market position Market share Corporate Corporate provides insurance products including property, liability, workers' compensation, transport, group life etc. to corporate customers. 18% 265 Portfolio Employees Purpose Great diversity Attractive TryghedsGruppen 4 million of products dividend policy customers As the world changes, We offer a broad range We aim to distri­­b­­ute Owns 60% of Tryg and Our 4,015 em­ployees we make it easier to of insurance products steadily increas­ing annually contributes provide peace of mind Sweden be tryga). for private individuals dividends in nominal around DKK 600m to for 4 million custom­ers Sweden provides insurance products to private individuals as well as businesses. terms and to pay out projects that create and handle approx60-90% of our profit. peace of mind via imately 1 million claims within car, house, dog, child, boat and accident insurance. 7% 354 TrygFonden. on a yearly basis. Portfolio Employees a) ‘Tryg’ means feeling protected and cared for. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 3 Strengthening the core while embracing the future As the world changes, we make it easier to be A new digital era of insurance tryg a). Tryg’s purpose is the guiding principle of Change is a constant in the new digital era, and our everyday actions and conduct, but it is also the Tryg is adapting its 300-year-old business in a new foundation of our business model and our 2020 digital century. In a world of challenges and risks in Corporate Responsibility strategy. the form of cyber-attacks and climate change, it is important to mitigate or turn risks into opportunPeace of mind through prevention ities. Examples are our cyber insurance product As CEO of one of the largest non-life insurance which helps companies increase their resilience to companies in the Nordic region, I am aware of the cyber-attacks, and TrygID which protects private responsibilities that come with being a listed comcustomers against identity theft. pany and our responsibility for ensuring satisfied employees, customers and shareholders. We need As an insurance company, we need our customers’ to balance a financially healthy business with our personal data to provide insurance services. Perresponsibilities as an employer and company. sonal data must be handled responsibly and with due diligence. This year, Tryg implemented Claims prevention is a key element in our 2020 processes compliant with the General Data corporate strategy. We want to be an active Protection Regulation (GDPR) to protect customer peace-of-mind creator rather than a passive peacedata, strengthen security against data breaches and of-mind provider. In 2018, we launched a range of increase transparency about data usage. prevention products to help our customers prevent claims. For example, we launched behaviour-based Principles guiding our conduct car insurance products in Denmark, Norway and Tryg has been a signatory to the UN Global Sweden, utilising digital technology to leverage Compact since 2008, and this Communication on ‘smart-tech’ opportunities. At the same time, we Progress report underlines our commitment to encourage responsible driving to create peace of adhering to the ten principles on human rights, mind in society. labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. We remain committed to creating peace of mind The 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Norway through the Nightravens and Lifebuoys present some of the world’s biggest challenges and initiatives. Both initiatives represent preventive opportunities we need to address by 2030. This measures to ensure that people feel more protectyear, we conducted an SDG assessment, and in the ed and cared for on the streets and in the water. coming year, we will focus on implementation and how Tryg can contribute to a sustainable developFocus on women in management ment. Tryg works to increase the share of women in management positions and ensure a diverse mix of employees to represent the society we are part of. We remain a member of the Danish Diversity Council, and to boost development, we have set a new target of increasing the share of women in management to 41% in 2020. In 2018, the share of Morten Hübbe women in management positions was 33%. Group CEO a) ’Tryg’ means feeling protected and cared for. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 4 Overview The table illustrates governance, targets and performancea) Human rights and workplace responsibility Climate and environmental sustainability Business ethics and compliance UN Global Compact Principles 1-6 Principles 7-9 Principle 10 (Cross-cutting all principles) Targets 38% women in management positions 1% reduction in carbon emissions Results 2018 33% 3% increase compared to 2017 Highlights 2018 • New target for women in management: • New 2020 target for carbon • Two audits on high-risk outsourcing suppliers 41% in 2020 emissions: 2% reduction compared to 2018 • 100% employees completed • Implementation of process for auditing • Increased number of chargers for electrical cars mandatory GDPR e-learning high-risk outsourcing suppliers • Training procurement personnel and auditors in sustainability risks • SDG assessment completed Policies and action plans • Corporate Responsibility policy • Corporate Responsibility policy • Responsible investment policy • Code of conduct • Policy for execution of active ownership • Competency and diversity policy • Personal data policy • General action plan for women in management • Anti-corruption policy • Outsourcing policy • Tax policy • Remuneration policy • Statutory corporate governance report Systems and due diligence processes • Employee satisfaction survey • Environmental certification Eco-lighthouse • Whistleblower hotline • Risk assessment and materiality assessment in Norway (8 offices) • GDPR compliance assessment • Customer satisfaction rating • Annual Eco-lighthouse progress report • Process for reporting data breaches • Process for auditing high-risk outsourcing • Process for ethical screening of investments suppliers • Vendor management system • Risk assessment Organisational anchoring • HR • Facilities • Legal and compliance • Legal and compliance • Investment • Procurement • Investor Relations Corporate Responsibility a) Please view extensive Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) data on pages 20-21 for specific data. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 5 Corporate Responsibility strategy and business model Tryg’s 2020 Corporate Responsibility strategy ‘Customer relations’ focuses on how Tryg sustains is based on three focus areas: Peace of mind in good customer relations and offers relevant prodsociety, responsible workplace, and customer ucts to match customer expectations and needs. relations. The Corporate Responsibility strategy Tryg’s Corporate Responsibility activities focus on Tryg’s business model Employees supports Tryg’s purpose, ‘as the world changes, creating value for our business and for society as we make it easier to be tryg’ a), and is aligned with well as preventing and mitigating adverse impacts. Tryg makes it easier to be ‘tryg’a)for its cusDistribution our 2020 corporate strategy. tomers by offering them insurance against Own sales force and partners Download Corporate Responsibility policy risk, efficient claims handling, and advice Claims prevention is a central element in Tryg’s Tryg’s majority shareholder and services to prevent claims from arising 2020 corporate strategy. Our ambition is to miniTryg’s majority shareholder, TryghedsGruppen, in the first place. Pricing Employees Products Employees mise and prevent the number of claims holds 60% of the shares in Tryg and annually conInsurance By making it easier for our customers to Pricing according by integrating prevention initiatives into our insurtributes around DKK 600m to projects that create Prevention Full non-life ance products. peace of mind in Danish society via TrygFonden. feel protected and cared for, we benefit all Claims handling product range to risk profile A substantial share of TryghedsGruppen’s profit of Tryg’s stakeholders our customers, our ‘Peace of mind in society’ focuses on our commitderives from the dividend paid out by Tryg to its employees and our shareholders. ment to the Nightravens and Lifebuoys initiatives shareholders. Part of the profit contributes to in Norway, as well as offering products with a TrygFonden’s activities. Processes prevention element which create peace of mind. Combination of in-house & sourcing In 2018, Tryg paid out around DKK 1,788m in ‘Responsible workplace’ focuses on Tryg’s respondividend to TryghedsGruppen. For the third sibility in relation to our employees and how we year running, TryghedsGruppen, paid out a Employees ensure regulatory compliance by establishing the member bonus to Tryg’s customers in Denmark policies and systems necessary to handle Environcorresponding to 8% of the annual premiums paid mental, Social and Governance (ESG) matters and for 2017. a)‘Tryg’ means feeling protected and cared for how we address the SDGs. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 6 Peace of mind in society Creating peace of mind in society through strategic initiatives and offering relevant products with a prevention element to our customers is a vital element in Tryg’s 2020 Corporate Responsibility strategy. On the following pages, we highlight four themes through which Tryg is committed to creating peace of mind in society: Safety, traffic, health and at home. Safety Nightravens collaborate well with the local police. Today, the As part of our efforts to create peace of mind Nightravens are regarded as the most important in society, we are committed to running the initiative when it comes to preventing violence in Nightravens secretariat in Norway. Norway , he says. The Nightravens are local groups of volunteers Kjeld Bach also points out that even though the who walk the streets at night, providing a safe enNightravens have a preventive effect, they are vironment, offering help and preventing unwanted not the police: The Nightravens are not a private incidents. The main target group is young people, backup police force. We do not intervene in public and the mission of the Nightravens is to be present disturbances but contact the authorities for help, if where young people hang out in streets or local necessary. However, our presence is often enough squares. to calm down the situation , he explains. There are more than 300 Nightravens groups in Being a Nightraven is for any adult regardless of Norway made up of a diverse mix of volunteers in age, gender, level of education, physical disability, terms of their nationality, gender and age, which religion or ethnic background. We walk around have the additional effect of working as a social in our bright yellow jackets and are visible in the community network for the volunteers. streets. We observe, help, listen and offer guidance when approached by young people , Kjeld Bagh Creating peace of mind and preventing crimes concludes. Kjeld Bagh organises the Nightravens in More than 300 Fagerstrand and Fjellstrand, Norway. He emphasises how the Nightsravens are beneficial to local communities and create peace of mind: It is about creating a sense of safety, well-being and Nightraven groups volunteer to affiliation to our local communities and ensuring create peace of mind in society that our children have a safe upbringing , he says. It was also a nice way for us to become part of the community as newcomers. Tryg’s commitment to running the Nightravens secretariat contributes Kjeld Bach highlights how the Nightravens help to SDG 16 ‘Peace and justice’, speprevent crime: Being present on the local scene cifically indicator 16.1.4 | Proportion as a Nightraven contributes to reducing violence, of population that feel safe walking alone around the area they live. vandalism and criminal behaviour, and we Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 7 Peace of mind in society “It is meaningful and fun working with the lifebuoys. I have been painting lifebuoys since 2007, and since then I have painted more than 15,000. I often pass by Tryg lifebuoys at the harbour in Bergen, and I sometimes see the lifebuoys on TV. It is meaningful to know that the Tryg lifebuoys I paint can help save lives.” – Irene, Grønneviken. Lifebuoys Preventing drownings through capacity building Norway has 100,000 kilometres of coastline, To ensure prevention of drowning accidents and to which equates to two and a half times the circumincrease safety along the coastline, Tryg annuMore than 43,000 ference of the Earth at the equator. However, to ally participates in several events to strengthen date, no national legislation enforces safety on the knowledge and build capacity on how to prevent beaches or along the coast. drownings. Tryg lifebuoys are located from Since 1952, Tryg’s iconic lifebuoys have contributIn 2018, Tryg cooperated with the Norwegian Lindesnes in southern Norway to ed to safety along the coastline, lakes and rivers in Society for Sea Rescue, Region West, to offer a Svalbard, the Norwegian archipelago Norway. The lifebuoy is a vitally important piece of course called ‘Safe in water’. The Norwegian in the Arctic Ocean rescue equipment, and for decades Tryg has proSociety for Sea Rescue is a nationwide humanivided lifebuoys to Norwegian society. Tryg’s more tarian association whose purpose is to save lives, than 43,000 lifebuoys are located from Lindesnes salvage assets and protect the coastal environin southern Norway to Svalbard, the Norwegian ment of Norwegian waters. archipelago in the Arctic Ocean. 120 The ‘Safe in water’ course is aimed at 12 to Tryg is committed to increasing safety along the 14-year-old schoolchildren. The courses are run coastlines and harbours in Norway by working eight times a year in autumn and winter and give with the National Drowning Prevention Council, the children a chance to experience being in the schoolchildren have been local communities, ports and various other stakecold water, while being supervised by skilled taught self-rescue through holders. instructors, wearing wetsuits and life jackets. ‘Safe in water’ courses in 2018 Participant schools receive a full day of education The process of making a lifebuoy in understanding the risks associated with water, Even before the lifebuoys are installed along the practising first aid and learning the key principles coast, they have a positive impact on many lives. of self-rescue and lifesaving. Learning to throw Tryg lifebuoys is also an important part of the One company that employs people with disabilcourse. ities is involved in producing the lifebuoys. The Tryg’s commitment to preventing Tryg letters on the lifebuoys are made by emAdditionally, Tryg cooperates with the Norwegian drownings through the lifebuoys ployees at Grønneviken, an industrial company in Society for Sea Rescue, Region West, on an ‘Elias contributes to SDG 16 ‘Peace and Bergen that offers employment and training for boat’, which is a known figure from children’s TV. justice’, specifically indicator 16.1.4 | Proportion of population that feel people who fall outside the mainstream labour In 2018, 5,795 children went on a boat trip to raise safe walking alone around the area market and who need a very structured working awareness on safety on the water. they live. day. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 8 Peace of mind in society Traffic Health Increasing safety on the roads Focus on mitigating long-term sick leave He was quickly operated at a private hospital Motor insurance accounts for 30% of Tryg’s total Suffering an injury at work can be a traumatic and through his health insurance. Due to his physically premium income. As we provide car insurance exhausting experience. The event itself can cause demanding job as a blacksmith, his shoulder was A product such as Tryg Drive contributes to realising SDG 3, ‘Good to many of our four million customers, we have concern, and in addition to the physical or psychoespecially worn, and rehabilitation especially health and well-being’, specifically a responsibility and an opportunity to promote logical stress caused by a long period of sick leave, important, but the hospital did not offer him a target 3.6 |By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from safety on the roads. there are many practical things to consider.Tryg recovery plan. road traffic accidents. takes responsibility for its customers’ well-beTryg offers digital car insurance products where ing – making sure that they feel cared for, while Tryg Tilbage provided help through an individual Products such as Tryg Tilbage and pricing is affected by driving behaviour in all the reducing costs for loss of ability to work. physiotherapy plan combined with exercises. The Tryg Health contribute to realising SDG 3 ‘Good health and well-being’, Nordic countries: Tryg Drive in Denmark, Moderna training was essential to Søren’s speedy recovery, specifically target 3.4 |By 2030, Smart in Sweden and Sidekick in Norway. We be‘Tryg Tilbage’ is a concept which is integrated into and after three months he was back working fullreduce by one-third pre-mature lieve that responsible driving behaviour will conour workers’ compensation product. Tryg Tilbage time, which avoided a long period of sick leave for mortality from non-communicable diseases (NCDs) through prevention tribute to increasing safety on the Nordic roads. helps customers to a speedier recovery through a the benefit of Søren, his employer and society. and treatment, and promote mental personalised action plan and a structured process health and well-being. Our new car insurance product involves the use of professional counselling to minimise the effect Tryg health and digital health screening of ‘smart’ technology, more specifically a small of the injury or sick leave and remediate where Stress is a growing challenge which is causing an dongle which is connected to an app. The app possible. Tryg Tilbage consists of a team of exincreasing number of sick days, lower productivity analyses driving style on several parameters. After perts including social workers, physiotherapists, and poorer quality of life. each trip, a score of 1-15 is revealed in the app in-house specialists and a specialist in general which rewards customers with a bonus for their medicine to provide the most comprehensive To address this challenge, in 2018, Tryg launched responsible driving. Driving according to the app counselling. the ‘Tryg health’ app to help customers prevent recommendations, drivers will additionally save illness, boost well-being and reduce sick leave. fuel and minimise carbon emissions. In 2018, we launched a training programme app The digital app is an alternative to the statutory called ’Tryg Tilbage’. The training programme is workplace assessment, and is combined with a In 2018, we launched Tryg Drive for all customers tailored to the customer’s specific injuries, and health screening based on questions about health in Denmark. This is a way of leveraging prevention the app allows the expert team to monitor the and lifestyle. initiatives to minimise unnecessary unease in socicustomer’s development and have a follow-up ety, and to reward and promote responsible dialogue to boost motivation and prevent further It provides a personal health report with recomdriving for all customer groups. In Sweden, Moderinjuries. The result is a speedier recovery, which mendations as well as counselling from healthcare na Smart is available to all customers, and Sidekick benefits the employee, the employer and society. professionals on how to make any necessary in Norway is available to customers aged 18-30 improvements. To further strengthen focus years. Tryg Tilbage helped Søren back to work on well-being in Tryg, the app is available to all 52-year-old Søren is working as a blacksmith in employees to inspire and encourage a healthier a small company. One day, while working the lifestyle. grinder, he accidentally hit his right shoulder on the machine and ripped a tendon. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 9 Peace of mind in society At home Alarm rat blocker prevents rats from entering the main Insurance may cover claims after break-ins, sewers and sewage pipes and gaining access to cloudbursts or fires, but most people would rather homes. prevent claims from happening in the first place. In 2018, Tryg included an alarm as part of our insurance package ‘Tryghedspakken’ in Denmark. The alarm is connected via an app, so anyone can 200,000 registered rat incidents in 2017 leave their home feeling safe. in Denmark We offer six alarm options: a smart plug, an opening sensor, a humidity sensor, a smoke sensor, a climate sensor or a motion sensor. Making homes more resilient Heavy rain showers or cloudbursts are a concern To help prevent break-ins, a motion sensor, an to all home owners. In the most recent climate opening sensor or a smart plug can reveal if you report issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on have unwanted company in your home and signal Climate Change (IPCC), global temperatures are to intruders that you have an alarm, causing any expected to increase by 1.5 degrees Celsius intruders to leave the premises as quickly as posbetween 2030 and 2052 if global warming continsible or preventing them from entering at all. ues at the current pace. The report concluded that the temperature increase will have an impact on The additional solutions help prevent the unthe world as we know it due to, for example, a rise wanted feelings associated with not discovering a in sea levels or more frequent and severe storms. leakage in the basement or not detecting smoke or fire in your home. To protect homes and prevent flooding, Tryg’s climate protection concept rewards customers Rat blocker who install a backflow blocker and pump pit for The rat population has grown by almost 40% waste water by reducing the price of their house during the past ten years to approximately insurance. Both solutions prevent sewage water 200,000 registered incidents in 2017. from flowing back and rising up through the drains during cloudbursts. In 2018, Tryg included a rat blocker in the house insurance ‘super’ package, in Denmark, to help Addtionally, we offer advice on how to minimise customers prevent damage caused by rats, such the effect of storms, cloudbursts and flooding on as damage to sewers, plug wires or pipes. The our Danish and Norwegian customer websites. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 10 Responsible workplace UN Sustainable Development Goals – prioritised list Our 2020 Corporate Responsibility strategy also focuses on Tryg’s responsibility as The seven SDGs on which we have the most direct impact through our core business, include: an employer and company. The following pages outline Tryg’s commitment as an employer and company in the following areas: workplace responsibility, human rights, climate and environmental sustainability, business ethics and compliance, governance and strategic partnerships. The SDGs on which we have a medium direct impact, include: UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to track perforIn 2018, Tryg conducted an internal assessment mance. of business risks and opportunities covering the 17 SDGs and the associated 169 targets and 232 In the coming year, we will work with the business indicators. to potentially include more goals from the priorThe SDGs on which we have a low direct impact, include: itised list of high-impact SDGs to achieve greater As one of the largest non-insurance companies in impact through our business activities. the Nordic region, we have a responsibility and a chance to make an impact on the SDGs. The two goals on which we have a high impact and for which KPIs have been defined are: Prior to the assessment, we reviewed expert reports to analyse best practices on implementa• goal 5 ‘Gender equality’, specifically indicator tion and reporting. 5.5.2 | Proportion of women in managerial UN Sustainable Development Goals – matrix positions, and The methodology applied involved analysing all 17 Strong opportunity goals,169 targets and 232 indicators in an initial • goal 13 ‘Climate action’, specifically target 13.1 screening, and then pre-selecting targets of rele| Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to vance to our 2020 Corporate Responsibility strateclimate-related hazards and natural disasters in gy and core business objectives. The next step was all countries and target 13.3 | Improved considering the risks and opportunities associated education, awareness raising and human and with our business, business relationships and institutional capacity on climate change miticustomers, coupled with Tryg’s corporate strategy. gation, adaptation, impact reduction and early Finally, a prioritised list and matrix were prepared warning. Indirect Direct impact impact of the SDGs Tryg will focus on going forward. To support goal 5, we have increased our target Our continued efforts will involve the business for the share of women in management positions areas and ongoing revisions of the goals during to 41% in 2020. Additionally, we have set a target our strategy period. to achieve a 2% reduction in carbon emissions in 2020, and we advise our customers on how to Conclusions protect their homes and how to prevent flooding. The assessment showed that Tryg has both an indirect and a direct impact on all 17 SDGs. HowLow opportunity ever, we have focused on a prioritised list of goals where we have direct impact and pinpointed two specific goals for which we have defined Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 11 Responsible workplace Tryg’s commitment to increasing the number of women in management positions contributes to SDG 5, ‘Gender equality’ specifically indicator 5.5.2 | Proportion of women in managerial positions. Workplace responsibility Our employees are our most valuable resource A diverse company and a driver for change not meet our target of 38%. Compared to 2017, and a key factor when it comes to providing comTryg wants to contribute to driving change in our the number of women in management positions Employee satisfaction petent and high-quality services to our customers. sector and industry, as it still tends to be domindecreased by three. In 2018, Tryg increased the The well-being of our employees is vital to Tryg, ated by men in management positions. Therefore, total number of management positions and Tryg has an employee satisfaction level above the as is protecting their right to a healthy and safe we are working to promote equal rights. This also the declining share of women in management average of the Nordic sector. working environment. means encouraging men to exercise their right to positions is mainly due to organisational changes. paternity leave. Tryg believes that this developWhen recruiting, we focus on getting the best Index Our materiality assessment indicated that there ment needs encouragement and proper managecompetencies for the job. Going forward, Tryg is a risk that Tryg can have adverse impacts on its rial attention to thrive. will continue our efforts on attracting women to 80 employees through, for example, dissatisfaction, management positions. 78 75 76 discrimination, or the physical or psychosocial Women in management positions remains a conworking environment. To mitigate this risk, we are tinuous focus area in Tryg. To support our target, Download General action plan for Women 70 72 in Management 68 68 68 continuously working to improve the conditions we focus specifically on our recruitment process, 65 for our employees. while an internal rotation programme is in place Strengthening our employees 60 to improve conditions and career opportunities Tryg offers training, e-learning and education to Tryg has collective bargaining agreements in the for talented women and men. Additionally, five our employees as well as identifying new career 55 Scandinavian countries where more than 99% women are attending our Advanced Leadership opportunities through our People Review process 50 Tryg Nordic Nordic of our employees are employed. The majority Programme. We expect another five women to to ensure development and capacity building. financial market of our Scandinavian employees are covered by join the programme in 2019. these agreements and the remaining employees Acknowledging that our business must evolve 2018 2017 are on individual contracts. All Tryg employees Tryg remains a committed member of the Danish and develop in the digital age, we realise that this are covered according to national standards and Diversity Council to help inspire and grow the may potentially have an adverse impact on our requirements. number of women in management positions. employees. Tryg mitigates the adverse impacts To inspire positive role models in Tryg, our through external outplacement programmes, Employee mix Employee satisfaction LeadTheFuture programme encourages female while ensuring that many reductions in employee The annual employee satisfaction survey is key to managers to act as role models by sharing their numbers take the form of natural departures. illustrating employee satisfaction and monitoring experiences and knowledge about their own % development. Processes are in place to ensure career choices. The purpose of the initiative is to It is important to maintain a healthy work-life 60 that low-scoring departments receive clear guidattract young women to STEM programmesa) and balance, and we aim to be a flexible workplace ance and support, and that action plans are made. to inspire leadership. Three women are currently where it is possible to balance your career and 50 In 2018, 27 departments received extra support attending the programme. family life. 40 compared to 34 departments in 2017. 30 To further boost women in management posiWe do not accept discrimination based on gender, In 2018, the overall employee satisfaction score tions, Tryg has an action plan, which is revised age, ethnicity etc., and work actively to nourish 20 was 78, up from 76 in 2017. It proves that our annually, outlining actions to support our target of an open-minded culture. Tryg additionally has a 10 efforts are working, and we will continue this focus increasing the number of women in management diverse workforce representing the society we are 0 going forward. positions. In 2018, we raised our target from 38% part of. Men Women Age Age Age Flexi to 41% in 2020. In 2018, the share of women in <30 30-49 >50 job Download Competency and diversity policy years years years management positions was 33% hence we did a) STEM is an abbreviation for Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematical Educations. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 12 Responsible workplace Human rights Responsible supply chain management In case of repeated failed attempts at collaborTryg is committed to respecting human rights as ation, Tryg can terminate the contract as a last described in the Universal Declaration of Human resort. Rights. Our commitment is enforced through our signatory membership of the UN Global Compact Outsourcing suppliers are selected based on and is outlined in our Corporate Responsibility Tryg’s outsourcing criteria, and focus is on policy as well as Tryg’s Code of Conduct. suppliers based outside the Nordic region where worker’s rights and human rights have traditionally Our materiality assessment indicated that there is been weaker. a risk of violating human and labour rights in our supply chain through our outsourcing activities. In 2018, our audits revealed no violations or red To mitigate any violations, we actively monitor our flags among our audited high-risk outsourcing outsourcing suppliers to ensure compliance with suppliers. The process continues in 2019, and all our Code of Conduct and the principles outlined in high-risk outsourcing suppliers are expected to be the UN Global Compact. audited by 2020. Prior to signing a supplier contract, all suppliers To support the new audit process, in 2018 Tryg undergo a pre-approval process. Suppliers are launched a training programme for procurement required to sign our Code of Conduct outlining our employees and internal auditors to build capacity expectations for our business relations. for identifying actual or potential violations on site. The training sessions are held annually. Tryg has a process for auditing our outsourcing suppliers to ensure that any potential or actual Download Code of conduct adverse impacts and risks in our supply chain are handled. Download Corporate Responsibility policy All outsourcing suppliers are asked to fill out a self-assessment questionnaire prior to a scheduled on-site audit. If the on-site audit reveals any potential red flags, it will lead to an action plan and a follow-up dialogue. If a supplier does not comply with the requirements imposed by Tryg, we will engage in dialogue to ensure improvement. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 13 Responsible workplace Climate and environmental sustainability Climate and environmental responsibility lines our commitment to minimising our climate reduction in 2018 compared to 2017. Our target gian offices are certified under this scheme. Tryg has a direct impact on the climate and the and environmental footprint. for 2020 is a 2% reduction compared to 2018. environment through our operations, and an indirDownload Corporate Responsibility policy We annually produce an Eco-lighthouse report to ect impact through our business activities. In 2019, Tryg will develop a climate and environdescribe progress and document the policies and We have focused our efforts on our internal operClimate and environmental initiatives mental action plan and focus on a waste reduction procedures in place to manage our impact on the ations and initiatives to improve our footprint, Tryg has initiated a process which involves installinitiative at our canteen facilities to grow underclimate and the environment. while also reducing costs. ing more efficient and climate-friendly LED lighting standing of waste reduction. at our offices, as well as installing more screens for In 2018, a pilot was conducted to increase the use Although Tryg is not an energy-intensive company Skype meetings to reduce air travel and offering Eco-lighthouse in Norway of environmentally certified cleaning products in since our carbon emissions are mainly associated electric cars for external meetings. In 2018, we Eco-lighthouse is a climate and environmental cerNorway. The pilot was successful, and the new with heating and electricity use at our offices, car installed more electric chargers at our offices in tification scheme in Norway. It requires a thorough procurement practice will be fully implemented and air travel, we acknowledge that we are part of Ballerup, Denmark, to encourage our employees environmental management system and includes from 2019. the solution when it comes to minimising carbon to switch to electric cars, while we have 16 electric sector-specific requirements. Eight of our Norweemissions. charging stations at our office in Bergen, Norway. Tryg also participates in a mobility network with Carbon emissions Tryg is focused on reducing our One of the areas in which Tryg has a potential the Municipality of Ballerup to discuss solutions Carbon emissions carbon emissions and is commitadverse impact on the environment is waste aimed at improving public transport. Tonnes ted to SDG 13, Climate action, production, which is why we are committed to specifically target 13.1 | Strengthen 6,000 resilience and adaptive capacity reducing waste. We continuously work on minimising and sorting to climate-related hazards and our waste at local waste stations to bring down 5,000 natural disasters in all countries and target 13.3 | Improved education, Our materiality assessment showed that the waste volumes. In 2018, several new initiatives 4,000 awareness raising and human and climate and the environment are material issues aimed at reducing waste volumes were launched 3,000 institutional capacity on climate to Tryg and our stakeholders. Extreme weather at the offices in Norway, which resulted in the change mitigation, adaptation, im2,000 pact reduction and early warning. events such as flooding, cloudbursts and storms collection and sorting of large volumes of glass 1,000 present a risk to Tryg and are causing harm and and plastic. concern to our customers and society since envi0 Electricity Heating Air and Car District Total romental and climate-related events can increase In 2018, Tryg’s estimated carbon emissions inoil train travel heating Tryg’s focus on waste reduction the frequency of climate-related claims. Therefore, creased by 3% compared to 2017. The increase is 20182018 2017 2017 contributes to SDG 12, Responsiwe advise our customers on how to protect their mainly due to an ongoing renovation of our office The carbon emissions chart covers both Norway and ble consumption and production, homes. buildings, extended opening hours and an update The carbon Denmark; emission air and chart train travel covers also the include Sweden offices in head while specifically target 12.5 | By 2030 Denmark and for car only applies Norway; Denmark. air and train travel also include substantially reduce waste generof our calculation method for carbon emissions. Sweden while car only applies for Denmark. ation through prevention, reduction, Tryg’s Corporate Responsibility policy further outThus, we have not achieved our target of a 1% recycling and reuse. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 14 Responsible workplace Business ethics and compliance Tryg is committed to running an ethical, transData security and GDPR Whistleblower hotline Our primary focus is selecting external managers parent and responsible business. Our materiality Digitalisation presents opportunities for optimisTryg’s whistleblower hotline is available for all our who share our principles and have policies in assessment showed that anti-corruption, business ing processes, increasing global interaction and stakeholders to report any violation of our Code place to ensure that investments are managed ethics and data protection are material matters creating new demand. However, a digital presence of Conduct and is reviewed by the chairman of responsibly. When selecting external asset manto Tryg. Building knowledge and capacity on this also presents a risk of increased cyber-attacks, the Audit Committee, assisted by Tryg’s Legal and agers, UN PRI signatories are preferred. In 2018, issue not only internally among our employees ID theft or data security breaches. Data security Compliance department. In 2018, seven whistleall Tryg’s external managers were UN PRI signathrough e-learning, but also throughout our busibreaches are a key risk to Tryg. blower cases were reported and investigated, and tories. ness relations, requires continuous attention. the necessary actions were taken. In 2018, the EU’s General Data Protection RegulaRead more about Whistleblower hotline Where possible, in our execution of active Tryg´s Code of Conduct defines the rules, which tion (GDPR) came into force. Tryg is a data-driven ownership, we follow the five management goals all employees and business partners are required company, and we need data to assess our customResponsible investments described in our policy for executing active ownerto adhere to. Our tax policy and anti-corruption ers’ claims risk. This is the foundation for providing Responsible investing is important to Tryg as it ship. In 2018, Tryg conducted a survey among its policy further outline our commitment to acting as our core product: insurance. Implementing the ensures that investments are conducted in accordexternal managers on their active ownership praca responsible company. new GDPR regulation means increasing transparance with our values. Our materiality assessment tices. In the future, Tryg will include requirements ency about how we handle customer data and identified responsible investments as a material for active ownership policies and procedures Download Code of conduct what type of data we use. issue to Tryg. We are at risk of violating internawhen selecting new asset managers. tional standards when investing and want to be Download Tax policy In 2018, we implemented a compliance plan and transparent about our efforts to mitigate this risk. In 2018, Tryg’s real estate investment process appointed a Data Protection Officer (DPO) to enwas changed to focus more explicitly on resource Download Anti-corruption policy sure that the necessary systems and processes are In 2017, we published our Responsible investment efficiency. Evaluation criteria for selecting new in place. Our internal data breach process enables policy, which illustrates our belief in the importexternal managers now explicitly focus on how the Insurance fraud can have adverse impacts and all employees to report any data breaches, and ance of not violating international principles and respective investment strategies aim to reduce enimplications for Tryg and for our customers. Every all Tryg employees have completed mandatory conventions when investing. In 2018, we updated ergy and resource consumption in their portfolio. year, Tryg investigates cases of suspected insure-learning on GDPR. our process for ethical screening for potential Download Responsible investment policy ance fraud through our special investigation unit. violations of the conventions in our investment Download Personal data policy In 2018, around 1,586 notifications were passed portfolio, including not only our portfolio holdings, on to our special investigation unit in Denmark, Tryg wants to ensure that our products match the but also the ultimate parents. We established an Download Policy for execution of active ownership and 45% were classified as insurance fraud. In all needs of our customers. In view of recent develinternal procedure for handling any such violacases, it is important that we treat our customers opments in the digital field, we offer a cyber insurtions. We perform an ethical screening annually, with respect, which is why we have processes in ance product, TrygID, to protect private customers and will continue our screening practice in 2019. place to ensure that all investigations are approved against identity theft, including misuse on social beforehand and are performed properly and with media. Our cyber insurance product, eProtect, Most of Tryg’s investment assets are managed respect for our guidelines. helps to protect our commercial and corporate externally, and typically held through commingled customers against viruses and cyber-attacks. fund structures. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 15 Responsible workplace Corporate governance Tryg focuses on managing the business in accordMembers are elected for one year at a time and work, including the number of meetings held. Remuneration of the Executive Board ance with the Recommendations on Corporate can sit on the Supervisory Board for a maximum Members of the Executive Board are employed on Governance issued by the Danish Committee of 12 years. The remuneration received by the Chairman of a contractual basis, and all terms of their remuneron Corporate Governance. The aim is to ensure the Board is three times that received by ordinary ation are established by the Supervisory Board that Tryg does its utmost to meet its obligations Tryg has an Audit Committee, a Risk Committee, members, while the Deputy Chairman’s remunerwithin the scope of the approved remuneration towards our stakeholders and promote long-term a Nomination Committee, a Remuneration Comation is twice that received by ordinary members policy. Tryg wants to maintain a balance between value creation. mittee and an IT-Data Committee. The framework of the Supervisory Board. management remuneration, predictable risk and Download Statutory corporate governance report of the committees' work is defined in their terms of reference. Tryg has a two-tier management structure consistTotal remuneration of the Supervisory Board in 2018 Download Terms of reference ing of a Supervisory Board and an Executive Board. Tryg’s Executive Board consists of the Group CEO, Remuneration Audit Risk IT-Data Remuneration the Group CFO, the Group COO and the Group Tryg has adopted a remuneration policy for Tryg in DKK Fee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total CCO. The Executive Board is responsible for the general which contains specific schemes for the day-to-day management of Tryg and for following Supervisory Board, the Executive Board and other Jukka Pertola 1,033,548 140,000 143,549 1,317,097 the guidelines and recommendations issued by employees in Tryg whose activities have a material Torben Nielsen 720,000 225,000 210,000 1,155,000 Jesper Hjulmand 360,000 150,000 140,000 650,000 the Supervisory Board. impact on the risk profile of the company. Lene Skole 360,000 150,000 140,000 650,000 Download Remuneration policy Mari Thjømøe 360,000 150,000 140,000 650,000 Tryg’s Supervisory Board is responsible for the Carl-Viggo Östlund 360,000 140,000 100,000 600,000 overall management of Tryg and is composed of Remuneration of the Supervisory Board Ida Sofie Jensen 360,000 140,000 100,000 600,000 12 members from Denmark, Norway and Sweden, Members of Tryg’s Supervisory Board receive Tina Snejbjerg 360,000 140,000 500,000 Lone Hansen 360,000 140,000 500,000 including four employee representatives. The a fixed fee and are not comprised by any form Tom Eiling 360,000 100,000 460,000 Supervisory Board is composed of seven men of incentive, severance programme or pension Anders Hjulmand 360,000 360,000 and five women, and under Danish law as well as scheme. Their remuneration is based on trends in Elias Bakk 360,000 360,000 Tryg’s own policy, women are thus not underpeer companies, considering the required skills, Jørgen Huno Rasmussen a) 226,452 31,451 257,903 represented. efforts and the scope of the Supervisory Board’s a) Resigned from the Supervisory Board in March 2018 Total remuneration of the Executive Board in 2018 b) Joined the Executive Board on 23 January 2018 Car Other Total One-off Share-based Total c) Resigned from the Executive Board on 14 October 2018 DKK Base salay Pension allowance benefits fixed salary fee remuneration d) fee d) The maximum investment opportunity offered under the Matching Shares Programme at the beginning of 2019 Morten Hübbe 10,750,000 2,687,500 255,000 26,000 13,718,500 600,000 e) 4,481,377 18,799,877 (performance year 2018) Lars Bonde 5,253,713 1,313,428 255,000 26,000 6,848,141 600,000 e) 2,237,059 9,685,200 e) One-off fee related to the Alka acquisition Johan Kirstein Brammer b) 4,704,301 1,176,075 239,234 24,392 6,144,003 1,925,000 f) 2,133,460 10,202,463 f) 1 January 8 November, Johan Brammer received pay supplement of DKK 150,000 per month plus pension for managing two positions as Head of Private Denmark and Group CCO. Christian Baltzer c) 3,780,645 945,161 200,847 20,478 4,947,132 240,000 g) 0 5,187,132 g) One-off fee is a severence payment Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 16 Responsible workplace Tryg's anual generel meeting was held at Tryg's head office in Ballerup, Denmark, in 2018, giving our shareholders the chance to sense the special Tryg atmosphere. value creation for the company’s shareholders in Depending on the development in results, each the short and long term. The Executive Board’s year the Supervisory Board proposes the distriremuneration consists of a base salary and a bution of quarterly dividends, and possibly an expension contribution of 25% of the base salary. traordinary annual dividend if further adjustment of the capital structure is required. The base salary must be competitive and appropriate for the market and provide sufficient Tryg’s dividend policy aspires to distribute a nommotivation for members of the Executive Board to inal, stable increasing dividend in nominal terms achieve Tryg’s targets. on a full-year basis and an annual distribution of 60-90% of our profit after tax. Tryg distributed The variable pay element consists of a Matching a total dividend of DKK 6.60 per share for 2018 Shares Programme. The Executive Board may, equivalent to total dividend payments of DKK using taxed funds, buy shares in Tryg A/S at 1,992m. In 2018, Tryg also paid an extraordinary market price for a predefined amount, which is dividend of DKK 1bn. dependent on the member’s performance for the Dividend policy fiscal year. Four years after the purchase, Tryg will grant one matching share per investment share free of charge. Annual general meeting Tryg’s annual general meeting is held by personal attendance as the Supervisory Board values the TrygFonden TrygFonden is the leading and most well-known peaceface-to-face dialogue with shareholders. The of-mind supporter in Denmark, supporting hundreds Supervisory Board encourages all shareholders to of activities that contribute to this, such as coastal attend the annual general meeting, where they can lifeguards, cuddle bears for children in hospitals and ask questions of the Supervisory Board and the defibrillators. Behind TrygFonden is TryghedsGruppen, Group CEO. The annual meeting is held at Tryg’s which owns 60% of the shares in Tryg and contributed head office in Ballerup, Denmark. DKK 600m to projects that create peace of mind throughout Denmark in 2018. Tryg share and dividend TryghedsGruppen Tryg’s share capital comprises a single share class, In 2018, for the third year running, Tryg’s majority shareand all shares rank pari passu. The majority shareholder, TryghedsGruppen, paid out a member bonus to holder, TryghedsGruppen smba, owns 60% of the Tryg’s customers in Denmark corresponding to 8% of the shares and is the only shareholder owning more annual premiums paid for 2017. than 5% of the company’s shares. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 17 Responsible workplace Strategic partnerships In Tryg, we believe in partnering for impact, portal for maths teachers, where math assignboth through our participation in the UN Global ments are combined with insurance. The Compact and through our strategic partnerships. assignments are targeted at children in lower Thus, we contribute to SDG 17, Partnerships. Our secondary school. Together with Mattip, we help partnership activities are specifically selected to young people gain knowledge about the imporensure that we engage and provide knowledge or tance of insurance, combined with assignments skills to the collaboration. making it fun and relevant. Tryg’s commitment to running the Nightravens In 2018, Tryg added an assignment focusing on secretariat in Norway is part of our strategic partonline behaviour and identity theft, and what to nership commitments. Additionally, Tryg is a memdo if your identity has been stolen online. ber of the Digital Security Council to stay abreast of emerging security regulation and requirements as well as contributing insights. The partnership enables us to stay ahead of trends and discuss developments in a knowledge-based forum. Tryg’s partnership commitments contribute to SDG 17, Partnerships, Engaging young people in insurance specifically target 17.17 | Encourage and promote effective public, pubMany young people aged 21-24 years do not licprivate and civil society partnerhave a contents insurance even though they have ships, building on the experience and left home. In line with our preventive measures, resourcing strategies of partnerships. which is a core element of our 2020 Corporate Responsibility strategy, Tryg wants to counter this development. Insurance is not always the most interesting topic Tryg’s commitment to strengthening for young people. However, when something education and knowledge about insurance for schoolchildren conunforeseen happens, it is important to know what tributes to SDG 4, Quality education, to do and how you are covered. As an insurance specifically indicator 4.3.1 | Participrovider, it is part of our responsibility to convey pation rate of youth and adults in formal and non-formal education and this to young people, who may not see the need training in the previous 12 months, for an insurance. by sex and target 4.4 | By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant To reverse this trend among young people, Tryg is skills, including technical and vocaengaged in a partnership with Mattip, a free online tional skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 18 Customer relations “I finished our meeting feeling excited. Helping other The focus of our 2020 Corporate Responsibility strategy is additionally to provide people makes you feel good, and I felt more conthe best and most competent counselling, while offering products and services nected to Jens than I normally do with customers which match the needs and expectations of our customers. because I was invited into his home” Anne Nordhejm Rasmussen, Tryg Ensuring competent and responsible customer Tryg has a diverse workforce made up of different relations is at the core of our business model and nationalities, which enables us to cater to our our ability to retain our customers year after year. customers’ different language needs. Tryg continuously works to ensure that we provide relevant services and live up to customer expectProtecting our customer’s data is a primary goal to ations. Tryg. Our personal data policy describes the data we handle and why, making it transparent to our The Tryg experience customers what kind of information we need. The Tryg experience is a tool designed to ensure Download Personal data policy counselling of a uniform and high standard for our customers. The tool is based on the best experiMeeting our customers’ needs ences of a good customer dialogue, gathered We go to work each day to offer relevant and helpacross our entire business. ful counselling to our customers. Anne Nordhejm Rasmussen from our online team in Denmark To measure satisfaction levels among our received a booking with a new customer. He was customers and to help us improve, we ask our looking to switch insurance company, and is hearcustomers to rate our performance when having ing-impaired. been in touch with a Tryg employee. In 2018, our Transactional Net Promotor Score (TNPS) was 67. This meant that the meeting had to take place in Our target is a score of 70 by 2020. an untraditional way to offer him the best possible counselling. The customer and Anne had to We try to adapt to customer needs and expectestablish some rules as to how the meeting should ations with regard to availability, which is why we be arranged. They agreed on an online meeting, are available in the evening as well as at weekends. so he could read Anne’s lips and write questions in We offer online meetings, which makes it possible the chat function, if something was unclear. to have face-to-face meetings with Tryg’s customer advisers from home or work. The customer could walk around his house to show his valuables. Through the digital face-toTryg has also launched two new customer webface encounter, they made the counselling session sites: tryg.dk and tryg.no. The design of the webmore personal, as Anne was given a tour of his sites is modern, user-friendly and simple, making private home. This gave her the insight needed to it easier for customers to buy insurance from their tailor an offer to the customer, which they could mobile phones, tablets and computers. discuss directly. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 19 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) data Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Climate and environmental data Total direct and indirect carbon emissions (Scope 1 + 2) Tonnes 5,524 a) 5,338 4,125 4,481.5 5,228 Air and train travel Tonnes 1,202 1,225 1,309 1,945 1,659 Car travel Tonnes 884 898 944 1,033 938 Heating oil consumption kWh 4,338 b) 3,106 137,619 55,331 4,767 Electricity consumption c) kWh 7,216,162 6,928,011 7,310,046 6,392,197 6,802,547 Natural gas kWh 440,000 d) N/A N/A N/A N/A District heating kWh 3,421,548 e) 3,290,378 3,012,665 2,800,505 2,666,250 Total waste f) Kg 357,246 229,673 263,178 253,348 265,815 Paper and cardboard Kg 121,518 53,596 55,669 60,115 73,810 IT, batteries and light source Kg 13,376 4,449 5,991 8,473 7,233 Bio waste Kg 38,712 32,090 41,884 30,293 27,006 Residual waste Kg 183,640 139,538 159,634 154,467 148,996 Social data Total number of employees (FTEs) Number 4,027 g) 3,373 3,264 3,359 3,599 Gender all employees (female/male) % 46/54 47/53 48/52 49/51 49/51 Total share of women in management positions % 33 h) 37 36 35 37 Employees, <30 years % 15 16 14 13 14 Employees, 30-49 years % 53 52 54 55 55 Employees, 50 years and above % 32 32 32 32 32 Flexi job Number 15 9 11 11 16 Employee turnover % 12.7 14.6 17 14.7 16.8 Total leavers Number 431 512 601 537 411 Share of voluntary leavers % 10.8 9.5 9.1 8.5 9.5 Share of involuntary leavers % 1.9 5.1 7.9 6.2 7.3 Sick leave % 4 4 4 4 4 Total employee training hours Hours 71,478 69,960 90,945 81,954 97,525 Average employee training hours Hours 19 20 26 23 26 Employee satisfaction Index point 78 76 74 73 71 Transactional Net Promoter Score (TNPS) Score 67 i) Collective bargaining agreements j) a)The increase in carbon emissions from 2017 to 2018 is mainly due to an ongoing renovation of our office buildings, extended opening hours and an update of our calculation method for carbon emissions. b )The increase is mainly due to a prolonged winter season in Norway. c)Due to a warmer and prolonged summer season, consumption mainly increased to cool our offices. In general, electricity consumption is extracted from renewable energy sources such as wind and water-power. d)Our supplier was not able to provide district heating for one month, hence we were supplied with natural gas. e) The increase in district heating is mainly due to an ongoing renovation of our office buildings and extended opening hours. f)Waste consumption increased due a clean-up in relation to termination of a lease agreement at our head office. g)In December 2018, Tryg acquired ALKA Insurance. Total number of employees includes ALKA employees. h)In 2018, Tryg increased the total number of management positions and the declining share of women in management positions is mainly due to organisational changes. i) Transactional Net Promoter Score (TNPS) figure was established in 2018. Previously, Tryg reported Net Promoter Score (NPS). j)Please see page 12. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 20 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) data Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Governance data Size of the Supervisory Board incl. employee representatives Number 13 a) 13 a) 12 12 12 Supervisory Board meetings Number 9 15 15 11 11 Attendance rate, Supervisory Board meetings % 98 97 98 95 91 Members of the Audit Committee Number 4 4 4 4 4 Audit Committee meetings Number 6 6 6 6 4 Attendance rate, Audit Committee meetings % 92 92 100 100 88 Members of the Risk Committee Number 5 5 5 5 5 Risk Committee meetings Number 6 6 6 6 4 Attendance rate, Risk Committee meetings % 88 88 100 100 90 Members of the Remuneration Committee Number 5 b) 5 b) 4 4 4 Remuneration Committee meetings Number 6 4 5 4 4 Attendance rate, Remuneration Committee meetings % 97 100 100 100 88 Members of the Nomination Committee Number 3 c) 3 c) 2 2 2 Nomination Committee meetings Number 2 2 2 2 2 Attendance rate, Nomination Committee meetings % 100 100 100 100 100 Members of IT-Data Committee Number 4 d) 4 d) 3 IT-Data Committee meetings Number 3 2 4 Attendance rate, IT-Data Committee meetings % 92 100 100 Share of women on the Supervisory Board (incl. Employee representatives) e) % 38.46 38.46 41.67 58.33 58.33 Board members, <30 years Number 0 0 0 0 0 Board members, 30-49 years Number 1 1 0 2 2 Board members, 50 years and above Number 12 12 12 10 10 Whistleblower cases Number 7 7 4 1 4 Remuneration of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board f) a) From March 2017 to March 2018, there was one extra member of the Supervisory Board. b) From March 2017 to March 2018, there was one extra member of the Remuneration Committee. c) From March 2017 to March 2018, there was one extra member of the Nomination Committee. d) The IT-Data Committee was extended by one member in December 2017. e) Tryg has equal gender representation on the Supervisory Board under Danish law and according to Tryg's policies. f) Please see page 16. Contents Corporate Responsibility report 2018 | Tryg A/S | 21
