2018 BC HOSPITALITY GROUP RESPONSIBLE HOSPITALITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT This report covers the 2018 activities relating to Responsible Hospitality for all business units of BCHG Holding A/S group (BC Hospitality Group). The report follows the financial year 1 January 2018-31 December 2018. The report is prepared in accordance with sections §99a and §99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. It complies with ISO 14001 and DS 49001 CSR certifications, as Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers is certified by these standards. The reporting is also aligned with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016: Core option, the United Nations Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals. The report presents data and figures for the three hotels forming part of BC Hospitality Group: Copenhagen Marriott, Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers and AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen. The report also covers the Group’s congress venue, Bella Center Copenhagen, which includes Comwell Conference Center Copenhagen, CIFF/CIFF Showrooms and International House. Previous Responsible Hospitality reports are available at: www.responsiblehospitality.dk. For further information regarding this report, please contact Group Responsible Hospitality Manager, Ms. Mireille Jakobsen,mij@bchg.dk 3 CONTENTS STATEMENT FROM THE CHEIF HOSPITALITY OFFICER 7 ABOUT BC HOSPITALITY GROUP 8 RESPONSIBLE HOSPITALITY 15 Stakeholder Engagement 16 Materiality 18 Sustainable development goals 23 CAREERS THAT MATTER 24 Governance 26 Inclusion, diversity and equality 26 Learning and Development 30 Personaldevelopment 30 Great Place to Work 32 PARTNERSHIPS THAT MATTER 36 Skill development & job opportunities 37 Responsible hospitality day 39 MAKE PRODUCTS MATTER 49 Building a better food experience 50 Bite Copenhagen 2018 51 CONSERVING RESORUCES THAT MATTER 52 Eliminate & reduce waste 54 Energy 54 Carbon 56 Water 56 HEALTHY LIVING MATTERS 59 Employee Health 60 Occupational health and safety 62 Cybersecurity and data privacy 64 Safety and Security 64 Food safety 64 APPENDIX 66 4 Allan L. Agerholm STATEMENT FROM THE CHIEF HOSPITALIT Y OFFICER As a leader in the Danish hospitality industry, we waste production and management while also are strongly committed to operating a responsimaking further improvements in our supply ble and sustainable business. Every day of the chain and job creation in our local community. year, we are Hosting Moments That Matter by In our wonderful city of Copenhagen, we are enhancing the experience and outcome when fortunate to experience a tremendous growth people meet, face to face. in visitation. Some recent studies have even projected a 50% increase in demands for hotel To us, Responsible Hospitality is a pledge to oprooms by 2021. While these are certainly posierate a profitable business while practicing, intive outlooks, the growing popularity of Copenspiring and advocating for sustainable change. hagen as a business and leisure destination And we do this at every level, from self-initiated also presents a major challenge to our entire efforts to supporting significant collaborative industry. initiatives like The UN Global Compact to help build a better future for all. We must meet the growing demands of our guests in terms of capacity and human resourc2018 was a very satisfactory year with impreses. At the same time, we need to ensure that we sive engagement from our team members and do not get side-tracked in our efforts to do more partners. Some of the year’s highlights include: and better when it comes to sustainability. • Reducing our energy usage at Bella Center As players in the hospitality sectors, we can all Copenhagen by no less than 31% in just two do our own individual share. But it is when we years. come together in strategic partnerships that we really have an impact. So as we glance back on a • Launching a new school partnership to inspire great 2018, I also look forward to pursuing and and educate local youths about the exciting welcoming many more fruitful partnerships in opportunities a career in hospitality can bring. the year ahead. • Earning a number of awards and accolades directly linked to our Responsible Hospitality Sincerely, efforts including the Copenhagen Business Award Environment and Social Responsibility (Københavns Erhvervspris) and the ISS Diversity Prize. In 2019, we continue our Responsible HospiAllan L. Agerholm, tality efforts. Particular focus areas will include Chief Hospitality Officer / CEO 7 ABOUT BC HOSPITALIT Y GROUP BC Hospitality Group is one of the leading hostransformation into the new Japanese fusion pitality companies in Denmark. We provide an restaurant, SUKAIBA Copenhagen. The bar and extensive range of services within the hotel, restaurant offers exquisite cocktails and dishes conference, exhibition and catering industries created with Japanese to clients from all over the world. Our client base inspiration and locally sourced products. covers the public and private sectors, as well as businesses and leisure guests. Solstra Capital Partners, a private equity investment firm, is the owner of BC Hospitality Group We offer a total of 1,583 hotel rooms, 162 meetand Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers, which ing and conference rooms, and approximately operates under two different CVR numbers. 200,000 m2 of event space with the capacity to host up to 30,000 people. BC Hospitality Group and all of its business units are located in Copenhagen, where we employ some 2,200 team Bella Center Copenhagen members. In 2018, BC Hospitality Group made Scandinavia’s largest exhibition and congress two major investments. In collaboration with centre ATP Real Estate, the group will open a Hilton property in central Copenhagen. The new Hilton Comwell Conference Center Copenhagen Copenhagen City is set to open in 2020 and will Denmark’s largest conference centre comprise approximately 29,000 m2 including 400 rooms and suites, meeting and conference AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen facilities and more. The second investment is for The largest design hotel in the Nordic region the construction of a new congress hall in Bella Center. This 14,000 m2 addition will consist of Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers a large congress hall seating 7,000 persons in Denmark’s leading hotel within sustainability addition to an additional flexible area of 7,000 m2. The inauguration is set for 2020 and will Copenhagen Marriott significantly expand the congress capacity of BC Copenhagen’s premiere five-star hotel Hospitality Group and the city of Copenhagen, further strengthening the city’s capabilities to CIFF attract international events and congresses. As Northern Europe’s leading fashion fair a natural consequence of these investments, BC Hospitality Group will not renew its lease of CIFF Showrooms Forum Copenhagen when it expires in March 16,611 sq. m. of permanent leasehold tenanof 2019. cies At AC Hotel Bella Sky, the restaurant located International House on the 23rd floor has undergone a complete Bella Center Copenhagen’s serviced offices 8 OUR PURPOSE We strive to be the leading hospitality company in Denmark by hosting moments that matter. This is our purpose and it encompasses our approach to everything that we do. OUR MISSION I AM THERE FOR YOU We are stewards of hospitality. For the guests we serve and the people we work with. We know that nothing can be undone, that moments are temporary but with the potential to live forever. We genuinely do our best to seize these moments and create a positive impact. OUR VALUES Mutual Respect Winning Spirit Service Heroes 10 HOSTING MOMENTS THAT MATTER We are hosts and stewards of We are in the business Moments, partnerships and hospitality for the guests we of ‘live’. Nothing can be results that matter. We make serve and the people we work undone. Moments are the most of our potential to with. This is a privilege with temporary but with the create positive impacts great responsibilities, and we potential to live forever. – for us, for our guests and for strive to turn each interaction the community around us. into a special moment. WE DEVELOP OUR BUSINESS WITHIN FOUR FOCUS AREAS: OUR MUST-WIN BAT TLES Our customers are at the heart of our We improve our business by continuously business and their experiences cannot be challenging ourselves and maintaining a undone. Each customer moment is equally curious and courageous approach. important to us. Sustainability is an integrated element in Our team is the backbone of our business. everything we do. We communicate our Through empathy, we leverage our individual efforts and seize business opportunities strengths to build a team that matters. within sustainability. 12 RESPONSIBLE HOSPITALIT Y As Denmark’s leading hospitality company, we are in the business of enhancing human connections. Connections that create a positive ripple effect through communities all over the world. We host moments that matter by living out Responsible Hospitality. Our strategic approach to living out Responsible Hospitality is built on a ‘do-noharm’ concept, meaning that we always adhere to laws and regulations and our certifications. Secondly, we develop our business by identifying opportunities that allow us to use sustainability as a driver in our commercial and operational activities. Thirdly, we actively advocate for positive change in our community. We do this to inspire change and for us to learn from others. 15 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our stakeholders are also potential partners, so STAKEHOLDER we maintain an active dialogue with them. This allows us to identify issues and opportunities GROUPS that are relevant to our business. We continuously tailor our engagement methods according to both the issues and stakeholder(s) involved. Examples of key stakeholder groups, topics and Employees activities can be found in our Stakeholder Matrix (see appendix). Business, Guests & Associations Customers & Network PARTNERSHIPS Creating transformative change is a massive challenge. It is also an ongoing process. There are issues, which we can address directly beOwners & Government cause they are within our own organisational Board of & Emergency Directors Services reach. But many other issues require collaborative efforts to solve. That’s why we actively pursue partnerships, anywhere we see an opportunity to collaborate on change. Such Boards & partnerships include collaborations with local Community Certification municipalities to provide job opportunities for Bodies the long-term unemployed and teaming up with local non-profit organisations to redistribute food leftovers. Facilitating partnerships is in fact a central part of who we are as a company. We are stewards of hospitality. We create opportunities and environments that enhance human connections. We facilitate thousands of transformative moments between people. We co-create every event with our customers, enabling them to make the most of those moments, where they come together in a different environment than usual. We believe that the actions we take, the food we serve and the physical environment we provide all play a vital role on the outcome of each event. Equally, it is our goal that our Responsible Hospitality initiatives will have a positive influence on the millions of moments that we host every year. 16 Jens Panduro, Fotojournalist MATERIALIT Y Responsible Hospitality is a key driver for our business, so we need to align our priorities with our stakeholders and face sustainability challenges head-on. Together, we consult and determine the issues that are most relevant to them and to us. An analysis of material topics helps us navigate to where we can make the greatest positive impact. On the basis of stakeholder dialogue and business importance, our key activities the next few years will include: Youth education, Job creation among the long-term unemployed, re-thinking biodiversity and climate in food servings, waste management, including plastic and food waste. CAREERS THAT MAT TER PARTNERSHIPS THAT MAT TER MAKE PRODUCTS MAT TER CONSERVING RESOURCES THAT MAT TER HEALTHY LIVING MAT TERS 18 AWARDS & ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 2018 We are proud to be a people business. Every time our organisation is acknowledged or awarded for its practices or performance, we know that this is all thanks to our employees, our guests and partners. BC HOSPITALITY GROUP: The Social Responsibility and Environmental Awareness Award (European Business Awards) BC HOSPITALITY GROUP: ISS Diversity Prize (ISS) BC HOSPITALITY GROUP: Copenhagen Business Award Environment and Social Responsibility ‘Københavns Erhvervspris’ (City of Copenhagen) AC HOTEL BELLA SKY: Best Hotel in Copenhagen (Danish Travel Awards 2018 CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS: Traveller’s Choice Award (Tripadvisor) CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS: Loved by Guests Award (Hotels.com) COPENHAGEN MARRIOTT HOTEL: Traveller’s Choice Award (Tripadvisor) 19 THE POWER OF EVENTS Hosting events is one of our core services. Large or small, celebrations or business occasions – events matter, and they represent an important opportunity to impact our local community. In BC Hospitality, we seize those opportunities to make the most of events for our clients, guests, partners, community and ourselves. We build strong partnerships with other local organisations and make it a priority to foster local development through our activities. In May 2018, Copenhagen hosted the Ice Hockey World Championships. The Royal Arena, the capital’s new multi arena, hosted the play-offs and BC Hospitality Group, neighbouring the arena, was an important partner in all areas relating to hospitality. Through strong collaborations with suppliers, partners, authorities and government officials, the event was executed smoothly and generated an estimated turnover of nearly DKK 1 billion in Denmark. A mega event of this calibre places Copenhagen on the map and creates a significant legacy. It truly matters for our local community. Participating in sports, whether it be from the field or the side lines, creates fellowship and brings people together. For every occasion – sport-related or not – BC Hospitality Group is proud to be a partner in doing business that matters. SDG: 17 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. SDG: 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. SDG: 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. SDG: 8 Promote sustained inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) comprise the central element of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The 17 SDGs provide targets and guidelines to effectively end poverty, protect our planet, and ensure peace and prosperity for all. BC Hospitality Group has identified four material goals for our organisation. Our greatest positive impact can be made regarding SDG 8 and 17 that relate to ‘Diversity and equal opportunity’, ‘Job creation’ and ‘Cross-sectoral partnerships’. Our biggest negative impact relate to SDG 12 and 13, concerning issues such as ‘Food waste’, ‘Sustainable sourcing’ and ‘Energy & Carbon’. While all the goals are interlinked, we believe that we must prioritise in order to maximise our overall contribution. 23 CAREERS THAT MAT TER OUR STR ATEGIC APPROACH People are at the heart of our business. And our continued success, greatly depends on our ability to attract and retain the right people – and being able to offer a motivating work that allows each person to grow through interesting job assignments. We are committed to good corporate governance. This means we operate in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and that we adhere to all appropriate ethical business standards. ATTR ACT THE BEST TALENT Recruit the most qualified and suitable professionals and foster an attractive brand image. INVEST IN LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES Encourage leaders and employees to pursue professional growth and support them in learning and developing their skills further. FOSTER A DIVERSE AND INCLUSIVE CULTURE Create an environment of trust, where everyone is treated with respect and collaboration is encouraged. CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Operate with integrity and with the highest standards in oversight, ethics and compliance. 24 EMPLOYEE DEMOGR APHIC PERMANENT ON CALL 775 BC Hospitality Group 1454 290 Bella Center Copenhagen 1105 169 AC Hotel Bella Sky 51 168 Marriott Copenhagen 75 148 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 223 COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS The figures below show the share of employees who are covered by collective agreements as well as the share of salaried employees in each business unit. The collective agreements also contain provisions on the election of union representatives. The duty of the union representatives is to address any arising disputes and to maintain peaceful cooperation in the workplace. BC Hospitality Group encourages its employees to elect trade union representatives. Currently, there are five union representatives at BC Hospitality Group, representing three different trade unions. All salaried employees with more than 6 months of company-seniority and a 8+ hour work week are covered by the company’s private health insurance agreement with Dansk Sundhedssikring. Salaried employees are covered by The Employers’ and Salaried Employees’ Act (Funktionærloven). This contains provisions regarding notice periods, severance pay, unauthorized dismissals, expulsion, illness, competition clauses, bonus, maternity and pregnancy leave, among others. COLLEC TIVE AGREEMENTS SAL ARIED EMPLOYEES 614 BC Hospitality Group 161 185 Bella Center Copenhagen 105 147 AC Hotel Bella Sky 22 154 Marriott Copenhagen 14 128 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 20 25 GOVERNANCE BC HOSPITALITY GROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORS: The governance structure of BC Hospitality Group includes a Women Board of Directors and an Executive Board. In addition, we have 33% a number of specialist committees in place. The governance Men structure of Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers involves a sepa67% rate Board of Directors and Executive Board. DIVERSIT Y OF GOVERNANCE BODIES (GENDER DISTRIBUTION) BC HOSPITALITY GROUP Wherever possible, BC Hospitality Group strives for equal genEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS: der representation within its boards, departments, committees and management. While we acknowledge, that we have not yet reached our own ambitions, we currently do not find it necessary to initiate additional policies or specific initiatives on the matter. Men Women 50% 50% INCLUSION, DIVERSIT Y AND EQUALIT Y CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS BOARD OF DIRECTORS: When employing and serving people of so many backgrounds, Women cultures and nationalities, it is important that we foster inclusive 33% environments. We also believe that our diversity is a strength Men that sparks innovation and a dynamic work environment. In 67% our recruitment and team creations, we use tests of characters to ensure that colleagues complement each other, and that we create diverse and inclusive teams. This is all part of our ‘Oneteam’ strategy. We are very proud to have been acknowledge by peers and exCROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS perts in the field, when BC Hospitality Group won the ISS Diversity EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS: Prize 2018. We are proud of having a very equal gender distribution in our collected workforce. Another factor we look at in measuring diversity is the number nationalities represented in our workplace. Men Women With more than 69 nationalities – we are truly a global workplace 50% 50% in Denmark. 26 HOTELS Number of nationalities (Permanent Employees) Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 40 Copenhagen Marriott 42 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 39 Bella Center Copenhagen 28 BC Hospitality Group 68 AGE DISTRIBUTION Under 30 yrs. 30 50 yrs. Over 50 yrs. AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 88 76 5 Bella Center Copenhagen 62 169 59 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 31 86 31 Copenhagen Marriott 37 121 10 BC Hospitality Group 218 452 105 GENDER DISTRIBUTION Women Men AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 40% 60% Bella Center Copenhagen 49% 51% Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 50% 50% Copenhagen Marriott 56% 44% BC Hospitality Group 49% 51% 27 EMPLOYER BRANDING CAMPAIGN The hospitality industry is currently experiencing a considerable lack of skilled labour. For this reason, it is more important than ever that we increase awareness of the exciting career opportunities that await within our industry and our own organisation. We are also fully aware, that our employees’ positive experiences form the basis for our external employer image. One strategic aspect of our recruitment efforts deals with creating a much better overview of the exciting career opportunities we offer within BC Hospitality Group. To attract the best talent, we have created a specific career website and a targeted social media presence during 2018. We also placed increased strategic focus on our recruitment process. This entailed highlighting potential career paths within BC Hospitality Group for existing employees seeking new challenges. In this case, personal development plans are drawn out to ensure that our emv ployees are satisfied with their professional development and that they have opportunities to create careers that are meaningful to them. LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT Our in-house learning platform, BC Academy has been running for three years now. The purpose of the academy is to develop our employees’ skills and competences both professionally and personally. Students can participate in one-off courses and training but they can also draw up a strategic and personalised plan for their own development. This is done in collaboration with their manager. We have seen a great participation rate in the development opportunities, and our employee survey demonstrates that employees appreciate the many diverse offers that are currently available. BC Academy is a platform to maintain and upgrade employees’ competences. But it’s also a cornerstone of our vision of what an attractive workplace must offer its members. We strongly believe in fostering a culture of continuous professional growth and development as a means of attracting, inspiring and retaining the best talent. In 2019 we will develop even more tools and training to help fill learning gaps within the organisation. PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT As our organisation and our work environment evolve, we have to constantly re-evaluate our efforts and their value. One of the things we have decided to change is our annual Personal Development Reviews for employees. Instead of an annual review we will turn our focus on a more dynamic approach, where dialogue takes centre stage and performance is reviewed several times a year. We have also invested in a new online platform to support this new process in 2019. We will also focus on Key Succession Planning. A process that will help us identify and develop new leaders in our organisation. WORKPL ACE OF THE FUTURE The nature of how we organise our work is changing. We have a curious and courageous approach to embracing and driving new developments – not only in what we offer our clients but also in how we organise ourselves. In late 2018, we launched the pilot project, Future Workplace. Its purpose is to create more flexible office seating and work spaces to accommodate our different needs for quiet zones, meeting areas and collaborations. By sharing desks, we aim to reduce the number of empty desks filling our offices when employees are away for meetings or events. We also hope to ease communication and collaboration across the organisation by having departments physically closer to one another. 30 COMPANY No. participants Male Female Total hours Hours traning per of training permanent employee 2016 2017 2018 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 212 49% 51% 1795 12 Copenhagen Marriotts 223 48% 52% 686 4 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 439 53% 47% 1946 12 Bella Center Copenhagen 558 48% 52% 4242 15 BC Hospitality Group 126 561 1432 50% 50% 8669 11 31 GREAT PL ACE TO WORK The wellbeing of our workforce is our foremost concern. To ensure an outstanding work environment, we conduct regular surveys regarding our employees’ satisfaction. During the last few years, BC Hospitality Group has participated in the Great Place to Work survey. The survey measures the behaviours that are known to lead to a trusting workplace, the single most important element in also creating a healthy workplace. We conduct the assessment using confidential feedback and the results are employed as central KPIs for each business unit. This way, we continuously monitor and strive to enhance the wellbeing of our teams. We take great pride in the fact that all our business units met their Trust Index goal for 2018. Great Place to Work publishes an annual Top 100 list of the best places to work in Denmark. In 2018, all three of our hotels ranked within the Top 40 of Medium-Large Companies. 32 TRUST INDEX Goal 2018 Result 2018 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 85% 90% Copenhagen Marriott 85% 85% AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 85% 85% Bella Center Copenhagen 80% 89% 33 NEW EMPLOYEE APP Internal communication is key to running a successful business while also ensuring a healthy work environment. In an organisation as diverse as BC Hospitality Group that has a wide array of work tasks, procedures, locations and people; finding the optimal communication channel has admittedly been a challenge. With this in mind, we launched our new employee app in 2018. The app is accessible from both desk tops and smart phones and therefore suits both our employees working in offices and those working in operations. We use the app as our intranet, sharing information and news regarding professional development opportunities, employee benefits, social events, new projects, safety, Responsible Hospitality initiatives and more. PARTNERSHIPS THAT MAT TER OUR STR ATEGIC APPROACH Strategic partnerships is essential to running a successful company like ours. These relationships take many forms and are developed across sectors and industries. Our hotels and venues stimulate the economy of Copenhagen and surrounding communities by attracting and accommodating business and leisure tourists alike. Through our venues and exhibitions, we host and create events that also enrich our community culturally. We provide numerous jobs and work with local organisations, municipalities and educational institutions to make a positive difference. CREATE OPPORTUNITIES FOR LOCAL EMPLOYMENT AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT Help integrate unemployed and marginalized into the job market. ENCOUR AGE THE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF YOUTHS Promote education in our industry, through cooperation with schools and institutes of higher education. COLL ABOR ATE ON AND PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE TOURISM AND EVENTS Through political and industry dialogue, work towards the responsible sectorand destination development. LEAD BY EX AMPLE Advocate for sustainable business practices and conditions and gain knowledge for self-improvement. Build and strengthen supplier partnerships across the value chain. 36 SKILL DEVELOPMENT & JOB OPPORTUNITIES One of the major risks facing our organisation is a shortage of qualified work candidates. And forecasts of the Danish labour market predict this risk will only increase in the coming years to come. BC Hospitality Group has always sought to create jobs and opportunities for those facing difficulties joining the Danish labour market. We will continue this strategy as it helps disadvantaged groups as well as our own business. We work with local municipalities and Job Centres to provide internships. This is a good opportunity for us to find and cultivate new talents for our organisation. BC Hospitality Group also provides vocational internships and work experience opportunities for students of educational institutions. The table below shows our internships distributed across BC Hospitality Group. In 2018, 22% of Job Centre internships resulted in employment within our organisation. In addition, 33% of student interns were offered employment at the end of their internship during 2018. 37 Student interns Job Center interns Vocational Interns 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 4 6 5 24 2 14 12 10 10 Copenhagen Marriot 7 8 8 8 27 5 2 3 3 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 1 9 12 3 2 3 24 30 19 Bella Center Copenhagen 13 14 14 29 13 28 3 5 4 BC Hospitality Group 25 37 39 64 44 50 41 48 36 38 RESPONSIBLE HOSPITALIT Y DAY The hospitality industry holds tremendous potential to drive sustainability because we engage with so many areas of society both nationally and internationally: Infrastructure, transportation, the food system, employment and much more. When guests visit us, they trust us to be responsible stewards of both natural and human resources. To live up to this responsibility as an industry, we need collaborations across the board. In 2018, BC Hospitality Group hosted its 2nd annual responsible Hospitality Day. The purpose of the event is to create a platform for knowledge sharing, innovation and partnerships for sustainability in our shared sector. Together, our industry can make a tremendous difference and this is the reason why we continue to engage our customers, suppliers, competitors and other actors within our ecosystem. This year’s event programme was based on two primary Sustainable Development Goals, which our industry can profoundly impact: Goal 12 (Responsible consumption and production) and Goal 17 (Partnerships for the goals). The day included debates and talks as well as showcasing best practices and innovative products based in circular economy. In the Responsible Hospitality Lab area, participants networked with innovative businesses offering e.g. products made from alternative dairy and protein sources and personal care products made from coffee grounds. Responsible Hospitality Day won the award for Non-profit Event 2018 at the Danish Events & Meetings Awards, and we truly appreciate this acknowledgement from our peers. BC Hospitality Group strives to foster industry-wide efforts to promote sustainability through collaboration and partnerships. And so, we look forward to hosting Responsible Hospitality Day 2019 to continue our shared progress. See video here 39 YOUTH PROJECT Only one in five youths in Denmark choose a vocational education. Forecasts simultaneously predict a national labour shortage of some 30,000 vocational professionals in 2020. At the same time, a fifth of our youth has no education seven years after finishing secondary school. As a nation, we are faced with a structural challenge and, naturally, this challenge also represents a pressing risk to our organisation as we are dependent on employees with vocational skills. Thus, we are taking concrete steps to ensure the long-term sustainability of our organisation by making local youths more aware of the diverse and exciting career opportunities available to them in hospitality. In our Youth Project, we have created a partnership with a local school Højdevangens Skole and Copenhagen Hospitality College, on educating their guidance counsellors, students and their parents. Further, we received financial support from the A. P. Møllerske Foundation to realise the partnership activities. The 23 students participating in the project gained hands-on experience with gastronomy, service, hospitality and sustainability by spending one day a week at several of our hotels and congress centre for a period of six months. The project will culminate with an event the students organize themselves which will be attended by parents and special guests in February 2019. BC Hospitality Group has earmarked five vocational trainee positions for participating students wishing to pursue a career in hospitality. BOGFORUM Lifelong learning means gaining knowledge from many sources throughout life. However, access to learning is not equal for everyone and research shows that social background is still in many ways decisive for the level of learning and education a person achieves. In BC Hospitality Group, we aim to open the world of literature, debate and imagination to people of all ages, from children to adults. Bogforum (Book Forum) is our large annual book fair, with 33,000 guests in 2018. Each year, we create a vibrant meeting between the public, authors, publishers, politicians, newspapers and others who engage in the world of literature, society and philosophy. The School Scene at Bogforum is created in collaboration with the City of Copenhagen. School classes are invited to visit Bogforum and their programme is developed to align with the guidelines for the Danish curriculum. We have a special focus on school children and aim to enhance their fascination of literature by facilitating meetings and presentations by popular children’s book authors. By inviting schools, Bogforum reaches both children from literary as well as nonliterary homes to share the joy of reading and in 2018, 2-3,000 children visited Bogforum with their school class. Bogforum also has several other partnerships supporting children. The ‘Read for Life’ initiative collected surplus children’s books from exhibitors and distributes the books to institutions for children in vulnerable positions. In the same vein, the volunteer association Fairytale Christmas also collected books to give as Christmas presents for families in vulnerable positions. The Non-profit Organisation Mothers’ Help sold homemade bookmarks and all revenue went towards the organisation’s work for vulnerable mothers and families. Lastly, the book fair partnered with Save the Children Denmark in the creation of a poster. Revenue from its sale was donated to Save the Children’s work in Denmark and internationally. FASHION FOR GOOD Our business unit Copenhagen International Fashion Fair (CIFF) has partnered with 1.618 Paris for five years now. 1.618 Paris focuses on discovering and exhibiting ethical and sustainable brands that reinvent fashion in harmony with nature without compromising luxury. Sustainable fashion brands from the Parisian fair in May 2018 also exhibited their work at CIFF. CIFF KIDS entered into an active partnership with the Children’s Brain Cancer Foundation in 2018. The aim is to utilize the CIFF KIDS platform to raise awareness about the disease and collect funds for research. The partnership will stretch over several seasons. CHRISTMAS PRESENTS FOR VULNER ABLE CHILDREN For the Marriott employee Christmas party, employees brought presents for children. The presents were donated to a local crisis centre where families in vulnerable positions could provide their children with a Christmas present to celebrate the holidays. ART 2030 Code Art Fair is our ambitious, international art fair which showcases some of the best contemporary art from around the world. In 2018, Code Art Fair was a partner of the art exhibition ART 2030 New York which aimed to promote and discuss the Sustainable Development Goals through art. SOUP FOR THE HOMELESS In the cold January weather, Marriott employees served warm soup to the homeless in the Copenhagen area. RONALD MCDONALD CHILDREN’S FUND CHARIT Y GOLF CUP BC Hospitality Group representatives participated in the annual Ronald McDonald Children’s Fund Charity Golf Cup in support of the Ronald McDonald House at the leading specialised hospital in Denmark, Rigshospitalet. EAT & SUPPORT Restaurant BARK at Hotel Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers participated in the Danish Cancer Society’s annual recurring event ‘Eat & Support’ where the sale of a set menu contributes towards the Danish Cancer Society’s fundraising. CROWNE PL AZA ELITE CUP Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers entered into an important sponsorship of nearly 1 million DKK for the elite youth soccer tournament Crowne Plaza Elite Cup hosted by Kastrup Football Club. PL AY FOR THE GOALS play Forum was a partner in the SDG awareness project, the Goodwings Company Cup: Play for the Goals. for the goals forum • københavn • 23. maj 2018 goodwings COMPANY CUP ØRESTAD KULTURDAG We believe firmly in taking active part in our local community to support and develop our area in partnership with others. For the annual neighbourhood culture festival, Ørestad Kulturdag, we invited our neighbours and everyone else to visit two of our hotels, AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen and Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers. There, we offered guided s ta r r in g tours, refreshments and exquisite views. At AC Hotel CH R I STO PH E R , J O E Y MO E , I H A N H AYD E R , R A SMU S B OTO F T, B R IA N Bella Sky, we also hosted a free movie night in our LYKKE , G E O, L A R S CH R I STI A N SE N , J OA KI M I N G VE R SE N , CL A U S E L MI N G , TH O MA S H E LVE G , MA D S STE F F E N SE N , professional movie theatre with screenings for both N I CL A S J E N SE N , J E SPE R CH R I STI A N SE N children and adults. . . . O G MA N G E F L E R E . Tag hele familien med til UNICEF Cup, hvor du kan opleve de kendte fra bl.a. “Musiklandsholdet”, “TV-værtslandsholdet” eller “Komikerlandsholdet” helt tæt på. Det bliver årets sjoveste og mest hyggelige fodboldturnering ENTRE: BØRN UNDER 12 ÅR ER GRATIS, VOKSNE KOSTER 50 KR UNICEF CUP 2018 BC Hospitality Group was a sponsor for the UNICEF Cup 2018. All proceeds from the event were donated to UNICEF’s work to support children’s rights in Greenland. 2018 UNICE F CUP gent oft e s tad ion lord ag d en 8 . s eptem ber kl. 1417 CHRISTMAS DINNER FOR VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC ABUSE AC Hotel Bella Sky donated a Christmas dinner to a shelter for women and children escaping violence and abuse which aimed to promote and discuss the Sustainable Development Goals through art. DANISH RED CROSS For the fashion fair Designer’s Forum in 2018, we collaborated with the Danish Red Cross to collect funds. All attendees were invited to make a donation towards to humanitarian efforts and BC Hospitality Group sponsored a prize consisting of a stay at our design hotel, AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen. LIT TLEBIGHELP Copenhagen Marriott was once again the main sponsor and host venue of the LittleBigHelp Charity Event 2018. It was a unique evening with entertainment from several major Danish artists in the music and entertainment industry. The fundraiser and auction raised a record DKK 2.2 million for LittleBigHelps 20 projects helping more than 700 vulnerable children and women in India. Image credit: GetzCool Media LØKKEFONDENS CHALLENGE BC Hospitality Group once again supported the Løkkefond/Løkkefoundation in 2018. Løkkefonden is a development project which purpose is to help challenged boys aged 16-25 years achieve a more structured everyday life and a healthier lifestyle through cycling. Furthermore, the project helps the “Challenge boys” further in education or work. MAKE PRODUCTS MAT TER OUR STR ATEGIC APPROACH In order to build a future resilient business, we want to increase transparency in our supply chain. We want to know how produ ts are grown, made and sourced, so we can maximize our positive impacts and minimize or completely eradicate the negative ones. We aim for high-quality, sustainable products that add value for our customers. SUSTAINABLE SOURCING We continually work to increase transparency, reduce environmental effects and seize opportunities that positively affect our local community through our selection of suppliers and products. We collaborate directly with suppliers to create products that live up to our expectations and quality standards. We believe in dialogue with our supplier partners, but also expect them to comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct. This Code of Conduct is based on international standards concerning human and labour rights, environmental practices, anti-corruption and other industry standards. Because, as a large corporate buyer, we have the power to use our influence to create ripples of sustainability change that leave positive marks throughout the entire value chain. Due diligence is a key driver to developing and maintaining sustainable sourcing programmes. In the year ahead, we are committed to further strengthen our practices and turn a particular focus towards human rights as well as initiating an impact analysis of our non-food purchasing practices. SUSTAINABLE SOURCING PR ACTICES & R AW MATERIALS Support the development of a stronger local supply chain to help reduce the effects of climate change. BUILD A BETTER FOOD EXPERIENCE Offer an assortment of food and beverage that support a healthy lifestyle and from sustainable sources. Support biodiversity, animal welfare and sustainable fishing practices Re-think proteins with high carbon footprint. PEOPLE & OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Respect the human rights of all workers. 49 BUILDING A BET TER FOOD Continually rethinking our assortment of prodEXPERIENCE ucts is an integrated part of our food and beverage strategy. By driving and supporting sustainable innovation within the food sector, we aim BC Hospitality Group hosts and serves more to offer our guests the very best gastronomic than one million guests every year. We have a experiences. strong indication of what consumers request and how trends in the food sector develop. In the year to come, we aim to increase our use Food supply chains are often complex and of vegetables while decreasing our use of anilong, making it difficult for suppliers and buymal proteins and dairy products by no less than ers to fully disclose information along the way. 30% in 2019. We do so to provide a healthier Therefore, we aim to shorten supply chains and food choice as well as to reduce our environcreate closer collaborations directly with supmental impact. We also want to continue depliers. Suppliers receive essential knowledge veloping a stronger local supply chain to help of what buyers are looking for, while BC Hospimitigate the effects of climate change. We want tality Group can influence suppliers to provide to support our guests’ healthy lifestyle choices. sustainable quality food at a competitive price. One part of these efforts entails a considerable improvement of the quality and variation of our When sourcing sustainable food and beveragnon-alcoholic beverage assortment. We are es, we lean on six key principles: also conducting an in-depth analysis of palmoil ingredients in the products we purchase. Our • Local goal is to reduce the amount of palm oil in our • Seasonal products by 30% in 2019. • Fairly traded • Organic and biodynamic • Animal welfare ORIGINAL BEANS – SUSTAINABLE • Sustainable seafood CHOCOLATE At BC Hospitality Group, we strive to source and serve food of the highest quality. And while doing so, we are proud to support important initiatives that further promotes sustainability near and far. Our purchase of sustainably sourced chocolate from Original Beans concurrently supports efforts within re-forestation, biodiversity and climate change reductions. The partnership gives us access to a large variety of chocolate made from different types of heritage cacao beans. Original Beans is a pioneer in creating a climate-positive supply chain through a regenerative business model and their project, One Bar: One Tree. The project protects the continued existence of heritage cacaos and their native forests by planting or preserving one tree for every chocolate bar sold. The reforestation efforts also protects endangered wildlife and are conducted in collaboration with local conservation programmes and farmers. RÅVAREMATCH – MATCHING LOCAL PRODUCERS AND BUYERS In 2018, BC Hospitality Group partnered with Copenhagen House of Food (København Madhus) on the event Råvarematch. Local sustainable producers pitch their products to a panel of corporate buyers who provide feedback and market insights while serving as a platform for potential collaborations. BC Hospitality Group 50 is part of the panel because we want to inCopenhagen was also part of the World Food crease our use of locally sourced, sustainable Summit. It attracted an international audience ingredients. The aim is to create positive social of decision makers, NGOs, politicians, food change through capacity building in the local entrepreneurs and professionals. The exhibiDanish food supply chains. We want to buy tors offered the most innovative gastronomic quality products that also support the local trends within food tech, circular economy, and economy, are environmentally friendly and new types of food. Sustainability is a key comgood for our business. ponent, and the programme featured talks and demonstrations of the latest advancements within green proteins and innovative partnerBITE COPENHAGEN 2018 ships on food waste and social inclusion. During the fair, the Danish Trade Council, CoFood production leaves a significant mark penhagen Cooking & Food Festival and Bite on our climate. Furthermore, the United NaCopenhagen invited exhibiting companies tions estimate that a third of all food produced to join a workshop focused on creating partglobally goes to waste, calling on all actors to nerships promoting the UN SDGs. The Trade rethink our food Council offered export advice and the P4G systems. For us, this entails the supply chain as Hub was present to offer funding opportuniwell as the composition of the food we serve. ties for SDG-empowering business projects aimed at export. Bite Copenhagen is our annual fair, showcasing the future of food. In 2018, the fair was Bite Copenhagen 2018 in numbers: 165 exhiborganized in partnership with the Danish Minitors, 40 international exhibitors, 3,200 visitors istry of Environment and Food as well as the from 51 countries. Copenhagen Cooking & Food Festival. Bite ANIMAL WELFARE 2016 2017 2018 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 51% 54% 64% Copenhagen Marriott 60% 70% 66% AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 52% 52% 65% Bella Center Copenhagen 60% 56% 73% BC Hospitality Group 56% 62% 67% ORGANIC FOOD SHARE (COST) 2016 2017 2018 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 27% 36% 31% Copenhagen Marriott 12% 17% 25% AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 22% 32% 28% Bella Center Copenhagen 14% 18% 28% BC Hospitality Group 18% 26% 28% 51 CONSERVING RESOURCES THAT MAT TER Every year, we host hundreds of thousands of guests at our venues and hotels. And because of our size, we have the power to integrate sustainable solutions that make a real difference. We work hard to improve our efficiency within energy, water usage and our procurement practices. We have to ensure that our business practices and buildings are not only fit for the future, but also that they support healthy and productive environments for our guests and employees. Reducing, eliminating or circulating waste products are crucial to our efforts as documented in our DS 49001, ISO 14001 and Green Key certifications. MANAGE RESOURCE USAGE AND COSTS Implement tracking and monitoring on resource use to improve operational efficiency (incl. energy, materials, water, transportation). Reduce and manage carbon emissions. WORK TOWARDS ELIMINATING, REDUCING OR CIRCUL ATING WASTE Address food waste in entire value chain. Reduce environmental impact of plastic and packaging. Re-think proteins with high carbon footprint. 52 ELIMINATE & Additionally, we collaborate directly with exhibitors and clients to further increase the amount REDUCE WASTE of sorted and recyclable waste, especially from conferences which have proved the number one waste generator. In order to build a future resilient business, we want to increase transparency in our supHOTELS ply chain. We want to know how products are grown, made and sourced, so we can maxCircular thinking and a waste-as-resource apimize our positive impacts and minimize or proach are becoming more prevalent. Rather completely eradicate the negative ones. We than throwing used items to waste, it makes aim for high-quality, sustainable products that good sense to consider the item as a resource add value for our customers. that can be part of a new product. A holistic view on product life cycle is both environmentally and economically sound. WASTE MANAGEMENT In 2018, our three began initiatives to increase SYSTEM their waste sorting efforts. All hotel rooms are now equipped with waste baskets that enable We take a qualitative as well as a quantitative guests to sort waste into e.g. paper, plastic approach to combat our waste production. and metal. Knowledge combined with employee engagement brings valuable insights into the specific areas we need to prioritize. Based on this, we create organisational systems to monitor the ENERGY types and quantities of waste that we generate. We are then able to implement efficient Energy is a vital resource for BC Hospitality systems to collect, sort and recycle our surplus Group and all our operations in both hotels resources. and congress venues. We continuously monitor and analyse energy data in order to improve our performance without harming the ELIMINATE & REDUCE service experience. We strive to reduce climate impact and cost through energy efficiency and WASTE to share best practices with other industry stakeholders. CONGRESSES AND EVENTS Congresses, fairs and other types of events As in all other aspects of our business, our staff facilitate meetings between people. Essentialis key to driving progress in the goals we set ly, they form the starting point of many future and implementing key optimization projects. partnerships and business agreements. A negProperty management teams are responsiative side effect is the heavy waste production ble for forecasting future energy consumption that usually result from such events relating to and its impact on cost. They also implement e.g. food and beverage consumption as well energy efficiency projects and beneficial adas meeting and exhibition materials. To deal justments to operational procedures. with this, Bella Center has an extensive waste handling system that we continually optimise to handle more and more waste fractions. At the moment, we are able to professionally sort no less than 30 different types of waste. 54 WASTE CONSUMPTION 2018 Total (Kg) Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 294.874 Copenhagen Marriott 217.927 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 341.315 Bella Center Copenhagen 1.032.718 BC Hospitality Group 1.886.834 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION Total Electricity District Heating Total Energy BY BUSINESS UNIT (MWh) & Cooling (MWh) MWh) 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 2514 2349 2447 1080 1689 1820 3594 4038 4267 Copenhagen Marriot 3479 3324 3368 4119 3471 3172 7598 6795 6540 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 4643 4666 5392 3776 3835 3701 8419 8501 9093 Bella Center Copenhagen 10123 8767 8694 12734 7986 6485 22857 16753 15179 BC Hospitality Group 21613 19777 19901 22754 17873 15178 44367 37650 35079 ENERGY INTENSITY ACROSS HOTELS kWh / PGN (ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER GUEST NIGHT) 2016 2017 2018 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 28,2% 29,6% 31,8% Copenhagen Marriot 43,3% 37,6% 36,75% AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 28% 26,5% 28,4% While energy usage has been reduced at most units, Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers is currently undergoing renovations of its ATES Groundwater heating and cooling system. As a consequence 2017, 2018 and part of 2019 sees a spike in the use of district heating and cooling, until renovations are complete. 55 ENERGY REDUCTION are accountable for 70% of all energy use. BC Hospitality Group engages in a multitude AT BELL A CENTER of diverse partnerships in order to drive impact COPENHAGEN and advocacy. Our three hotels are engaged in a public-private partnership created as part of In 2018, Bella Center Copenhagen realised Copenhagen’s ambition to become CO2 neutral savings of approx. 1 million DKK in energy exby 2025. The partnership represents approx. penses. These savings come as the result of a 11% of the building mass in Copenhagen and targeted and ambitious effort to closely monitor it aims to reduce energy consumption in buildand reduce energy consumption at the conings through better facility management. The gress venue. We collaborate with Schneider partners share their performance and progress, Electric and utilise the system, Resource Adwhich enables them to benchmark against one visor to identify areas where we can improve another as well as against their annual reduction and adjust usage to the current requirements. target. Minimising energy use enhances both This benefits our bottom line and the climate the climate and the bottom line which is anoththrough reduced CO2 emissions. er testament to the fact that sustainability and profitability can in fact be merged. We benchmark against our own previous performance and compare our progress to a baseline (2014-2016). In the last two years we managed to reduce our energy consumption with 31% compared to our baseline – 10% in 2018 alone. CARBON Our original target was to reduce our total energy usage by Tracking carbon emissions4 gives us a great 25 % in 2021 compared to our baseline. We are opportunity to understand our tangible impact very proud to have surpassed this goal already. on climate and the environment. We focus on driving reductions in energy usage, which has The main reason for the reduction in energy the most influence on our carbon emissions; usage is due to a change of behaviour and by as well as reducing food waste in our venues. strictly following standards and procedures. We have also replaced nearly 1,700 light bulbs to We reduced actual carbon emissions by 18% in LED lights in CIFF showrooms. Bella Center will 2018 over 2017. save more than 200 MWh annually due to this improvement. Our main goal for the immediate future is to work on cementing this energy-wise behaviour. WATER While we already encourage our guests to reuse ENERGISPRING their towels, Copenhagen Marriott will implement the brand-wide Respect the Towel initiative. – A PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP TO This means that linen and towels will only be REDUCE ENERGY CONSUMPTION changed upon explicit request from the guests. The task of optimizing our use of natural resources is continuous and concerns all parts of sociThe increase in water usage at Crowne Plaza ety. In BC Hospitality Group, we know that partCopenhagen Towers, can be attributed to an nerships are key to creating significant impact increase in catering events and the subsequent on the necessary scale. Energy consumption is a production process significant factor and in Copenhagen, buildings 56 TOTAL WATER USAGE Total Water Usage per guest night BY BUSINESS UNIT (m3) (m3) 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 25,462 29,549 28,988 0.20 0.22 0.22 Copenhagen Marriot 37,512 37,778 39,464 0.21 0.21 0.22 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 50,885 38,2925 57,427 0.176 0.12 0.18 Bella Center Copenhagen 29,550 27,557 24,548 BC Hospitality Group 122,383 133,176 150,427 TON C02 Scope 1 Scope 2 Total 1 & 2 2018 2018 2016 2017 2018 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 180 208 54,6 140,2 388 Copenhagen Marriot 60,2 964 1446 1314,9 1024,2 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 12,7 1386 1615 1644,2 1402,2 Bella Center Copenhagen 29,5 2293 4119 3165,1 2294,13 BC Hospitality Group 282,2 4851 7234,6 6264,4 5133,4 57 HEALTHY LIVING MAT TERS Health, Safety and Security are integral and crucial parts of the services provided by BC Hospitality Group. We operate only by the highest health and safety standards in all critical areas such as safety systems, hygiene, food, and sanitation. In addition, the security and safety of our customers, guests and employees are top priorities and handled accordingly. IMPROVE HEALTH AND WELLBEING Help employees lead healthier lives through education and support. Offer guests healthy lifestyle options. ENSURE THE SAFET Y AND SECURIT Y OF OUR GUESTS AND EMPLOYEES Set and maintain high standards for food safety and quality. Maintain a safe workplace with zero accidents and injuries. Ensure safe experience for our guests and employees at all our venues and endeavors. Protect privacy and confidentiality and comply with all relevant regulations. 59 EMPLOYEE HEALTH Good health contributes to a good life – also at work – while directly contributing to a better overall productivity in our workplace. Therefore, BC Hospitality Group works proactively to promote healthy lifestyles and a balanced Work-Life Blend for our employees. Our health strategy is ambitious and holistic. We wish to promote physical and mental wellbeing and to reduce and alleviate sickness. Our strategy is aimed at healthy employees as well as those unfortunate to be facing an illness. Some of our tools include workplace evaluations in addition to personal and professional development schemes. We also offer health insurance, check-ups for senior colleagues or employees working nights. We offer smoking cessation courses, company sports associations and events, discount on gym memberships, yoga classes and massage therapy to name but a few. STAY WELL CAMPAIGN 2018 Our Stay Well Days take place every year, with the goal of promoting healthy lifestyles among our colleagues at BC Hospitality Group. The campaign highlights the many and often simple things we can do, to take care better care of ourselves and our health, at work and at home. During the campaign, we promote our company offers relating to health, physical working environment, harassment, and employee benefits. Here, employees also have the opportunity to meet the people and specialists we in place to support them in their challenges. SICK LEAVE When sickness occurs, it first and foremost hurts on a personal level. But it also hurts our organisation, so the well-being of each individual is a common concern. Starting a few short years ago, we have committed ourselves to actively reducing staff sick leave and to provide even better opportunities for employees to stay healthy. The effort has paid off generously – for everyone – and we are proud to have achieved to surpass our overall goal level of 4.1% absence due to illness. ABSENCE DUE TO ILLNESS % 2016 2017 2018 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 5,74% 5,34% 3,77% Copenhagen Marriot 4,69% 3,93% 4,47% AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 3,79% 6,23% 4,55% Bella Center Copenhagen 4,11% 3,5% 2,67% BC Hospitality Group 4,48% 4,44% 3,86% 60 61 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFET Y Healthy and safe work environments form the foundation of all operations at BC Hospitality Group, and we continually work to improve on this aspect. In 2018, we called on external experts to help us restructure our Health & Safety Committees to build a new framework that better supports agile communication, collaboration and safety. Further, we now provide extra training for our representatives on the Health & Safety Committees. A new online platform facilitating the efforts on occupational safety and work environments as well as employees’ annual work place assessment is also in place to improve our organisational setup in this area. The platform will be rolled out in Q1 of 2019. Our Works Committee is yet another forum working to enhance collaboration throughout the organisation. Its members equally represent employees and management, respectively. Trade union representatives are also part of the committee on behalf of our employees. OCCUPATIONAL INJURIES No. of accidents registered 2016 2017 2018 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 3 6 8 Copenhagen Marriot 1 1 5 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 9 19 20 Bella Center Copenhagen 9 19 20 62 63 CYBER SECURIT Y AND DATA PRIVACY Employees, guests and clients alike, all have the right to have their personal data protected. We actively adhere to data privacy laws and constantly review our procedures in order to align them with the requirements set out in the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which came into effect in May 2018. SAFET Y AND SECURIT Y Through our in-house Safety and Security Academy, we train our employees to live out our Safe Space Programme, which is built around the message ‘See something? Do something!’. Based on the employee’s specific position, their training covers important issues such as Fire Safety, First Aid, Security attendant training. Our BC Academy also covers human rights, human trafficking, conflict understanding and management, handling of confrontations etc. We review our procedures often and also have an extensive risk assessment tool in place. With thorough risk assessment, we customise the most optimal security solutions for each individual event. In addition to our extensive in-house capabilities, we also have a close collaboration with authorities and government officials to ensure the highest level of security for our guests that come with many different needs and requirements. FOOD SAFET Y Our chefs and Food and Beverage managers continually reinforce the principles of food safety, a top priority within our organisation. All business units at BC Hospitality Group have only received elite smileys and exceptional reports from the Danish Ministry of Environment and Food. This attests that our units comply with food and safety rules and regulations. In addition, we operate with signs to encourage guests to ask about allergenic ingredients if pertinent to them. We also label and pack our food and beverage with full descriptions of ingredients. RISK MANAGEMENT TRAINING Participants Male Female Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 180 67 113 Copenhagen Marriot 233 100 133 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 62 25 37 64 65 APPENDICES RESPONSIBLE HOSPITALIT Y POLICIES HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY • We will support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in particular those of our employees, our business partners and within our local community. • We will strive to not be complicit in human rights abuses and require our suppliers to do the same. • We will ensure a healthy and safe environment in all hotels and venues. • We will promote diversity in the workplace and will not tolerate discrimination • We will respect our employees’ rights to voluntary freedom of association and recognize theiright to collective bargaining • We will support employees with training and opportunities for promotion to help them reach their potential and maximize their contribution to our company strategy • We will recruit, employ and promote employees on the basis of objective criteria, their qualifications and abilities required for the job to be performed • We will provide several channels for complaints to ensure any concerns are efficiently addressed ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY • We will continue to improve our environmental performance and we will implement environmentally friendly solutions, wherever it makes economic and environmental sense without compromising the experience of quality and comfort at our hotels and venues • We will make the most efficient use of resources our energy, water and other natural resources, promoting conservation and savings wherever possible and practical. • We will incorporate environmental considerations, including animal welfare into our actions and procurement decisions • We will raise awareness of environmental matters among our employees and stakeholders • We will optimize our waste reduction through reusing materials where possible, recycling and limiting our use of hazardous materials where alternatives are available, economical and suitable. • We will monitor, record and benchmark our environmental performance on a periodic basis BUSINESS INTEGRIT Y POLICY • We conduct our operations in accordance with the principles of fair competition and will abide by applicable laws and regulations • We will in all dealings with business partners, seek to preserve the highest standards of integrity, objectivity, fairness, efficiency, courtesy and professionalism and will look to them to set similar standards. • We will apply a zero-tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery • We will not accept any personal gifts, gratuities, premiums or other incentives when choosing suppliers. We prefer incentives expressed in acceptable business terms, e.g., quality, service and price. • We will only purchase goods and services, which supports the purposes of business for BC Hospitality Group. • We will aim to ensure that the best value for money is being obtained and that its resources are being used to the greatest benefit. • We will work towards a system of ensuring that our suppliers and business partners are environmentally responsible, are not complicit in any violations of human rights or labour rights and do not participate in or permit corruption in all its forms. 66 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT MATRIX KEY TOPICS FORM OF ENGAGEMENT Employees • To promote the welfare and productivity • Direct communication: staff meetings, of our employees. Employee App, bulletin boards, email, etc. • Creating safe and inclusive work • Works Committee (incl. seats for trade environments. union representatives) • Encourage collaboration • Health & Safety Committee • Talent and career development • Great Place to Work survey • Employer branding and reputation • Workplace assessment reviews • Suggestion boxes • Collective agreements between our trade association and the workers’ unions. • Responsible Hospitality website and report Customers & guests • Customer and guest satisfaction • Direct interaction with our staff and sales • Quality experience representatives (in-person, phone, email, • Safety, security and hygiene etc.) • Personal service • Quality reviews and surveyvs • Business ethics • Group-, brandand Responsible Hospitali• Value for money ty websites, Social media profiles, booking and travel websites • Loyalty programs • Site visits • Online web portals • Responsible Hospitality website and report Suppliers • Product and operational improvement • Contractual agreements • Responsible sourcing • Supplier Code of Conduct • Continuous dialogue • Responsible Hospitality website and report Government & emer• Hosting government officials • Participation in industry bodies influencgency services • Business ethics, governance and transing key policy issues parency • Annual financial report • Safety and security • Dialogue with relevant emergency and se• Working with emergency management curity services regarding events and VIPs. services, Police, etc. • Sustainability performance • Compliance with laws and regulations • Best practice Owners & board of • Transparent, timely, relevant and reliable • Annual financial report directors information • Responsible Hospitality website and report • Board meetings and company briefings 67 Brands & certification • Compliance with standards • Continuously through our contact points, bodies • Fulfilling brand expectations during status meetings, etc. • Regular Brand and Safety Audits • Responsible Hospitality website and report Community • Good corporate citizenship • Partnerships with local job centres • Community engagement • Sponsorship activities • Creating jobs in local community • Employee volunteering • Environmental awareness • Responsible Hospitality website and • Research and development report • Employee engagement • Liaison with NGOs and other private and • Media relations public organisations on specific projects. Business associates & • Development of regulations, policies • Dialogue, networking, events networks and standards • Partnerships and participation in associ• Research and innovation ations • Best practice exchange and develop• Presentations at conferences government ment policies etc., with relevance to us and to • Insight into market analysis, trends and our industry. forecasts, training and guidance on legislation • Promoting Copenhagen’s local culture and Denmark as a travel destination 68 GRI CONTENT INDEX: INDICATOR DISCLOSURE LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE ADDITIONAL REFERENCE 102-1 Name of the organization About this report 102-2 Activities, brands, products, About BC Hospitality Group and services 102-3 Location of headquarters About BC Hospitality Group 102-4 Location of operations About BC Hospitality Group 102-5 Ownership and legal form About BC Hospitality Group 102-6 Markets served About BC Hospitality Group 102-7 Scale of the organization About BC Hospitality Group Annual Financial Reports for Careers That Matter Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers & BC Hospitality Group 102-8 Information on employees Careers That Matter UNGC Principle 6 and other workers Partnerships That Matter SDG 8 102-10 Significant changes to the org. and About BC Hospitality Group its supply chain Make Products Matter 102-11 Precautionary principle or apMake Products Matter Conserproach ving Resources that Matter 102-12 External initiatives About this report Responsible Hospitality 102-13 Membership associations Responsible Hospitality 102-14 Statement from senior Statement from the CEO decision-maker 102-16 Values principles, standards, Responsible Hospitality UNGC Principle 10 / SDG 16 norms of behaviour 102-18 Governance structure Careers that matter Annual Financial Reports for Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers & BC Hospitality Group 102-40 List of stakeholder group Responsible Hospitality 102-41 Collective bargaining Careers that matter UNGC Principle 3 / SDG 8 agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting Responsible Hospitality stakeholders 102-43 The organization’s approach Responsible Hospitality to stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns Responsible Hospitality raised through stakeholder enCareers that matter gagement Partnerships That Matter 102-45 Entities included in the conAnnual Financial Reports for solidated financial statements Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers & BC Hospitality Group 102-46 Defining report content and topic Responsible Hospitality boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Responsible hospitality 102-50 Reporting period About this report 102-51 Reporting cycle About this report 102-52 Date of the most recent report About this report 102-53 Contact point for questions reAbout this report garding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance About this report with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI Content index GRI Content index 102-56 External Assurance No external assurance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Careers that matter and its Boundary Partnerships that matter Conserving Resources That Matter Making Products matter Healthy Living Matters Appendix 103-2 The management approach Careers that matter SDG 1, 5, 8 and its components Partnerships that matter UNGC Principle 1 Conserving Resources That Matter Making Products matter Healthy Living Matters Appendix 103-3 Evaluation of the management Careers that matter approach Partnerships that matter Conserving Resources That Matter Making Products matter Healthy Living Matters Appendix 201-1 Direct economic value Annual Financial Reports for generated and distributed Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers & BC Hospitality Group SDG 8, 9 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations Annual Financial Reports for and other retirement plans Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers & BC Hospitality Group 201-4 Financial assistance received from Annual Financial Reports for government Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers & BC Hospitality Group 202-1 Entry Level Wage There is no legally stipulated minimum wage in Denmark. Wage rates are specified in accordance with collective agreements. UNGC Principle 6 / SDG 1, 5 302-1 Energy consumption within the Conserving Resources That UNGC Principle 7, 8 organization Matter SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 302-3 Energy intensity Conserving Resources That UNGC Principle 7, 8 Matter SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Conserving Resources That UNGC Principle 8, 9 Matter SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Conserving Resources That UNGC Principle 7, 8 Matter SDG 6 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, Conserving Resources That UNGC Principle 8 managed in, or adjacent to, Matter SDG 6, 14, 15 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 305-01 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Conserving Resources That GC Principle 7, 8 Matter SDG 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-02 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Conserving Resources That UNGC Principle 7, 8 emissions Matter SDG 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Conserving Resources That UNGC Principle 8 method Matter SDG 3, 12, 15 308-1 New suppliers that were screened Make Products Matter using environmental criteria 402-1 Minimum notice periods Collective agreements with: 3F, regarding operational changes HK, DI Faglærte Overenskomst. The Employers’ and Salaried Employees’ Act. UNGC Principle 3 / SDG 8 403-1 Occupational health and safety Healthy Living Matters management system 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Healthy Living Matters SDG 3 occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities. 403-4 Health and safety topics covered Covered by collective agreein formal agreement with trade ments with 3F, HK, DI Faglærte unions Overenskomst. SDG 8 404-1 Average hours of training per year Careers that matter UNGC Principle 6 per employee SDG 4, 5, 8 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee Careers that matter SDG 4, 8 skills and transition assistance programs 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Careers that matter UNGC Principle 6 and employees SDG 5, 8 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and No incidents. UNGC Principle 6 corrective actions taken SDG 5, 8, 16 410-1 Security personnel training in huHealthy Living Matters UNGC Principle 1 man rights policies or procedures 412-2 Employee training on human Careers that matter UNGC Principle 1 rights policies or procedures Healthy Living Matters 413-1 Operations with local community Partnerships that matter engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. 414-1 New suppliers that were screened Make Products Matter UNGC Principle 2 using social criteria SDG 5, 8 416-1 Assessment of the health and Healthy Living Matters safety impacts of product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance No incidents concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 417-1 Requirements for product and Healthy Living Matters SDG 2, 12 service information and labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance Non incidents concerning product and service SDG 2 information and labelling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance No incidents concerning marketing communications 418-1 Substantiated complaints conNo incidents cerning breaches of customer priSDG 16 vacy and losses of customer data 419-1 Non-compliance with laws & reguNo incidents lations in social & economic area SDG 16
