C O M M U N I C AT I O N ON PROGRESS 2018/2019 C O M M U N I C AT I O N ON PROGRESS 2018/2019 Published by Epsilon Publishers Limited © 2019 Epsilon Publishers Limited is proud of our commitment in embodying the spirit of the United Nations Global Compact. We pledge to align our business operations to the United Nations Global Compact’s fundamental pillars of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. To this end, we have signed the letter of commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, pledging to align our eﬀorts to operate responsibly and to advance societal goals in tandem with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. TRACE has completed a TRACEcertiﬁcation due diligence review of Epsilon Publishers Limited. Certiﬁcation by TRACE signiﬁes that Epsilon Publishers Limited has completed internationally accepted due diligence procedures and has been forthcoming and cooperative during the review process. TRACEcertiﬁcation underscores Epsilon Publishers Limited’s commitment to transparency in international commercial transactions. CONTENTS 6 Letter of commitment 9 About this report 10 What we do 12 Advisory board report 14 Highlights 17 COP reporting: Human rights 19 COP reporting: Labour 20 COP reporting: Environment 22 COP reporting: Anti-corruption U N I T E D N AT I O N S G LO B A L C O M PA C T LETTER OF COMMITMENT THE 10 PRINCIPLES T his communication on progress report provides a HUMAN RIGHTS detailed account of how we have implemented the ten PRINCIPLE 1 principles of the United Nations Global Compact in each Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally of its four areas of human rights, labour, environment and proclaimed human rights; and anti-corruption for the period 2018-2019. The report further considers our engagement in realising the Sustainable PRINCIPLE 2 Development Goals (SDGs) that concern our business and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. our undertaking of strategic actions towards the realisation of SDGs. LABOUR This reporting year, the theme for 2018 was compliance and PRINCIPLE 3 therefore, the organisation made strides in ensuring that we Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective put into place robust corporate governance structures. To recognition of the right to collective bargaining; this end, the board and management adopted and signed the company code of conduct available at https://www. PRINCIPLE 4 epsilon.co.ke/governance/ the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; In the same period, we also acquired TRACEcertiﬁcation. PRINCIPLE 5 TRACE is a globally recognised anti-bribery business association. TRACE has completed a the effective abolition of child labour; and TRACEcertification due diligence review of Epsilon Publishers Limited. Certification by TRACE signifies that Epsilon Publishers Limited has completed internationally accepted due diligence PRINCIPLE 6 procedures and has been forthcoming and cooperative during the review process. TRACEcertification the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. underscores our commitment to transparency in international commercial transactions. This has opened project and partnership oppotunities for the business because of the certification. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Lastly, we firmly believe that by giving back to different causes, we can not only make a difference Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment in the world around us, but also catalyse other businesses to follow our lead. This reporting year, challenges; we established collaborative partnerships with the United States International University to provide graduate internship opportunities to their students; to give them hands on experience and make PRINCIPLE 8 them market ready. The organisation, in partnership with Hillcrest High School, set up an annual undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Award for the best student in creative writing. It will be inaugurated in 2020. PRINCIPLE 9 We know that much remains to be done in emerging sustainability issues and we reiterate our encourage the development and discussion of environmentally friendly commitment to advancing societal goals and embed sustainability deeper into our business. technology. Yours sincerely ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. R. Mumbi Gichuhi (Mrs.) Managing Director Epsilon Publishers Limited 6 | | 7 W H AT W E D O Epsilon Publishers Limited at a glance W e provide editorial, translation, publishing and printing services. We do this with publishing; this means using our platform to inform, to influence and to impact. commercial transactions. We are also recipients of the African Excellence Award in publishing. a view to helping our clients communicate their message in a We use publishing as a tool to Finally, corporate governance is at clear and concise manner. catalyse social, economic and the heart of our decision making. environmental awareness and Our female-led advisory board What we publish includes but is we are able to disseminate this comprises 60% women as we are not limited to: reports, journals, information in a concise and passionate about empowering newsletters, magazines, financial compelling manner. women leaders, and especially and annual reports, books, policy the roles that they play within a documents and policy briefs. As signatories to the United leadership framework. The board Nations Global Compact fosters a culture of accountability We also provide translation (UNGC), we remain proud of and responsibility and in turn, it services to enable publications our commitment to align our reinforces our core organisation to reach a wider audience; this operation in tight tandem with values: to act with integrity; to includes the United Nations the fundamental pillars of human take responsibility for quality; languages as French, Spanish and rights, labour, anti-corruption and and to deliver excellence. Swahili. environment. Furthermore, we are a TRACEcertified company, Our purpose is to precipitate TRACE certification underscores positive social impact through our transparency to international, our work our values our philosophy our approach We work hard to bring your Our values lie at the core We aim to nurture and We nurture your publication publication to life. Good of what we do. We measure personalise publications and treat it like our own. We publishing means work that our work by our three so that we ensure that ensure that your message is attracts and retains attention non-negotiable values: we the intended message is communicated in a concise because it has communicated act with integrity; we take communicated in a concise and consistent manner so congruently to its intended responsibility for quality; we and consistent manner, with it sends out a credible that audience. deliver excellence. a credible and compelling relays your core message. message. 8 | | 9 ADVISORY BOARD REPORT HIGHLIGHTS 79th Annual Meeting of the The 4th Annual General Assembly Board review and appraisal Academy of Management. Meeting for the United Nations O ne of the most reliable ways the board can strengthen its performance as a governing body is to periodically assess its own which, when taken together, delineated the profile of an effective future focused board. Global compact Network Kenya. performance. Assessments also bring value to board members, directors, managers, the The results of the assessment would be used to develop action plans to strengthen the visionary W e are honoured to have taken part in a case study prepared by Strathmore Business School for consumption. This event O n Wednesday, 19 September 2018, two of our staff attended the 4th Annual General Assembly meeting of the United Nations Global organisation and, ultimately, clients. leadership capacity of the board as well as facilitate took place from the 10th-14th August 2018 Compact Network Kenya held at the Southern Sun the development and implementation of initiatives The main goal of board induction was to enable at the Academy of Management annual Mayfair Hotel, in Nairobi. and strategies to improve leadership performance. the Board members to purposefully identify and meeting in Chicago. The Academy is the surmount the values and strengths that they bring pre-eminent professional association for The meeting aimed at bringing together 143 UN to the table as well as the barriers that impede scholars in Management and Organisation. Global Compact signatories in Kenya drawn from their effectiveness. The assessment was rolled out The Board Charter More than 11,000 Management researchers the business and non-business sectors with the objective of fostering greater involvement in, and at three levels: and leaders in Academia are drawn together ownership of, the initiative by Global Compact ~~ Assessment of overall board performance in We refined the existing board charter to by this conference dubbed the Premier signatories. several areas of leadership accountability. benchmark it with the global best practice to Global Management Conference, involving solidify our committment to compliance. 92 countries. Among the agendas discussed were; an overview ~~ Identification of issues and priorities facing the board. of the UN Global Compact & the Kenya Network, This charter sets out the core functions of the The conference’s theme, “Improving Lives”, the 2017 Kenya Network Activity & Financial ~~ Assessment of individual director Advisory Board of Epsilon Publishers Limited. It explored on how the betterment of society report; 2018 important updates; and, Governance performance, including a peer evaluation. spells out the regulations of the Board, the roles could be contributed to by organisations. report. More to the presentation was a member and duties of the members, and the practice of consultation and plenary session that allowed The Visionary Board Leadership Assessment the board with respect to adhering to the best Some of the most impactful issues in the deliberations on the expectations of participants focused on identifying leadership gaps and areas practice of good corporate governance. This can field of Management and Organisation were and recommendations for the year 2019. in which the board had the greatest potential for be accessed here https://www.epsilon.co.ke/ presented in form of research findings. improvement; competencies and characteristics governance/ Further topics included the #MeToo From the plenary session, there was cognisance Movement, Corporate Leadership and The that no single organisation could manage to do Continued Challenges Women and People it all in tackling issues that affect businesses of Colour Face in the Corporate World. in Kenya, from corruption, economic strains, capacity etc. On the contrary, there was need for Our Managing Director took part in an the various organisations in the same clusters interview at the conference whose basis to complement each others efforts in upholding was to seek views of a female leader in the the principles of the UNGC while still operating publishing industry, as it is predominantly sustainably. considered a male-dominated field. We uphold our commitment to drive There was consensus that the UNGC should positive social impact in the East African provide a level platform where signatories region and set the benchmark lines for and participants can upload relevant policies, transparency, integrity and sustainability. business practises, localised information, case studies, milestones and networking opportunities. 10 | | 11 HIGHLIGHTS HIGHLIGHTS The idea of regeneration R egeneration means systems and practices that take a ‘holistic’ approach to solving environmental, public policy in the region, talent and capacity building among the youth by mentoring upcoming social and economic problems; photographers and artists and, giving aiming to restore health, wholeness the Pan-African agenda primary and resilience. This prize is aimed focus in the magazine by providing at supporting those who are a platform to various columnists to changing the context in which ventilate the issues that aﬀect the they are working; who they are continent and what can be done to helping to build and strengthen the overcome these challenges. regenerative movement. Economically, through our work Our participation forced us to with our business partners who are pick our brains on the idea of non-governmental organisations. regeneration in our organisational We contribute to their effort towards context, which meant determining community resilience by providing how we used our role and platform support services which include as publishers to inform, influence promotional and awareness material and impact within our sphere given for the various campaigns they have that our brand promise is to drive conducted. We have published impactful conversation because we reports, books and related materials understand that communication is that documented their work in the more than just sharing information. communities they work in. We realised that, to articulate the These reports are a result of research issues affecting the African people carried out by the organisation and continent, there was need for across the East African community. massive advocacy at various levels Examples of such reports include: and preparation of messages to Tourism Satellite Accounts Report, meet the needs of both national Energy Security Policy Framework, and international audiences. We the Blue Economy and the The Lush Spring Award entry and participation made a deliberate decision to use Sustainable Tourism Masterplan. publishing as a way to solve the In the third quarter of 2018, we submitted our entry for the Lush Spring Prize award under the Influence Category. The Lush Spring Prize award around them, and the networks they are connected to. social, economic and environmental pillars of the society because through publishing, we are able to Finally, environmentally by engaging in sustainable printing. We have permanently implemented the use of is an annual prize fund showcasing projects We are proud that among hundreds of applications disseminate this information in a responsibly sourced paper and inks from around the world that are working towards from around the world, we managed to be second manner concise and compelling. which are Forest Stewardship Council environmental and social regeneration. Projects in selection from the shortlisted nominees from (FSC) approved. This will ensure that that are actively contributing to; the health of all Kenya and among the six nominees from the Specifically, we will continue to use our end to end production process is the systems they are part of as well as helping to African region. Prose Magazine to drive positive eco-friendly. restore the natural systems in the place the project social impact by furthering the is based, projects that nurture the wellbeing of https://springprize.org/the-prizes/influenceagendas: Sustainable leadership, all their workers, the capacity of the community award/ 12 | | 13 HIGHLIGHTS C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S MICE Summit Human rights T he inaugural Global MICE Summit was held on 29th and 30th November, 2018 in Nairobi, Kenya. The summit, whose theme was, leaders across the African continent. The magazine is a business-focused publication designed to enable the stakeholders in the Meetings & Events PR I N C I PL E 1 Businesses should Leveraging Sustainable MICE Practices for Economic industry to explore industry trends and news. It is support and respect Development, brought together participants specifically formulated to showcase the diversity, the protection of from the Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and potential and vast capacity of the MICE industry internationally Exhibitions (MICE) segment of the Tourism sector on the African continent. to identify sustainability trends and practices proclaimed human within the Meetings & Events industry. The Global More to this, the summit addressed some SDGs rights; and MICE summit was conceptualised by Zuri Events. through demos such as: SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH AND WELL–BEING: The participants got to have scheduled B2B PR I N C I PL E 2 Macriders (stationary bicycles) that enhanced meetings with delegates and speakers that Make sure that they are event attendee experience. As one rode the bikes, aimed at discussing collaboration agendas with the SDG goals reflected on the screen in order, not complicit in human regards to the three thematic pillars: Sustainable based on the speed of the wheels. The goal was rights abuses. Development, Economic Development and Tech & to ride the bike until all 17 SDG goals came up on Innovation. The delegates got to engage with the the screen. panellists and speakers by raising critical issues to further the discussions. SDG 6: CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION: Lifestraw bottles as a sustainable solution to The company code of conduct and its adaptation In our capacity as publishers and partners in plastic bottles. by the Epsilon Board the summit, we published It’s A MICE World E-magazine which was launched at the summit. SDG 13: CLIMATE ACTION: Doing things right is one of our most important values at Epsilon Publishers. This is an e-magazine by Zuri Events Limited. It Throw and grow seed balls practical conference We work hard every day to publish work that drives positive social impact. features MICE players within the region, MICE giveaways. As such, it is key to have laid down structures and policies to cement this. trends and a directory of the MICE stakeholders The managing director drafted the company’s code of conduct that was first SDG 15: LIFE ON LAND: and players within the region. The magazine adapted by all staff members and later by the Epsilon Board in the board Sustainable incentive travel. carries articles and features from MICE industry meeting of 16th April 2019. The code of conduct is meant to form the bedrock of how the company safeguards integrity and compliance across the business. Furthermore, the code of conduct will enable us to promote a company culture of veracity and excellence. The communication of the code of conduct endeavors to ensure a workplace and a workforce that is fully committed to doing business based on our values. The code of conduct applies to the board, management and all employees of Epsilon Publishers, including temporary and contractual staff that we engage from time to time, our suppliers and business partners. The communication of the code of conduct also forms part of our on-going commitment to ensure that all our stakeholders are committed to engaging in fair and equitable business practices. Among the key elements of the code: 14 | | 15 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S The company remains Labour Good governance an equal opportunity The code of conduct outlines the steps that we have taken to align our employer. Employment PR I N C I PL E 3 business to best business practice, both in terms of good governance and opportunities within operations. Businesses should the company are uphold the freedom available to everybody Working with each other of association and the regardless of ethnic We are committed to the principle of honesty, integrity, openness and fair-play effective recognition of background, religion, in the delivery of our services. the right to collective sex, disability and any bargaining; other constitutionally Working with others protected status. This covers the basic standard of conduct expected of all staff when working with third parties. This includes our suppliers, business partners and clients. PR I N C I PL E 4 The elimination of all Caring for the environment forms of forced and The company is committed to operating in an environmentally responsible compulsory labour; manner, from the provision of products and services, to the operation of its offices and facilities, selection of suppliers and other business activities. PR I N C I PL E 5 Fostering a culture of excellence through: The effective abolition Integrity in the workplace: Each one of us has a duty to uphold and of child labour; and P maintain our culture of integrity. To this end, speaking up goes a long way in art of being mid-sized is owning our objective by actively identifying issues that need to be addressed and dealing with them. acting and conducting our business like a mid-sized company. Integrity in the marketplace: Creating a level playing field by not PR I N C I PL E 6 This therefore requires a wholesome transformation to become a engaging in any anti-competitive practices such as, formally or informally, purpose and value driven organisation. The elimination of with competitors and/or suppliers, fixing prices or any other conditions of transaction. discrimination in respect of employment As such, the company will continue to free will with no one being subjected Governance and anti-corruption observing the zero-tolerance policy for and occupation. focus on attracting and retaining the to bonded or forced labour. This policy any form of corruption. right workforce today and in the future. applies to not only the supplier’s During 2018 2019, we intensified business operations but also those of the work to create a sustainable and their supplier network with which the HIGHLIGHT futureproof workforce. company conducts its business. FOR THE YEAR The company will also remain an equal opportunity employer and will not be Child labour On the 26th of March 2019, our staff attended a training workshop on advancing corporate complicit to: The Company and its suppliers shall human rights reporting through the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights; THE HUMAN not employ any people under the the workshop was organised by the UNGC Network Kenya. The workshop which was held RIGHTS in Nairobi helped participants understand what good human rights reporting looked like, Forced labour minimum legal working age of the WORKSHOP by introducing UNGPs core concepts, ensuring that all participants had a sound grounding The Company and its suppliers shall country in which they work. of the foundational elements of a company’s responsibility to respect human rights, and employ all employees under their own honing in on the key characteristics of good and effective human rights disclosure. 16 | | 17 impact. The production of ecofiber is used, thereby reducing friendly paper is subject to strict tree harvesting, water usage, C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S environmental requirements and energy consumption, emission of simultaneously maintaining high greenhouse gases and pollution. Environment quality publications. Eco-labelling requirements ensure that energy Also, part of the chemicals used use and CO2 emissions are limited to manufacture paper are difficult throughout the production process. to break down in nature and can PRI N CIP L E 7 accumulate in the food chain, while others are toxic. Through Businesses should Waste the production of ecolabelled support a precautionary Recycled paper can be made in paper, these chemicals are either approach to combination with new and old removed or severely limited, for environmental virgin fibers. Recycled paper is example it is prohibited to bleach challenges; considered less harmful to the with chlorine gas. environment because less virgin PRI N CIP L E 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and anti-corruption PR I N C I PL E 10 PRI N CIP L E 9 Businesses should work Encourage the against corruption in development all its forms, including and diffusion of extortion and bribery. environmentally-friendly T technology. he company is committed to operating in an environmentally responsible manner, from the provision of products and services, to the operation of its offices and facilities, selection of suppliers and other business activities. Further, the company complies with all applicable environmental laws and environmental impacts, such as GHG (Greenhouse gas) emission, waste, and A t Epsilon, we remain committed to conducting our business with integrity, fighting corruption in all its forms. We continue to promote integrity among our employees and external stakeholders to ensure that regulations as well as self-directed energy use. we are accountable for our business and transparent in all our dealings. commitments to sustainable practices and environmental protection. One of our anti-corruption goals for 2018–2019 was providing quality employee training on anti-corruption. Two (2) employees from different To this end, we made the decision GHG (Greenhouse gas) departments attended the Bribery Act, 2016 workshop organised by and commitment to switch from emission and energy use Global Compact Network Kenya as a framework for joint collective action conventional printing to using efforts. Along with a large consumption of responsibly sourced paper (Ecopaper follows a polluting, energyLabelled paper) and ink. More to this, We were taken through the provisions of the Bribery Act, lessons from intensive production. However, we made the decision to be more other jurisdictions, actors in implementation, legislative gaps, challenges, choosing eco-friendly paper makes an practical through monitoring on our implementation and proposed solutions. 18 | | 19 Epsilon Publishers Limited Gemina Court George Padmore Road P.o. Box 1175-00606 Nairobi Kenya Telephone +254 (0) 733 333 600 publish@epsilon.co.ke www.epsilon.co.ke epsilon publishers @epsilonkenya epsilon publishers
