LASSILA & TIKANOJA PLC GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT In 2018, L&T revised its corporate responsibility programme to other key stakeholders, we must be increasingly transparent link it even more closely to the company’s strategic priorities in measuring and communicating the impact of our operations and stakeholder expectations. The company’s focus in the and the value we create for different stakeholders, in addition development of responsibility was shifted to the impact of to reporting the customary figures that describe our financial operations and the value that the company creates together with performance. its customers for its key stakeholders, society, the environment and the climate. In connection with this refocusing, the priorities In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our outlined in the responsibility programme were linked to the UN actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Global Compact Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and initiative. daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Lassila & Tikanoja is a service company that is putting the circular economy into practice. Together with our customers, we keep I am pleased to confirm that Lassila & Tikanoja reaffirms its materials, properties and factories in productive use for as long support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact as possible and we enhance the use of raw materials and energy. in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiWe help our customers maintain the value of their properties and Corruption. materials while protecting the environment. Yours sincerely As a practical doer in the circular economy, we create value in our daily work by helping our customers make efficient and Eero Hautaniemi sustainable use of their resources. As Lassila & Tikanoja’s President and CEO operations are also guided by the growing expectations of our Lassila & Tikanoja plc L&T CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY – KEY ELEMENTS The circular economy and A healthy, diverse and productive Sustainable industry climate change mitigation workplace community and cities We promote the sensible use of mateWe look after the well-being and work We promote the development of rials and energy and reduce the amount ability of our personnel. industrial infrastructure in line with the of waste generated. We provide employment opportunities principles of sustainable development, We promote the sustainable use of to immigrants, young people and people and the recovery of industrial side natural resources and participate in who are retraining or struggling to find streams and closed cycles. efforts to counter climate change. employment. We find innovative solutions to build We promote the transition towards a We create economic growth and sustainable cities and create healthy circular economy. well-being. and safe environments. Legal and regulatory compliance We ensure compliance and ethics in own operations. We ensure responsibility of the supply chain. 2 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. As a major employer and service enterprise, the focus of Our responsible business principles and ethical guidelines are L&T’s social responsibility is on the Group’s employees. The described in L&T’s Code Of Conduct. Where necessary, the general material aspects of L&T’s responsibility for its employees Code Of Conduct is also supplemented with more detailed policies include maintaining the work ability of L&T personnel, improving and principles.The Code of Conduct applies to every L&T employee, occupational safety, increasing job satisfaction and promoting and we also require our business partners to operate responsibly. diversity in employment. The company does not tolerate any All new L&T employees will receive a set of instructions violation with human rights in its own operations or as part of demonstrated with practical examples. Employees will also be its supply chain. L&T observes the UN Declaration of Human reminded of these instructions regularly. Rights and workers’ rights as defined by the International Labour Organisation (ILO). L&T is committed to supporting the UN Global Training on human rights policies and procedures takes place Compact initiative and its principles pertaining to human rights and through Lassila & Tikanoja’s Code of Conduct training. Supervisors labour. are responsible for introducing employees to the instructions and their practical application. All employees must make sure National legislation, agreements and other obligations are applied that they understand the content of the Code of Conduct.The in employment relationships. L&T respects the employees’ freedom management monitors compliance with the Code of Conduct and to unionise. L&T monitors its personnel’s compliance with collective other instructions. agreements, environmental legislation, labour law, occupational safety legislation and regulations pertaining to financial All L&T employees must follow the L&T Code of Conduct as well as management. The Group is also compliant with the applicable prevent actions that are contrary to guidelines and instructions. legislation governing contractors’ obligations and liability, and New L&T employees study the Code of Conduct as part of their requires the same of its suppliers. induction training programme, and we also provide regular refreshers of the Code of Conduct by means of online courses, Risks related to human rights have been assessed as part of the among other things. risk management process. However, as L&T mainly operates in Finland and Sweden with local partners, no significant risks related Violations of the Code of Conduct are primarily reported to to human rights have been identified in the Group’s operations. the immediate supervisor. Immediate supervisors assist in the interpretation of guidelines in ambiguous situations. Employees The goal of our occupational safety operations is to guarantee can also use a confidential reporting channel by phone or e-mail. a safe workplace for all employees. We are committed to the The channel is available in all of our operating countries. The idea of zero accidents, and we believe that all accidents can internal auditor handles all reports received via the reporting be preventedWe adhere to the occupational health and safety channel in accordance with a jointly agreed process. legislation governing all our activities and observe safety instructions in all our daily operations. We will handle all actions During 2018 all new L&T employees studied the Code of Conduct and behaviour in violation of the applicable legislation and given as part of their induction training programme. Particular focus was instructions immediately and in accordance with mutually agreed on the Technical Services division’s personnel in Sweden, who upon rules. We survey the hazards and risks of our services and joined L&T following an acquisition in September 2017. In the early diverse tasks in advance, so that we can eliminate or minimise the part of 2018, 95% of the Swedish personnel of Technical Services risks. Our occupational safety practices are further detailed in our completed an online course that covered the key topics of the occupational safety management principles. We require the same Code of Conduct. of all our subcontractors. 3 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 In autumn 2018, the Code of Conduct and the online course that Our internal auditor received 13 reports of infringements against supports its practical application were updated to correspond the Code of Conduct during the year. The reports were received to the EU GDPR requirements concerning the processing of directly from our personnel, through supervisors or via our personal data. In addition, certain other sections, such as the electronic whistleblowing channel. All of the reports required anti-discrimination guidelines, were specified further in the spirit further investigation and most of them led to corrective measures of the UN Global Compact. 93.3% of salaried employees in Finland ranging from reprimands to warnings. In some cases, the reports completed the updated online course by the end of the year. In led to changes to the company’s existing processes. 2019, employees in Sweden and Finland will familiarise themselves with the revised Code of Conduct as applicable. There were no grievances related to human rights or reported incidents of discrimination at L&T in 2018. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation We honour the UN Declaration of Human Rights and workers’ Our goal of promoting a diverse work community is closely linked rights as defined by the International Labour Organisation (ILO). to the pursuit of a non-discriminatory workplace culture. In We honour national legislation and agreements and respect 2018 &T participated in Work Does Not Discriminate, a campaign our employees’ freedom to unionise. In Finland and Sweden, all launched by the Confederation of Finnish Industries with the aim employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. of establishing a genuinely equal and open workplace culture in Finland. We work constantly to promote the employment of We do not tolerate any discrimination, harassment, bullying, racism risk groups, such as people at risk of social exclusion, and we or other inappropriate behaviour. We do not discriminate based are committed to the non-discrimination principles of the UN’s on gender, gender identity or gender expression, based on age, Global Compact initiative. Our rules against discrimination are also ethnicity, nationality, language, religion, ideology, opinions, political documented in our Code of Conduct to help us do the right thing activities, union activities, family relations, health, disability or any on a daily basis. These rules were updated and specified further other reason pertaining to an individual. during 2018. We promote equality and diversity. Equality, non-discrimination We were also involved in Monday Belongs to Everyone, a campaign and fairness are core principles in all our HR matters, including launched by the Human Rights Centre and the Non-Discrimination recruitment, wages and career progression. We actively support Ombudsman in October 2018 to call attention to disabled people’s diversity in our work community, which includes individuals from right to working life and remind the public that the start of the different cultural backgrounds, individuals with different ages, workweek on Monday is a privilege that not everyone enjoys. skills, education and varying levels of work ability. The campaign challenged employers to use their social media channels to communicate what concrete steps they have taken, We do not tolerate the use of child labour, any form of forced labour or plan to take, to promote the employment of disabled people. L&T or any other practices in violation with basic human rights in our co-operates with partners such as the City of Helsinki, and using own operations or as part of our supply chain. their subsidised employment services, we have recruited people with developmental disabilities to work for us in the cleaning business. 4 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. L&T puts environmental responsibility into practice particularly L&T requires responsible management of environmental issues through the services it produces for customers. The primary goalis of its partners and suppliers. This requirement is factored into the always to direct materials collected from customers to reuse or procurement process e.g. in the form of self-assessments. Waste recycling, guided by the order of priority stipulated by law and the is only handed over to operators that are authorised to receive or circular economy approach. We aim to mitigate climate change, e.g. process it by replacing fossil fuels with biofuels and solid recovered fuels as well as by reducing the emissions of our own transport services. In 2018, 54.2% (53.8%) of the material streams collected from our We are also active in our efforts to promote the necessary customers and managed by L&T could be reused or recycled for operating conditions for the circular economy. use as raw material for new products. At L&T’s high volume, this meant that the total amount of materials reused and recycled was All our operations are compliant with environmental legislation, nearly 40,000 tonnes higher than in the previous year. regulations and permits. Our environmental management system has been certified according to the ISO 14001 standard. L&T’s carbon handprint, or the emission reductions created We are constantly developing new methods and processes for by its operations, totalled approximately 1.2 million (1.1) CO2 promoting recycling and for reducing our impact on the nature. equivalent tonnes in 2018. The carbon handprint was generated by our customers being able to replace virgin raw materials with For us to succeed in the work we do for our customers, we secondary raw materials, or fossil fuels with biofuels and solid must set an example in our own operations. We are constantly recovered fuels, or reduce waste. monitoring the environmental impact, emissions and energy consumption of our own activities, and always aim to reduce the In 2018, L&T’s own operations generated 64.4 thousand CO2 amount of waste we create as well as to recycle all waste as equivalent tonnes of emissions (59.6). Absolute emissions efficiently as possible. increased yearon-year due to the L&T FM acquisition and the higher volume of our collection and transport operations. However, L&T’s environmental policy specifies the environmental aspects our emission intensity, or the ratio of emissions to net sales, fell to and principles that the Group observes in both its own operations 59.5 CO2 equivalent tonnes (66.2) per million euros as well as in the services it produces for its customers. All our operations are founded on an uncompromising compliance In 2018, we developed and launched a new Kierrätyspuu (Recycled with environmental legislation and standards as well as on the Wood) service for our customers, enabling the use of wood chips principle of continuous improvement. Responsible management of in the production of particle board and thereby increasing the environmental issues is part of L&T’s operative risk management recycling rate of wood. We also made an investment decision process. An ISO 14001 certified environmental system (covering regarding a new processing line to be built at the Merikarvia Environmental Services, Industrial Services and cleaning and plastic recycling plant. New washing technology makes it possible support services) as well as an efficient self-monitoring system to process even dirtier and more difficult types of plastic waste are the cornerstones of risk management. generated particularly in the retail and construction industries. Professional waste treatment operations are subject to Additionally in 2018, we invested in new digital services that help environmental permits and regulatory compliance. In 2018, L&T our customers obtain information on their waste volumes, increase had 73 (70) environmental permits that determined how the their recycling rates and improve the environmental responsibility Group managed and monitored environmental matters. Facilities of their operations. The services support datadriven management subject to environmental permits have contingency plans and in areas such as waste management and the reduction of food rescue plans that determine how they are prepared for significant waste. environmental incidents. Environmental issues are also covered in regularly conducted internal audits. 5 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. L&T’s procurement processes are transparent and procurement L&T mainly operates with local partners in Finland and Sweden, decisions are based on competitive supply contracts. Procurement which improves transparency with respect to its partners’ is guided by the Group’s procurement principles and the more responsibility. Operations with significant suppliers are managed detailed procurement guidelines. through regular supplier co-operation and monitored according to category-specific performance indicators. Contract suppliers Mandates and the limits for decision-making in terms of are also required to comply with L&T’s Code of Conduct. We procurement are defined in the company’s guidelines on ensure the responsibility of our suppliers’ operating methods authorisation on the basis of position. In case of potential conflicts through self-assessment surveys, supplier audits, analyses of of interests in suppliers’ financial circumstances or other appropriate means. Our procurement processes, the persons concerned are disqualified primary assurance measures are targeted at our most significant from the decision-making. Supplier co-operation must not involve suppliers. any bribery or the kind of hospitality or exchange of gifts that could influence procurement decisions. We do not give or accept bribes to boost or support our business operations. We do not offer nor accept any acts of hospitality L&T is committed to supporting the UN Global Compact initiative or gifts that could affect the decision-making in our business and its anti-corruption principles. The prevention of corruption and activities and that could be construed as exceeding the limits of bribery is based on national legislation and agreements. Internally, normal politeness and hospitality. Separate instructions are given operations are guided by the L&T Code of Conduct, which includes on business gifts and avoiding conflicts of interest. We adhere to anti-bribery and corruption guidelines related to, among other a separately defined permit procedure to ensure that all customer things, accepting and offering gifts and hospitality as well as the events are appropriate and that all sponsorships and supporting avoidance of conflicts of interest. marketing operations are transparent. There were no incidents of bribery or corruption at L&T in 2018. 6
