Annual Report 2019 Focus on sustainable returns We believe ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF COUNTRY Stockland acknowledges the Traditional there is a better Owners and Custodians of the land on which we work and live within Australia. We would also like to pay our respects to their Elders past and present, and acknowledge the ongoing connection that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander way to live peoples have with Australia’s land and waters. We shape places that enable a better way to live every day. More than just a property developer, since 1952 we have been creating places to enhance communities and the way people live. The Directors of Stockland Corporation Limited (ACN 000 181 733) and the Directors of Stockland Trust Management Limited (ACN 001 900 741, AFSL 241190), the Responsible Entity of Stockland Trust (ARSN 092 897 348), present their report together with the Financial report of Stockland and the Financial report of the Trust for the year ended 30 June 2019 and the Independent Auditor’s Report thereon. The Financial Report of Stockland comprises the consolidated Financial report of Stockland Corporation Limited and its controlled entities, including Stockland Trust and its controlled entities, (collectively referred to as ‘Stockland’ or ‘Group’). The Financial report of Stockland Trust comprises the consolidated Financial report of the Trust and its controlled entities (‘Stockland Trust Group’ or ‘the Trust’). 2019 performance 4 Chairman and Managing Director’s letters 6 Our business 10 Strategy and performance 12 Our strategy 12 Grow asset returns 14 Capital strength 22 Operational excellence 26 Business risks and our materiality process 33 Climate-related risks 39 A better way to deliver shared value 51 Our approach to sustainability 52 Shape thriving communities 54 Optimise and innovate 58 Enrich our value chain 62 Governance and remuneration 67 Our Board and governance 68 Remuneration report 86 This year Stockland’s FY19 Annual Report has adopted the principles of the International Financial report 107 Integrated Reporting Council’s (IIRC) International Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 108 Integrated Reporting Framework to communicate our financial and non-financial achievements Consolidated balance sheet 109 in one flagship document. Consolidated statement of changes in equity 110 Consolidated statement of cash flow 112 Along with our Financial Report, the FY19 Annual Notes to the financial statements 113 Report outlines how we have created value for all Directors’ declaration 173 our stakeholders to create places to enhance communities and the way people live. Additional information about our sustainability Independent auditor’s report 174 reporting and the methodology used for sustainability data collection in this report, Securityholder information and key dates 183 including our assurance statement by Ernst & Young (EY), is available online: Glossary 187 Affina Town Homes Brightwater, QLD www.stockland.com.au/sustainability. 2019 Introduction performance Strategy and performance Business risks and materiality Climate-related Funds from operations (FFO) FFO per security risks $897m Up 4.0% on FY18 37.4c Up 5.1% on FY18 A better way to deliver GOOD PROGRESS ON OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES shared value Distribution per security Distribution payout ratio Governance and 27.6c Up 4.2% on FY18 74% Increased weighting to Workplace and Logistics to 23 per cent of our Completed $192 million of our $350 million buy-back of Stockland Sale of three non-core retirement living villages for a combined total remuneration assets, including $99 million of securities to help support the of approximately $60 million. Financial developments completed and resilience of securityholder report 294 hectares of land secured. returns into the future. Statutory profit per security Net tangible assets per security 13.0c Down 69.3% % $4.04 Down from $4.18 at 30 June 2018 Achieved $505 million of retail town centre divestments, exceeding Confirmed a 50 per cent capital partnership for our $5 billion Aura Continued focus on customer satisfaction: Highest level of Independent auditor’s report our $400 million target of non-core mixed use community on the retirement living resident retail divestments ahead of the Sunshine Coast, at a 30 per cent satisfaction since 2009 at 8.6 Securityholder anticipated timeframe. We will premium to book value, with out of 10, residential communities information Return on equity (ROE) Total real estate assets continue to assess the remainder Capital Property Group in July. resident satisfaction of 93 per cent, and key dates 11.9% $15.2bn of our $500 million non-core retailer satisfaction of 82.5 per divestments over time in cent, retail customer satisfaction Glossary a disciplined way. of 80 per cent, and Workplace and Logistics tenant satisfaction Up 70bp of 84 per cent. Reduced unallocated corporate Community contribution Employee engagement $7.4m 81% overheads by $5 million to $61 million, with additional savings forecast. 4 points above the Australian National Norm 4 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 5 Letter from Our governance framework consists of three lines With this in mind, we recently appointed Karen Lonergan Introduction of defence: as our Group Executive, People and Culture, to extend the work we commenced following the culture review 1. All employees take responsibility for managing risk the Chairman we undertook last year. 2. A Group Risk function monitors the operational environment and adapts our approach accordingly Fostering innovation 3. We conduct regular independent risk assessments. We are actively encouraging and supporting all employees to innovate, from improving customer Strategy and Throughout the year, regularly meeting with major performance investors has given us the opportunity to hear their experiences to developing new products. In FY19 we concerns and this feedback has been invaluable in made good progress, with the launch of LAB-52 and updating our governance framework. the Stockland Accelerator, powered by BlueChilli. I was proud to sponsor the Chairman’s Awards for Business risks Our changing world Innovation this year, which had over 28 entries. The awards Climate change remains a key concern for Australians, and materiality provide an opportunity for employees to demonstrate how and we continue to design our communities and invest they have successfully developed a solution to a customer in asset upgrades to improve our resilience. Dear Securityholders, problem, created a new product or found better ways of During the January 2019 Townsville floods, our local working. I was impressed by the scope and sophistication Climate-related FY19 has been a challenging year, however I am Our customer focus continues to be one of our points of employees worked tirelessly to help keep their of the entries this year, each of them showing a real pleased to report our overall results are in line with difference and helps us stand out from our competitors. community safe. They were able to apply our Cyclone passion for delivering new value to our business. risks market expectations. With tougher market conditions, From the Board down, we continue to look at how we Management protocols, that clearly set out a process an evolving regulatory environment and the general engage with our customers and deliver on our promises We are trialling the delivery of pre-fabricated townhome for proactive management of the crisis, and I’m uncertainty that election campaigns bring, a continued on a day to day basis. When independently polled our product at a number of our communities. We have also extremely proud the team won the award for focus on our strategic priorities has guided the business residential customers, workplace and logistics tenants, identified opportunities in our existing portfolio for land “Most Effective Recovery” at the Business Continuity A better way through the year and I’m pleased to present our progress and retirement living residents all reported satisfaction lease communities, designed to attract over 55s, where the Institute Australasian Awards, and is now shortlisted to deliver in this report. levels around or above 85 per cent, and retail customers occupant owns the dwelling and enters a lease for the land. shared value in the global award for the same category. and tenants reported over 80 per cent satisfaction. We have delivered FFO earnings per security growth We continue to set the benchmark for sustainable Distribution and outlook of 5.1 per cent over the year, in line with expectations. A fresh perspective development and once again this year we were As forecast, our full year distribution was 27.6 cents per Governance and Statutory profit was down 69.6 per cent to $311 million During 2018, two new board appointees, Melinda Conrad recognised as the most sustainable real estate group security, representing a payout ratio of 74 per cent of reflecting non-cash adjustments arising from devaluations and Christine O’Reilly, joined us, bringing a wealth of in the world in the 2018-2019 Dow Jones Sustainability funds from operations. We forecast flat growth in FFO per remuneration in our retail town centre and retirement living portfolios, experience and industry expertise. Ms Conrad has over 25 Index. We were also named by GRESB as the Global security in FY20, noting that market conditions remain a retirement living goodwill write down, mark-to-market years’ experience in customer-facing businesses, including Sector Leader for listed companies in the category variable and we are cautious about the pace of recovery on financial instruments and a tax expense change. successfully founding and operating her own retail business. Diversified – Retail/Office. Stockland is the only in the residential market. Distributions per security growth will also be flat, and our distribution payout will Over the period we have continued to actively reposition Ms O’Reilly has deep experience in both financial and Australian company to have achieved CDP (the Financial be at the bottom end of our 75-85 per cent target ratio. the retail town centre portfolio to respond to ongoing operational entities and has held a number of senior non-profit global environmental disclosure platform) report changes in customer spending habits, with a clear focus executive roles in diverse industries including CEO and Climate A-List status every year since 2016 and this Conclusion on convenience and experience. Our strategy is focused Director of the GasNet Australia Group and Co-Head of year we were the only Australian property company Thank you to my Board colleagues, the executive team on improving future income resilience and the growth Unlisted Infrastructure investments at Colonial First State on the Climate A-List. and every one of our employees for their ongoing of our portfolio by divesting non-core properties, Global Asset Management. commitment to excellence. Whenever I visit a Stockland Independent ensuring rents are sustainable and remixing tenancies. Diversity and inclusion Last year we achieved a significant milestone, becoming community, asset or town centre, I feel proud of what auditor’s Earlier this year, we reviewed and updated the Board we are creating and delivering for Australians, and I’m report During the year, we restructured our business and charter to reflect the evolving discussion around Board one of the few companies to achieve gender balance as leadership team to position us for continued success and defined by the Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) confident we have the right strategy in place to continue governance in Australia as well as other key policies in sustainable growth. This has enabled us to realise across our workforce, at all levels of management. to deliver value for our securityholders. relation to privacy, whistleblowing, sustainability and efficiencies, leverage expertise and stay ahead of the modern slavery. For the fifth consecutive year, Stockland was named as an Thank you for your continued support. Securityholder curve as customer preferences, innovation, technology information Managing risk Employer of Choice for Gender Equality for 2018-19; we were and global trends continue to disrupt the property sector. a 2018 national finalist in the Property Council Australia and key dates The Board recognises the importance of building and Valuing our customers fostering a culture of accountability, and every individual Diversity Excellence awards; and were recognised as a WGEA Confidence in corporate Australia has been tested over takes responsibility for risks and controls in their area Pay Equity Ambassador, having succeeded in narrowing Glossary the past year with increased scrutiny on organisations of authority. the pay gap to a ratio of 98.5 per cent for like roles. Tom Pockett and their interactions with customers. It is incumbent Chairman on all businesses to engage with customers in an ethical We have focused on building risk-awareness capabilities Culture: valuing our people including, compulsory training for all employees so we Our employee survey once again showed extremely and considered manner, and this has been and will can work together to recognise risks before they threaten high employee engagement at 81 per cent, confirming always be a priority for Stockland. our business, know how to deal with risk when it does the positive morale, customer focus and sense of care Over the past year, the Board and executive team visited arise, and learn and become stronger from any impact. that we are well-known for. many Stockland assets and projects to understand the To support our ongoing commitment to managing risk, A particular focus this year is on strengthening our contribution we are making to communities across we have changed our governance focus to reflect recent culture, by leveraging the strengths of our people Australia and to hear first-hand what customers need regulatory and market changes. across our diverse teams, and ensuring we are working and expect from us. effectively and efficiently together to deliver on our purpose of creating a better way to live. 6 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 7 Letter from the sustainable occupancy costs, upgrading centre amenity I am also pleased to confirm our continued support Introduction and divesting non-core centres. Retail town centre of the United Nations Global Compact with whom we devaluations totalled $474 million for the year. Thirty-five partner to promote responsible business practices Managing Director per cent of the devaluations were driven by capitalisation and sustainable development. rate expansion. About half were driven by the softening Central to everything we do is our people. Our employee of growth rates, and changes to rental income and capital engagement score of 81 per cent is four points above the cost re-forecasting, following the implementation of our Australian National Norm, and I’m extremely proud that Strategy and and CEO strategy to remix tenancies and renew some leases at performance we have now achieved gender balance (as defined by more sustainable levels. The remainder was driven by WGEA) across our workforce and all levels of management increased land taxes and rates. and the Board. We continue to invest in our Workplace and Logistics Outlook Business risks portfolio and it performed very well over the period, delivering comparable FFO growth of 10.4 per cent in Current market conditions remain mixed, with steady and materiality Workplace and 3.9 per cent in Logistics. We maintained employment growth, record low interest rates, recent occupancy around 96 per cent. tax cuts and high investment in infrastructure, but broad Dear Securityholders, uncertainty driven by reduced credit availability, weak Our logistics business has a clear growth strategy, and consumer sentiment and low wages growth. Climate-related I am pleased to report that our diversified business has Our Communities business has performed well, with we secured 294 hectares of industrial land, including helped us deliver good results in line with expectations Residential delivering strong operating profit, up 8 per Melbourne Business Park in Truganina in Melbourne’s We expect Retail FFO to stabilise through FY20, risks despite a more challenging year in FY19. cent on FY18. In FY19 we have achieved almost 5,900 west, and Gregory Hills in Camden in Sydney’s west, with growth forecast from FY21, as our remixing residential settlements, with 85 per cent of our buyers during the year. Our forward development pipeline for and placemaking initiatives enable us to adapt to the We continue to deliver on our strategic priorities to structural changes in the retail sector. We expect being owner occupiers which is the strongest demand this business is valued at over $1 billion. improve the quality of our portfolio, upweight workplace continued growth from our workplace and logistics segment. There has been some improvement in the A better way and logistics, reposition our leading town centres around We are progressing development opportunities for portfolio from rental growth and new developments. market since the federal election in May this year, to deliver convenience and experience, and expand capital our Sydney workplace assets, including Stockland however access to credit remains challenging for Despite an improvement in residential enquiry and the shared value partnering. We’ve also achieved good momentum with Piccadilly in the CBD and 110 Walker Street in North many of our customers. market bottoming, we expect the market to take some our planned retail divestment program with $505 million Sydney, which are well-located for future workplace divested, exceeding our initial target of $400 million. Our Retirement Living FFO was up 5.7 per cent this year and mixed use development. time to normalise as customers continue to experience challenges achieving loan approvals. In FY20, we expect Governance and to $56 million, achieved through disciplined execution We have extended our position as the leading creator Financial & capital management to deliver over 5,000 residential settlements. of our strategy which has seen solid sales and profit of sustainable communities in Australia, and despite remuneration generation in our new development projects. We have maintained a focus on disciplined and active the challenging residential market, we have realised Retirement living FFO is forecast to grow moderately capital management for this part of the cycle, and we’ve higher margins and continued to gain market share Improving the quality of our retirement living portfolio given improving market conditions, our quality service sustained a robust balance sheet. We have held our over the year, as customers focus on the strength of remains a focus. We sold three non-core villages at offering and new development projects. A-/Stable credit rating from Standard and Poor’s for 18 our brand which is built on the quality and liveability around book value for approximately $60 million earlier Financial consecutive years and we also hold an A3/Stable credit We remain focused on creating Australia’s most liveable of our communities. this year, and we continue to leverage our existing report rating from Moody’s, which was obtained in August 2017. and sustainable communities, owning and managing landbank to drive growth through development, with our leading retail town centres in strong trade areas and In line with our strategy, we have finalised a 50 per cent capital partnership for our Aura community on the development settlements up 53 per cent from FY18. We Operational excellence growing our workplace and logistics portfolio. have also continued discussions to introduce a capital Anticipating future demands, whether that’s from Sunshine Coast, at a 30 per cent premium to book value, My sincere thanks to all of you, our securityholders, and partner to this business. regulatory requirements or customer trends, is critical to Independent with Capital Property Group, a highly regarded partner. to our customers, communities and all of our employees. the success of our business. By fostering innovation we are auditor’s We continue to recycle capital into our workplace and Our residents are our priority and I’m pleased that positioned to win new customers and continue delivering report logistics development pipeline and re-stock our we’ve maintained strong customer satisfaction levels, communities that help create a better way to live. residential landbank to position us for the future. with the highest level of resident happiness since 2009 at 8.6 out of 10. Our partnership with BlueChilli for the Accelerator We have also completed $192 million of our $350 million buy-back of Stockland securities to help support the We continue to reshape our Commercial Property program has seen 10 property tech start-ups develop their Securityholder ideas into commercial products – all of which will have the information resilience of securityholder returns into the future. business for success. The business delivered comparable Mark Steinert potential for positive impacts across many areas of our FFO growth up 2.1 per cent across the portfolio, at the Managing Director and key dates Delivering returns, positioning lower end of our forecast, with the high-performing business. We will continue to prioritise and invest in and CEO for the future building innovation capabilities and skills within our workplace and logistics markets partially offsetting the organisation through continuous improvement and via Glossary Funds from operations (FFO) for the group was $897 weaker retail sector. million for the FY19 period, up 4.0 per cent on FY18 and LAB-52, our innovation engine, as we anticipate and representing growth in FFO per security of 5.1 per cent, in While our retail portfolio has experienced negative rental respond to global mega trends and changing customer line with expectations. This reflects a strong performance reversions associated with remixing around experience expectations. in our residential and workplace and logistics businesses. and convenience, our comparable MAT growth per square We are proud to be a global sustainability leader. Since Net tangible assets (NTA) per security was down 3.3 per metre came in at 2.3 per cent, and core portfolio FFO 2006 we have halved our carbon intensity, invested over cent from 30 June 2018 to $4.04, primarily due to negative growth was positive. Our portfolio improvement strategy $33 million in solar power generation across 20 retail and retail town centre and retirement living valuations and is well underway. logistics centres, and saved over $106 million through non-cash mark-to-market on our derivatives. We have continued to actively reposition the retail town energy efficiency innovations. centre portfolio to respond to ongoing changes in customer spending habits, remixing tenancies to add growth businesses, rebasing existing rents to ensure 8 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 9 Our business Our point of difference is community creation Our annual Liveability Index Survey measures Introduction what matters to our residents, so we can Strategy and design our communities based on what they tell us is important. Stockland is one of the largest diversified property groups in The Liveability Index Survey invites feedback performance Australia with $15.2 billion of real estate assets including retail on all aspects of the community – from quality of built and natural environments, to town centres, workplace and logistics assets, residential and Business risks how its design supports mental and physical retirement living communities. wellbeing. Years of listening to feedback from our residents has helped us shape some of and materiality Australia’s most liveable communities, with 93 per cent resident satisfaction across our communities. Climate-related Residential Retirement How we make a difference communities Living villages risks 56 62 We make a worthwhile contribution to communities across the country by creating leading residential and Liveability score 74% retirement communities, retail town centres and A better way workplace and logistics assets. to deliver shared value Our structure Liveability is being able Governance and Retail Town Workplace & to connect with the remuneration We are a listed company on the Australian Securities Centres logistics assets 35 34 Exchange. To optimise value to our securityholders we are structured as a stapled security, a combination community, feeling safe of a unit in Stockland Trust and a share in Stockland Corporation. This allows us to efficiently undertake where I live and enjoying Financial report property investment, property management and the open spaces with my property development activities. family and friends. Cathy Stevenson Independent Willowdale Community auditor’s report How we operate Our values The Stockland CARE values were developed Australian based Board by our people and guide our actions. Securityholder information Community and key dates 1,463 employees Glossary 84 families move into our residential communities every week Accountability Respect 400,000+ shoppers visit our Retail Town Centres every day Excellence 11,000+ residents live in our retirement communities 3,000 Commercial Property tenants 10 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 11 Our strategy Introduction Strategy and We have a clear strategy to deliver sustainable and growing returns performance Our strategy is to maximise returns by developing sustainable communities, owning and managing leading retail town Business risks centres, and growing our workplace and logistics asset base in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. We achieve this by focusing on our three enduring pillars; grow asset returns, capital strength and operational excellence. and materiality Climate-related risks GROW ASSE RETURNS T NG S Grow asset returns SHA E COMPE TH ISE A better way Drive returns in our core businesses by creating liveable, MU RI NI VI TIM ATE TI OP NOV to deliver affordable and connected communities, future proofing &I N our retail town centres and retirement villages, and Maximise shared value growing our workplace and logistics portfolio. returns through community creation P XC ER A Governance and L ITA TH E L T IO N C AP ENG LEN AL remuneration S TR O CE E Capital strength ENRICH UR Actively manage our balance sheet to maintain diverse VALUE C OAIN H funding sources and efficient cost of capital. Financial report Our strategic pillars are strengthened by our focus on sustainability, which ensures we have Operational excellence a long-term view of our business and consider Improve the way we operate to drive efficiencies, all our stakeholders’ needs. You can read more Independent auditor’s compliance, sustainability and employee engagement. about our sustainability approach on page 52. report FUTURE PROOFING Securityholder Underpinning these pillars are a range of strategic priorities we are focused on to achieve our goal OUR RETAIL TOWN CENTRES information of maximising sustainable and growing returns. and key dates Shopping centres are a destination and the success of our retail portfolio is 1 2 3 4 Glossary based on creating vibrant spaces that are at the heart of the community. At Stockland Burleigh Heads we used Accelerate Increase Enhance our Broaden capital customer insights to remix the tenant improvement in Workplace capability to partnering offering, introducing new food offerings the quality and Logistics drive growth initiatives across in a vibrant outdoor living space, as well of our Retail Town weighting opportunities all sectors as local artist murals and dog parking. Retailers who were tenants before Centre portfolio the improvements have experienced a 47 per cent uplift in sales and these simple activities have resulted in specialty sales growth of 4.4 per cent. Stockland Burleigh Heads, QLD 12 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 13 Grow our Introduction asset returns Strategy and performance Communities Business risks and materiality OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE RESIDENTIAL SNAPSHOT RESIDENTIAL Climate-related risks Operating profit $362m Brand Built around the creation of highly The Residential business delivered a strong operating Our strong brand and reputation for quality, liveable liveable and sustainable communities. A better way profit result in FY19, up 8.0 per cent on the prior year communities underpinned our results in FY19 as to deliver despite a challenging housing market. customers looked to purchase from established Up 8.0% on FY18 shared value companies they can trust. We achieved 5,878 settlements for the year and our Scale market share increased by three per cent to 15 per cent. Our scale enables us to understand what our customers Enables us to understand customer We remain well positioned in the deepest part of the want and deliver this at a lower cost. This has been needs and deliver at a lower cost. Operating profit margin 19.9% Governance and lending market, with over 85 per cent of our product critical in achieving good sales in a weaker environment. sold to owner-occupiers, and we are still seeing strong remuneration The size, quality and diversity of our landbank Landbank demand for house and land packages in affordable, remains one of our key strengths and during the year Skewed towards rail serviced corridors liveable communities. we restocked our pipeline with acquisitions at Altona in Sydney, Melbourne and South East Up from 18.3% in FY18 During the period, operating profit margin increased North and Kalkallo in Melbourne. We continue to focus Queensland. Financial to 19.9 per cent as a result of higher priced Sydney on targeted acquisitions in key growth corridors report and Melbourne settlements. connected to jobs, transport and schools. Return on assets 18.7% Over the course of the year we made good progress We have seen some improvement in the market since building our townhomes business to broaden our the federal election in May, with enquiry up over customer reach, with 470 settlements recorded and 50 per cent in Sydney and Melbourne. Whilst access Independent 447 contracts on hand for future year settlements. to credit remains challenging for many of our customers, auditor’s We expect continued growth from townhomes in we expect sales volumes to improve over the course report FY20, as we further develop this product both within of the next 12 months and with 3,869 contracts on hand, Lots settled 5,878 our Communities landbank and on stand-alone sites. we are starting FY20 in a good position. Securityholder information and key dates Strategic priorities Contracts on hand 1 2 3 3,869 At 30 June 2019 Glossary Optimise and grow Broaden our Enhance customer our landbank customer reach experience and resident liveability Owner occupiers 85% Willowdale, NSW 14 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 15 RETIREMENT LIVING Introduction Strategy and performance Business risks and materiality Climate-related risks Cardinal Freeman, NSW RETIREMENT SNAPSHOT FFO profit A better way $56m to deliver FFO in our Retirement Living business was up 5.7 per We continued to differentiate the customer experience cent in FY19, at $56 million, driven by a 53 per cent by providing our residents with access to a range of shared value increase in development settlements and non-core services and resident care through our Benefits Plus asset sales. Our established village sales stabilised program, which we have now implemented nationally. in the second half of FY19 through challenging market We also have government approved home care Up 5.7% on FY18 conditions. providers offering services such as meals, mobility Governance and aids and lifestyle products such as travel. remuneration In FY19 we continued to improve our customer offering Development units settled 250 through simpler contracts, improved services and In FY19, three non-core villages were sold at around investment in our villages. book value for approximately $60 million, as we focus on optimisation of the portfolio and improving overall Financial Providing more certainty for our residents through returns. We are continuing our discussions to introduce report changes to our contracts is resonating well with a capital partner to the business in order to broaden our Up 53% on FY18 customers. Over 80 per cent of customers chose the capital base and provide a platform for future growth. Peace of Mind contract option in FY19, which provides customers with a known exit value. There are currently 280 units under construction and Cash return on assets Independent 4.5% 20 retirement living sites in our development pipeline, Resident satisfaction levels were over 85 per cent in including 10 identified land lease communities. auditor’s FY19. This strong result is testament to the customer report experience our employees provide to residents and our continued investment in improving our villages. Securityholder Occupancy information Strategic priorities 1 2 3 93.3% and key dates Glossary Improve quality Increase returns through Enhance customer of portfolio development pipeline experience and and capability satisfaction Birtinya retirement village, QLD 16 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 17 Commercial Property Introduction RETAIL TOWN CENTRES Strategy and performance Business risks and materiality Stockland Birtinya, QLD Climate-related Our customer value RETAIL TOWN CENTRES risks SNAPSHOT proposition Community FFO A better way $432m Stockland Balgowlah, NSW to deliver Deep consumer insights inform our strategy shared value at each centre to meaningfully connect to our existing customers whilst driving new visitation, In FY19 comparable FFO growth for our retail town We also conducted a disciplined review of our assets through a diverse range of initiatives that Up 1.1% on FY18 Governance and centres was down 0.2 per cent for the year, however and have redefined the core and non-core retail town may include events, classes, markets, we made good progress on our portfolio improvement centre portfolio. Core centres have limited competition, communication, social media, pop-up retail remuneration and play. strategy and had high occupancy of over 99 per cent. above average population growth, strong employment Comparable FFO growth (0.2)% fundamentals and the ability to evolve to meet future Curated We delivered comparable MAT growth of 2.3 per cent and customer needs. We divested $5051 million of retail Looking at our current mix and areas of escape comparable specialty sales MAT growth of 1.8 per cent. centres putting us ahead of schedule to exceed our Financial expenditure we capture a variety of retail MAT comparable specialty sales per square metre on an $400 million target of non-core retail divestments report initiatives, new ways of driving income and adjusted moving lettable area basis, rose by 2.5 per cent ahead of the anticipated timeframe. leveraging mixed-use to transform our assets to $9,251. This was driven primarily by growth in health and wellbeing services, mobile phones and food retail. The retail town centre development pipeline has been into true town centres whilst creating leading Comparable specialty reduced by around 50 per cent, with a focus on smaller destinations. sales growth 2.5% Our centres remain focused on providing convenient, placemaking projects which will redefine customer Independent everyday shopping for our communities with nonexperience and convenience. Convenience auditor’s Ensuring the journey of our shopper is ‘easy’ from report discretionary spend making up around 70 per cent We have continued to make good progress in remixing our parking the car to using the amenities and being of our total sales. centres, increasing exposure to the growth categories of able to navigate through our centre to achieve In FY19 we have refined our retail strategy to accelerate Food and Services while reducing our offering of Apparel shopping and entertainment needs. Adjusted lettable area the improvement in the quality of our portfolio, and Jewellery. This reweighting not only improves our Securityholder underpinned by our drivers of community, convenience centres’ resilience to online retail, but also achieves information and the curation of retail mix and experiences. stronger rent per square metre, with our average Food & Portfolio comparable and key dates Services rent 30 per cent above Apparel and Jewellery. MAT growth 1 Including exchanged and settled assets from 1 July 2018 to 21 August 2019. Community “relevant” 2.3% Glossary Strategic priorities Occupancy 1 Accelerate improvement 2 Deliver on customer value 3 Drive strategic capital Convenience “easy” Curated “experience” 99.3% in the quality of our Retail proposition: Community, partnering initiatives Town Centre Portfolio Curated and Convenience 18 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 19 WORKPLACE AND LOGISTICS Introduction Strategy and performance Business risks and materiality Climate-related risks Ingleburn Logistics Park, NSW WORKPLACE AND LOGISTICS SNAPSHOT A better way We continue to invest in our workplace portfolio and We acquired 13 hectares of industrial land at Gregory Logistics FFO to deliver $164m it performed very well over the period, delivering Hills in Australia’s fastest growing Local Government shared value comparable FFO growth of 10.4 per cent with Area, Camden, in Sydney’s west. Melbourne Business occupancy of 94.7 per cent. Park remains a key logistics development project, with a Stage 1 DA for an 87 hectare planned subdivision Governance and The logistics market continues to be supported by Comparable growth of 3.9% on FY18 lodged with Melton City Council in June 2019. ongoing investment in infrastructure supply chain remuneration enhancements and the growth in online retail and Our forward development pipeline for the Workplace we are actively investing in our logistics development and Logistics business is valued at over $2 billion. Workplace FFO $48m pipeline, primarily leveraging our existing landbank. We are progressing development planning for our Over the year we completed developments at Sydney office and business park asset opportunities, Financial Willawong, Ingleburn and Yennora, to the value of including Stockland Piccadilly, 110 Walker Street in North report $99 million. Our logistics portfolio value increased by Sydney and M_Park Business Campus in North Ryde. 13.9 per cent to over $2.5 billion and delivered Comparable growth of 10.4% on FY18 comparable FFO growth of 3.9 per cent. Independent Occupancy auditor’s 96.5% report Strategic priorities Securityholder information Completed developments 1 2 $99m and key dates Grow and develop a market leading Optimise the returns of our workplace portfolio to greater than 25 per cent portfolio, focusing on Sydney Glossary of total assets, through delivery of development pipeline on land we control Development pipeline >$2bn Triniti Business Park, NSW 20 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 21 Capital Stockland has a prudent approach to capital TARGETS Introduction management, which provides us with the flexibility to strategically allocate capital across our diversified strength portfolio, in response to changing market cycles. Our strong balance sheet and capital management Strategic capital position underpins our investment grade credit ratings partnering across all of A-/Stable (S&P) and A3/Stable (Moody’s), and enables sectors Strategy and performance us to continue diversifying our funding sources across global capital markets on competitive terms and tenors. We continue to actively manage our debt portfolio, 70:30 Recurring/trading assets which has seen weighted average cost of debt decline S&P credit rating Moody’s credit rating Business risks A-/Stable A3/Stable from 5.2 per cent in FY18 to 4.4 per cent in FY19. Our weighted average debt maturity is within our target range at 5.8 years. and materiality >10% Group return During the period, we secured new long-term debt totalling A$551 million across both the Australian and on equity US capital markets at attractive prices and long tenors. Climate-related Gearing Weighted average cost of debt risks As part of our disciplined approach to managing capital, 26.7% 4.4% we initiated a securities buy-back program of up to $350 million, completing $192 million, and representing Capital allocation 50.1 million shares at an average discount NTA of We closely manage our capital to ensure we have the A better way 8.3 per cent1. Our gearing level is 26.7 per cent and optimal allocation across our diversified portfolio. Over to deliver Within target range of 20% – 30% we expect to remain within our target range of 20 to 30 the past 12 months, we have decreased our weighting shared value per cent in the medium term as we continue to execute to Retail Town Centres by 5 per cent and increased our on our strategic priorities. weighting to Workplace and Logistics by 4 per cent. Our current allocation of 23 per cent means we are on Weighted average debt maturity Distribution payout ratio track to meet our target exposure of 25 to 35 per cent Governance and 5.8 years 74% in this category in line with our strategy. remuneration Financial 1 Based on NTA at 30 June 2018 and 31 December 2018 of $4.18 report and $4.19 respectively. Balance sheet $m 30 June 2018 30 June 2019 Change Independent Cash 333 140 -57.9% auditor’s report Real estate related assets • Commercial property 10,562 10,323 -2.3% PORTFOLIO ALLOCATION • Residential 3,432 3,411 -0.6% Securityholder • Retirement living information 1,443 1,452 0.6% • Other 37 36 -2.2% and key dates Retirement Living Gross-Up 2,724 2,585 -5.1% Other financial assets 294 534 81.4% Workplace Retail Glossary Other assets 272 325 20.4% Communities & Logistics Town Centres Borrowing 3,938 4,704 19.5% Retirement living resident obligations 2,741 2,597 -5.3% Capital Other financial liabilities Other liabilities 196 2,040 220 1,650 12.2% -19.0% allocation at 30 June 2019 32% 23% 45% Securities on issue 2,434,469,276 2,384,351,503 20-30% 25-35% 40-45% NTA per security 4.18 4.04 -3.3% Target capital allocation 22 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 23 To drive growth in our business and deliver on our strategic priorities, we are actively progressing capital Introduction partnering opportunities across all sectors Strategy and performance Business risks Updated debt documentation Capital partnering AURA PARTNERSHIP and materiality Over the period we renegotiated our debt documentation, Capital partnerships help strengthen our balance sheet updating a number of key terms and conditions to be and enable us to invest in growth opportunities across In July 2019, we entered into a strategic consistent with the market and our peers. As a result, our diversified portfolio, including our workplace and capital partnership with Capital Property Climate-related the Total Liability to Total Tangible Assets covenant logistics development pipeline and additional residential Group (CPG) investing a 50 per cent has been replaced by Financial Indebtedness to Total community acquisitions. interest in Aura, one of the largest risks Tangible Assets, and the limit increased to 50 per cent masterplanned communities in Australia, Post period end, in July 2019, we announced a strategic with an end value of $5 billion. (from 45 per cent) across all markets making up our capital partnership in our residential portfolio, with total debt portfolio. CPG will invest alongside us to continue Capital Property Group (CPG) investing a 50 per cent A better way interest in our largest masterplanned community, Aura the creation of an outstanding new to deliver on the Sunshine Coast at a 30 per cent premium to book city on the Sunshine Coast, combining shared value value. We are executing on a clear strategy to bring in affordable homes, retail town centres capital partners to invest alongside us to deliver and business parks alongside best-inRevaluations large-scale projects. class schools, child care, sporting Governance and facilities, transport, open space and We have taken a prudent approach to revaluing our community infrastructure. remuneration Commercial Property assets, completing independent This capital partnership gives us revaluations on 98 per cent of our portfolio by value additional flexibility to invest in over the last twelve months, and 77 per cent at 30 June 2019, resulting in an overall net valuation decrement of Distributions other counter-cyclical residential Financial opportunities, as we focus on $199 million for the full year. This included a $275 million The dividend and distribution payable for the year ended report re-stocking our national pipeline. uplift for our workplace and logistics portfolio, and 30 June 2019, is 27.6 cents per security, up 4.2 per cent a $474 million decline in retail town centre valuations. on FY18. The payout ratio is around the lower end of our Thirty-five per cent of the retail devaluations were driven target range and in line with FFO growth. This allows us by capitalisation rate expansion. About half were driven to both provide capital to the business for further growth Independent by the softening of growth rates, and changes to rental and ensures that our distributions remain closely linked auditor’s income and capital cost re-forecasting, following the to the movements in FFO growth. report implementation of our strategy to remix tenancies and renew some leases at more sustainable levels. The remainder was driven by increased land taxes Distribution per security 27.6c and rates. Securityholder We have deliberately focused on changing the tenant information mix in our retail town centres away from apparel and key dates and towards services, lifestyle, health, dining and entertainment categories, where we see the greatest Up 4.2% on FY18 Glossary potential growth in the future. Aura, QLD 24 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 25 Operational Introduction excellence Strategy and performance To deliver on our strategy we need to continually improve Business risks the way we operate to drive efficiencies and manage risk and materiality and opportunities effectively over the long-term. Climate-related risks Efficiencies Innovation STOCKLAND ACCELERATOR – POD FARMS A better way to deliver Improving systems One of the major challenges and opportunities facing all large corporations is the rate of innovation and its The concept for POD Farms came as renewables expert Christian Collison shared value and technology ability to disrupt growth. We are responding to this contemplated how to turn excess solar challenge and investing in building the right innovation power into a new product. Inspired by Governance and We continued to focus on improving our technology capabilities and skills within our organisation. his love of fresh food and nutrition, and systems in FY19 with the further roll-out of our Christian devised a method for successful remuneration Core Systems Program and a Digital Technology uplift. In 2019 we launched LAB-52, Stockland’s innovation small-space indoor farming. His test lab The introduction of Digital Customer Case Management engine named after our founding year. LAB-52 provides grew micro-greens and leafy greens for in the Core Salesforce system, along with new website a collection of tools and processes that enable us to a year before POD Farms was accepted identify, assess and ultimately deliver value for our features and social media tools, have improved our into the Stockland Accelerator, powered Financial customers and securityholders. In 2019 we reviewed overall customer engagement and responsiveness. by BlueChilli. report 53 ideas submitted and saw the outcomes of another New SAP financial consolidation and reporting tools 40+ initiatives shared via the LAB-52 portal. Now, POD Farms incorporates AI systems were also implemented. The Core Systems Program to optimise yields, reduce power and continues to progressively release software that In addition to supporting employee innovation, we water, and provides remote control for increases business efficiency and our ability to respond have also invested in external ideas and partnerships. Independent modern urban farmers – and transforms to digital opportunities. The Stockland Accelerator, powered by BlueChilli, auditor’s under-utilised spaces in commercial is a program that identifies, validates, and builds new report Continued technology improvements are supporting and industrial assets into productive, PropTech start-ups that can transform our industry productivity and the flexibility required in a modern revenue-generating farms. Christian and create better connected communities. Of over workplace. is currently preparing to pilot his first 240 applications received, 10 start-ups were selected for the program, with concepts ranging from AI-powered commercial facility with Stockland. Securityholder indoor farms to a chatbot to streamline facilities information requests. Many of our participating start-ups now and key dates have live pilots, improving the experience of customers Managing costs across the business. Glossary In FY19 we have reduced unallocated corporate overheads by $5 million, with additional savings forecast and a commitment to further reducing our cost base in FY20. POD Farms founder Christian Collison, sharing his vision at the Stockland Accelerator Investor Showcase evening. 26 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 27 Our people Introduction Diversity and inclusion Strategy and The ability to engage and retain our employees is critical to our overall business performance. Every year we conduct an externally-facilitated employee survey called performance We know that we can best respond to our customers’ Our Voice to measure employee engagement along with needs when our people reflect the diversity of the our key strengths and opportunities for improvement. communities we service and when their different views Business risks Employee engagement and perspectives are valued. 81% We continued to outperform the Australian National Norm for employee engagement in FY19 with a score of 81 per cent and materiality Our Employee Advocacy Groups (EAGs) play an and we have been recognised as an employer of choice important role in creating an inclusive workplace and in the Australian workplace by the Workplace Gender developing initiatives to drive diversity. Led by a diverse Equality Agency (WGEA) for the fifth consecutive year. group of employees across Australia, our four EAGs Target 80% Climate-related are Gender Equity, Flexibility, LGBTI+ and Wellbeing, and Accessibility & Cultural Inclusion. Women in management Strengthening Stockland In FY19 more than 550 employees completed a LGBTI+ risks 45.8% We are a purpose-driven organisation with a strong inclusion online training module or face-to-face culture. It is important we continue to build on this robust program. We also continued to focus on supporting A better way foundation and position our organisation to respond to flexibility through the One Simple Thing program, to deliver challenges and opportunities in the future. In FY19 we improving parental leave return rates and supporting shared value Maintain 40/40/20 ratio in FY20 conducted a culture review to understand the elements gender diversity through the Senior Women’s of our culture we need to improve, and the support we Sponsorship Program. need to provide employees to deliver on our strategy. Our people who work flexibly Governance and 83.2% Out of this work we have developed an integrated program remuneration of work across leadership, structure, capability, processes and systems. The program, called ‘Strengthening Stockland’, will assist the business to build on our Gender equality Target 80% foundation of collegiality, care, and passion to drive greater Stockland actively encourages gender diversity at all Financial innovation, accountability, and faster decision-making. levels within the organisation. Gender diversity targets report are set by management and regularly reviewed and Gender pay equity 98.5% endorsed by the Human Resources Committee and the Board. In 2018, we achieved a significant milestone in Health, wellbeing and safety that every level of leadership from Manager through to our Executive Committee and Board had at least 40 per Independent auditor’s We foster a culture where health, safety and wellbeing cent female representation. Stockland is one of the report Target 100% few companies that has achieved a gender-balanced are core values and continuous improvement of our safety performance is part of our normal business workforce (40/40/20) across all levels of management, practice. We know stress and anxiety significantly impact inline with industry best practice. Lost time injury frequency rate Securityholder 3.2 job performance, employee satisfaction and retention. Our Gender Pay equity ratio is 98.5 per cent and we will information continue to focus on closing this gap between male and In FY19 we developed the ‘Ways to Wellbeing’ course and key dates in consultation with the Wellbeing Outfit, to provide female fixed pay for all like for like roles. employees with a neuro-scientific understanding In acknowledgement of our focus on gender equity, we Glossary of stress and wellbeing. More than 500 employees, have been recognised by the Workplace Gender Equity including Executives and General Managers, have Agency as an Employer of Choice for Gender Equality for completed the training since it was launched. the past five years and our Managing Director and CEO Our wellbeing score (as measured in the annual is a founding member of the Property Male Champions employee Our Voice survey) was 75 per cent in FY19, of Change group, which focuses on industry-wide which is consistent with our FY18 score and three points improvements in gender equality. above Willis Towers Watson’s Australian National Norm. Although our lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) increased slightly this year from record lows in previous years, we continue to report a low average lost day rate, More detail can be found in our Employee Engagement, and we have initiated a number of actions to identify and Development, Diversity and Inclusion Deep Dive, available address the underlying drivers of the increase. online at www.stockland.com.au/sustainability/downloads. 28 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 29 Customer focus Introduction Strategy and Listening to our customers and delivering initiatives that respond to their needs is critical to the success of our business and our reputation. performance In October 2018, we launched our new Customer Promise, providing clarity on what it means for our Business risks employees to be “Customer Crusaders”. The Promise encourages all employees to consider our commitment to customers when making everyday business decisions and materiality and a range of actions has been developed to deliver on our Promise. Proprietary customer research, satisfaction and Climate-related liveability surveys are used to measure our customer performance and help inform our projects and shape risks better communities, town centres and workplaces. Residential communities resident satisfaction 93% Stockland Exchange is our own online customer A better way research community made up of shoppers, residents to deliver and prospective residents aged from 18 to over shared value 90 years old. In FY19 Stockland Exchange grew to over 6,000 members and was used to better understand our customer attitudes and needs on 40 occasions. Governance and Retirement living In FY19 we exceeded our target of 80 per cent resident happiness remuneration 8.6/10 satisfaction with prospective residents in our residential communities and we achieved the highest level of retirement living resident happiness since 2009 (8.6 out of 10). This positive increase in retiree Financial satisfaction was driven by satisfaction with residents’ Target 8.25 report home and social life. In Commercial Property, we exceeded retailer satisfaction targets with satisfaction at 82.5 per cent Retail tenant satisfaction 82.5% and we achieved 84 per cent satisfaction in Workplace Independent and Logistics. These results reflect our increased focus auditor’s on improving the optimal leasing experience for smaller report retailers and the introduction of a new program called ‘Stockland Listens’ to ensure we spend more time Target 75% understanding our tenants’ needs. Securityholder ‘Stockland Listens’ is also used in our Communities information business to actively seek direct feedback from Workplace and logistics tenant satisfaction and key dates 84% customers in sessions attended by a range of employees to drive a customer-centric culture and understanding. Glossary Target 80% Retail customer satisfaction More detail about our customer targets and initiatives can be found in our Customer Engagement & Experience Deep Dive, available 80% Target 80% online at www.stockland.com.au/sustainability/downloads. Mernda Retirement Village, VIC 30 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 31 Introduction Strategy and Business risks Climate-related A better way Governance and Financial Independent Securityholder Glossary performance and materiality risks to deliver remuneration report auditor’s information shared value report and key dates 33 Year ended 30 June 2019 Business risks and our materiality process Stockland Merrylands, NSW Stockland Annual Report 2019 32 Business risks SHORT TERM – STRATEGY EXECUTION Introduction Risk and opportunity How we are responding Ability to deliver on We will continue to deliver sustainable and growing returns by focusing on: our strategic priorities • Accelerating improvement in the quality of our Retail Town Centre portfolio in challenging market • Broadening our capital partnering initiatives across the whole portfolio conditions. Strategy and • Increasing our weighting in Workplace and Logistics We adopt a rigorous approach to understanding and proactively • Enhance our capability to drive growth opportunities. performance Increased competition To respond to changing market conditions and competition we will: managing the material risks and opportunities we face. and changing market • Maintain a diversified business model at scale in each sector conditions may impact our • Reinvest in our assets to meet changing customer needs including agile redevelopment of our properties Business risks opportunities for growth. to capture value add opportunities • Focus on retaining a strong balance sheet with appropriate gearing • Use diverse funding sources including capital partnering and asset recycling and materiality Risks and opportunities Our materiality process • Concentrate on efficiency and cost management • Maintain a prudent approach to forecasting Climate-related We recognise that making business decisions which Stockland has used the materiality definition from the • Proactively replenish our land and asset pipelines involve calculated risks, and managing these risks within Integrated Reporting Framework to disclose information • Maintain discipline and agility in our investment decision making risks sensible tolerances is fundamental to creating long-term about matters that may substantively affect the • Include a focus on governance and compliance to provide a stable environment for growth value for securityholders and meeting the expectations organisation’s ability to create value over the short, • Use a rigorous whole-of-business approach informed by detailed research to drive our capital of Stockland’s stakeholders. medium, and long term. We identified our FY19 material allocation process matters using the following process: • Support innovative culture to improve our customer experience and identify further growth opportunities. Stockland’s risk appetite is the degree to which we A better way This is being facilitated through our new digital platform LAB-52, which is designed to assess and accelerate to deliver are prepared to accept risk in pursuit of our strategic 1. Identify investment in potential growth areas. priorities. The Board has determined that Stockland We identified draft material matters by capturing shared value will maintain a balanced risk profile so that we remain Systems enhancements As part of our continued focus on operational efficiency, we continue to drive progress in improving our internal and external perspectives in line with the impact business process systems capabilities. We have introduced a new Customer Relationship Management system, Salesforce a sustainable business and an attractive investment principles of AA1000 and GRI G4. This included: efficiency. and the Human Resources system SAP SuccessFactors, which have been effective in enhancing the proposition, in both the short and long terms. Governance and • Materiality test capturing internal and external customer and employee experience. We continue to maintain two-way engagement with employees to As part of our approach to integrated reporting, enable a smooth transition, as well as find additional ways to provide ongoing systems enhancements perspectives in line with the principles of AA1000 remuneration and use technology to supplement our risk management processes. Stockland adopts a rigorous approach to understanding and GRI G4, including: and proactively managing the material risks and Housing affordability To help address affordability we will continue to: opportunities we face in our business. • Investor research and engagement continues to impact the • Partner with government and industry to drive solutions including innovative construction processes • Customer feedback and insights dynamics of the Australian to lower costs Financial • Employee surveys Housing market. • Provide a broader mix of value for money housing options including house and land packages, completed report • Political and regulatory developments housing, medium density and apartments • Industry engagement and advocacy • Balance the demand from home owners and investors so that our residential communities remain attractive • Social and mainstream media. to future buyers. • We also undertook an operational and strategic Extreme weather, security To make our business more resilient we will continue to: Independent risk assessment. risks and energy price shocks • Train our employees and increase their risk awareness including undertaking regular scenario testing auditor’s impact business continuity • Invest in asset upgrades and adapt community design report 2. Evaluate and prioritise and community resilience. • Assess and implement wholesale energy strategies and renewable energy installations, to provide An integrated reporting materiality workshop was held alternative sources of energy to mitigate the risk of price shocks with members of the Stockland leadership team to • Be vigilant in protecting and managing data threats from cyber attacks review the material matters, identify additional relevant • Actively manage our corporate insurance program to provide adequate protection against insurable risks. Securityholder issues, rank issues of greatest significance and prioritise information Ability to dispose of non-core Over the past 12 months we have completed independent valuations of 98 per cent (by value) of the them based on their ability to affect value. The material Commercial Property assets. Commercial Property portfolio and adopted a disciplined approach to the disposal program for individual and key dates matters were then mapped in terms of their potential non-core assets in consultation with external agents. We have made good progress to date and are on impact on value creation over the short, medium and track to achieve our targets. long term. Glossary Change within the retail Over the past 10 years, the retail landscape has undergone structural change and seen a convergence 3. Outcomes and disclosure sector impacts rental of technological advances, in particular e-commerce, changes in underlying consumer behaviour, growth. and the entry of new, international retailers. These changes have challenged some of our retailers. The following table discloses the final list of material We have been proactive and pre-empted many changes. matters developed and mapped. These have been We will continue to: reviewed and approved by Stockland’s executive • Focus on experiential retail, health, services and food catering Altrove, NSW team and Board. They have also been assured by • Apply our ‘placemaking’ strategy across our assets to create convenient, curated communities that Ernst & Young (EY). form the social hub • Leverage deep customer insights and analytics to inform our tenant re-mixing. 34 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 35 SHORT TERM – STRATEGY EXECUTION Introduction Risk and opportunity How we are responding Regulatory and policy We will continue to: changes impact our business • Implement forward-looking practices to remain well positioned for regulatory change. For example, we are and customers. amongst the first Australian corporates to disclose our climate-related risks with our financial reporting, Strategy and and we now provide contract choice to provide more certainty for our Retirement Living residents • Engage with industry and government on policy areas including taxation and planning reform. As part of our commitment to tax transparency and demonstrating good corporate citizenship, we have adopted the performance Australian Federal Government’s Voluntary Tax Transparency Code, which provides a set of principles and minimum standards to guide medium and large businesses on public disclosure of tax information • Focus our development activity in areas where governments support growth. Increasing expectations Standards for interaction with customers have been under intense scrutiny in Australia. It is important Business risks on organisations from the that we engage with our customers in an ethical and considered manner. community. At Stockland we have prioritised our focus on customer engagement including regular customer surveys, and materiality extra training for our customer-facing employees, and the implementation of a customer feedback framework with reporting through to our Board and Committees. Climate-related Retirement living residents We will continue to: have high expectations about • Have an open and respectful relationship with our Retirement Living residents, and continue our PARTNERSHIP TO PRODUCE risks value and fairness. commitment to being transparent and up-front about costs associated with living in our retirement villages AGEING AND DIGNITY REPORT • Proactively engage with residents to maintain high satisfaction levels and standards of care • Focus on health and wellbeing and our approach to care In 2019 Stockland was pleased to partner • Demonstrate industry leadership and work with our peers to lift industry standards A better way with the Committee for Sydney and • Review product and contract choice to meet changing customer preference. to deliver not-for-profit organisation, Baptistcare shared value to produce the ‘Dignity and Choice’ report which highlighted the challenges in LONGER TERM – CHANGING MARKETPLACE creating an inclusive future for Sydney’s Governance and Risk and opportunity How we are responding ageing population. We contributed in a number of ways, including hosting remuneration Anticipating changing We will continue to: a working group to determine the customer and community • Foster a culture of innovation to identify and take advantage of opportunities to leverage movements challenges to be answered within the expectations to meet in stakeholder preferences future demand. report which included meeting the • Evolve our market-leading product innovation and deepen our customer insights using our proprietary housing needs of an ageing population, Financial Liveability Index research, Stockland Exchange (our online research community) and other data sources transport to keep people socially report • Create sustainable and liveable communities and assets, resilient to changes in climate connected and healthy, planning • Enhance our design excellence, providing greater functionality and value for money that meet the principles for inclusive public spaces, demands of Australia’s changing demographics, including an ageing population and more socially conscious millennials. healthy and active ageing, fostering social connection and tackling the Our ability to harness We will continue to: Independent dementia challenge opportunities arising from • Identify, develop and integrate technological enhancements across our business, including online auditor’s digital disruption. residential and retirement living engagement opportunities The report was launched amongst an report • Support Stockland retail town centres as thriving communities by delivering quality services and spaces audience of industry and government that are e-enabled. representatives and included a keynote address from the Hon. John Sidoti MP, Capital market volatility So that we are able to continue to raise sufficient capital to fund growth, we will continue to: Securityholder impacts our ability to NSW Minister for Sport, Multiculturalism, information • Focus on retaining a strong balance sheet at appropriate levels of gearing transact and access • Maintain and increase access to diverse funding sources across global capital markets Seniors and Veterans. Producing reports suitable capital. like the ‘Dignity and Choice’ report and key dates • Maintain our prudent capital management policies including a target gearing range of 20 to 30 per cent helps Stockland to remain on top of • Retain favourable investment grade ratings across multiple credit agencies to demonstrate our strong credit value proposition the retirement living market, identify Glossary • Regularly update existing and potential debt and equity investors to inform them about the business. challenges and continue to provide high quality, community living for Ability to adapt our operating The ability to attract, engage and retain our employees is critical. Physical and organisational boundaries our residents. model to meet the changing are becoming increasingly blurred as new technology enables greater workplace flexibility, including nature of the workforce. when and where employees work and encouraging creative and adaptive teamwork. We have successfully deployed Office365, Salesforce and SAP SuccessFactors to improve collaboration and flexible working. We are focused on how we actively set employees up for success and will continue to: • Maintain a focus on fostering a positive culture to deliver value to all stakeholders • Encourage flexible work practices supported by our new collaboration platforms • Train our senior leaders to be more agile and resilient through Stockland leadership programs • Provide employees with technology devices that increase their mobility and flexibility and facilitate improved productivity in a balanced way. Stockland Elara, NSW 36 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 37 Climate-related Introduction risks Strategy and performance Business risks and materiality Climate-related risks A better way to deliver shared value Governance and remuneration Financial report Independent auditor’s report Securityholder information and key dates Glossary KEEPING IT SIMPLE The aim of this text in ‘Keeping it simple’ boxes is to explain more complex sections in plain English. It also aims to provide explanations and additional disclosures to assist readers’ understanding and interpretation of statements. Whiteman Edge, WA 38 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 39 Climate-related Governance The Board and Board Committees (including Introduction Financial Disclosures the Risk Committee, Audit Committee, Sustainability Committee and Human Resources Committee) provide oversight of our risk Strategy and management framework. The Risk Committee meets at least four times per year and receives quarterly reports on our enterprise risk register, performance which includes climate change as a key risk. All directors of the Board are members of the This is Stockland’s second full-year disclosure of climate change Sustainability Committee, which meets at least twice per year and considers our approach Business risks issues management in line with the recommendations of the to carbon mitigation (including emissions and materiality reduction targets), our methods for building Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial climate and community resilience, and Disclosures (TCFD). emerging climate regulation. More details Climate-related on our corporate governance is set out in the section of this report entitled ‘Governance The TCFD recommendations were published in 2017 with the objective of developing voluntary, and Remuneration’. risks consistent climate-related financial disclosures that would be useful to investors, lenders, Every member of our Executive Committee and insurance underwriters in understanding material risks. Further information on the has specific responsibilities relating to our A better way recommendations is available at www.fsb-tcfd.org. sustainability performance, including targets to deliver and objectives related to climate change risks shared value and opportunities. Our Chief Financial Officer chairs our internal Sustainability Steering Committee, which is Stockland has long recognised the risks and Following Stockland’s initial commitment to TCFD composed of senior management from various Governance and remuneration opportunities presented by climate change, and has in February 2018, we undertook a detailed climate organisational departments including Strategy responded to these issues by creating and implementing scenario analysis in June 2018. This analysis reviewed and Stakeholder Relations, Project Management our Climate Change Action Plan (commenced in 2006) the resilience of Stockland’s strategy in relation to the and Procurement, Human Resources, Legal, Risk, and detailed Climate Adaptation Strategy (commenced disclosure of our climate-related physical and transition Operations, Development and Sustainability. Financial in 2011). We understand that extreme weather and risks and opportunities. It also took into account The committee meets at least three times report other physical climate risks impact our assets and different climate scenarios in accordance with the per year and its key responsibilities include: communities now, and will continue to do so into the TCFD recommendations. The outcomes of this scenario future. We also acknowledge the potential for financial analysis form the basis of our strategy and management • Informing our sustainability strategy and impacts resulting from carbon emissions regulation, of climate-related risks and opportunities, with detail supporting delivery of sustainability targets, particularly in the context of Australia’s ratification on the governance, strategy, risk management, and including those related to climate change Independent of the 2015 Paris Agreement to limit global temperature metrics, targets and results contained in this section. mitigation and adaptation auditor’s report increases to below 2ºC. We manage these climate • Investigating and reporting on environmental, risks and opportunities by developing and operating social, and governance risks and opportunities energy-efficient, climate resilient assets and across our current and planned operations communities; and through our leadership in the Securityholder transition to lower-carbon energy sources at our assets. • Guiding compliance with, and monitoring information of, our environmental and social policies, and key dates guidelines, and agreed initiatives, including those related to carbon emissions reduction. Glossary Stockland Wetherill Park, NSW 40 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 41 Strategy Introduction Physical risks Our strategy response to physical risks Our strategy response to transition risk For 13 years, Stockland has been identifying risks and As an asset owner, manager and developer, we In recognition of these potential impacts, our strategy In recognition of our capacity to contribute to a opportunities related to both the physical impacts acknowledge that physical risks associated with climate focuses on a commitment to creating climate resilient low-carbon future and to mitigate impacts associated of climate change (physical risk) and a global transition change can result in negative financial impacts, such as assets and communities with a greater ability to endure with transition risks, our business has been guided by to lower-carbon energy sources (transition risk). increased maintenance costs or decreased revenues severe weather impacts and operate with minimal emission intensity reduction targets and associated disruption. Implementing this strategy involves our strategy since 2006. Executing this strategy prioritises Strategy and Our response to these risks and opportunities has from disrupted operations. been guided by our Climate Change Action Plan, entire value chain, from our development and supply the delivery of energy efficiency enhancements and performance Our scenario analysis identified key physical risks chain through to operations. We use climate and renewable energy installations across our portfolio, our detailed Climate Adaptation Strategy, and our for Stockland, which include: business unit sustainability strategies. community resilience assessments to understand how such as our industry leading $32 million commitment • Extreme heat – resulting in issues such as increased to minimise negative impacts and create opportunities to deliver rooftop solar photovoltaic (PV) infrastructure. We recognise that climate-related risks will persist for requirements for cooling and areas of respite, from building and maintaining resilient assets for the Business risks the foreseeable future. The precise nature of these risks, It also involves engaging our customers, employees increasing demand on HVAC systems, energy and long term, including community preparedness. however, is uncertain as it depends on complex factors and industry stakeholders to educate and advocate and materiality water supplies, and increased heat stress events Opportunities associated with prioritising the for a transition to a low-carbon future. such as policy change, technology development, market amongst the community creating a higher demand forces, and the links between these factors and climatic development of resilient assets include decreased for refuge indoors Opportunities related with this strategy include: conditions. To accommodate this uncertainty, we operational costs (e.g. maintenance, insurance • Extreme rainfall – resulting in issues such as premiums) and increased revenues from increasing • potential increased value of existing land holdings Climate-related incorporate scenario analysis into our climate risk increasing local flood events, roof and gutter leakages assessment process to understand how climate-related consumer preferences for climate-resilient products. resulting from the changing zoning/density and inundation of building and car parks creating risks risks and opportunities may evolve and impact the requirements property damage and business interruptions Transition risk • increased premium discounts and the introduction business over time. • Sea level rise – an increase in salt water intrusion We acknowledge that Australia has agreed to the of incentives by the insurance industry In line with the TCFD recommendations, these scenarios from storm surge resulting in the inundation and objective of limiting global warming to below 2°C. • the transition of the grid to renewable energy sources were analysed in detail to explore and understand the degradation of property structures and accessibility Pursuing this objective implies a general movement A better way and the opportunity to partner with energy producers strategic implications of climate-related risks and • Cyclones and storms – resulting in issues such as away from fossil fuel energy and increased deployment to deliver to support technological innovation opportunities on the resilience of our business. decreased roof structure integrity and security of roof of low/zero carbon energy sources and energy-efficient shared value • enhance brand and reputation by educating This process provided a useful mechanism for informing mounted equipment creating property damage and technology. Our scenario analysis process informs the consumers stakeholders about how we are positioning ourselves business interruptions, and increase in demand for business on transition risks for Stockland and how they • the ability to attract capital from organisations in light of these risks and opportunities. properties to be used as evacuation shelters during may evolve over time, including: Governance and seeking to invest in companies helping the transition cyclone events to a low-carbon economy. The outcomes of this scenario analysis highlighted • P olicy changes impacting development and • Bushfires – resulting in issues such as fire damage to remuneration specific climate-related issues that could have building – including changes in zoning and density Specific detail on how we execute on our strategy and property, accumulation of ash, and smoke penetration a material impact on Stockland, relating to both requirements, policies promoting sustainable land how it relates to our targets and results is described into the building envelope resulting in reduced indoor physical and transition risks. use and changes to the National Construction Code throughout the rest of this section. air quality and respiratory system issues amongst • Liability – including changes to the insurability Financial customers, tenants and residents. of assets and commercial liability regarding report disclosure of transition and physical risks • Technology – broad scale changes to the energy Stockland’s climate scenario analysis informs our climate strategy and power network including generation, transmission The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fifth Assessment report (AR5) published in 2014, outlines and distribution in the transition to renewable a range of Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs) designed to be ‘representative’ of possible future emissions Independent energy sources auditor’s and greenhouse gas (GHG) concentration scenarios to the year 2100. The pathways are based on global research and • Investment – lending institutions only supporting report existing literature and comprise four scenarios: RCP8.5, RCP6.0, RCP4.5 and RCP2.6. Each RCP reflects a different borrowers who manage their climate risk and concentration of global GHG emissions reached by 2100, based on assumptions of different combinations of possible create low carbon solutions future economic, technological, demographic, policy, and institutional trajectories. • Reputation – prioritisation of the transition to a low-carbon economy by early adopters. Securityholder RCP 8.5 Scenario RCP 2.6 Scenario information This scenario is broadly considered the ‘business-asThis scenario is most closely aligned with delivering the and key dates usual’ scenario in which emissions remain high and global Paris Agreement targets. It assumes a drastic reduction WORKSHOPPING TRANSITION RISK WITH OUR EMPLOYEES temperatures rise 3.2 – 5.4°C by the end of the century. of global emissions as result of sweeping policy and Glossary RCP 8.5 is characterised by increasing GHG emissions technology change that results in a global temperature The primary purpose of TCFD is to support efforts aligned with the global transition to a low-carbon economy, including limiting global driven by a lack of policy changes to reduce emissions. change of approximately 0.9 – 2.3°C by the end of the temperature rise to below 2°C. In April 2018, Stockland worked with AECOM to hold a Transition Risk Workshop, engaging key stakeholders century, minimising (but not eliminating) physical risks across the business to consider what achieving a 2°C future may look for Stockland and for the industry more generally. The outcomes Stockland uses RCP 8.5 for physical risks to of climate change. of this workshop formed part of Stockland’s climate scenario analysis, and also shaped our internal “Vision of the Future.” inform our scenario analysis. Stockland uses RCP 2.6 for transition risks Retaining a future focus with a long-term vision to 2050 is essential. This workshop allowed Stockland employees to really think about the to inform our scenario analysis. potential outcomes of acting, or not acting, in the transition to a low-carbon economy. Discussions ranged from the opportunities of being an early adopter in terms of meeting investor and consumer demand, through to how Stockland can attract and retain talent as a climate leader, and the challenges and benefits of the energy grid shift. “By 2050 Australia’s energy sector will have undergone widespread and unprecedented transformation... While the scale and pace of change has been intense, it is not without benefit. We can already see that our air is cleaner. Our places and spaces have become greener.” – Excerpt from our Vision of the Future, developed in partnership with AECOM. 42 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 43 Risk management Stockland Rockhampton, QLD Approach Managing our physical risks Introduction Consistent with the adoption of a three lines of defence and opportunities risk framework, all areas of the business, including the We include climate and community resilience Executive Committee, are responsible for managing risk assessments in the asset-level risk management through the identification, assessment, and treatment of process. These assessments focus on the capacity of Strategy and risks. This includes implementation of risk management performance assets and associated communities to withstand severe initiatives, active management of risks, and compliance weather impacts and minimise any disruption, while with appropriate processes, procedures, checklists and providing support for the local community. Where we other controls. Teams are also responsible for monitoring identify a high exposure to extreme weather events, Business risks these controls to ensure they remain effective, and such as cyclones in North Queensland, we supplement for reporting on risk management achievements or our resilience assessments with a detailed assessment and materiality concerns appropriately. Our Group Risk Officer leads of the roof structure and building envelope’s capacity to a team of risk management professionals, responsible withstand cyclonic winds. When considering strategies for working with the organisation to deliver outcomes to improve the resilience of an asset, we use an within our risk management framework. opportunities matrix which looks beyond the traditional Leaders from across the business convene annually risk matrices based on likelihood and consequence Climate-related risks for risk workshops to consolidate their understanding ratings. For example, we use the opportunities matrix of emerging risks, including climate risks. Business to identify the value of discretionary climate resilience units analyse and evaluate these risks and consolidate initiatives such as shade sails in car parks and cool roof findings into a risk profile for each business unit and covenants in residential communities. A better way for the Group. Teams assess asset class portfolios In 2019 we updated our climate risk assessment to deliver annually for risks and opportunities, including climateapproach into one centralised tool, ensuring a shared value related issues. systematic, objective, and standardised process for Climate-related risks and opportunities that may ongoing climate resilience assessment, management and reporting. It allows users to understand the climate CASE STUDY Governance and impact assets are prioritised for action based on: exposure of an individual asset, as well as its adaptive • Impact on communities and the environment capacity and sensitivities to climate-related risks and RESILIENCE IN OUR NORTH QUEENSLAND REGION in which the asset is operating opportunities. It covers both the built aspects of an remuneration • O verall potential impact on asset performance asset, including operation and maintenance of buildings In 2011, Stockland commissioned external research We’ve also worked with the Cyclone Testing Station • F inancial impact to the business in managing the and infrastructure, and considers the community on the key climate risks to which we are exposed, to at James Cook University to complete two cyclonic risk or opportunity. resilience of tenants, residents and / or customers form our Climate Adaptation Strategy. This research wind vulnerability and emergency assessments at our Financial dependant upon the asset. Once assessed, asset highlighted the exposure of our North Queensland Retail Town Centres at Bundaberg and Hervey Bay. report Across our portfolio, climate-related risks and opportunities are prioritised for action based on: adaptation responses will be assigned and tracked assets to extreme weather events, such as an increase These assessments took a detailed look at the roof through Stockland’s enterprise risk management in the frequency and severity of storms and intense structure and envelope to identify vulnerability to • G eographical areas of highest risk system. This enables Stockland staff to monitor and tropical cyclone activity. Since then, we’ve actively facility damage from cyclonic wind events. As a result, • D esign attributes of the asset which affect evaluate adaptation actions over time, ensuring worked to increase the asset and community we haven’t suffered any damage of this type since. Independent climate resilience proactive design is prioritised from the earliest stages resilience in the region, focusing on initiatives such as: auditor’s • C The progress that we’ve made in increasing  limate change scenarios for the mediumof development and ongoing asset management. report and long-term • F astening roofing systems and roof-mounted regional resilience is having positive outcomes • Overall impact on business-wide emissions reductions Collectively, this results in a resource that enhances equipment to improve resilience to cyclonic wind for both Stockland and the community, including: • Impact on local communities and environment our ability to consistently create highly liveable and • R  eplacing corroded box guttering and installing • R  educed insurance deductibles for our assets sustainable communities. Securityholder (relative to where we operate) additional downpipes and overflows to avoid following Cyclone Marcia in 2015, due to the • O verall risk to portfolio value and revenue. information For assets under development, the management of stormwater leakage into retail tenancies completion of cyclone vulnerability and resilience climate-related risks and opportunities is integrated works on our affected assets and key dates Our approach to risk management is guided by • U  pgrading air conditioning and electrical equipment Australia/New Zealand Risk Management Standard into our project development lifecycle, known as D-Life. to provide greater reliability and performance • No roof structure and building envelope damage (AS/NZS ISO 31000:2009), the Australian Securities Each stage of the D-Life process requires the delivery during days of extreme heat suffered by our Retail Town Centres at Bundaberg Glossary Exchange Corporate Governance Principles and of specific sustainability objectives, including climateand Hervey Bay post-cyclonic wind assessments Recommendations and other applicable regulatory related risk assessments at defined approval gates. • R  eplacing ageing roofing materials and specifying standards. Our Risk Management Framework includes new roofing systems in developments to utilise ‘cool • R  educed exposure of assets to climate-related supporting guidelines, procedures, and tools to help roof’ technologies to reduce urban heat island effect risks, such as Stockland Rockhampton. Previously manage risk consistently across the business. These and heat loads on plant and equipment exposed to flooding issues due to the creek bed include methods for assessing climate and community location, Stockland Rockhampton remained resilient • Improving the design of stormwater drainage resilience across our portfolio. during Cyclone Marcia in 2015 with the creek bed infrastructures to be more resilient to the effects not washing away as it had previously during of intense flooding similar events. • Implementing new business continuity plans and As of FY19, all Retail Town Centres in Queensland have emergency procedures for assets in regions now undergone a climate resilience assessment. vulnerable to cyclones. 44 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 45 Metrics, targets, and results Renewable energy generated Introduction Climate resilience assessment tool Metrics provided are for the year ending 30 June 2019. Solar power Solar PV In 2006, in recognition of our capacity to contribute to generated (kWh) capacity a low-carbon future, we began setting targets to reduce FY14 175,374 50 the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity of our Enterprise Risk Management System FY15 292,124 1,360 portfolio. Emissions intensity is an established metric for evaluating the energy and emissions efficiency of real FY16 1,940,689 1,360 Strategy and performance STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 estate portfolios, and is calculated by dividing absolute FY17 2,387,168 2,260 Property Climate Risk Resilience Adaptation emissions (kilograms of carbon dioxide equivalent) details hazards assessment rating responses FY18 3,274,463 4,360 by floor area (square metre). Since 2006, we have achieved a reduction of 57% across our Commercial FY19 12,958,224 16,400 Asset details Current climate hazards Outstanding Outstanding resilience Primary response Business risks Property portfolio. As a result of emissions reduction Target FY20 17,900 kW Property elements Future climate hazards Good Good resilience Secondary response initiatives, we have saved over $106 million in avoided and materiality Emergency preparedness Moderate Moderate resilience electricity costs over the same timeframe. Community profile Normal Normal resilience Our carbon emissions intensity reductions to date The following chart provides absolute Scope 1 and Scope contribute to our target reduction of 60 per cent by 2 greenhouse gas emissions totals (in kgCO2-e) since Climate-related 2025 (2006 baseline). The bar chart below shows the FY14. Our Residential business constitutes the majority reduction in carbon emissions intensity across our of our Scope 1 emissions, the levels of which vary each risks Commercial Property (Office, Business Parks, and Retail) year in accordance with civil contractor construction portfolio since FY06. All figures are in kgCO2-e per activity. Commercial Property constitutes the majority Managing our transition risks square metre (kgCO2-e/sqm). of our Scope 2 emissions, which have been decreasing and opportunities over time because of our energy efficiency and A better way Commercial Property GHG emissions renewable energy initiatives. Existing and emerging regulatory requirements related Managing climate-related transition risks and to deliver intensity (kgCO2-e/sqm) to climate change are incorporated into overall risk opportunities also involves participating in industryshared value Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions (kgCO2-e) management and into our risk register as appropriate. wide collaborations such as with the Property Council FY25 TARGET 43.6 Our Group Risk team is responsible for developing of Australia and the Green Building Council of Australia, FY19 24,230 70,545 our risk management framework and adapting it to which focus on how the property industry can lead a Governance and FY19 46.3 FY18 25,101 81,745 accommodate physical and transitionary changes which transition to a low-carbon economy. For example, we FY18 52 remuneration may impact our social and environmental performance. have worked with the Green Building Council of Australia FY17 26,884 87,860 Our Government Relations, Risk, Legal and Sustainability as a strategic supporter of their Carbon Positive FY17 54.9 FY16 35,036 89,881 teams keep the Executive Committee and Board Roadmap for the built environment. The roadmap FY16 58.6 informed on existing or emerging climate regulation establishes the steps required for commercial, FY15 26,368 97,763 FY15 60.7 Financial that may impact on the business. institutional and government buildings, and fit-outs to report FY14 22,102 99,927 decarbonise and contribute to global climate targets. FY14 61.5 In response to regulatory and market risks relating to Scope 1 Scope 2 energy supply and demand, Stockland is committed FY06 109 to promoting efficient operation of our assets and Total portfolio solar capacity 16.4MW increasing our renewable energy capacity. Following In recognition of the potential for renewable energy Independent solar installations in FY19, Stockland’s total portfolio to both mitigate climate risk and provide financial auditor’s solar capacity is 16.4MW, which could generate benefit to our business, we have committed to deliver report approximately 21,900,000 kWh in renewable energy a total solar generating capacity of 17.9MW by FY20. annually. This commitment will also help us meet our net zero carbon targets of net zero carbon emissions Renewable energy generated (kWh) Securityholder 12,958,224 by 2030 across our logistics centres, retirement living Our targets and metrics are incorporated into annual villages and corporate offices, after signing the World KEEPING IT SIMPLE asset-level business planning and reporting procedures. information Green Building Council’s Net Zero Carbon Buildings Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from fuels that are All staff are required to develop key performance and key dates Commitment. combusted on site, such as gas consumption in our buildings indicators related to sustainability objectives, which or natural gas, diesel and petrol from fleet, as well as include climate-related risks and opportunities where Glossary refrigerant leakage. relevant. Performance against these indicators is 2030 carbon emissions target included in individual staff remuneration evaluations. Net zero Scope 2 emissions result from the consumption of electricity only (indirect emissions from fuels combusted off site). Our sustainability targets and performance metrics We report our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions according to our incorporate a broad range of climate-related operational control boundary under the National Greenhouse risks and opportunities, and the entirety of these Across Logistics, Retirement Living and and Energy Reporting Act 2007. Tenant electricity usage is targets and metrics is provided in our sustainability not included except where we are the tenant. We voluntarily Deep Dives and Data Packs, available online at corporate offices report select Scope 3 emissions in accordance with the GHG www.stockland.com.au/sustainability/downloads. Protocol Corporate Standard. Our annual sustainability reporting contains further information on our Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 emissions. 46 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 47 Introduction FY19 PRIORITIES STATUS FY19 PROGRESS COMMERCIAL PROPERTY Complete climate resilience assessments in Achieved Assessments completed in our Retail Strategy and operational assets in priority locations across Town Centres and Logistics Distribution our portfolio, including our retail town centres at Centres with a focus on completing Stockland Cleveland (QLD), Burleigh Heads (QLD), assets with exposure in Queensland. performance and Caloundra (QLD), and Shellharbour (NSW) and our Logistics assets at Yennora (NSW), Hendra (QLD), and Port Adelaide (SA). Business risks and materiality Continue to undertake climate resilience assessments Achieved Climate Resilience assessments have been completed in future development projects including Whiteman on two Retail Town Centre developments – Stockland Edge (WA). Baringa and Stockland Birtinya (QLD) as part of the Green Star commitments. The Whiteman Edge project Climate-related will be assessed when it moves to the next stage of our D-Life process. FUTURE PRIORITIES risks COMMUNITIES Commercial Property and Communities • M  igrate previous resilience assessments A better way Undertake a formal review of resilience Achieved A formal review was undertaken as part of the assessment framework approach against scope for the development of the Group Climate into new Group Assessment Tool for to deliver industry best practice. Resilience Assessment Tool. This ensured that all business units and update results shared value the tool is aligned against industry best practice. in accordance with new scoring methodology Governance and RESIDENTIAL • U  ndertake new assessments as required including new developments remuneration and high priority assets as per national Complete climate resilience assessments Achieved We undertook five assessments in the following on new communities in priority locations that locations: Hope Island (QLD), Paradise Waters (QLD), mapping exercise commence master-planning during FY19. Promenade (QLD), Glendalough (WA), and Wellard • C  ommunicating and building capacity (WA) using our newly-developed Group Climate internally on the use of the new Financial Resilience Assessment Tool. report Group Climate Resilience Assessment Tool including Risk and National RETIREMENT LIVING Operations Team • R  eview our Climate Target approach Independent Complete two assessments in medium Achieved We undertook three assessments using our and establish targets for 2021 and priority locations as determined through newly-developed Group Climate Resilience auditor’s beyond. the national mapping review. Assessment Tool in the following operational villages: report Lourdes (NSW), Belcarra (QLD) and Affinity (WA). Securityholder information Implement the resilience best practice guidelines In progress Two operational villages have been piloted under across five low-medium priority villages that have the new Tool; Hillsview (SA) and Wamberal Gardens and key dates not had a formal climate and community resilience (NSW). Further assets will be assessed in FY20 assessment completed. with the newly developed Group Climate Resilience Assessment Tool. Glossary Hendra Industrial Estate, QLD 48 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 49 Introduction Strategy and Business risks Climate-related A better way Governance and Financial Independent Securityholder Glossary performance and materiality risks to deliver remuneration report auditor’s information shared value report and key dates 51 Year ended 30 June 2019 A better way to deliver shared value Stockland Annual Report 2019 Aura, QLD 50 Our approach Introduction to sustainability We measure and report on our performance against a range of global sustainability assessments and standards to ensure we’re continuously setting the benchmark in terms Strategy and of leading sustainability disclosure. performance FY19 SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP As a real estate owner, manager and developer we believe we Business risks have both the opportunity and responsibility to create the right and materiality balance of social, environmental and commercial conditions for our community, customers and investors now and in the future. Sector Leader 2018 GRESB DJSI CDP Climate-related Our sustainability strategy focuses on this opportunity to deliver shared value across a range Global Real Estate Ranked most sustainable real Only Australian property risks of stakeholders with a view towards achieving our vision: To be a great Australian property Sustainability Benchmark estate company for the 5th company on the Climate company that makes a valuable contribution to our communities and country. – Global Sector Leader for time, and listed on the World A List for carbon disclosure A better way Listed, Diversified – Office/ Dow Jones Sustainability and performance. to deliver We are committed leaders in sustainability and believe this approach is fundamental to the way Retail company, and 25th out Index for 12 consecutive years. shared value we do business. Our three sustainability pillars are integrated with our business strategy to of 874 companies globally. ensure we maintain our competitive advantage and deliver shared value to all our stakeholders. FRAMEWORKS Governance and remuneration Shape thriving communities Health & Community connection Financial wellbeing Education report Our focus is on creating robust communities with strong connections and PE THRIVING SHAM GRI Sustainable Development Goals UN Global Compact opportunities. This supports our growth CO MUNITIES We report our sustainability progress in We contribute to a number of the 17 United We are a signatory to the United Nations as a business, delivering better social, TH accordance with the Global Reporting Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Global Compact (UNGC) and support the Independent environmental and economic outcomes CA STR PITA Initiative (GRI) Comprehensive Sustainability Refer to our Reporting Approach for 10 principles of the Global Compact on EN L auditor’s T for all our stakeholders. ASSE Reporting Standards, independently details on how we contribute, available human rights, labour, environment and G OW S report GR TURN assured Ernst and Young (EY). online at www.stockland.com.au/ anti-corruption. Maximise RE Optimise & innovate Stakeholder returns through sustainability/downloads. engagement community Biodiversity Innovation is at the core of everything we creation Securityholder OU I information CH A do, as we continue to find more efficient O Water IN PTIM ENRIUE CH Governance management & risk N O IS E and key dates & quality ways to do business, investing in technologies that support our priorities, VAL N R VAT E Supply chain & Carbon LBG TCFD while minimising the impact we have on OPER ATIONAL We report and verify our community Climate-related disclosures reported Glossary the environment. Employees EXCELLENCE Waste & investment data inline with London inline with The Task Force on ClimateDEL materials IVERIN L UE Benchmarking Group (LBG), as managed by related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) G SHARED VA Enrich our value chain Corporate Citizenship. recommendations. By creating stable and deep-rooted relationships, we can protect our supply chain, manage risk and ensure sustainable ASSURANCE and transparent practices. The sustainability reporting content within the Annual Report has been externally assured in accordance with the Australian Standard for Assurance Engagements (ASAE3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information and (ASAE 3410): Assurance Engagement on Greenhouse Gas Statements by Ernst & Young (EY). A copy of EY’s assurance statement is available on our website at www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/sustainability. 52 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 53 Shape thriving Our goal is to create and shape communities that thrive now Introduction communities and into the future Strategy and performance Our ability to shape thriving communities is fundamental to our success. Our research clearly Business risks shows that in order for a community to prosper, it needs a focus on health and wellbeing, strong community connection, and education. At Stockland we have made these elements and materiality a key focus of our strategy. Climate-related risks OUR COMMUNITY EFFORTS OUR TARGETS STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FY19 PROGRESS To achieve our priorities in shaping thriving To help shape thriving communities A better way HEALTH AND WELLBEING communities, our efforts are focused on: we have set meaningful targets to deliver for the future. shared value Community activities and spaces 76.3% score for Residential community resident Personal Wellbeing Index Customer engagement that encourage positive physical (national average is 74.2-76.7%).1 Maintaining high levels of communication with our local community so we can be responsive to their All Stockland Communities Governance and and mental health and wellbeing. 82.5% retirement living resident Personal Wellbeing score (residential and retirement living) needs. See page 30 (Operational Excellence) for Smart design that optimises (above the national average of 73-77%).1 score above the Australian remuneration more information. accessibility, safety and mobility. 7,179kg lost by our Live Life Get Active participants at our Residential Community development average National Wellbeing communities. Local community programs, initiatives and Index to FY20. infrastructure that enhance the communities Financial COMMUNITY CONNECTION in and around Stockland assets. This includes report Stockland CARE Foundation Grants. Achieve consistent Stockland Activities that foster engagement, $8.3 million invested in community initiatives across Australia in FY19. Community investment National Liveability Index scores pride and a sense of belonging. $286,000 in grants to 286 local organisations in our communities in FY19. Employee volunteering and giving program and of 75% across residential Design that encourages sense of Stockland CARE Foundation – our charitable trust, Independent Community Partnership Impact Tool developed to assess the social communities. place and supports recreation and which delivers infrastructure, programs and initiatives auditor’s and business value generated by our community partnerships and to Australian communities. report participation. programs. Make a meaningful contribution EDUCATION to community health and Securityholder wellbeing, community information Programs that support e-learning module developed on “Welcoming customers with disability” connection and education in and key dates economic employment within in partnership with the Australian Network on Disability and other partnership with community groups our communities. industries. supported directly by the Stockland Glossary Design that facilitates learning ‘Retail Ready’ program developed for Stockland Retail Town Centres CARE Foundation. and education opportunities to support local indigenous employment. for all ages. 1 A s measured using Deakin University’s methodology. Altrove Park, NSW 54 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 55 The value of our Investing in our communities Introduction community contribution In conjunction with our partners, we develop and deliver social infrastructure and programs to ensure In FY19, we invested over $7.4 million through our we enhance the communities in and around our assets. community development and community investment In FY19, we implemented a total of 1,236 community programs, as verified by Corporate Citizenship. Strategy and development initiatives, ranging from weekly walking The table below provides an overview of our groups with the Heart Foundation, healthy eating and community contributions. A further breakdown nutrition programs with Jamie’s Ministry of Food, and performance of these contributions by category is provided delivering STEAM education programs to primary in our Community Data Pack. school students with the National Theatre for Children. Business risks Community contribution category FY19 We expanded our Heart Foundation Walking Groups across our portfolio and now have 35 active weekly and materiality Community Development $4,840,339 (includes national partnerships, Stockland walking groups. In FY19 1,237 people participated CARE Grants, asset-based contributions, in walking groups in shopping centres and 244 CASE STUDY community infrastructure) in retirement villages. Together, these walkers VALUING OUR COMMUNITY Climate-related completed a total of 55,184 walks in FY19. PARTNERSHIPS Community Investment $1,177,423 (includes workplace giving, in-kind donations, We also provide infrastructure to support community risks corporate donations, partnerships, connection, such as community centres, hubs and volunteering and Stockland CARE Foundation) Metrics are essential to improving multi-use and informal spaces. We seek to engage our operational performance, Management costs1 $1,393,159 with residents, community groups and partners but how do you measure the social on all projects, so we can have the greatest positive A better way value of the initiatives? impact on communities where people live. to deliver This year, Stockland engaged KPMG to shared value develop a Community Partnership Impact Tool to assess the social and Total community contribution $7,410,921 business value generated by our community partnerships and programs. Governance and remuneration This builds on the Social Return on Investment work we undertook in 2017 on our Retirement Living communities. 1 Includes average salaries, costs associated with the development, design and delivery of Stockland’s sustainability report, costs of running strategic Using this tool, we were able to measure Financial community programs and training for community employees. the social and business impact of our report current national community programs, including Live Life Get Active, The Heart Baringa Primary School, Aura QLD Foundation Walking Groups, Jamie Oliver’s Ministry of Food, Bowls Australia Independent and ABCN. auditor’s With the Community Partnership Impact report Tool we can now identify the financial value these programs deliver to the Stockland CARE Foundation community and Stockland, by assigning an indicative dollar value on their impact. Securityholder information The Stockland CARE Foundation is a charitable trust set For example, Stockland’s partnership and key dates up for the purpose of delivering infrastructure, programs with Live Life Get Active, now in its and initiatives that improve the health, wellbeing and fourth year, creates significant social education of communities in and around our assets. value by promoting health and wellbeing Established in 2015, the Foundation supports charitable and strengthening community Glossary partners that align with our organisational purpose, connection, with over 7,000 participants strategy and values. In FY19 our charitable partners, in FY18. Using our social impact tool, Redkite and the Touched By Olivia Foundation received we estimate that this has helped financial and in kind support from the Stockland CARE Stockland CARE Grants generate $2.4 million dollars in health Foundation. Over $416,000 was raised for our partners, and wellbeing benefits, and provided helping to deliver four inclusive playspaces (taking our $2.7 million in social value to the total to 13) and support 93 Redkite families. participants. Quantifying our social impact helps paint More detail can be found in our Community Deep Dive, available the picture of our social commitment online at www.stockland.com.au/sustainability/downloads. to our customers in a tangible way. Jamie’s Ministry of Food, Stockland Burleigh Heads, QLD 56 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 57 Optimise and innovate We provide business solutions that better service our customers while reducing our Introduction impact on the environment. Strategy and As one of Australia’s largest real estate developers, we’re committed to reducing our impact on the performance environment whilst creating resilient assets and communities that cater to our customers’ needs, now and in the future. We respond to resource constraints and the need to mitigate climate impacts through smart design, investment in technology and operational efficiencies in our assets and Business risks communities, delivering savings for our business and customers, whilst future-proofing our portfolio. OUR TARGETS and materiality We intend to continue to optimise and innovate by challenging ourselves to do better each year. Climate-related Focus on renewable energy risks STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FY19 PROGRESS To that end we have set some We continued our focus on renewable energy in ambitious new targets for the future. CLIMATE RESILIENCE, ZERO CARBON & ENERGY EFFICIENCY response to transition risk, installing the largest solar photovoltaic (PV) system installed on a single rooftop A better way Climate and energy Reduce emissions. 14.7% reduction in carbon intensity of Retail Town Centres from FY18. in Australia, at Green Hills Retail Town Centre. to deliver This reduced our reliance on grid power by over 60% reduction in carbon emissions shared value Invest in renewable energy. 1%1 increase in carbon intensity of Workplace and Business Parks from FY18. by FY25 in Commercial Property. 45 per cent, and reduced grid demand by 30 per cent. Improve portfolio climate 12.1MW of solar capacity installed in FY19, bringing our total portfolio Our investment in PV infrastructure reduces our carbon resilience. solar capacity to 16.4 MW. We’ve committed to additional solar roll-outs in All new residential and retirement emissions and will deliver returns of over 10 per cent Governance and FY20, to bring our total solar investment to over $33 million. through reduced power costs in the next 10 years. living communities to be designed as 10% more energy efficient than regulatory standards. remuneration BIODIVERSITY Minimise impact on ecological 152 hectares of land rehabilitated through rehabilitation activities Biodiversity Financial communities and protected or at our project sites. report New masterplanned community significant species. 100,000 trees planted at Newport to restore an environmental corridor developments to have an aggregated Design communities to promote and protect the adjacent Ramsar wetlands. net positive contribution to nature reserves and parklands. biodiversity value by FY20. Independent auditor’s WATER MANAGEMENT & QUALITY Water management and quality report Stockland Green Hills solar, NSW Retail town centres and retirement Improve water efficiency 1%1 increase in water intensity of Retail Town Centres from FY18. living villages to reduce water and sustainable sourcing. 7% reduction in water intensity of Workplace and Business Parks intensity by 5%, and all new Securityholder Deliver projects that minimise from FY18. residential communities designed information water use and positively 8% improvement on water consumption compliance for our Residential and key dates contribute to local water to exceed minimum water efficiency portfolio, exceeding our target of exceeding minimum water compliance catchments. standards by 5%. standards by five per cent by FY20. Glossary WASTE & MATERIALS MANAGEMENT Waste and materials Divert at least: Reduce, reuse and recycle waste to 94% waste diverted for Commercial Property developments seeking • 85% of Retail Town Centre minimise our contribution to landfill. Green Star Design & As Built certifications. development waste from landfill. Specify the use of ecologically98% waste diverted from landfill across our Residential developments. preferable materials. • 60% of Residential development waste from landfill. 1 The increase in intensity can be attributed to a number of factors including portfolio changes such as divestments, vacancy, billing and metering issues. • 45% of Commercial Property More detail can be found in our Sustainability See our Sustainability Deep Dive Series for more information, available online at www.stockland.com.au/sustainability/downloads. Deep Dive series, available online at operational waste from landfill. www.stockland.com.au/sustainability/downloads. 58 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 59 Resilient communities and assets For over a decade, Stockland has been committed to assessing and managing the physical Introduction and transition risks related to climate change for our assets, communities, and customers. OUR COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH INVOLVES CASE STUDY Strategy and LEADING THE WAY performance IN CARBON AND ENERGY USAGE AND REDUCTION 1 Mapping our portfolio Following a comprehensive review, in FY19 we updated our climate risk assessment approach to streamline At Stockland, we are recognised as a Business risks and materiality our climate and community resilience work into one global leader in managing climate centralised tool. This strengthens our approach to change risk and reducing our carbon emissions. We are committed to both Identifying assets where resilience across the Group by embedding resilience 2 climate and community within our enterprise risk management system, and bolsters our reporting requirements to be consistent transparency and action, and execute on both to deliver value to our business, Climate-related resilience is a priority customers, and shareholders. risks with Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). • S ince 2006, we have reduced our Conducting resilience emissions intensity by over 57 per During 2019, climate resilience assessments were 3 assessments with action plans to improve resilience conducted at our Retail Town Centres at Cleveland, Caloundra, Burleigh Heads and Shellharbour and cent, and saved over $106 million through energy efficiency initiatives A better way to deliver where necessary Logistics assets at Hendra, Yennora, and Port Adelaide. • W  e were the first Australian listed shared value property group, and one of the first 15 organisations globally, to sign the Governance and World Green Building Council’s More detail can be found in our Climate Resilience (WorldGBC) Net Zero Carbon Buildings remuneration Deep Dive, available online at Commitment and commit to the target www.stockland.com.au/sustainability/downloads of zero net carbon emissions across our logistics centres, retirement living villages and corporate offices by 2030 Financial • W  e were an early adopter of the TCFD report recommendations, demonstrating The role of ratings active management of climate risks and certifications NABERS & GREEN STAR CERTIFICATIONS ACROSS OUR PORTFOLIO and our ability to capitalise on climate opportunities Independent We are committed to the continuous optimisation of our Rating Certification auditor’s • In FY19 we installed a further 12.1MW assets and innovation across our portfolio. In doing so, report 4.3 stars NABERS of solar capacity, bringing our total we obtain ratings and certifications that independently Energy Retail Town Centre portfolio average portfolio solar capacity to 16.4 MW. confirm our sustainability credentials and verify the We’ve committed to additional solar 3.4 stars NABERS sustainability performance of our projects and assets. roll-outs in FY20, to bring our total Securityholder Water Retail Town Centre portfolio average Assets that are highly rated are more resource-efficient, 4.5 stars NABERS solar investment to over $33 million information delivering long-term cost savings and a higher return on Energy Workplace and Business Parks • We are partnering with the Victorian and key dates investment. They also promote features that enhance portfolio average Government (Sustainability Victoria) health, wellbeing and positive social impact on an 3.6 stars NABERS on a two-year program to design, build Glossary individual and community level. Water Workplace and Business Parks and market the first zero net carbon portfolio average homes in Australia 45 centres Green Star Performance rated • 82 electric vehicle charging stations Retail Town Centres, Workplaces and Business Parks have been installed in 24 Retail Town Centres across the country. 27 assets Green Star Design & As Built, Communities and Retirement Living rated assets More detail can be found in our Sustainability Deep Dive series, available online at www.stockland.com.au/sustainability/downloads. Stockland Green Hills, NSW 60 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 61 Enrich our value chain We aim to enhance the value we create by forming positive relationships that extend our Introduction Enriching our value chain is about how we manage risks and opportunities in collaboration with capacity to deliver leading our employees, supply chain, and other key stakeholders. This extends from our governance and Strategy and sustainability outcomes. risk management at a corporate level, to every interaction we have with both internal and external performance stakeholder groups. Business risks and materiality STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FY19 PROGRESS SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Climate-related risks Identify and address key environmental, social and Sustainability Schedule included in our construction contracts, targeting environmental impact, material use, community and health Stakeholder engagement OUR TARGETS governance risks in our and wellbeing. Consultation and engagement with stakeholders is a Our value chain is important to the A better way supply chain. $3.6 million procured from Indigenous suppliers since 2014. core part of our business and plays a key role in shaping integrity of our business. As such to deliver Collaborate with our partners to Supply Chain Sustainability School contractor learning modules and influencing the design, planning and operation of we are committed to continuous shared value raise awareness of sustainability our projects. It is vital in terms of maintaining our social improvement initiatives to achieve launched, focusing on Modern Slavery, Human Rights and Sustainable issues and encourage sustainable licence in the communities we operate in – something Procurement. in which we take a lot of pride. even better practices and have set procurement. Governance and ambitious future targets. When developing a masterplan community, engaging remuneration HUMAN RIGHTS with government and community stakeholders is an important and often essential requirement of achieving Women in management the planning approval that permits us to develop the Identify, assess and implement Industry supply chain tool developed in partnership with PCA land. More importantly, the feedback we get from this Increase women in management Financial responses to human rights related and members to strengthen property industry approach to human engagement ensures that the places we create are to 50% by 2020. report issues across our business. rights within the supply chain. designed by the people who will use them. For example, Train employees on human rights 194% increase in Australian Workplace Equality Index Score engaging with local government and our residents at considerations and obligations. due to focus on LGBTQI+ diversity practices. Elara, in Western Sydney in FY19 has been vital in Employee engagement Progress human rights initiatives Four new inclusive playspaces built in collaboration with finalising the design of the communities riparian corridor – which when complete will provide a 24 hectare Maintain employee engagement Independent across our entire value chain. Touched by Olivia. auditor’s parkland and become Elara’s central public open space. score above 80%. report EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT, DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Stakeholder engagement Attract and retain high-performing 81% employee engagement score, four points above the Australian Securityholder employees. National Norm.1 Maintain stakeholder engagement information Develop authentic, accessible and 500 employees took part in our ‘Ways to Wellbeing’ stress and plans for all active development and key dates performance-focused leaders. resilience course to strengthen wellbeing. projects, and deliver stakeholder Maintain a diverse and inclusive 83.2% of employees work flexibly. engagement workshops to our Glossary workforce. 45.8% of management roles filled by women. employees. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The Pavillion Aspire Elara, NSW Supply chain Develop and maintain strong Stakeholder engagement plans in place or in development Launch our Sustainability in our relationships through regular for all active projects. Development Supply Chain guideline. and genuine engagement with Engagement framework reviewed to incorporate greater focus on stakeholders. engagement with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities. More detail can be found in our Stakeholder Engagement 1 Survey undertaken by Willis Towers Watson. Deep Dive, available online at www.stockland.com.au/sustainability/downloads. 62 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 63 Introduction Strategy and performance Supply chain and human CASE STUDY RECONCILIATION IN ACTION Business risks rights management and materiality Enriching our value chain requires a focus on effective In FY19, Stockland took the initiative management of our supply chain. Doing so enhances our to develop a ‘Project RAP’ for two Retail long-term business performance, enabling us to identify Town Centre developments on the and address key environmental, social and governance Sunshine Coast, Baringa and Birtinya, Climate-related risks and opportunities. Every year, we partner with risks working with the local Aboriginal hundreds of suppliers including construction contractors, community (Kabi Kabi peoples) to develop professional consultants, and service providers. initiatives that would benefit their community at both a project and community level. We believe that by building strong, transparent A better way relationships with our suppliers, we can encourage them Utilising existing relationships established to deliver to undertake sustainable procurement practices and with local Kabi Kabi stakeholders and shared value promote effective human rights management across our Native Title applicants, we engaged an entire supply chain. We focus on industry collaboration Aboriginal owned consultancy, Balarinji and supplier education. to help facilitate authentic engagement around culture, art, employment, skills, Governance and Key focus areas in FY19 included: storytelling and identity. We conducted remuneration • Working with the Property Council of Australia’s workshops and meetings to consult and Sustainability Roundtable, helping procure a Modern develop a range of initiatives that aligned Slavery Supplier Engagement Tool to increase supply to Kabi Kabi interests and needs. chain transparency. The tool delivers a human rights Financial assurance process to assess suppliers consistently Key initiatives undertaken as part report across 15 member property groups of the Project RAP included: • C  ompleting our first Innovate Reconciliation Action • E ngagement and ideas generation Plan (RAP), which includes 58 actions across 16 focus workshops areas that value and celebrate Australia’s First Independent • R  etail Ready – a five-week Retail Skills Peoples. This includes partnering with WorkStars, auditor’s Program for indigenous participants an indigenous recruitment company in South East report to Central Queensland, targeting career opportunities • R  etailer Welcome Pack Gift including at our assets design by local Kabi Kabi artist • W  orking with Supply Chain Sustainability School • C  ultural Awareness Training held with Securityholder to develop education modules for construction Stockland project team information contractors, delivering easily-accessible training and key dates • Kabi Kabi Acknowledgement/Welcome on Stockland’s sustainability principles and Ceremony held at centre opening event requirements, human rights and modern slavery, • R  AP Plaque installed in centre public Glossary and sustainable procurement. mall space. With the development of our next Innovate RAP for FY20-22 underway, we look to continue our reconciliation focus on initiatives regarding health and wellbeing, education, and community connection to help shape thriving communities that respect, value and celebrate Australia’s More detail can be found in our Supply Chain Deep Dive First Peoples. and Human Rights Deep Dive, available online at Opening of Stockland Birtinya, QLD www.stockland.com.au/sustainability/downloads. 7 December 2018 64 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 65 Introduction Strategy and Business risks Climate-related A better way Governance and Financial Independent Securityholder Glossary performance and materiality risks to deliver remuneration report auditor’s information shared value report and key dates 67 Year ended 30 June 2019 Governance and remuneration Warwick Farm, NSW Stockland Annual Report 2019 66 Our Board MARK STEINERT Introduction Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer and governance Mark Steinert was appointed Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Stockland on 29 January 2013. Mr Steinert was also appointed to the Board on 29 January 2013. Mr Steinert has over 27 years’ experience in property and financial services including eight years in direct property primarily with Jones Lang LaSalle and 10 years in listed Strategy and performance real estate with UBS where he held numerous senior roles including Head of Australasian Equities, Global Head of Research (Equities and Fixed Income) and Global Head of Product Development and Management for Global Asset Management. Mr Steinert is a past President and current Director of the Property Council of Australia The Board is accountable to securityholders and responsible and a member of the Property Male Champions of Change. Business risks for demonstrating leadership and oversight so that the operations Mr Steinert is a member of the Sustainability Committee and a Director of Stockland and materiality Capital Partners Limited, the Responsible Entity for Stockland’s unlisted property funds. of Stockland are effectively managed in a manner that is properly Mr Steinert is also a Director of the Stockland CARE Foundation Board. focused on its economic, social and community objectives. Qualifications BAppSc, G Dip App Fin & Inv (Sec Inst), F Fin, AAPI Climate-related The Board has overall responsibility for the good governance risks Directorships of other listed entities in last three years of Stockland. None A better way Our Directors MELINDA CONRAD Non-Executive Director to deliver shared value Melinda Conrad was appointed to the Board on 18 May 2018. Ms Conrad has more than Governance and 25 years of expertise in consumer-related industries, including as a retail entrepreneur TOM POCKETT and CEO, and roles at Colgate-Palmolive and Harvard Business School. remuneration Chairman Ms Conrad is currently a Director of ASX Limited and Caltex Australia Limited. She is also a Non-Executive Director of The George Institute for Global Health, The Centre for Independent Studies, and is a member of the ASIC Director Advisory Panel and the Tom Pockett was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2014 and became Non-Executive AICD Corporate Governance Committee. Financial Chairman on 26 October 2016. Mr Pockett has extensive experience in both the property and financial sectors having held a number of senior executive positions including Chief Financial Ms Conrad is Chair of the Human Resources Committee and a member of the report Officer and Executive Director of Woolworths Limited, Deputy Chief Financial Officer at the Sustainability Committee. Commonwealth Bank of Australia and several senior finance roles at Lend Lease. Qualifications He is the Chairman of Autosports Group Limited and a Director of Insurance Australia BA, MBA, FAICD Group Limited. Directorships of other listed entities in last three years Independent The Reject Shop Limited (19 August 2011 to 30 June 2017), OFX Group Limited auditor’s In addition to his role as the Chair of the Stockland Board, Mr Pockett is Chair of the report Sustainability Committee and a member of the Human Resources Committee. (19 September 2013 to 28 September 2018), ASX Limited (1 March 2017 to present), Mr Pockett is also Chairman of the Stockland CARE Foundation Board. Caltex Australia Limited (1 March 2017 to present) Qualifications BComm, FCA Securityholder Directorships of other listed entities in last three years BARRY NEIL information Autosports Group Limited (29 August 2016 to present), Insurance Australia Group Non-Executive Director and key dates Limited (1 January 2015 to present) Barry Neil was appointed to the Board on 23 October 2007. Mr Neil has over 40 years’ Glossary experience in all aspects of property development, both in Australia and overseas. Mr Neil’s executive career included senior property and investment roles at both Mirvac and Woolworths Limited and has included the acquisition, development and operation of landmark developments in multiple asset classes. Mr Neil is Chairman of Keneco Pty Limited and Bitumen Importers Australia Pty Limited and a Director of Terrace Tower Group Pty Ltd. Mr Neil is Chair of Stockland Capital Partners Limited Board, the Responsible Entity for Stockland’s unlisted funds and a member of the Audit Committee and Sustainability Committee. Qualifications BE (Civil) Directorships of other listed entities in last three years None 68 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 69 STEPHEN NEWTON CAROL SCHWARTZ AO Introduction Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Stephen Newton was appointed to the Board on 20 June 2016. Mr Newton has extensive Carol Schwartz was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2010. Ms Schwartz is a dynamic experience across real estate investment, development and management and business leader with a career spanning property, the arts, finance, government and infrastructure investment and management. Mr Newton is a Principal of Arcadia Funds health sectors. A prominent spokesperson on the issues of governance, social enterprise Management Limited, a real estate investment management and capital advisory and women’s leadership, Ms Schwartz is a Director of the Reserve Bank of Australia and Strategy and performance business and prior to this, he was the Chief Executive Officer – Asia/Pacific for the real is on the Board of a number of organisations including Qualitas Property Partners. Ms estate investment management arm of Lend Lease. Schwartz is Chair of Women’s Leadership Institute Australia and in 2016 was inducted Mr Newton is currently a Director of BAI Communications Group, Viva Energy REIT Group into the Australian Property Hall of Fame. and Sydney Catholic Schools Limited, and Chairman of the Finance Council for the Ms Schwartz is a member of the Risk Committee, Human Resources Committee and Catholic Archdiocese of Sydney. Sustainability Committee. Business risks and materiality Mr Newton is Chair of the Audit Committee and a member of the Risk Committee and Qualifications Sustainability Committee. He is a Director of Stockland Capital Partners Limited, the BA, LLB, MBA, FAICD Responsible Entity for Stockland’s unlisted funds and Chair of the Stockland Capital Directorships of other listed entities in last three years Partners Limited Audit and Risk Committee. Temple and Webster Group (31 July 2015 to 25 October 2016) Qualifications Climate-related risks BA (Ec and Acc), M.Com, MICAA, MAICD Directorships of other listed entities in last three years ANDREW STEVENS Gateway Lifestyle Group (28 April 2015 to 10 October 2018), Viva Energy REIT Group Non-Executive Director (10 July 2016 to present) A better way Andrew Stevens was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2017. Mr Stevens’ executive to deliver career at Price Waterhouse, PricewaterhouseCoopers and IBM, has provided him with shared value CHRISTINE O’REILLY experience in change management and in business and ICT programme design and Non-Executive Director risk evaluation, governance and delivery, and in business transformation and regional/ global expansion. Christine O’Reilly was appointed to the Board on 23 August 2018. Ms O’Reilly’s executive Mr Stevens is Chairman of the Board of Innovation and Science Australia and the Governance and remuneration career included 30 years’ experience in both financial and operational entities both Chairman of the Data Standards Body for the Consumer Data Right implementation domestically and offshore. Following an early career in chartered accounting and in Australia. Mr Stevens also serves as a Director of Thorn Group Limited, Western investment banking, she has held a number of senior executive roles in diverse industries Sydney Football Club, and the Committee for Economic Development of Australia. including CEO and Director of the GasNet Australia Group and Co-Head of Unlisted Mr Stevens is a member of the Advisory Executive of the University of NSW School Financial Infrastructure Investments at Colonial First State Global Asset Management. of Business and the Male Champions of Change. Mr Stevens is a member of the Audit report Ms O’Reilly is currently a Director of CSL Limited, Transurban Limited, Medibank Private Committee and the Sustainability Committee. Limited and Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute. Qualifications Ms O’Reilly is the Chair of the Risk Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and BComm, MComm, FCA Sustainability Committee. Directorships of other listed entities in last three years Independent Qualifications Thorn Group Limited (1 June 2015 to present), MYOB Group Limited (30 March 2015 auditor’s Bbus to 8 May 2019) report Directorships of other listed entities in last three years CSL Limited (16 February 2011 to present), Transurban Limited (12 April 2012 to present), Medibank Private Limited (31 March 2014 to present) CAROLYN HEWSON AO Securityholder Non-Executive Director (Former Director) information and key dates Carolyn Hewson was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2009 and retired from the Board on 24 October 2018. Ms Hewson has over 30 years’ experience in the financial Glossary sector, with extensive financial markets, risk management and investment management expertise. Ms Hewson is a Director of BHP Group Limited and Infrastructure SA. She is also an ambassador of Impact 100 South Australia. During her time with Stockland, Ms Hewson was Chair of the Human Resources Committee, Chair of the Risk Committee and member of the Sustainability Committee. Qualifications BEc (Hons), MA (Ec), FAICD Directorships of other listed entities in last three years BHP Group Limited (31 March 2010 to present) 70 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 71 Our Executive Committee TIERNAN O’ROURKE Chief Financial Officer Introduction Tiernan O’Rourke was appointed Chief Financial Officer on 8 October 2013. Mr O’Rourke has more than 25 years’ experience in senior financial, commercial and planning roles across a range of industry sectors and throughout the Asia Pacific Region, predominantly Key management personnel for the purposes focused on Australia and New Zealand. Strategy and performance of the Remuneration Report He was previously Chief Executive of Transfield Services Middle East and Asia Region. Before that he was the Chief Financial Officer at Transfield Services Limited, with responsibility for financial strategy and policy, financial and management reporting, treasury and taxation. Prior to his role at Transfield, Mr O’Rourke was Chief Financial MARK STEINERT Officer of Australand Holdings Limited where he played a key role partnering with the Business risks Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer business to transform the strategy and structure of the group. He has also held senior finance positions at AGL, Westfield, CSR and Brambles. At Westfield Holdings Limited he and materiality Refer to biography on page 69. held the position of Group Controller – Trusts, responsible for public reporting of Westfield’s trust vehicles including Westfield Americas Trust and Westfield Trust. Climate-related Qualifications BComm (Hons), MBA, FCA, GAICD risks KATHERINE GRACE ANDREW WHITSON A better way General Counsel and Company Secretary Group Executive & CEO Communities to deliver shared value Katherine Grace was appointed General Counsel and Company Secretary on 21 August Andrew Whitson was appointed Group Executive & CEO Communities on 1 July 2013. 2014 and has responsibility for Stockland’s legal and risk functions. As the Company Mr Whitson oversees Stockland’s 56 Residential Communities with a portfolio of 76,000 Secretary Ms Grace is directly accountable to the Board, through the Chairman for all lots and an approximate end value of $21.4 billion, and our 62 Retirement Living villages Governance and matters relating to governance and the proper functioning of the Board. Ms Grace has with a development pipeline of over 3,500 units as at 30 June 2019. Mr Whitson joined Stockland in early 2008 as Regional Manager for Greater Brisbane remuneration practised as a solicitor for over 15 years with extensive experience in corporate, property, debt and capital markets transactions working with a wide range of stakeholders and Far North Queensland. He was appointed General Manager Residential, Victoria including listed board directors, equity investors, regulators, media and financiers. in July 2009 and in November 2012, his role expanded to include New South Wales. Prior to joining Stockland, Ms Grace held roles as General Counsel and Company He was Group Executive and CEO of the Residential business in 2013 before his role was expanded to lead both our Residential and Retirement Living businesses as the Financial Secretary for Westfield Retail Trust and Valad Property Group. report Qualifications combined Communities function in August 2018. BA (Hons), LLB (Hons), MPP, MAICD Andrew is the Chair of the Residential Development Council of Australia and a Director of the Property Council of Australia and the Green Building Council of Australia. Qualifications Independent LOUISE MASON BE (Civil) auditor’s Group Executive & CEO Commercial Property report Louise Mason was appointed Group Executive & CEO Commercial Property on 18 May 2018. Ms Mason has 28 years’ experience in real estate and is responsible for all aspects of Senior Executives Securityholder Stockland’s extensive Commercial Property portfolio of retail town centres, workplace and logistics assets with a combined value of $10.188 billion as at 30 June 2019. ROBYN ELLIOTT information Chief Innovation, Marketing and Technology Officer and key dates Prior to joining Stockland, Ms Mason was Chief Operating Officer of AMP Capital Real Estate. She has also held several senior executive operational and development roles at AMP in retail, office, and industrial, as well as retail management positions at Lendlease. Robyn Elliott was appointed Chief Innovation, Marketing and Technology Officer on Glossary Ms Mason is the immediate past President of the NSW Division of the Property Council 26 March 2018. Ms Elliott is responsible for innovation, marketing and technology across of Australia. the organisation. She has extensive experience managing IT and innovation at large corporates in Australia, most recently in the role of Chief Information Officer at Fairfax Qualifications where she led the customer-centred design and agile development of digital products. BA, LLB (Hons), GAICD Prior to that, she spent 12 years as Chief Information Officer at Foxtel. Ms Elliott has completed the Strategy and Innovation Executive Program at MIT and has an MBA in Technology Management. She has been involved in a number of innovation initiatives including the Australian Financial Review mobile app, Domain, goodfood, Traveller and Fairfax Events. Qualifications BComm, MBA, Exec. Ed, GAICD 72 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 73 KAREN LONERGAN Introduction Group Executive, People and Culture Karen Lonergan joined Stockland as Group Executive, People and Culture on 11 March 2019. Ms Lonergan has over 25 years’ experience working in senior roles in HR strategy development, organisational development and transformation and change leadership in the Transportation, FMCG, and Retail sectors across Australia, Asia, the USA and Europe. Strategy and performance She was previously the Chief People Officer at David Jones and Country Road Group, after being a People Director at Woolworths Group Limited. Prior to her role at Woolworths, Ms Lonergan was the Executive Manager, Human Resources for Qantas International, responsible for the organisation’s global Human Resources function. Qualifications Business risks Bbus, MM, MAICD, FAHRI and materiality DARREN REHN BOARD FOCUS AREAS IN FY19 Climate-related Group Executive & Chief Investment Officer Stockland’s Board has been actively Darren Rehn was appointed Group Executive & Chief Investment Officer on 18 March 2013. engaged in FY19, with Directors risks reviewing and approving several Mr Rehn has over 30 years’ experience in the property sector. He commenced at JLL significant transactions to further the undertaking real estate research and valuations, before moving to SGIC working in Group’s strategic priorities across each A better way property funds management and equity investments. asset class. The Board has actively to deliver Prior to Stockland, Mr Rehn spent 16 years in investment banking, leading the premier responded to the evolving governance shared value Australasian Real Estate teams at UBS and Merrill Lynch where he was involved in many regime including through the assessment of the larger Australian real estate initial public offerings, mergers, acquisitions and of findings from the Royal Commission capital raisings. He has extensive experience advising boards and senior management into Misconduct in the Banking, Governance and on business development, acquisitions and divestments, and major transactions. Superannuation and Financial Services Qualifications Industries, the Fourth Edition of the B.App.Sc. (Val) ASX Corporate Governance Principles remuneration and Recommendations, and the recent APRA recommendations on Financial Former Executives remuneration. report During FY19 the Board Charter was The following STEPHEN BULL reviewed and updated together executives departed Group Executive & CEO Retirement Living with key policies relating to privacy Stockland during and whistleblowing. Committee the period: Independent Stephen Bull was Stockland’s Group Executive & CEO Retirement Living from 15 July 2013 memberships were also reviewed auditor’s to 7 September 2018. Mr Bull departed Stockland in September 2018. following Board renewal, with new report Chairs appointed to both the Risk Committee and Human Resources MICHAEL ROSMARIN Committee. The Human Resources Committee and the Board also actively Securityholder Chief Operating Officer participated in the evaluation of senior information executive performance in FY19. and key dates Michael Rosmarin was Stockland’s Chief Operating Officer from 1 July 2013 to 7 September 2018. Mr Rosmarin departed Stockland in September 2018. As part of the Board’s ongoing commitment to engage with Glossary stakeholders including employees, the Board attended meetings, and SIMON SHAKESHEFF toured a range of assets, in New Group Executive, Strategy, Research and Stakeholder Relations South Wales and Victoria, met with securityholders at the October 2018 Simon Shakesheff was Stockland’s Group Executive, Strategy, Research and Stakeholder AGM and held a stakeholder event Relations from 22 July 2013 to 16 November 2018. Mr Shakesheff departed Stockland in Victoria for Stockland partners and in November 2018. suppliers. The Chairman also attended a series of governance meetings with major investors. Interstate meetings in Perth and Queensland are scheduled for the Board and its Committees in FY20. Highlands, VIC 74 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 75 Our approach to corporate Corporate Governance Framework Introduction governance and risk management The roles, responsibilities and accountabilities of the Board, Board Committees and Executive Committee are set out in the Board and Board Committee charters, which have been summarised below. The Board places a high importance on its corporate governance responsibilities and in FY19 Strategy and was in compliance with all of the recommendations in the ASX Corporate Governance Principles performance Delegation Board and Recommendations. Accountability The Board also recognises the importance of building and fostering a risk aware culture, so that every individual takes responsibility for risks and controls in their area of authority. Stockland also Business risks Chief Executive Officer / and materiality Assurance, Oversight has a Code of Conduct that applies to all employees and provides clear guidance on how we Independence Assurance Managing Director Delegation expect our people to act, engage and respond to each other and our stakeholders. • External Audit through Reporting • Internal Audit Climate-related • Legal or other professional advice risks Three Lines of Defence Board Committees The Board provides overall oversight of Stockland’s risk management framework which is underpinned A better way by the Three Lines of Defence. Further information on Stockland’s risk management framework Provide assurance on to deliver Human Resources Risk risk components of Audit Sustainability shared value is available at www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/corporate-governance. financial statements Provide assurance on remuneration components of financial statements Governance and External Audit remuneration Board & Committees Financial The Board report Executive Committee As set out in the Board Charter, the Board is responsible for: • Overseeing  the development and implementation of Stockland’s corporate strategy, operational performance objectives and management policies with a view to creating sustainable long term value for securityholders Independent • Overseeing the development and implementation of Stockland’s overall framework of governance, risk management, auditor’s FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE SECOND LINE OF DEFENCE THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE internal control and compliance which underpins the integrity of management information systems, financial reporting report Leadership Team Risk, Compliance & Legal Functions Independent Audit function and fosters high ethical standards throughout Stockland • Appointing the Directors (subject to Stockland’s constitution), appointing the Managing Director, approving the appointment of the Company Secretary and Executive Committee members reporting to the Managing Director FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE and determining the level of authority delegated to the Managing Director Securityholder The business and all employees • Setting Executive remuneration policy, monitoring Executive Committee members’ performance and approving information the performance objectives and remuneration of the Managing Director and his or her direct reports and reviewing and key dates Executive and Board succession planning and Board performance • Approving and monitoring the annual budget, business plans, financial statements, financial policies and financial Glossary reporting and major capital expenditure, acquisitions and divestitures FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE SECOND LINE OF DEFENCE THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE EXTERNAL AUDIT • Determining and adopting dividend and distribution policies • Overseeing compliance with applicable laws and regulations The business Risk, Compliance Independent Audit function Provides regular independent • Appointing and monitoring the independence of Stockland’s external auditors. and all employees and Legal function This function performed by assessment on the The business owns its risks Develops risk management EY, provides independent effectiveness of financial A copy of the Board Charter can be found on our website and must ensure there policies, systems, processes assurance on the effectiveness controls and processes www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/corporate-governance. are controls in place to to promote consistent and efficiency of our controls in relation to the Group’s appropriately manage the approach to risk management and provides periodic financial statements, The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to standing Committees which operate in accordance risk within our risk appetite and provides independent reporting governance disclosures and with the Committee Charters approved by the Board. review and challenge to environmental and social ensure first line controls are performance reporting. Day to day management of the business is delegated to the Executive Committee through the Managing Director appropriate and Chief Financial Officer subject to approved authority limits and Board reserved matters. 76 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 77 Board committees Board committee meetings Four permanent Board Committees covering Audit, Risk, Human Resources and Sustainability have been established The number of Board and standing Board Committee meetings held during the financial year that each Director Introduction to assist in the execution of the Board’s responsibilities. was eligible to attend, and the number of meetings attended by each Director is set out in the table below: The Board’s policy is that a majority of the members of each Board Committee are independent Directors. The Audit Committee, Human Resources Committee and Risk Committee comprise only independent Directors and Scheduled Audit Human Resources Sustainability Risk the Sustainability Committee is chaired by an independent Director and has a majority of independent Directors. Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Strategy and The Board reviews the composition of each Board Committee periodically, balancing the benefits of rotation with those A B A B A B A B A B performance of maintaining continuity of experience and knowledge, and to ensure Board Committee members have skills appropriate Director to their roles. Committee Chairs provide reports to the Board on key matters and Committee memberships provide for Ms M Conrad 14 14 – – 5 5 1 2 – – overlap of membership between the Audit Committee and Risk Committee as well as between the Risk Committee and Human Resources Committee. Mr B Neil 14 14 6 6 – – 2 2 – – Business risks and materiality Mr S Newton 14 14 6 6 – – 2 2 4 5 Current members of the Board Committees Ms C O’Reilly1 10 10 4 4 – – 1 2 3 3 Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for the oversight of the integrity of Stockland’s Mr T Pockett 2 14 14 – – 5 5 2 2 2 2 Climate-related Stephen Newton consolidated financial statements and disclosures, and the maintenance of a sound financial Ms C Schwartz 13 14 – – 5 5 2 2 5 5 Barry Neil control environment. The purpose of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board to discharge risks Christine O’Reilly its responsibilities for: Mr M Steinert 14 14 – – – – 2 2 – – Andrew Stevens • The integrity of Stockland’s financial reports and external audit Mr A Stevens 14 14 6 6 – – 2 2 – – • The appropriateness of Stockland’s accounting policies and processes Former Director • The effectiveness of Stockland’s financial reporting controls and procedures A better way Ms C Hewson 3 6 6 – – 3 3 – – – – • The effectiveness of Stockland’s internal control environment to deliver • Compliance with Stockland’s Australian Financial Services Licences and Compliance Plans A – Meetings attended / B – Meetings eligible to attend shared value • Compliance with relevant laws and regulations including any prudential supervision procedures. 1 – Ms O’Reilly joined the Board on 23 August 2018. 2 – Mr Pockett attended two Risk Committee meetings as a member of the Committee while a vacancy was being filled in 2018. Human Resources Committee The Human Resources Committee incorporates the functions of two board committees Ms O’Reilly joined the Risk Committee in August 2018. Governance and Melinda Conrad recommended by the ASX Guidelines: a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration 3 – Ms Hewson retired from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 24 October 2018. Tom Pockett Committee. The purpose of the Human Resources Committee is to consider and make remuneration Carol Schwartz recommendations to the Board on: • Tthe size, composition and desired competencies of the Board • Director independence, performance, remuneration and succession arrangements • The content of the annual remuneration report and remuneration details contained within other statutory reports, including financial statements Financial report • Stockland’s policies for employment, performance planning and assessment, training and development, promotion and people management. Risk Committee The purpose of the Risk Committee is to assist the Board to discharge its responsibilities Christine O’Reilly in relation to: Stephen Newton • Assessing the effectiveness of Stockland’s overall risk management framework Independent Carol Schwartz • Supporting a prudent and risk aware approach to business decisions across Stockland. auditor’s The Risk Committee reviews a wide range of matters relating to non-financial risk including report work, health and safety, building quality, cyber security, insurance and business continuity. In FY19 the Risk Committee reviewed a number of risk policies including Stockland’s risk management framework. Securityholder Sustainability Committee The purpose of the Sustainability Committee is to: information Tom Pockett • Cconsider the sustainability impacts of Stockland’s business activities including social, All Directors and key dates environmental and ethical impacts • Consider major corporate responsibility and sustainability initiatives and changes in policy • Approve specific external stakeholder communications • Approve external sustainability policies Glossary • Approve publicly disclosed targets and policies. Further information about our Board Committees can be found in the Committee Charters, which are available on our website www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/corporate-governance. Stockland also operates a funds management platform with a separate Board and Committee structure for Stockland Capital Partners Limited and its unlisted fund. More detail on Stockland Capital Partners Limited is available on our website www.stockland.com.au/investor-centre/unlisted-property-funds. 78 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 79 Board effectiveness Board skills matrix The Board has identified a range of core skills and experience that will assist the Board collectively to fulfil its Introduction oversight role effectively. Stockland is committed to having a Board whose members have the capacity to act independently These include: of management, and have the collective skills and diversity of experience necessary to optimise Strategy and the long-term financial performance of Stockland so as to deliver long-term sustainable profitable • E xperience with property investment and management • Property and community development returns to securityholders. • Construction and project management performance • Retailing and consumer marketing • Technology (including digital) • Industrial supply chain logistics • Business risks Board composition Funds management and materiality • Banking and finance • Government and regulatory relations The Board currently comprises one Executive Director and seven Non-Executive Directors. • Environmental, social and governance matters The membership of the Board is reviewed periodically having regard to the ongoing and evolving • Strategy development Climate-related needs of Stockland. The Board considers a number of factors when filling a vacancy including: • Significant senior executive experience. risks It is also advantageous for some Directors to have experience in the audit and risk management field, capital management, mergers and acquisitions, people management and executive remuneration. During FY19 the Board received various presentations and briefings on a range of topics tailored for professional development, key thematics for Stockland and the ongoing responsibilities of the Board. A better way The Board believes that it has the right experience and skills currently to oversee the high standard of corporate to deliver Qualifications, skills and experience Independence governance, integrity and accountability required of a professional and ethical organisation as shown in the shared value The right mix of skills and experience to enable it to deal The Board will comprise a majority of non-executive with current and emerging risks and opportunities, and independent directors and the Chair of the Board must diagram below. to effectively review and challenge the effectiveness of be an independent director. The Board has a process for regularly evaluating its performance. With new Directors joining the Board in FY19 the Governance and management. regular external evaluation of the Board’s performance has been deferred until late calendar year 2019. remuneration Diversity of Board skills and experience Governance 100% Financial Previous Board experience 100% Tenure Diversity Strategy 100% report The Board balances longer-serving directors with a deep The Board recognises the benefits of diversity both knowledge of Stockland’s business, policies and history, Risk management 100% across the organisation as well as in relation to Board and newer directors with new perspectives and different Previous property Board experience 37.5% composition. but complementary experience. Property management and investment 62.5% Independent auditor’s Property development 62.5% report Construction and project management 50% Retail 75% Independence criteria Industrial supply chain logistics 50% Securityholder information The Board regularly assesses the independence of each Female Non-Executive Directors 43% and key dates Funds management 50% director in light of the interests that they have disclosed Banking and finance 50% and such other factors as the Board determines are appropriate and in FY19 each Non-Executive Director Financial management 62.5% Glossary satisfied the requirements for independence. Capital management 62.5% The criteria applied to determine whether a director Customer marketing including digital 62.5% is independent is set out in the Board Charter available on our website www.stockland.com.au/aboutTechnology 50% stockland/corporate-governance. Remuneration 37.5% Workplace Health & Safety 62.5% Sustainability 75% Mergers and acquisitions 100% Executive leadership 100% 80 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 81 Tenure As at 30 June 2019, the tenure profile of the Board is shown in the below diagram. Our approach to tax Introduction Stockland’s tax strategy is to conduct all its tax affairs in a transparent, equitable and commercially TENURE PROFILE responsible manner, whilst having full regard to all relevant tax laws, regulations and tax governance processes, to demonstrate good corporate citizenship. Strategy and performance Consistent with the Board approved low tax risk appetite, Stockland maintains a low tax risk profile to ensure we remain a sustainable business and an attractive investment proposition, in both the 0-1 year = 1 Director short and long term. Business risks 1-4 years = 2 Directors 4-10 years = 4 Directors and materiality 10+ = 1 Director Tax control and governance policy framework Climate-related risks Stockland maintains a Tax Control and Governance Framework (TCGF), reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee, which outlines the principles governing Stockland’s tax strategy and risk management policy. The Board believes that it is important to maintain a range of director tenures to facilitate orderly Board renewal while maintaining valuable continuity and corporate knowledge among directors. In FY19 Ms Carolyn Hewson stepped down The TCGF is consistent with the guidelines published by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) regarding tax risk management and governance processes for large business taxpayers. A better way from the Board after nine years of service and both Ms Melinda Conrad and Ms Christine O’Reilly joined the Board. to deliver The Human Resources Committee oversees the Director nomination process, and will from time to time engage external We undertake periodic reviews of the TCGF to test the robustness of the design of the framework against ATO shared value search firms to ensure that a wide range of candidates are considered. Ultimately, the full Board determines who is benchmarks and to demonstrate the operating effectiveness of internal controls to stakeholders. invited to fill a casual vacancy after extensive one-on-one and collective interviews with candidates and thorough due The key principles of the TCGF are summarised as follows: diligence and reference checking. Written agreements setting out the terms of their engagement are entered into for all Governance and Directors and senior executives. Directors coming up for re-election are also reviewed by the Human Resources • A tax strategy that ensures all tax affairs are conducted in a transparent, equitable and commercially responsible Committee and, in the Director’s absence, the Board considers whether to support their re-election. It is the Board’s manner, whilst having full regard to all relevant tax laws, regulations and tax governance processes, to demonstrate remuneration policy that Directors offer themselves for re-election only with the agreement of the Board. good corporate citizenship • A balanced tax risk appetite that is consistent with the Board approved risk appetite, to ensure Stockland remains a sustainable business and a reputable and attractive investment proposition • A commitment to engage and maintain relationships with tax authorities that are open, transparent and co-operative, Financial consistent with Stockland’s Code of Conduct and Ethical Behaviour policy report • An operating and trading business based in Australia, with no strategic intentions of engaging in any tax planning Directors’ securityholdings involving the use of offshore entities or low-tax jurisdictions. Independent Particulars of Securities held by Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report that forms part of this report. auditor’s No options have been granted to Directors during the period. report Voluntary Tax Transparency Code No proceedings As part of Stockland’s commitment to tax transparency and demonstrating good corporate citizenship, Stockland has adopted the Australian Federal Government’s Voluntary Tax Transparency Code (TTC), which provides a set of principles and minimum standards to guide medium and large businesses on public disclosure of tax information. Securityholder information and key dates No application has been made under section 237 of the Corporations Act 2001 in respect of Stockland, and there are no proceedings that a person has brought or intervened in on behalf of Stockland under that section. Glossary Tax disclosures and information For information and detailed reconciliations of Stockland’s tax expense, effective tax rate and deferred tax balances please refer to notes 20 and 21 in the Financial Report. 82 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 83 Tax contribution summary As Australia’s largest diversified property group, which owns, develops and manages commercial property assets, Executive confirmations Introduction residential and retirement living communities, Stockland contributes to the Australia economy, through the various taxes levied at the federal, state and local government level. The Managing Director and the Chief Financial Officer have provided a written statement to the Board that: In FY19 these taxes totalled more than $252 million, and were either borne by Stockland as a cost of our business 1 With regard to the integrity of the financial statements of Stockland Corporation Limited (the “Company”) and its or collected and remitted as part of our broader contribution to the Australian tax system. controlled entities and Stockland Trust (the “Trust”) and its controlled entities for the financial year, being the year Strategy and performance ended 30 June 2019, that having made appropriate enquiries, in our opinion: The chart below illustrates the types of taxes that contributed to the taxes paid and/or collected and remitted for the 2019 tax year. a The financial records of the Company and the Trust and of the entities whose financial statements are required to be included in their respective consolidated financial statements (the consolidated entities) for the financial period, have been properly maintained in accordance with section 286 of the Corporations Act 2001 TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION Business risks b The financial reports of the Company, the Trust and the respective consolidated entities, for the financial period, being the financial statements and notes thereto, comply with relevant accounting standards in accordance with and materiality section 296 of the Corporations Act 2001 and give a true and fair view of the financial position and performance of 35% Net GST Paid the Company, the Trust and the respective consolidated entities, in accordance with section 297 of the Corporations Act 2001. 28% PAYG Withholding Climate-related 2 With regard to the risk management and internal compliance and control systems of the Company, the Trust and the risks 27% State Taxes respective consolidated entities in operation for the year ended 30 June 2019, that having made appropriate enquiries (includes Land Tax to the best of our knowledge and belief: and Payroll Taxes) a The statements made in (1b) above regarding the integrity of the financial reports are founded on a sound system A better way 9.5% Other Duties of risk management and internal compliance and control systems which, in all material respects, implement the and Levies to deliver policies which have been adopted by the Board of Directors either directly or through delegation to senior executives shared value 0.5% Fringe Benefit Tax b The risk management and internal compliance and control systems are operating effectively, in all material respects, based on the risk management model adopted by the Company and Trust Governance and c While these statements are comprehensive in nature, they provide a reasonable but not absolute level of assurance about risk management and control systems and do not imply a guarantee against adverse events or more volatile remuneration outcomes occurring in the future d Nothing has come to our attention since 30 June 2019 that would indicate any material change to the statements made above. Financial Associates and joint ventures, which the Company and Trust do not control, are not dealt with for the purposes of this report statement, however management confirms that procedures are in place to assess the integrity of the financial information from these associates and joint ventures for the purposes of consolidating information into the financial accounts for the Company and the Trust. Independent Corporate governance statement auditor’s report Stockland is committed to achieving and demonstrating the highest standards of corporate governance. Stockland Securityholder has reviewed its corporate governance practices against the Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations information (3rd and 4th editions) published by the ASX Corporate Governance Council. and key dates The 2019 corporate governance statement is dated as at 30 June 2019 and reflects the corporate governance practices in place throughout the 2019 financial year. The 2019 corporate governance statement was approved by the Board on Glossary 21 August 2019. A description of Stockland’s current corporate governance practices is set out in Stockland’s corporate governance statement which can be viewed at www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/corporate-governance. The Terraces, Bokarina Beach, QLD 84 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 85 Remuneration 1. Executive summary Introduction Report – audited 1.1 Strategic priorities GROW ASSET OPERATIONAL CAPITAL Strategy and performance RETURNS EXCELLENCE STRENGTH The Board is pleased to present this Remuneration Report for Strategic priorities • Accelerate improvement in the quality Strategic priorities • Investing in and deepening Strategic priorities • Strategic capital partnerships Business risks Stockland for the year ended 30 June 2019 (FY19), which forms part of our Retail Town Centre portfolio our people’s capabilities across all sectors and materiality • Increase Workplace and Logistics weighting • Security buy-back of the Directors’ Report and has been audited in accordance with • Divest non-core Retirement Living villages section 308(3C) of the Corporations Act 2001. The Remuneration Climate-related Report covers Stockland and the Trust. risks FY19 outcomes FY19 outcomes FY19 outcomes • On track to exceed $400m retail • Reshaped and aligned Executive • Confirmed strategic capital non-core divestment target leadership partnership at Aura, Sunshine Coast At Stockland, the Human Resources Committee is responsible for recommending Senior Executive • Increased weighting of Workplace • Maintained strong employment • Completed $192m of $350m remuneration policies to the Board for its approval and is charged with reviewing Stockland’s and Logistics to 23% engagement above Australian security buy-back A better way • Divested three non-core Retirement National Norm • Maintained A-/Stable credit rating to deliver remuneration policies each year to ensure that they remain fair and competitive when compared with shared value Living Villages • Focus on evolving strong culture those of companies of similar size, business mix and complexity in the property industry in Australia. • Reduced unallocated overheads There were no changes to the remuneration framework during FY19. by $5 million We remain committed to an executive remuneration framework that supports Stockland’s objectives Governance and remuneration to deliver growth in FFO and total risk-adjusted securityholder returns above the average Australian Real FY19 key financials FY19 key financials FY19 key financials Estate Investment Trust index, to create quality property assets and to deliver value for our customers. • Annual growth in funds from • ROE of 11.9%1 • TSR over 3 years of 13.2% operations of 4% to $897m • NTA per security of $4.04 • CAGR in FFO per security over 3 years • FFO per security of 37.4cps, • Distribution of 27.6 cps of 6.3% Financial growth of 5.1% on FY18 report 1 Excludes Residential Communities workout projects. 1.2 What did our executives receive? Independent auditor’s • In FY19, there was no increase in the Fixed Pay for the Managing Director as the current level of Fixed Pay remains report appropriate relative to market benchmarks. The Managing Director’s Fixed Pay has remained unchanged since commencing with Stockland in January 2013. There were also no changes to other Key Management Personnel (KMP) Fixed Pay. Securityholder • Our considered approach to remuneration will continue in FY20 with no increases planned for the Fixed Pay information of the Managing Director or any of our KMP. and key dates • A range of STIs against target was awarded to the Managing Director and KMP this year and awards are set out in section 3.3. The STIs awarded reflected a mixed performance against the Corporate Balanced Scorecard with Glossary a lower overall STI pool than FY18. As a result, the Managing Director and all Senior Executives were awarded STI an average of 85.7 per cent of target in FY19. Any individual STI award includes at least one-third (half for Managing Director) in the form of Stockland securities that vest in future years, subject to continued service by those executives and to Stockland’s clawback policy. • In relation to the LTI awards, the three year FFO per security Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 6.3 per cent was above the minimum vesting threshold of 4.75 per cent set in FY17. Accordingly 94.2 per cent of the FFO per security component of the FY17 LTI award has vested. TSR over the three year performance period of 13.2 per cent was below the performance benchmark (a weighted index compromising of property companies from the ASX AREIT 200 index Stockland Shellharbour, NSW excluding Stockland) of 49.8 per cent and accordingly none of the TSR component of the FY17 LTI awards has vested. These combined outcomes resulted in the vesting of 47.1 per cent of FY17 LTI awards. 86 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 87 2. Remuneration Framework The table below provides a summary of Stockland’s framework and how each component is determined. Principles and philosophy Remuneration component Measure At Risk Weighting Introduction Fixed Remuneration should be Fixed Pay (FP) External benchmarking based on 2.1 Framework fair, competitive and regularly benchmarked to relevant Salary and other benefits (including statutory superannuation) surveys sourced from a number of organisations including AON Hewitt, market levels Avdiev and PwC Strategy and Stockland’s remuneration policies are framed around several key principles, including: A significant portion of remuneration Short term Incentive (STI) Depends on company and Target 100% of FP performance • F ixed Pay should be fair, competitive and regularly benchmarked against market practice. Fixed Pay includes salary, should be ‘at risk’ and fairly reward 50% awarded as cash for individual performance reflecting (Managing Director superannuation and other employee benefits. Annual reviews of Fixed Pay take into account each individual’s skills and executives if pre-set objectives performance up to target for progress against a Balanced and CEO) experience relevant to their roles, internal and external benchmarks and the importance of a considered approach to pay. and hurdles are achieved and/ Managing Director and CEO Scorecard of Key Performance 80 – 90% of FP or exceeded and build a sense of (two-thirds as cash for other Indicators (KPIs) based on: (Other Senior • A  significant portion of executive remuneration should be ‘at risk’; that is awarded only if clear performance criteria Business risks business ownership and alignment Senior Executives) • Business/Financial outcomes Executives) set in advance are achieved that benefits all securityholders 50% awarded in deferred securities • Customer/Stakeholder and Maximum 150% and materiality interests for performance up to target for • ‘At risk’ or variable pay should be aligned to securityholder interests Sustainability performance of Target Managing Director & CEO (one-third • Leadership and People • V  ariable pay as a portion of total remuneration should be higher for more senior executives for Senior Executives) and Management 100% awarded as deferred • S TIs must be affordable and funded from annual earnings Climate-related • Operational Excellence and Risk securities for any performance Management • Individual STI awards are dependent on Stockland, business unit and individual performance measures based on the above target Corporate Balanced Scorecard approach which the Board uses to set financial and non-financial Key Performance Any deferred securities vest equally risks Indicators (KPIs) that are aligned to overall business strategy and key priorities subject to continued service after 1 and 2 years • A  portion of performance based pay for Executives should be awarded as Stockland securities with deferred vesting Long Term Incentive (LTI) Funds From Operations (FFO) Managing Director A better way with any above target performance for Senior Executives awarded fully as securities Delivered as Performance Rights Three year CAGR in FFO per security and CEO to deliver • V  esting of LTI should be dependent on exceeding long term performance hurdles measured against performance with maximum vesting if CAGR is 5% 200% of FP shared value hurdles over a three year or more above the applicable target Other Senior • L TI should not only help motivate and retain Senior Executives but also build a sense of ownership of business performance period (50% weighting) Executives 120% performance that benefits all stakeholders Any rights then convert to deferred and of FP Governance and securities if performance hurdles Total Shareholder Return (TSR) • R  emuneration policies and decisions must reflect adherence to Stockland’s values and Code of Conduct are exceeded which vest equally Based on a composite index remuneration as well as prudent risk and capital management considerations subject to continued service after reflecting A-REIT 200 competitors three and four years with maximum vesting occurring • U  nvested equity awards should be forfeited if employees resign during the applicable vesting period and should be subject to a broadly framed clawback policy that gives the Board discretion to adjust or forfeit these awards The number of LTI rights granted if Stockland’s TSR is 10% or more is based on the face value of above this index (50% weighting) in certain circumstances Financial Stockland’s securities at the time Our competitor index excludes of the grant report • The Board retains the right to apply discretion over remuneration decisions taking into account both financial Stockland and includes six A-REIT and non-financial outcomes. 200 large caps equally weighted at 13.33% each (Dexus, Goodman, GPT, Mirvac, Scentre and Vicinity) 2.2 Remuneration mix and eight A-REIT 200 smaller caps equally weighted at 2.5% (Abacus, Independent auditor’s BWP Trust, Charter Hall Group, We reviewed our remuneration mix during the year and determined no changes needed to be made in FY19. The number report Charter Hall Retail REIT, Cromwell of LTI rights awarded is based on the Volume Weighted Average Price of Stockland securities for the 10 working days post Property, Growthpoint, National 30 June (face value methodology), which is consistent with the approach for determining the number of Deferred STI awards. Storage REIT and Shopping Centres Variable pay (STI and LTI) is a key component of remuneration for our Senior Executives. Generally, Stockland’s Senior Australasia Property Group) Securityholder Executives have a greater proportion of remuneration at risk than their counterparts in comparable property companies. The Board may apply discretion information Values, Risk and Reputation to adjust STI outcomes upwards or downwards including to zero where and key dates MANAGING DIRECTOR & CEO OTHER SENIOR EXECUTIVES appropriate The Board can apply clawback on Glossary unvested deferred STI and/or LTI to adjust or forfeit these awards Minimum securityholding The Managing Director and CEO is required to maintain a minimum 25% Fixed Pay 33% Fixed Pay holding of Stockland securities equivalent to at least two times 12.5% Cash STI 19% Cash STI fixed pay (one times fixed pay for other Senior 12.5% Deferred ST At risk 9% Deferred ST At risk Executives) for any securities 50% LTI 39% LTI granted after 1 July 2010 AT RI ATRI SK SK – 75 – 67 % % 88 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 89 3. Remuneration outcomes 3.3 STI STI rewards the annual progress towards long-term objectives. All permanent employees employed at 30 June of the Introduction applicable financial year and who have greater than three months service are eligible to be considered for a STI award. 3.1 Financial performance over the past five years STI pool The STI Pool is determined by the Board’s assessment of performance against the Corporate Balanced Scorecard, Strategy and Underlying profit, FFO, EPS and other key financial performance measures over the last five years are set out below. which is shown below for FY19. performance FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Underlying profit ($M) 1 608 660 696 731 757 Corporate Balanced Scorecard FY19 Business risks FFO2 ($M) 657 740 802 863 897 Strategic priority KPI Commentary Overall rating 780 and materiality AFFO3 ($M) 531 624 687 756 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (60%) Statutory profit ($M) 903 889 1,195 1,025 311 Group and business unit performance Security price as at 30 June ($)4 4.10 4.71 4.38 3.97 4.17 Group performance • FFO per security growth was 5.1% to 37.4 cps FFO at lower end Climate-related Distributions/Dividends per security (cents) 24.0 24.5 25.5 26.5 27.6 • Funds from Operations (FFO) per security • ROE was 11.5%1 of target range Payout Ratio 86% 79% 77% 75% 74% guidance of 5.0 – 7.0% ROE within target risks • Return on Equity1 (ROE) of 11.3 – 11.8% range Securities bought back and cancelled ($M) 5 – – – – 192 Underlying EPS (cents) 25.9 27.8 29.0 30.2 31.5 FFO per security (cents) 28.0 31.1 33.4 35.6 37.4 • Business Performance Business unit financial performance was mixed: A better way to deliver AFFO per security (cents) 22.6 26.3 28.6 31.2 32.5 • Operating Business financial performance • Commercial Property FFO of $623 million was Within target range in line with plan up on FY18 and overall in line with forecast with shared value Statutory EPS (cents) 38.5 37.4 49.8 42.3 13.0 Retail below and Workplace and Logistics above Stockland TSR – 1 year (%) 12.3 16.4 7.1 (7.0) 13.9 • Residential Operating Profit of $362 million Upper end of target was up on FY18 and above forecast range Governance and A-REIT 200 TSR (excluding SGP) – 1 year (%) 24.2 21.1 (6.7) 11.5 20.0 • Retirement Living profit of $56 million was Below target range Tailored index TSR 6 – – – 7.2 27.0 remuneration up on with FY18 but below forecast 1 Underlying profit was the non-IFRS performance measure used in determining the non-TSR component of LTI remuneration for periods up to and including 30 June 2016. 2 FFO is a non-IFRS measure that replaced underlying profit as Stockland’s primary reporting measure from FY17. This change recognises the importance • Maintain conservative debt profile and remain • Average Debt Maturity was above 5 years Within target range of FFO in managing our business and the use of FFO as a comparable performance measurement tool in the Australian property industry. The reconciliation Financial within policy limits for gearing, interest cover, • Credit Rating and liquidity buffer maintained with report of FFO to statutory profit is provided in the Financial Report. Performance against this benchmark is set out in section 3.4. 3 AFFO is stated exclusive of derivative close out costs and inclusive of Commercial Property and Retirement Living maintenance capex. asset mix, credit rating and debt profile gearing and interest cover all within guidelines 4 FY14 Closing security price was $3.88. • Credit rating maintain Arating • Debt documentation and covenants updated 5 The securities were bought back on market. • Debt maturity profile >5 years and all covenants satisfied 6 Tailored AREIT 200 index comprised of six large companies forming 80% and eight smaller companies forming 20% as detailed in section 2.2. Measured from FY17 as a LTI hurdle. • Liquidity buffer 10% above committed and undrawn facilities Independent • Gearing within range 20 – 30% auditor’s report • Deliver against Key Business Priorities • Mixed progress against our key business and Lower end of target 3.2 Fixed pay strategic priorities with most priorities met range Securityholder information We review Senior Executives’ Fixed Pay each year against independently-provided external data sources and market benchmarks from a group of ASX50 companies and larger property companies, ensuring that our Fixed Pay remains and key dates competitive with companies of comparable size and complexity in our industry. 1 Including Residential workout projects. ROE was 11.9% excluding these projects. For the 2019 financial year, Fixed Pay did not increase for our Managing Director and CEO or the Senior Executives. Glossary 90 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 91 Corporate Balanced Scorecard FY19 The maximum approved STI pool for all employees in FY19 was $28.7 million of which a maximum $6.6 million Introduction (or 20 per cent of the pool) is proposed to be awarded in Stockland securities with deferred vesting and is subject Strategic to the risk of forfeiture until vesting dates at the end of FY20 and FY21. priority KPI Commentary Overall rating CUSTOMER AND ORGANISATIONAL PERFORMANCE (40%) Customer and stakeholder $m FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Strategy and • A  chieve independent customer satisfaction • The customer satisfaction scores were generally Within target range Underlying profit 608 660 696 731 757 performance ratings goals for each business unit at or above target FFO 657 740 802 863 897 • Commercial Property was above target Cash STI 1 24.0 28.1 28.4 26.6 22.1 • Residential outcomes variable against targets DSTI 9.0 8.9 9.5 6.6 6.6 • Retirement Living was above Business risks STI pool 33.0 37.0 37.9 33.2 28.7 and materiality 1 Includes applicable superannuation. People management • Achieve employee engagement target – 80% • Employee engagement score was 81% Upper end of target range STI outcomes – Managing Director and CEO and other KMP Climate-related The table below sets out the STI awards for FY19. STI incentives are awarded in both cash and Stockland securities with deferred vesting. For amounts up to the Target STI awarded, the Managing Director and CEO receives one-half of STI in risks • Increase female participation across all levels • W  omen in management was 45.8% Within target range cash and one-half in deferred securities and Senior Executives receive two-thirds of STI in cash and one-third in deferred of management • Women in senior management was 42.0% securities. Any STI above target is awarded as securities with deferred vesting. Half of the deferred STI securities vest 12 months after award with the remaining half vesting 24 months after award, provided employment continues to the • 37.0% of General Managers were females applicable vesting date. A better way • 50% of Senior Executives were females to deliver shared value STI • Progress longer term diversity and • Good progress made including being recognised Upper end of target Maximum STI Awarded inclusiveness objectives as an Employer of Choice for Gender Equality range Target STI STI Awarded (as % of Governance and over nine consecutive years (five with WGEA) (as % of (as % of (as % of Maximum STI deferred DSTIs • 83.2% of employees having a flexible Fixed Pay) Fixed Pay) Target) STI) STI paid in cash1 into equity 2 granted3 remuneration work arrangement % % % % $ % $ % $ Managing Director Mark Steinert 100 150 80 53 600,000 50 600,000 50 134,145 Operational excellence, sustainability & risk management Financial Other KMP report • Continued Process Improvement and • O  ver 1% of FFO due to new innovation Within target range enhanced innovation Katherine Grace 80 120 94 63 301,333 67 150,667 33 33,686 Louise Mason 90 135 87 58 392,000 67 196,000 33 43,821 Tiernan O’Rourke 80 120 86 58 403,333 67 201,667 33 45,088 • Embed sustainable business practices • Recognised as the leading Global Real Estate Above target range Independent and make good progress against environment company in DJSI Sustainability Survey Andrew Whitson 90 135 91 61 408,667 67 204,333 33 45,684 auditor’s improvement goals • Continued strong progress across our GHG and Former Senior Executives report other sustainability targets Stephen Bull4 90 135 49 33 62,000 100 – – – 1 The portion of STI awarded for the FY19 performance year, which is paid as cash. 2 The portion of STI awarded for FY19 performance that is deferred into Stockland securities that will vest over the next two years. Securityholder • Ensure strong risk compliance and safety • C information  ontinued embedding of three lines of defence Within target 3 The number of securities granted for deferred STI is based on the Volume Weighted Average Price for the 10 business days after 30 June 2019. management practices risk framework and key dates This price was $4.4728. • O  ngoing focus on contractor and employee 4 Ceased employment 7 September 2018. 100% of STI paid in cash. safety management practices Glossary 92 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 93 3.4 LTI 3.5 Executive remuneration for FY19 Our LTI plan aims to align executive remuneration with securityholder returns and help retain our key talent. LTI awards Executives received a mix of remuneration during FY19 including Fixed Pay, STI awarded as cash and deferred securities Introduction are issued as performance rights granted under the Stockland Performance Rights Plan. Half of the LTI allocated to and LTI awarded as performance rights. Senior Executives is linked to Stockland’s performance against underlying FFO growth targets, with the remaining half The table below outlines the cash remuneration that was received in relation to FY19 which includes Fixed Pay and the linked to a TSR performance hurdle. The tables below show Stockland’s performance against the respective FFO and non-deferred portion of any FY19 STI. The table also includes the value of DSTI awards from FY17 and FY18 that vested Strategy and TSR performance hurdles for the three years to 30 June 2019. during FY19 and LTI awards from FY17 that vested during FY19. This information differs from that provided in the performance remuneration for KMP set out in section 3.5(b) which was calculated in accordance with statutory rules Target/ and applicable Accounting Standards. benchmark Actual Out/(Under) % Vesting Hurdle performance performance performance Vested Weight outcome A. Actual remuneration received or realised Business risks FFO per security for FY17 – 19 Compound Average 4.75% 6.3% 1.6% 94.2% 50% 47.1% Total Cash Awards and materiality Growth Rate1 STI payments Previous Previous Total which awarded in relation years’ DSTI years’ LTI Remuneration lapsed TSR for FY17 – 19 Fixed and received to financial that were that were (received and/ or were Relative TSR FY17 – FY19 2 49.8% 13.2% (36.6%) –% 50% –% $ pay 1 as cash2 year realised3 realised3 or realised) forfeited4 Vesting 47.1% Executive Director Climate-related risks Mark Steinert 2019 1,500,000 600,000 2,100,000 961,640 1,156,550 4,218,190 1,600,521 1 For LTI awards made in FY17 and future years, the performance benchmark is growth in FFO per security. 2 Benchmark based on ASX AREIT 200 Index excluding Stockland. For LTI awards made in FY17 and future years, the TSR performance benchmark is a tailored Managing 2018 1,500,000 702,000 2,202,000 1,014,208 1,326,726 4,542,934 1,711,320 index comprised of six large companies forming 80 per cent and eight smaller companies forming 20 per cent. Director and CEO Other KMP A better way to deliver LTI awarded for FY19 Katherine Grace 2019 600,000 301,333 901,333 208,246 243,482 1,353,061 347,436 shared value The performance rights that were awarded to the Managing Director and CEO and other Senior Executives under the General Counsel 2018 600,000 320,000 920,000 198,286 266,141 1,384,427 342,266 Performance Rights Plan in FY19 are outlined in the table below. These awards are subject to a three year performance and Company period (FY19 – FY21) with the awards measured against two performance hurdles: Relative TSR and FFO per security Secretary Governance and growth. As advised at the Annual General Meetings held in October 2018, the maximum vesting hurdle based on the Louise Mason5 2019 750,000 392,000 1,142,000 154,444 – 1,296,444 – Compound Annual Growth Rate for FFO per security for LTI awards granted during FY19 was 6.0 per cent (42.4 cps) for the remuneration Group Executive 2018 75,000 – 75,000 – – 75,000 – three years from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2021, with the threshold or minimum vesting hurdle being 4.25 per cent (40.3 cps). and CEO, Commercial $ Grant date Vesting date1 LTIs Granted2 Fair value per LTI Fair Value of LTI3 Property Financial Executive Director Tiernan 2019 875,000 403,333 1,278,333 293,714 399,315 1,971,362 557,846 O’Rourke report Mark Steinert 27/10/2018 30/06/2021 370,362 1.31 486,100 Chief Financial 2018 875,000 420,000 1,295,000 314,229 451,345 2,060,574 581,847 27/10/2018 30/06/2022 370,361 1.31 486,099 Officer 740,723 972,199 Andrew Whitson 2019 750,000 408,667 1,158,667 428,622 346,965 1,934,254 480,163 Independent Senior Executives Other KMP4 Group Executive 2018 750,000 450,000 1,200,000 379,846 382,831 1,962,677 513,396 auditor’s Katherine Grace 27/09/2018 30/06/2021 88,887 1.61 142,886 and CEO, report Stockland 27/09/2018 30/06/2022 88,887 1.61 142,886 Communities 177,774 285,772 Securityholder 1 Fixed Pay includes salary, superannuation and salary sacrificed items. Louise Mason 27/09/2018 30/06/2021 111,109 1.61 178,608 2 For Mark Steinert this is 50 per cent (two thirds for Senior Executives) of his STI awards. The remaining 50 per cent of his STI (one third for Senior Executives) was deferred in Stockland securities which vests over two years following the performance year, 50 per cent after year 1 and 50 per cent after year 2 subject to continued employment. information 27/09/2018 30/06/2022 111,108 1.61 178,606 3 This represents the value of all prior years’ deferred STI and LTI that vested during FY19 using the 30 June 2019 closing security price of $4.17. and key dates 222,217 357,214 4 The value shown represents the value of any previous years’ equity awards that lapsed or were forfeited during the financial year. The FY19 values are based on the closing 30 June 2019 security price of $4.17 (FY18: $3.97). Tiernan O’Rourke 27/09/2018 30/06/2021 129,627 1.61 208,376 5 Louise Mason was appointed 4 June 2018. Glossary 27/09/2018 30/06/2022 129,626 1.61 208,374 259,253 416,750 Andrew Whitson 27/09/2018 30/06/2021 111,109 1.61 178,608 27/09/2018 30/06/2022 111,108 1.61 178,606 222,217 357,214 1 Vesting date refers to the date at which the performance and service conditions are met. The rights convert to securities subject to the three year performance period to 30 June 2020. Any rights that convert to securities then vest at the dates shown. The securities remain in holding lock until the 10th anniversary of the grant date except at Board discretion. The rights issued have an expiry date that is the later of the date of announcement of the FY21 results and 31 August 2021. 2 The number of rights granted is based on the Volume Weighted Average Price for the 10 business days after 30 June 2018. The price was $4.0501. 3 Fair value is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation (TSR hurdle) and the Black-Scholes option pricing model (FFO hurdle). Details of the assumptions made in determining fair value are discussed in note 19 of the financial statements. 4 Stephen Bull was not eligible for LTI awards during the year. 94 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 95 Introduction Strategy and Business risks Climate-related A better way Governance and Financial Independent Securityholder Glossary performance and materiality risks to deliver remuneration report auditor’s information shared value report and key dates 97 Year ended 30 June 2019 With the exception of the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors receive additional fees for their work on Board committees. Total fees of $1,903,476 (76 per cent of the approved limit) were paid to Non-Executive Directors in FY19. This amount was In FY20, in line with our considered approach to remuneration, there will be no changes in the base fees for the Chairman The Human Resources Committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending to the Board any changes to Board $17,500 $17,500 FY19 $500,000 $175,000 $40,000 $20,000 $35,000 $35,000 $32,700 $32,700 $30,000 $15,260 $8,720 Total remuneration available to Non-Executive Directors is approved by securityholders and is currently $2,500,000 In FY19, there were no changes in the base fees for the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors or any of the Board Committees. Stockland’s remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors aims to ensure Stockland can attract and retain suitably 4. Non-Executive Director Remuneration $35,000 $17,500 $35,000 $17,500 FY20 $500,000 $175,000 $40,000 $20,000 $32,700 $32,700 $30,000 $15,260 $8,720 and Committee remuneration, taking into account the size and scope of Stockland’s activities, the responsibilities and Where the Board establishes a special purpose Board Committee, Committee members may receive a fee in line with 5.7 per cent higher than the total fees paid in FY18 due to the timing of new Non-Executive Directors being appointed and skilled, experienced and committed individuals to serve on the Board and remunerate them appropriately for their time (including superannuation payments) as approved at the 2007 Annual General Meeting. No increase in the total fee pool 1 Independent Non-Executive Directors of SCPL are those who are not on the Stockland Board. Chair Member Chair Member Chair Member Chair Member those paid for existing Board committees. Non-Executive Directors do not receive performance-related remuneration the retirement of former Non-Executive Directors. There were no changes to the base fees for Non-Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors or for Board committee fees. liabilities of directors and the demands placed upon them. In developing its recommendations, the Committee may take and expertise and for their responsibilities and liabilities as public company directors. is proposed for FY20. 4.1 Directors’ fees 1 Independent Non-Executive Director advice from external consultants. or termination benefits other than accumulated superannuation. Non-Executive Director Stockland Board Committees Non-Executive Director SCPL Board Committees and Chairman or the respective Board Committees. Stockland Board Human Resources Audit and Risk Chairman SCPL Board Chairman Audit Risk B. Executive remuneration (statutory presentation) Other Shared-based Short-term Post-employment long-term payments Performance related (STI + LTI) (DSTI + LTI) NonSuperLong Percent Percent of monetary Other Cash Total annuation Termination service of Total Total $ Salary 1 benefits2 payments STI3 short-term benefits benefits leave4 DSTI LTI Total % % Key Management Personnel (KMP) Mark Steinert 2019 1,553,165 – – 600,000 2,153,165 25,000 – 34,777 747,500 445,985 3,406,427 52.7 35.0 Managing Director and CEO 2018 1,494,694 – 943 702,000 2,197,637 19,278 – 19,824 985,000 1,216,893 4,438,632 65.4 49.6 Katherine Grace 2019 611,384 – – 301,333 912,717 19,742 – 7,419 173,639 118,945 1,232,462 48.2 23.7 General Counsel & Company Secretary 2018 575,407 – – 320,000 895,407 19,278 – 6,350 206,917 274,870 1,402,822 57.2 34.3 Louise Mason5 2019 715,233 13,530 – 392,000 1,120,763 22,826 – 2,218 125,000 47,830 1,318,637 42.8 13.1 Group Executive and CEO, Commercial Property 2018 78,994 956 205,479 – 285,429 – – – 125,000 – 410,429 30.5 30.5 Tiernan O’Rourke 2019 909,395 – 943 403,333 1,313,671 24,693 – 12,715 234,917 186,892 1,772,888 46.5 23.8 Chief Financial officer 2018 848,993 – – 420,000 1,268,993 19,278 – 10,479 301,883 438,740 2,039,643 56.9 36.3 Andrew Whitson 2019 734,513 13,849 – 408,667 1,157,029 19,742 – 13,910 320,639 160,832 1,672,152 53.2 28.8 Group Executive and CEO, Stockland Communities 2018 712,532 12,422 1,887 450,000 1,176,841 19,278 – 27,345 419,750 377,667 2,020,881 61.7 39.5 Senior Executives (formerly KMP)7 Robyn Elliott 2019 – – – – – – – – – – – – – Chief Technology and Innovation Officer 2018 132,197 – – 68,400 200,597 5,398 – – 17,333 – 223,328 38.4 7.8 Darren Rehn 2019 – – – – – – – – – – – – – Chief Investment Officer 2018 736,492 – 943 450,000 1,187,435 19,278 – 9,205 342,667 377,667 1,936,252 60.4 37.2 Former KMP Stephen Bull6 2019 143,538 2,663 – 62,000 208,201 5,133 817,395 (3,099) 148,833 160,578 1,337,041 27.8 23.1 Former CEO, Retirement Living 2018 633,299 12,422 – 300,000 945,721 19,278 – 21,985 273,933 352,114 1,613,031 57.4 38.8 Michael Rosmarin7 2019 – – – – – – – – – – – – – Former Chief Operating Officer 2018 568,300 12,422 – 280,000 860,722 19,278 – 27,721 219,183 304,764 1,431,668 56.2 36.6 John Schroder8 2019 – – – – – – – – – – – – – Former CEO, Commercial Property 2018 1,034,760 – – 600,000 1,634,760 19,278 1,050,000 40,921 332,150 533,285 3,610,394 40.6 24.0 Simon Shakesheff 7 2019 – – – – – – – – – – – – – Former Group Executive, Strategy & Stakeholder Relations 2018 588,571 – – 293,333 881,904 18,892 – 8,029 226,278 304,764 1,439,867 57.3 36.9 2019 4,667,228 30,042 943 2,167,333 6,865,546 117,136 817,395 67,940 1,750,528 1,121,062 10,739,607 46.9 26.7 Consolidated remuneration 2018 7,404,239 38,222 209,252 3,883,733 11,535,446 178,514 1,050,000 172,129 3,450,094 4,180,764 20,566,947 56.0 37.1 Stockland Annual Report 2019 1 Includes any change in accruals for annual leave. 2 Comprises salary packaged benefits, including motor vehicle costs, car parking, other salary sacrificed items and FBT payable on these items. 3 Cash STIs are earned in the financial year to which they relate and are paid in August/September of the following financial year. 4 Includes any change in accruals for long service leave. 5 Louise Mason was appointed 4 June 2018. Other payments include payment on commencement to compensate for incentives forfeited on ceasing previous employment to join Stockland. 6 Stephen Bull ceased employment 7 September 2018. Termination payment in accordance with policy as set out in section 5.4 of this report. 7 As noted in Section 5.5 following a review of Key Management Personal at the end of FY18, Robyn Elliott, Darren Rehn, Michael Rosmarin and Simon Shakesheff were no longer considered as KMP from 1 July 2018. 8 John Schroder ceased employment 2 July 2018. 96 The nature and amount of each element of remuneration for each Non-Executive Director is detailed below: 4.2 Directors’ securityholdings To align our Directors with securityholder interests, the Board believes that Directors should hold a meaningful Introduction Short-term Post-employment number of Stockland securities. Each Non-Executive Director is required to acquire 40,000 securities within three years Board and Non-monetary Superannuation of commencing as a Non-Executive Director. This minimum equates to approximately one year’s base Board fees. $ Committee Fees benefits contributions Total1 The relevant interest of each Director in Stockland securities, as notified by the Directors to the ASX in accordance Strategy and Non-Executive Directors with S205G(1) of the Corporations Act 2001, at the date of this Report are as follows: performance Tom Pockett 2019 479,469 – 20,531 500,000 2018 479,951 – 20,049 500,000 Stockland Melinda Conrad2 2019 202,725 – 19,259 221,984 2019 2018 Business risks 2018 19,266 – 1,830 21,096 Non-Executive Directors Barry Neil 2019 207,945 – 19,755 227,700 and materiality Tom Pockett 40,000 40,000 2018 207,945 – 19,755 227,700 Melinda Conrad 1 60,000 – Stephen Newton 2019 260,718 – 20,531 281,249 Barry Neil 76,718 76,718 Climate-related 2018 243,985 – 20,049 264,034 Stephen Newton 40,000 40,000 Christine O’Reilly3 2019 170,110 – 16,160 186,270 risks Christine O’Reilly 2 50,000 50,000 2018 – – – – Carol Schwartz 40,000 40,000 Carol Schwartz 2019 205,699 – 19,379 225,078 Andrew Stevens 20,000 20,000 2018 191,781 – 18,219 210,000 A better way Executive Director Andrew Stevens 2019 178,082 – 16,918 195,000 to deliver Mark Steinert3 3,162,815 2,654,856 shared value 2018 178,082 – 16,918 195,000 1 Melinda Conrad was appointed 18 May 2018. Former Non-Executive Directors 2 Christine O’Reilly was appointed 23 August 2018. Carolyn Hewson4 2019 60,452 – 5,743 66,195 Governance and 3 Includes vested DSTI securities and vested LTI rights held by the Executive Director. Excludes unvested DSTI and LTI rights as detailed in section 5.3 of this Report. 2018 191,781 – 18,219 210,000 Nora Scheinkestel 2019 – – – – remuneration 5 2018 157,534 – 14,966 172,500 Consolidated remuneration 2019 1,765,200 – 138,276 1,903,476 Financial 2018 1,670,325 – 130,005 1,800,330 report 1 The fees for each Director are paid on a total cost basis, which includes any applicable compulsory superannuation (the amount of superannuation included in the total fees will vary depending on the timing of payments and in line with applicable legislation). 2 Melinda Conrad was appointed on 18 May 2018. 3 Christine O’Reilly was appointed on 23 August 2018. Independent 4 Carolyn Hewson retired 24 October 2018. auditor’s report 5 Nora Scheinkestel retired 20 March 2018. Securityholder information and key dates Glossary 98 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 99 5. Other remuneration information 5.3 Stockland equity held by key management personnel The table below outlines the number of vested and ordinary holdings (personal) and unvested equity (DSTI and LTI) Introduction held by the Managing Director, other KMP and Non-Executive Directors as at the end of FY19. This table highlights the 5.1 Remuneration governance direct exposure that each KMP has to the Stockland security price. Strategy and The Human Resources Committee assists the Board to exercise sound governance of its responsibility for the appointment, performance and remuneration of the Managing Director and CEO and Senior Executives. Acquired/ Equity Equity Balance Maximum Balance (Disposed) Incentives Incentives 30 June value performance The Committee also oversees all employment and remuneration policies to ensure that, at all levels in the organisation, $ Holding 1 1 July 2018 or Granted that lapsed that vested2 2019 yet to vest3 fairness and balance are maintained between reward, cost and value to Stockland whilst also reflecting risk and Non-Executive Directors compliance performance assisted by the Audit and Risk Committees. Business risks Mark Steinert Securities 2,654,856 – – 507,959 3,162,815 – The Committee approves the remuneration framework for all employees, including risk and financial control personnel DSTI 317,274 134,145 – (230,609) 220,810 467,000 and materiality and employees whose total remuneration includes a significant variable component. LTI 1,509,244 740,723 (383,818) (277,350) 1,588,799 1,913,689 The Committee comprises of three independent Non-Executive Directors: Melinda Conrad (Chair), Carol Schwartz and Senior Executives Tom Pockett. The Committee commenced FY19 with four independent Non-Executive Directors with Ms Melinda Conrad Katherine Grace Climate-related replacing Ms Carolyn Hewson as Chair of the Committee following Ms Hewson’s retirement as a Non-Executive Director Securities 204,418 – (51,200) 108,328 261,546 – in October 2018. DSTI 70,309 33,686 – (49,939) 54,056 115,389 The roles and responsibilities of the Committee are outlined in the Committee’s charter, which is available on LTI 342,327 177,774 (83,318) (58,389) 378,394 489,993 risks Stockland’s website at www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/corporate-governance. Louise Mason Securities – – – 37,037 37,037 – DSTI 74,073 43,821 – (37,037) 80,857 50,000 A better way LTI – 222,217 – – 222,217 309,384 to deliver shared value Tiernan O’Rourke Securities 482,607 – (187,600) 166,194 461,201 – 5.2 Use of remuneration consultants during the year DSTI 96,360 45,088 – (70,435) 71,013 152,639 LTI 526,361 259,253 (133,776) (95,759) 556,079 719,591 Governance and Stockland seeks relevant benchmarking and commentary on a number of remuneration issues from a variety of consultants including EY. Stockland also subscribes to a number of independent salary and remuneration surveys, Andrew Whitson Securities 397,543 – (192,110) 185,992 391,425 – remuneration including property sector specific surveys run by AON Hewitt, Avdiev and PwC. During FY19, no remuneration DSTI 148,465 45,684 – (102,787) 91,362 180,861 recommendations in relation to key management personnel, as defined by Division 1 of Part 1.2 of Chapter 1 of the LTI 452,774 222,217 (115,147) (83,205) 476,639 616,794 Corporations Act 2001, were made by these or other consultants. Non-Executive Directors Financial Tom Pockett Securities 40,000 – – – 40,000 – report Melinda Conrad Securities – 60,000 – – 60,000 – Barry Neil Securities 76,718 – – – 76,718 – Stephen Newton Securities 40,000 – – – 40,000 – Independent Christine O’Reilly Securities – 50,000 – – 50,000 – auditor’s Carol Schwartz Securities 40,000 – – – 40,000 – report Andrew Stevens Securities 20,000 – – – 20,000 – Securityholder 1 The DSTI awards are subject to either one or two years of continued service, and vest once this condition has been met, and are forfeited only if employment ceases. No DSTI awards were forfeited during the year. 2 The LTI that have vested at 30 June 2019 are yet to be exercised and converted to securities. information 3 The maximum value of the LTI and DSTI yet to vest has been determined as the amount of the fair value of the rights that is yet to be expensed over the and key dates remaining vesting period. The minimum value of LTI and DSTI yet to vest is nil, as the securities are subject to performance hurdles being met and the risk of forfeiture until vesting dates. Glossary 100 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 101 5.4 Senior Executives’ employment and termination 5.5 Key management personnel Introduction arrangements Individuals who were KMPs of Stockland at any time during the financial year are as follows: The Managing Director and CEO and other Senior Executives are on rolling contracts until notice of termination is given by either Stockland or the Senior Executive. The notice period for the Managing Director and CEO and other Senior Non-Executive Directors Executives is six and three months, respectively. In appropriate circumstances, payment may be made in lieu of notice. Strategy and Mr Tom Pockett Where Stockland initiates termination, including mutually agreed resignation, the Senior Executive would receive performance a termination payment of up to 12 months’ Fixed Pay (including applicable notice) and be considered for an Ms Melinda Conrad STI award based on performance pro-rated for that proportion of the year they were employed. Ms Carolyn Hewson (retired 24 October 2018) Where the termination occurs as a result of misconduct or a serious or persistent breach of contract (termination for Mr Barry Neil cause), Stockland may terminate employment immediately without notice, payment in lieu of notice or any other Business risks Mr Stephen Newton termination payment. Ms Christine O’Reilly (joined 23 August 2018) In cases of termination for cause or resignation, all unvested employee securities or rights lapse. In other circumstances, and materiality Ms Carol Schwartz the Board has the discretion to adjust the vesting conditions. Typically, this discretion is applied as outlined below. Mr Andrew Stevens Climate-related Death or Total and Full vesting of any unvested equity awards. risks Permanent Disablement Executive Director For termination For unvested DSTI, full vesting in the year of termination. Mr Mark Steinert Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer other than for cause For LTI, unvested rights are vested pro rata based on service to the date of termination. Any applicable or resignation pro rata hurdled rights remain subject to the applicable performance hurdles over the full performance A better way period. Any applicable restricted rights vest on 30 June in the year of termination. Other unvested LTI Senior Executives to deliver awards are forfeited. shared value Ms Katherine Grace Group Executive and General Counsel and Company Secretary Ms Louise Mason Group Executive and CEO Commercial Property Governance and Mr Tiernan O’Rourke Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer Mr Andrew Whitson Group Executive and CEO Stockland Communities remuneration Former Senior Executives Mr Stephen Bull CEO Retirement Living (ceased employment 7 September 2018) Financial report Towards the end of FY18 a review was undertaken of the composition and structure of Stockland’s Executive Committee with the subsequent changes taking effect from 1 July 2018. The outcomes of this review led to the combining of the Residential and Retirement Living business units into a new Stockland Communities business unit Independent led by Andrew Whitson (with Stephen Bull departing Stockland in September 2018 following a period of transition). auditor’s In addition, the review resulted in the streamlining of Senior Executive participation in operational meeting and report decision-making. Ms Robyn Elliott and Mr Darren Rehn remain employed by Stockland as members of the Executive Committee, but are no longer considered as KMP for the purposes of this report. Securityholder information and key dates Glossary 102 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 103 Additional general information Lead Auditor’s Independence Declaration Indemnities and insurance of officers and auditor Under section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001. Introduction Since the end of the prior year, the Group has not indemnified or agreed to indemnify any person who is or has been an officer or an auditor of Stockland against any liability. Since the end of the prior year, the Group has paid insurance premiums in respect of Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance contracts, for Directors, Company Secretaries and other Officers. Such insurance contracts insure against Strategy and performance certain liabilities (subject to specified exclusions) for persons who are or have been Directors, Company Secretaries or other Officers of Stockland. Premiums are also paid for Fidelity insurance and Professional Indemnity insurance policies to cover certain risks for a broad range of employees, including Directors and Senior Executives. Business risks Non-audit services Auditor’s Independence Declaration During the financial year the Group’s auditor, PwC, provided certain other services to the Group in addition to their and materiality statutory duties as auditor. As lead As auditor for for the lead auditor audit of of Stockland the audit Corporation Limited Limited and Stockland Corporation Stockland Trust and Stockland Trust for the year for the year ended ended 30 June 30 declare that 2019, II declare June 2019, that to to the best of the best of my my knowledge knowledge and there have belief, there and belief, have been: been: The Board has considered the non-audit services provided during the financial year by the auditor and is satisfied that Auditor’s Independence Declaration Climate-related the provision of those services is compatible with, and did not compromise, the auditor independence requirements (a) no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in (a) no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in relation As lead auditor relationfor to to the the audit; audit of audit; and Stockland Corporation Limited and Stockland Trust for the year ended and of the Corporations Act 2001 for the following reasons: risks 30 June 2019, I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, there have been: (b) no contraventions (b) no contraventions of any applicable of any applicable code of professional code of professional conduct conduct inin relation relation to to the the audit. audit. • The non-audit services were for taxation, regulatory, other advisory and assurance-related work closely linked to the Group’s audit, and none of this work created any conflicts with the auditor’s statutory responsibilities This declaration is in respect of Stockland Corporation Limited and the entities it controlled during This declaration (a) no is in respect contraventions of of theStockland auditor Corporation independence Limited and requirements the of entities the it controlled Corporations Act 2001 in during the the year year and Stockland andrelation Trust to the Stockland and audit; andand Trust the entities it the entities controlled during it controlled during the the year. year. • The Audit Committee resolved that the provision of non-audit services during the financial year by PwC as auditor A better way (b) no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit. to deliver is compatible with, and did not compromise, the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 This declaration is in respect of Stockland Corporation Limited and the entities it controlled during the shared value • The Board’s own review conducted in conjunction with the Audit Committee, having regard to the Board policy set out year and Stockland Trust and the entities it controlled during the year. in this Report, concluded that it is satisfied the non-audit services did not impact the integrity and objectivity of the auditor; and the declaration of independence provided by PwC, as auditor of Stockland. Details of the amounts paid to the auditor of the Group, PwC, and its related practices for audit and non-audit services Scott Governance and Scott Hadfield Hadfield Sydney Sydney remuneration provided during the financial year are set out in note 33 of the accompanying financial statements. Partner Partner 21 August 21 August 2019 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers PricewaterhouseCoopers Lead Auditor’s Independence Declaration under section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001 Scott Hadfield Sydney The external auditor’s independence declaration is set out on page 105 and forms part of the Directors’ Report for the Partner 21 August 2019 Financial year ended 30 June 2019. PricewaterhouseCoopers report Rounding off Stockland is an entity of the kind referred to in ASIC Corporations (Rounding in Financial/Directors’ Reports) Instrument Independent 2016/191 and in accordance with that Instrument, amounts in the Financial Report and Directors’ Report have been auditor’s rounded to the nearest million dollars, unless otherwise stated. report Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Directors: Securityholder information and key dates Glossary Tom Pockett Mark Steinert Chairman Managing Director Dated at Sydney, 21 August 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers, PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN ABN 5252 780 780 433 433 757 757 One International One International Towers Towers Sydney, Sydney, Watermans Watermans Quay, Barangaroo, GPO Quay, Barangaroo, GPO BOX BOX 2650, 2650, SYDNEY SYDNEY NSW NSW 2001 2001 T: +61 T: +61 2 2 8266 8266 0000, F: +61 0000, F: +61 2 2 8266 8266 9999, 9999, www.pwc.com.au www.pwc.com.au Level 11, Level 169 Macquarie 1PSQ, 169 11, 1PSQ, Macquarie Street, Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO PO Box Box 1155 1155 Parramatta Parramatta NSW NSW 2124 2124 T: +61 2 T: +61 2 9659 9659 2476, PricewaterhouseCoopers, F: +61 2476, F: +61 2 2 8266 8266 ABN 9999, 9999, www.pwc.com.au www.pwc.com.au 52 780 433 757 One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo, GPO BOX 2650, SYDNEY NSW 2001 Liability Liability 8266by T: +61 2limited limited by a a scheme scheme 0000, approved 2 8266under approved F: +61 under Professional Professional 9999, Standards Standards Legislation. www.pwc.com.au Legislation. Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au 104 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 105 Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. Introduction Strategy and Business risks Climate-related A better way Governance and Financial Independent Securityholder Glossary performance and materiality risks to deliver remuneration report auditor’s information shared value report and key dates 107 Year ended 30 June 2019 Financial report Bokarina Beach, QLD Stockland Annual Report 2019 106 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet Introduction Year ended 30 June Stockland Trust As at 30 June Stockland Trust $M Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 Revenue 1 2,768 2,775 790 781 Cash and cash equivalents 14 140 333 63 215 Strategy and Cost of property developments sold: Receivables 9 208 98 41 22 performance • land and development (1,252) (1,263) – – Inventories 6 1,005 715 – – • capitalised interest (93) (106) – – Other financial assets 16 9 12 9 12 • utilisation of provision for impairment of inventories 6 24 30 – – Other assets 95 103 81 80 Investment property expenses (270) (264) (260) (252) 1,457 1,261 194 329 Business risks Share of profits of equity-accounted investments 22 75 69 56 69 Non-current assets held for sale 12 171 65 171 22 and materiality Management, administration, marketing and selling expenses (332) (318) (42) (38) Current assets 1,628 1,326 365 351 Net change in fair value of: Receivables 9 94 99 3,580 3,363 • Commercial Property investment properties 7 (228) 96 (236) 68 Inventories 6 2,500 2,750 – – Climate-related risks • Retirement Living investment properties 8 (72) 59 – – Investment properties – Commercial Property 7 9,145 9,563 9,133 9,487 • Retirement Living resident obligations 8 19 (73) – – Investment properties – Retirement Living 8 3,990 4,120 – – Impairment of Retirement Living goodwill 11 (38) – – – Equity-accounted investments 22 612 613 620 595 A better way Net reversal of impairment of inventories 6 1 – – – Other financial assets 16 525 282 515 272 to deliver Net gain/(loss) on other financial assets – 26 – (1) Property, plant and equipment 57 53 – – shared value Net gain/(loss) on sale of other non-current assets (21) 16 (21) 16 Intangible assets 11 193 194 – – Finance income 13 4 3 284 268 Deferred tax assets 21 40 88 – – Finance expense 13 (87) (77) (189) (192) Other assets 215 203 217 207 Governance and remuneration Net gain/(loss) on financial instruments 13 (140) (7) (140) (7) Non-current assets 17,371 17,965 14,065 13,924 Profit before tax 358 966 242 712 Assets 18,999 19,291 14,430 14,275 Income tax benefit/(expense) 20 (47) 59 – – Payables 10 696 810 455 462 Financial Profit after tax 311 242 Borrowings 15 343 240 343 240 report 1,025 712 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss, net of tax Retirement Living resident obligations 8 2,496 2,577 – – Available for sale financial assets – net change in fair value – 2 – – Development provisions 6 343 567 – – Available for sale financial assets – reclassified to profit or loss – (17) – – Other financial liabilities 16 2 33 2 33 Independent Cash flow hedges – net change in fair value of effective portion (5) 23 (5) 23 Other liabilities 68 107 29 43 auditor’s Cash flow hedges – reclassified to profit or loss (1) (1) (1) (1) Current liabilities 3,948 4,334 829 778 report Other comprehensive income (6) 7 (6) 22 Payables 10 147 173 – – Total comprehensive income 305 1,032 236 734 Borrowings 15 4,361 3,698 4,361 3,698 Retirement Living resident obligations 8 101 164 – – Securityholder Basic earnings per share (cents) 3 13.0 42.3 10.1 29.4 information Diluted earnings per share (cents) 3 13.0 42.2 10.1 29.3 Development provisions 6 370 356 – – and key dates Other financial liabilities 16 218 163 218 163 The above consolidated statement of comprehensive income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Other liabilities 26 27 – – Glossary Non-current liabilities 5,223 4,581 4,579 3,861 Liabilities 9,171 8,915 5,408 4,639 Net assets 9,828 10,376 9,022 9,636 Issued capital 19 8,657 8,850 7,359 7,538 Reserves 91 101 88 98 Retained earnings/undistributed income 1,080 1,425 1,575 2,000 Securityholders’ equity 9,828 10,376 9,022 9,636 The above consolidated balance sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 108 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 109 Consolidated statements of changes in equity Introduction Attributable to securityholders of Stockland Attributable to securityholders of Trust Other reserves Other reserves Strategy and performance Fair value Issued Executive Cash Undistributed Issued Executive Cash flow Retained $M Note capital remuneration flow hedge income Equity $M Note capital remuneration hedge hedge earnings Equity Balance at 1 July 2017 7,480 37 38 1,932 9,487 Balance at 1 July 2017 8,790 40 38 15 1,044 9,927 Profit for the year – – – 712 712 Business risks Profit for the year – – – – 1,025 1,025 Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – 22 – 22 and materiality Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – 22 (15) – 7 Total comprehensive income – – 22 712 734 Total comprehensive income – – 22 (15) 1,025 1,032 Dividends and distributions 4 – – – (645) (645) Dividends and distributions 4 – – – – (645) (645) Securities issued under DRP 19 64 – – – 64 Climate-related Securities issued under DRP 19 67 – – – – 67 Expense relating to Security Plans, net of tax 31 – 15 – – 15 risks Expense relating to Security Plans, net of tax 31 – 15 – – – 15 Acquisition of treasury securities 19 (19) – – – (19) Acquisition of treasury securities 19 (20) – – – – (20) Securities vested under Security Plans 19 13 (13) – – – Securities vested under Security Plans 19 13 (13) – – – – Transfer of lapsed securities under Security Plans – (1) – 1 – Securities lapsed under Security Plans – (1) – – 1 – A better way Other movements 58 1 – (644) (585) to deliver Other movements 60 1 – – (644) (583) Balance at 30 June 2018 7,538 38 60 2,000 9,636 shared value Balance at 30 June 2018 8,850 41 60 – 1,425 10,376 Adoption of new accounting standards 35 – – – (8) (8) Adoption of new accounting standards 35 – – – – 3 3 Balance at 1 July 2018 7,538 38 60 1,992 9,628 Governance and Balance at 1 July 2018 8,850 41 60 – 1,428 10,379 Profit for the year – – – 242 242 Profit for the year – – – – 311 311 remuneration Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – (6) – (6) Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – (6) – – (6) Total comprehensive income – – (6) 242 236 Total comprehensive income – – (6) – 311 305 Dividends and distributions 4 – – – (661) (661) Dividends and distributions 4 – – – – (661) (661) Financial Expense relating to Security Plans, net of tax 31 – 12 – – 12 report Expense relating to Security Plans, net of tax 31 – 12 – – – 12 Acquisition of treasury securities 19 (15) – – – (15) Acquisition of treasury securities 19 (15) – – – – (15) Securities vested under Security Plans 19 14 (14) – – – Securities vested under Security Plans 19 14 (14) – – – – Securities lapsed under Security Plans – (2) – 2 – Securities lapsed under Security Plans – (2) – – 2 – Independent Securities buy-back 19 (178) – – – (178) auditor’s Securities buy-back 19 (192) – – – – (192) Other movements (179) (4) – (659) (842) report Other movements (193) (4) – – (659) (856) Balance at 30 June 2019 7,359 34 54 1,575 9,022 Balance at 30 June 2019 8,657 37 54 – 1,080 9,828 Securityholder The above consolidated statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. The above consolidated statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. information and key dates Glossary 110 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 111 Consolidated statement of cash flow Notes to the financial statements Introduction Year ended 30 June Stockland Trust Contents $M Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 Receipts in the course of operations (including GST) 2,797 3,055 906 917 Basis of preparation 114 Taxation 156 Strategy and Payments in the course of operations (including GST) (1,805) (1,785) (430) (415) 20. Income tax......................................................................156 performance Payments for land (576) (496) – – Group performance 116 Distributions received from equity-accounted investments 51 30 32 30 21. Deferred tax..................................................................... 157 Receipts from Retirement Living residents 295 272 – – Business risks 1. Revenue............................................................................. 116 Payments to Retirement Living residents, net of DMF (172) (150) – – Group structure 158 2. Operating segments......................................................... 118 Interest received 4 3 284 268 3. EPS.....................................................................................121 22. Equity-accounted investments.......................................158 and materiality Interest paid (200) (201) (200) (201) 4. Dividends and distributions..............................................122 23. Other arrangements.......................................................159 Net cash flows from operating activities 27 394 728 592 599 Climate-related 5. Events subsequent to the end of the year.........................122 24. Controlled entities......................................................... 160 Proceeds from sale of investment properties 329 278 260 260 risks 25. Deed of Cross Guarantee................................................163 Payments for and development of investment properties: Operating assets and liabilities 123 26. Parent entity disclosures................................................164 • Commercial Property (290) (463) (338) (464) • Retirement Living (149) (213) – – 6. Inventories........................................................................ 123 Other items 165 A better way Payments for plant and equipment and software (51) (58) – – 7. Commercial properties.....................................................126 to deliver Proceeds from sale of/capital returns from investments 25 29 – – 8. Retirement Living.............................................................. 133 27. Notes to the consolidated statement of cash flow.........165 shared value Payments for investments (including equity-accounted) (2) – (2) – 9. Receivables....................................................................... 137 28. Contingent liabilities.......................................................166 Distributions received from other entities 1 1 1 1 10. Payables.......................................................................... 137 29. Commitments.................................................................166 Loans to related entities – – (229) (92) 11. Intangible assets..............................................................138 30. Related party disclosures...............................................167 Governance and remuneration Net cash flows from investing activities (137) (426) (308) (295) 12. Non-current assets held for sale.....................................139 31. Personnel expenses.........................................................168 On-market buy-back 19 (192) – (178) – 32. Key management personnel disclosures........................168 Payment for treasury securities under Security Plans 19 (15) (20) (15) (19) Capital structure and financing costs 140 33. Auditor’s remuneration...................................................169 Financial Proceeds from borrowings 27 2,426 2,510 2,426 2,510 report 13. Net financing costs ........................................................ 140 34. Accounting policies.........................................................169 Repayment of borrowings 27 (1,969) (2,136) (1,969) (2,136) Payments for derivatives and financial instruments (47) – (47) – 14. Cash and cash equivalents.............................................. 141 35. Changes in accounting policies........................................171 Dividends and distributions paid (net of DRP) 4 (653) (561) (653) (561) 15. Borrowings....................................................................... 141 Independent Net cash flows from financing activities (450) (207) (436) (206) 16. Other financial assets and liabilities................................144 auditor’s Net movement in cash and cash equivalents (193) 95 (152) 98 17. Fair value hierarchy..........................................................146 report Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 333 238 215 117 18. Financial risk factors........................................................148 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 140 333 63 215 19. Issued capital..................................................................153 Securityholder information The above consolidated statement of cash flow should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. and key dates Glossary 112 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 113 Basis of preparation Net current asset deficiency position Introduction Stockland and the Trust generated positive cash flows from operations of $394 million and $592 million respectively during the year. Undrawn bank facilities of $745 million (refer to note 15) are also available should they need to be drawn. In addition, Stockland and the Trust have the IN THIS SECTION ability to refinance their existing external borrowings and raise new external debt if required. Based on the cash flow forecast for the next twelve months, Stockland and the Trust will be able to pay their debts as and when they become due and payable. Accordingly, the financial statements This section sets out the basis upon which the Group’s financial statements are prepared as a whole. Specific accounting policies are have been prepared on a going concern basis. Strategy and described in the section to which they relate. Stockland and the Trust have prima facie net current assets deficiencies of $2,320 million and $464 million respectively at 30 June 2019 performance A glossary containing acronyms and defined terms is included at the back of this Report. (2018: Stockland $3,008 million, Trust $427 million). STOCKLAND Stockland represents the consolidation of Stockland Corporation Limited and its controlled entities and Stockland Trust and its controlled In relation to Stockland, a number of liabilities are classified as current under Accounting Standards that are not expected to result in actual net entities. Stockland Corporation Limited and Stockland Trust were both incorporated or formed and are domiciled in Australia. Business risks cash outflows within the next twelve months (in particular Retirement Living resident obligations). Similarly, some assets held as non-current Stockland is structured as a stapled entity: a combination of a share in Stockland Corporation and a unit in Stockland Trust that are together will generate cash income in the next twelve months (including Retirement Living DMF included within Retirement Living investment properties, and materiality traded as one security on the Australian Securities Exchange. The constitutions of Stockland Corporation Limited and Stockland Trust provide development work in progress and vacant stock). that, for so long as the two entities remain jointly quoted, the number of shares in Stockland Corporation Limited and the number of units in Furthermore, current inventories are held on the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value, whereas most of these are expected Stockland Trust shall be equal and that the shareholders and unitholders be identical. The stapling arrangement will cease upon the earlier to generate cash inflows above the carrying value. of either the winding up of Stockland Corporation Limited or Stockland Trust or either entity terminating the stapling arrangement. The Financial Report as at and for the year ended 30 June 2019. In relation to current Retirement Living resident obligations for existing residents (2019: $2,490 million; 2018: $2,567 million), approximately 6% Climate-related risks (2018: 7%) of residents are estimated to depart their dwelling each year and therefore it is not expected that the majority of the obligations to residents will fall due within one year. In the vast majority of transactions involving the turnover of units, the resident obligations will be repaid BASIS OF PREPARATION from receipts from incoming residents. However, resident obligations are classified as current under the definitions in the Accounting Standards as there is no unconditional contractual right to defer settlement for at least twelve months (residents may give notice of their intention to These general purpose financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and Interpretations issued vacate their unit with immediate effect). In contrast, the corresponding Retirement Living assets are classified as non-current under the A better way by the Australian Accounting Standards Board and the Corporations Act 2001. Stockland Corporation Limited and Stockland Trust are both forAccounting Standards as the majority are not expected to be realised within twelve months. to deliver profit entities for the purpose of preparing the financial statements. shared value TRUST As permitted by Class Order 13/1050, issued by ASIC, these financial statements are combined financial statements that present the financial The deficiency in the Trust primarily arises due to the intergroup loan receivable from the Company which is classified as a non-current asset. statements and accompanying notes of both Stockland and Trust. The financial statements are presented in Australian dollars, which is Stockland Corporation Limited’s and Stockland Trust’s functional currency SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS Governance and and the functional currency of the majority of Stockland and Trust’s subsidiaries. remuneration Historical cost convention The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed in this Financial Report. The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis using historical cost conventions, except for investment properties Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience as adjusted for current market conditions and other Financial (including non-current assets held for sale), derivative financial instruments, certain financial assets and liabilities which are stated at their factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. report fair value. Assumptions underlying management’s estimates of fair value and recoverability are: Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards • Inventories – assumptions underlying net realisable value and profit margin recognition and Whole of Life (WOL) accounting – Note 6 The financial statements of both Stockland and Trust also comply with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the • Commercial properties – assumptions underlying fair value – Note 7 Independent International Accounting Standards Board. • Retirement Living – assumptions underlying fair value – Note 8 auditor’s New and amended Accounting Standards report • Goodwill – assumptions underlying recoverable value – Note 11 Stockland has adopted AASB 9 Financial Instruments and AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on 1 July 2018. AASB 9 addresses the • Software – assumptions underlying recoverable value – Note 11 recognition, classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities; derecognition of financial instruments; impairment of assets; and • Derivatives – assumptions underlying fair value – Note 16 hedge accounting. AASB 15 contains a single model that applies to contracts with customers and two approaches to recognising revenue: at a Securityholder • Valuation of security based payments – assumptions underlying fair value – Note 19 point in time and over time. information • Tax losses – assumptions underlying recognition and recoverability – Note 21 There have been no significant changes to the group’s financial performance and position as a result of the adoption of the new and amended and key dates accounting standards and interpretations. The impact of the adoption of these standards is disclosed in note 35. Glossary Rounding In accordance with ASIC Corporations (Rounding in Financial/Directors’ Reports) Instrument 2016/191, amounts in the Financial Report have been rounded to the nearest million dollars, unless otherwise stated. 114 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 115 Group performance A. Disaggregation of revenue from property development sales Introduction Residential revenue from property development by major product and geographical area is disaggregated as follows: IN THIS SECTION Year ended 30 June 2019 This section explains the results and performance of the Group. It provides additional information about those individual line items in the $M NSW QLD VIC WA Residential financial statements that the Directors consider most relevant in the context of the operations of the Group, including analysis of the result Strategy and for the period by reference to key areas such as revenue and results by operating segment. Residential community 476 468 468 147 1,559 performance Apartments – 40 – – 40 Medium density development 159 30 24 7 220 1. REVENUE Property development sales 635 538 492 154 1,819 Year ended 30 June 2019 Business risks Retirement Communities Commercial Year ended 30 June 2018 $M Residential Living sub-total Property Other Stockland Trust $M NSW QLD VIC WA Residential and materiality Rental income1 – 1 1 703 – 704 704 Residential community 498 553 407 189 1,647 Outgoings recoveries2 – – – 80 – 80 80 Climate-related Apartments – – – – – Rent from investment properties – 1 1 783 – 784 784 Medium density development 112 34 30 7 183 risks Property development sales 3 1,819 45 1,864 – – 1,864 – Property development sales 610 587 437 196 1,830 DMF revenue1 – 99 99 – – 99 – Other revenue 10 – 10 10 1 21 6 PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT SALES A better way Revenue 1,829 145 1,974 793 1 2,768 790 Revenue from land and property sales is recognised when control over the property has been transferred to the customer. The properties have to deliver Amortisation of lease incentives – – – 71 – 71 generally no alternative use for the Group due to contractual restrictions. However, an enforceable right to payment does not arise until legal shared value title, and therefore control of the asset, has passed to the customer. Therefore, revenue is recognised at a point in time when legal title, and Straight-lining of lease revenue – – – (3) – (3) therefore control of the asset, has passed to the customer. Unrealised DMF revenue 1 – (26) (26) – – (26) Governance and RENT FROM INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Segment revenue 1,829 119 1,948 861 1 2,810 Rent from investment properties includes lease revenue and outgoings recoveries associated with general building and tenancy operation from lessees in accordance with specific clauses within lease agreements. remuneration Year ended 30 June 2018 Retirement Communities Commercial Lease revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term, net of any incentives. $M Residential Living sub-total Property Other Stockland Trust Outgoing recoveries are typically invoiced monthly based on an annual estimate. The consideration for the current month is typically due on Financial Rental income1 – – – 700 – 700 696 the first day of the month. Revenue related to outgoings recoveries is recognised over time as the estimated costs are consumed by the tenant. report Outgoings recoveries2 – – – 80 – 80 80 Should any adjustment be required based on actual costs incurred, this is recognised in the balance sheet within the same reporting period and Rent from investment properties – – – 780 – 780 776 billed annually. Property development sales 3 1,830 16 1,846 22 – 1,868 – DEFERRED MANAGEMENT FEE (DMF) REVENUE Independent DMF revenue1 – 107 107 – – 107 – The DMF is recognised over the tenancy period and includes both fixed fees recognised on a straight-line basis and contingent fees recognised auditor’s when earned. Other revenue 8 – 8 11 1 20 5 report Revenue 1,838 123 1,961 813 1 2,775 781 The DMF calculated on the entry price of the unit is recognised each period; however, fees are only realised in cash at the end of the residents tenure. Amortisation of lease incentives – – – 62 – 62 Straight-lining of lease revenue – – – (5) – (5) The DMF calculated on the exit price of the unit is recognised and realised in cash at the end of the resident’s tenure. Securityholder DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS information Unrealised DMF revenue1 – (31) (31) – – (31) and key dates Segment revenue 1,838 92 1,930 870 1 2,801 Revenue from dividends and distributions are recognised in profit or loss on the date they are declared by the relevant entity but are only recognised in the statement of cash flows upon receipt. 1  Commercial Property rental income and Retirement Living DMF revenue continue to meet the definition of a lease arrangement and fall outside the scope of AASB 15 Glossary and is therefore accounted for in accordance with AASB 117 Leases. 2 Revenue related to outgoing recoveries is recognised under AASB 15 over time in the accounting period in which the performance obligations are met. 3 Property development sales revenue is recognised under AASB 15 at a point in time when control of the asset passes to the customer. Rent from investment properties includes $4 million (2018: $5 million) contingent rents billed to tenants. Contingent rents are derived from the tenants’ revenues and represent 1% (2018: 1%) of gross lease income. Refer to note 2 for disclosures related to Stockland reportable segments. 116 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 117 2. OPERATING SEGMENTS A. FFO and AFFO Introduction The contribution of each reportable segment to FFO and AFFO may be summarised as follows: STOCKLAND Year ended 30 June 2019 Stockland has four reportable segments, as listed below: Retirement Communities Commercial $M Residential Living sub-total Property Other Stockland • Commercial Property – invests in, develops and manages retail town centres, logistics and workplace properties; Strategy and Segment revenue 1,2 1,829 119 1,948 861 1 2,810 • Residential – delivers a range of masterplanned and mixed use residential communities in growth areas and townhouses and apartments in performance general metropolitan areas; Segment EBIT 1,2 455 62 517 607 – 1,124 • Retirement Living – designs, develops and manages communities for over 55s and retirees; and Amortisation of lease fees – – – 16 – 16 • Other – dividends/distributions from strategic investments and other items which are not able to be classified within any of the other defined Interest expense in cost of sales (93) (6) (99) – – (99) segments. Business risks Segment FFO 3 362 56 418 623 – 1,041 Together, Residential and Retirement Living represent Stockland’s Communities business. Finance income 4 Finance expense (87) and materiality Measurement of segment results FFO is a non-IFRS measure that is designed to present, in the opinion of the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), the results from ongoing Unallocated corporate and other expenses (61) operating activities in a way that appropriately reflects the Group’s underlying performance. FFO is the primary basis on which dividends and FFO 897 distributions are determined and together with expected capital returns and AFFO impacts, reflects the way the business is managed and Climate-related Maintenance capital expenditure4 (47) how the CODM assesses the performance of the Group. It excludes costs of a capital nature and profit or loss made from realised transactions occurring infrequently and those that are outside the course of Stockland’s core ongoing business activities. FFO also excludes income tax items Incentives and leasing costs (70) risks 5 that do not represent cash payments. AFFO 780 A reconciliation from FFO to profit after tax is presented in note 2.B. A better way AFFO is an alternative, secondary, non-IFRS measure used by the CODM to assist in the assessment of the underlying performance of the Group. Year ended 30 June 2018 to deliver Retirement Communities Commercial AFFO is calculated by deducting maintenance capital expenditure and incentive and leasing costs from FFO. shared value $M Residential Living sub-total Property Others Stockland There is no customer who accounts for more than 10% of the gross revenues of Stockland. Segment revenue 1,2 1,838 92 1,930 870 1 2,801 TRUST Segment EBIT 1,2 435 56 491 607 – 1,098 The Trust has one reportable segment in which it operates, being Commercial Property. Therefore no separate segment note has been prepared. Amortisation of lease fees – – – 14 – 14 Governance and remuneration The CODM monitors the performance of the Trust in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements. Refer to the consolidated Interest expense in cost of sales (99) (3) (102) (7) – (109) statement of comprehensive income for the segment financial performance and the consolidated balance sheet for the total assets and liabilities. Segment FFO 3 336 53 389 614 – 1,003 Finance income 3 There is no customer who accounts for more than 10% of the gross revenues of the Trust. Financial Finance expense (77) report Unallocated corporate and other expenses (66) FFO 863 Maintenance capital expenditure 4 (51) Independent Incentives and leasing costs 5 (56) auditor’s report AFFO 756 1  Commercial Property segment revenue and EBIT adds back $71 million (2018: $62 million) of amortisation of leases incentives and excludes $3 million (2018: $5 million) of straight-line rent adjustments. 2 Retirement Living segment revenue and EBIT exclude $26 million (2018: $31 million) of unrealised DMF revenue. Securityholder 3 Commercial property segment FFO includes share of profits from equity-accounted investments of $30 million (2018: $29 million). information and key dates 4 Maintenance capital expenditure includes $9 million (2018: $7 million) of Retirement Living maintenance capital expenditure. 5 Excludes centres under development. Glossary 118 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 119 B. Reconciliation of FFO to profit after tax 3. EPS Introduction FFO excludes adjustments such as unrealised fair value gains/losses, realised transactions occurring infrequently and those that are outside the course of our core ongoing business activities. KEEPING IT SIMPLE Year ended 30 June ($M) Footnote 2019 2018 EPS is the amount of post-tax profit attributable to each security. FFO 897 863 Strategy and Basic EPS is calculated as statutory profit for the year divided by the weighted average number of securities outstanding. This is highly Adjust for: variable as it includes unrealised fair value movements in investment properties and financial instruments. performance Amortisation of lease incentives and lease fees (87) (76) Diluted EPS adjusts the basic EPS for the dilutive effect of any instruments, such as Security Plan rights, that could be converted into Straight-line rent 3 5 securities. Net unrealised change in fair value of Commercial investment properties A (202) 133 Basic FFO per security is disclosed in note 4 and more directly reflects underlying income performance of the portfolio. Net unrealised change in fair value of Retirement Living investment properties & obligation (76) (25) Business risks Unrealised DMF Revenue 26 31 A. Basic and diluted EPS and materiality Net gain/(loss) on financial instruments (140) (7) Year ended 30 June Stockland Trust Net gain/(loss) other financial assets – 26 Climate-related $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Net gain/(loss) on sale of other non-current assets (21) 16 risks Basic EPS 13.0 42.3 10.1 29.4 Net reversal of impairment of inventories B 1 – Diluted EPS 13.0 42.2 10.1 29.3 Impairment of Retirement Living goodwill C (38) – Restructuring cost D (5) – A better way Income tax – non-cash (47) 59 B. Earnings used in calculating earnings per share to deliver Profit after tax 311 1,025 shared value Year ended 30 June Stockland Trust A Includes Stockland’s share of revaluation relating to properties held through joint ventures (2019: $24 million gain; 2018: $40 million gain). $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 B Reversal of write down of carrying value of Residential projects. Profit attributable to securityholders 311 1,025 242 712 Governance and C Write-down of goodwill associated with historic Retirement Living acquisitions. D  One-off restructuring cost associated with the significant Executive reorganisation this year to improve operational efficiencies and position the business for remuneration sustainable growth in the future. C. Weighted average number of securities used as the denominator C. Balance sheet by operating segment Year ended 30 June Stockland and Trust Year ended 30 June 2019 Shares 2019 2018 Financial Retirement Communities Commercial report $M Residential Living sub-total Property Unallocated Stockland Weighted average number of securities used in calculating basic EPS 2,400,974,898 2,424,182,812 Real estate related assets 1,2 3,411 4,037 7,448 10,323 36 17,807 Effect of rights and securities granted under Security Plans 3,154,024 5,371,202 Other assets 164 85 249 57 886 1,192 Weighted average number of securities used in calculating diluted EPS 2,404,128,922 2,429,554,014 Assets 3,575 4,122 7,697 10,380 922 18,999 Independent Rights and securities granted under Security Plans are only included in diluted earnings per security where Stockland is meeting performance auditor’s Retirement Living resident obligations – 2,597 2,597 – – 2,597 hurdles for contingently issuable security based payment rights. report Borrowings – – – – 4,704 4,704 Other liabilities 951 20 971 157 742 1,870 Liabilities 951 2,617 3,568 157 5,446 9,171 Securityholder Net assets/(liabilities) 2,624 1,505 4,129 10,223 (4,524) 9,828 information and key dates Year ended 30 June 2018 Retirement Communities Commercial $M Residential Living sub-total Property Unallocated Stockland Glossary Real estate related assets 1,2 3,432 4,167 7,599 10,562 37 18,198 Other assets 102 93 195 46 852 1,093 Assets 3,534 4,260 7,794 10,608 889 19,291 Retirement Living resident obligations – 2,741 2,741 – – 2,741 Borrowings – – – – 3,938 3,938 Other liabilities 1,385 11 1,396 148 692 2,236 Liabilities 1,385 2,752 4,137 148 4,630 8,915 Net assets/(liabilities) 2,149 1,508 3,657 10,460 (3,741) 10,376 1 Includes non-current assets held for sale, inventories, investment properties, equity-accounted investments and certain other assets. 2 Includes equity-accounted investments of $612 million (2018: $588 million) in Commercial Property and $nil (2018: $25 million) in Residential. 120 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 121 4. DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS Operating assets and liabilities IN THIS SECTION Introduction STOCKLAND CORPORATION LIMITED There was no dividend from Stockland Corporation Limited during the current or the previous financial year. This section shows the real estate and other operating assets used to generate the Group’s trading performance and the liabilities incurred The dividend franking account balance as at 30 June 2019 is $14 million based on a 30% tax rate (2018: $14 million). as a result. TRUST Strategy and For the current year, the interim and final distributions are paid solely out of the Trust and therefore the franking percentage is not relevant, 6. INVENTORIES performance as the Trust is not subject to tax. Trust KEEPING IT SIMPLE Business risks Date of payment Cents per security Amount ($M) Non attributable (%) Whole of Life (WOL) and materiality 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 A Whole of Life (WOL) methodology is applied to calculate the margin percentage over the life of each project. All costs, including those Interim distribution 28 February 2019 28 February 2018 13.5 13.0 325 316 21.9 21.9 costs spent to date and those forecast in the future, are allocated proportionally in line with net revenue for each lot to achieve a WOL margin percentage. The WOL margin percentage and therefore allocation of costs can change as revenue and costs forecast are updated Final distribution 30 August 2019 31 August 2018 14.1 13.5 336 329 28.4 21.9 to reflect market conditions not previously forecasted, and as projects proceed towards completion. Climate-related Total distribution 27.6 26.5 661 645 The determination of the WOL margin percentage requires significant judgement in estimating future revenues and costs. The WOL margin risks percentages are regularly reviewed and updated in our project forecasts across the reporting period to ensure these estimates reflect The non-attributable component represents the amount distributed in excess of the Stockland Trust’s taxable income (disregarding any Capital market conditions through the cycle. Gains Tax discount applied to any capital gains derived by Stockland Trust in the year). BASIS FOR DISTRIBUTION Stockland A better way 30 June 2019 2018 Stockland’s distribution policy is to pay the higher of 100 per cent of Trust taxable income or 75 – 85 per cent of FFO over time. to deliver The payout ratio for the current and comparative periods may be summarised as follows: $M Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total shared value Cost of acquisition 95 – 95 38 – 38 Year ended 30 June Development and other costs 291 – 291 115 – 115 $M Note 2019 2018 Governance and Interest capitalised 37 – 37 21 – 21 FFO 1 2 897 863 Impairment provision (12) – (12) (2) – (2) Weighted average number of securities used in calculating basic EPS 3 2,400,974,898 2,424,182,812 Finished development stock held for sale 1 411 – 411 172 – 172 remuneration FFO per security 37.4 35.6 Cost of acquisition 354 1,665 2,019 326 1,957 2,283 Distribution per security for the year 4 27.6 26.5 Development and other costs 137 486 623 156 475 631 Financial Payout ratio 74% 75% report Interest capitalised 93 290 383 49 350 399 1 FFO is a non-IFRS measure. A reconciliation from FFO to statutory profit is presented in note 2 and the statutory EPS disclosure is provided in note 3. Impairment provision (21) (107) (128) (16) (147) (163) For FY19, payout ratio is marginally below target range mainly due to changes in weighted average number of securities. Residential communities 563 2,334 2,897 515 2,635 3,150 Cost of acquisition 10 101 111 – 65 65 Independent 5. EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF THE YEAR Development and other costs 6 4 10 – 10 10 auditor’s report Interest capitalised 1 1 2 – 1 1 STOCKLAND AND TRUST Impairment provision – – – – – – On 4 July 2019, Stockland announced a capital partnership agreement for its Aura project with Capital Property Group (CPG). CPG has invested Apartments 17 106 123 – 76 76 a 50 per cent interest in the project at approximately 30 per cent premium to book value. Securityholder Cost of acquisition 5 54 59 10 19 29 information The Aura project, which is located in the Sunshine Coast, comprises a total of 12,697 remaining lots of which 226 have been sold (not settled). 1 6 7 and key dates Development and other costs – 4 4 The project also includes medium/high density residential super lots for up to 4,000 units, approximately 136.5 ha of business parks, retail centre sites and educational sites. Following completion, the project will be accounted for as a joint operation. Accordingly Stockland will Interest capitalised 1 1 2 1 1 2 recognise in its financial statements its share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense of this joint arrangement. Impairment provision – (9) (9) – (9) (9) Glossary Logistics 7 52 59 11 15 26 Subsequent to the end of the year, contracts were also exchanged for the following transactions: Cost of acquisition 2 3 5 4 7 11 • sale of Stockland Cammeray, Cammeray NSW for a gross consideration1 of $39 million; Development and other costs 5 5 10 12 16 28 • sale of Stockland Jesmond, Newcastle NSW for a gross consideration1 of $118 million; • sale of the Group's 50% interest in the The King Trust for a gross consideration1 of $340 million; and Interest capitalised – – – 1 1 2 • acquisition of the remaining 50% Stockland Piccadilly, 133-145 Castlereagh Street, Sydney NSW for a gross consideration1 of $347 million. Impairment provision – – – – – – Aspire villages 7 8 15 17 24 41 Other than disclosed elsewhere in this report, there has not arisen in the interval between the end of the current financial year and the date Development work in progress 594 2,500 3,094 543 2,750 3,293 of this report any item, transaction or event of a material or unusual nature, likely, in the opinion of the Directors, to affect significantly the operations, the results of operations, or the state of the affairs in future years of Stockland and the Trust. Inventories 1,005 2,500 3,505 715 2,750 3,465 1 Consideration before completion adjustments such as committed capital expenditures, incentives, rental guarantees and/or net working capital. 1 Mainly comprises residential communities. Current finished development stock held for sale includes Logistics projects of $3 million (2018: $2 million) and Aspire villages of $30 million (2018: $5 million). No apartments are included in finished development stock held for sale (2018: $nil). 122 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 123 The following impairment provisions are included in the inventories balance with movements for the year recognised in the profit or loss: ALLOCATION OF INVENTORIES TO COST OF SALES Introduction A Whole of Life (WOL) methodology is applied to calculate the margin percentage for each project. All costs, including those costs spent to Residential date and those forecast in the future, are allocated proportionally in line with net revenue for each lot to achieve a WOL margin percentage. $M Communities Apartments Logistics Aspire villages Total The WOL margin percentage and therefore allocation of costs can change as revenue and cost forecasts are updated to reflect changing market Balance at 1 July 2018 165 – 9 – 174 conditions not previously forecasted, and as projects proceed towards completion. Amounts utilised (24) – – – (24) IMPAIRMENT PROVISION Reversal of provisions previously recognised (5) – – – (5) Strategy and The net realisable value of inventories is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated costs of completion and Additional provisions created 4 – – – 4 costs to sell. Net realisable value is based on the most reliable evidence available at the time of the amount the inventories are expected to be performance Balance at 30 June 2019 140 – 9 – 149 realised (using estimates such as revenue escalations) and the estimate of total costs (including costs to complete). These estimates take into consideration fluctuations of price or cost directly relating to events occurring after the end of the period to the extent that such events confirm DEVELOPMENT COST PROVISIONS conditions existing at the end of the period. This is an area of accounting estimation and judgement for the Group. Business risks These provisions are recorded as a separate liability on the balance sheet with a corresponding asset in inventories: Each reporting period, key estimates are reviewed including the costs of completion, dates of completion and revenue escalations. For the year and materiality ended 30 June 2019, a net impairment reversal of $1 million was recognised (2018: $nil) as a result of this review. 30 June 2019 2018 DEVELOPMENT COST PROVISIONS $M Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total The development cost provisions relate to obligated future costs. They are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a Climate-related Development costs provision 343 370 713 567 356 923 pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. $M risks Balance at 1 July 2018 923 Additional provisions 422 A better way Amounts utilised (632) to deliver shared value Balance at 30 June 2019 713 Properties held for development and resale are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes the costs of acquisition, Governance and development and holding costs such as borrowing costs, rates and taxes. Holding costs incurred after completion of development activities are expensed. Inventory is classified as current if it is expected to be settled within 12 months or otherwise classified as non-current. COST OF ACQUISITION remuneration The cost of acquisition comprises the purchase price of the land, including land under option, along with any direct costs incurred as part of the acquisition including legal, valuation and stamp duty costs. Financial The payments for land of $576 million (2018: $496 million) reported in the cash flow statements are in respect of land that will be developed report in the short term as well as long term. LAND UNDER OPTIONS Stockland has a number of arrangements with third parties primarily relating to the purchase of land on capital efficient terms, through call or Independent put and call option arrangements. auditor’s report Where the arrangement uses call options only, the decision to proceed with a purchase is controlled by Stockland. A future obligation under a call option is only triggered if Stockland exercises the option. No asset or liability for the land under option is recognised on the balance sheet until the option has been exercised. The call option is not disclosed as a capital commitment as there is no commitment to purchase until the Securityholder option is exercised. Where the arrangement includes both put and call options and the put option requires Stockland to purchase the land at the discretion information of the seller, it creates a present obligation once the option is exercised by the holder. If Stockland also presently exhibits control over the and key dates future economic benefits of the asset such as via a presently exercisable call option or physical control of the asset, the land is recognised in inventories with a corresponding liability recognised in provisions for development costs at the exercise price of the option. Glossary For both put and call options, any costs incurred in relation to the options including option fees are included in inventories. DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER COSTS Cost includes variable and fixed costs directly related to specific contracts, costs related to general contract activity which can be allocated to specific projects on a reasonable basis, and other costs specifically chargeable under the contract including under rectification provisions. INTEREST CAPITALISED Financing costs on qualifying assets are also included in the cost of inventories. Finance costs were capitalised at interest rates ranging from 4.0 to 5.0% during the financial year (2018: 5.0 to 5.6%). 124 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 125 7. COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES Independent Independent valuers’ Introduction Stockland valuation capitalisation rate % Book value $M Date $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 As at 30 June Stockland Trust Directly owned $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Stockland Green Hills, East Maitland NSW Jun-19 820 5.50 5.75 821 807 Retail Town Centres 6,726 7,282 6,724 7,233 Strategy and Stockland Shellharbour, Shellharbour NSW 1 Jun-19 727 5.50 5.50 727 776 Logistics 2,537 2,229 2,537 2,229 5.25 722 performance Stockland Wetherill Park, Western Sydney NSW Jun-19 722 5.25 768 Workplace 891 867 925 871 Stockland Merrylands, Merrylands NSW Jun-19 573 5.50 5.50 573 578 Retirement Living 1 20 10 – – Stockland Rockhampton, Rockhampton QLD Jun-19 359 6.00 6.00 359 383 Capital works in progress and sundry properties 190 208 133 111 Stockland Glendale, Newcastle NSW Jun-19 330 6.00 5.75 330 339 Book value of commercial properties 10,364 10,596 10,319 10,444 Stockland Point Cook, Point Cook VIC Jun-19 238 6.50 6.25 238 254 Business risks and materiality Less amounts classified as: Stockland Burleigh Heads, Burleigh Heads QLD2 Jun-19 191 6.50 – 7.00 6.50 – 7.00 191 215 • costs to complete provision (42) – (42) – Stockland Baldivis, Baldivis WA Jun-19 190 6.25 5.88 190 204 • property, plant and equipment (43) (43) – – Stockland Cairns, Cairns QLD Jun-19 183 6.50 6.50 183 194 • non-current assets held for sale (171) (65) (171) (22) Stockland Hervey Bay, Hervey Bay QLD Jun-19 185 6.50 6.50 185 189 Climate-related risks • other assets (including lease incentives and fees) (273) (263) (280) (270) Stockland Townsville, Townsville QLD (50%) 2, 3 Jun-19 183 5.75 – 6.50 5.75 – 6.50 183 191 • other assets (including lease incentives and fees) attributable to equity-accounted investments (5) (6) (5) (6) Stockland The Pines, Doncaster East VIC Dec-18 180 6.25 6.00 185 184 • other receivables (straight-lining of rental income) (74) (72) (77) (75) Stockland Wendouree, Wendouree VIC Dec-18 180 6.50 6.50 181 182 Stockland Forster, Forster NSW Jun-19 177 6.25 6.25 177 173 A better way • other receivables (straight-lining rental income) attributable to equity-accounted investments (10) (11) (10) (11) to deliver Stockland Balgowlah, Balgowlah NSW Jun-19 154 6.00 5.50 154 170 Investment properties (including Stockland’s share of investment properties held by shared value 9,746 10,136 9,734 10,060 equity-accounted investments) Stockland Baulkham Hills, Baulkham Hills NSW Jun-19 151 6.50 6.00 151 160 Less: Stockland’s share of investment properties held by equity-accounted investments (601) (573) (601) (573) Stockland Bundaberg, Bundaberg QLD Jun-19 146 6.50 6.50 146 151 6.75 130 Governance and Investment properties 9,145 9,563 9,133 9,487 Stockland Gladstone, Gladstone QLD Jun-19 130 6.75 137 Stockland Caloundra, Caloundra QLD 4 Dec-18 132 6.25 5.75 110 146 remuneration 1  The investment property balance at 30 June 2019 includes $20 million of healthcare and childcare centre commercial properties held by the Retirement Living business (2018: $10 million) to be leased to tenants under commercial leases. Stockland Jesmond, Newcastle NSW Jun-19 118 7.50 7.00 118 140 Stockland Nowra, Nowra NSW Jun-19 121 6.50 6.00 121 130 NET CARRYING VALUE MOVEMENTS Stockland Traralgon, Traralgon VIC Dec-18 95 7.00 6.50 96 102 Stockland Trust Financial Stockland Bull Creek, Bull Creek WA Jun-19 88 6.75 6.50 88 99 $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 report Stockland Birtinya, QLD2 Jun-19 69 6.00 – 6.25 – 67 – Balance at 1 July 9,563 9,285 9,487 9,186 Stockland Tooronga, Tooronga VIC 5 Jun-18 62 6.00 6.00 62 62 Acquisitions 17 7 10 7 Stockland Harrisdale Complex, Harrisdale WA Dec-18 58 6.50 6.25 57 57 Expenditure capitalised 260 421 309 415 Shellharbour Retail Park, Shellharbour NSW Jun-19 65 7.00 7.00 65 56 Independent Transfers to non-current assets held for sale (171) (64) (171) (22) auditor’s Stockland Cammeray, Cammeray NSW Jun-19 38 6.75 6.00 38 49 report Transfers to inventories (29) (10) – – North Shore Townsville, Townsville QLD Jun-19 17 7.00 6.50 17 20 Disposals (267) (172) (266) (167) Stockland Townsville Kingsvale Sunvale, Aitkenvale QLD (50%) 3, 9 Dec-18 5 5.75 – 2 2 Securityholder Net change in fair value (228) 96 (236) 68 Stockland Cleveland, Cleveland QLD 6 – – – 6.00 – 120 Balance at 30 June 9,145 9,563 9,133 9,487 Stockland Kensington, Kensington QLD6 – – – 6.25 – 31 information Stockland Bathurst, Bathurst NSW 6 – – – 6.75 – 98 and key dates Stockland Highlands, Craigieburn VIC 6, 7 – – – 6.00 – 43 Woolworths Toowong, Toowong QLD8 – – – n/a – 6 Owned through equity-accounted investments Glossary Stockland Riverton, Riverton WA (50%) Dec-18 62 6.50 6.25 62 66 Retail Town Centres 10 6,726 7,282 1 Independent valuation excludes the adjacent property owned by Stockland. 2 A range of cap rates is disclosed for a complex comprising of a number of properties. 3 Stockland’s share of this property is held through a direct interest in the asset. 4 Stockland South, Caloundra QLD was sold during the period. 5 Asset held for sale at year end. 6 Property was disposed of during the period. 7 Property is not held by the Trust. 8 Asset has been reclassified to inventories. 9 Independent valuation based on 100% ownership. 10 Totals may not add due to rounding. 126 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 127 Independent Independent valuers’ Independent Independent valuers’ Introduction Stockland valuation capitalisation rate % Book value Stockland valuation capitalisation rate % Book value $M Date $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M Date $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Directly owned Directly owned Yennora Distribution Centre, Yennora NSW Jun-19 475 6.00 6.50 475 402 Stockland Piccadilly, 133-145 Castlereagh Street, Jun-19 342 5.25 – 6.00 5.50 – 6.00 309 280 Triniti Business Park, North Ryde NSW Dec-18 212 6.00 6.50 212 198 Sydney NSW (50%) Strategy and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 performance Ingleburn Logistics Park, Ingleburn NSW Dec-18 184 6.00 6.50 184 104 601 Pacific Highway, St Leonards NSW Dec-18 119 6.00 6.50 117 103 60-66 Waterloo Road, Macquarie Park NSW 1 Dec-18 117 6.00 – 6.37 6.25 – 6.75 116 107 Durack Centre, 263 Adelaide Terrace, Perth WA 1,2 Jun-19 108 7.75 – 8.25 8.00 108 108 Brooklyn Distribution Centre, Brooklyn VIC Jun-19 122 6.00 6.75 122 106 110 Walker Street, North Sydney NSW Dec-18 45 5.75 6.25 45 37 Business risks Hendra Distribution Centre, Brisbane QLD Jun-19 114 7.00 7.50 114 98 40 Cameron Avenue, Belconnen ACT 2, 6 – – – 11.75 – 22 and materiality Coopers Paddock, Warwick Farm NSW Dec-18 102 6.00 5.75 99 97 80-88 Jephson Street, Toowong QLD 6, 7 – – – 6.50 – 8.00 – 17 Mulgrave Corporate Park, Mulgrave VIC Dec-18 93 7.00 7.00 95 94 23-29 High Street, Toowong QLD 6, 7 – – – 6.50 – 8.00 – 7 Port Adelaide Distribution Centre, Port Adelaide SA 2 Dec-18 80 10.00 9.25 78 85 Owned through equity-accounted investments Climate-related Forrester Distribution Centre, St Marys NSW Dec-18 76 7.00 6.75 76 81 135 King Street, Sydney NSW (50%)1, 4 Dec-18 313 4.00 – 5.00 4.00 – 5.00 313 295 Granville Industrial Estate, Granville NSW 1 Dec-18 73 6.25 – 6.75 6.50 – 7.00 74 67 Workplace8 891 867 Oakleigh Industrial Estate, Oakleigh South VIC Dec-18 68 6.00 6.25 67 62 risks 1 A range of cap rates is disclosed for a complex comprising of a number of properties. Somerton Distribution Centre, Somerton VIC 1 Jun-19 63 7.00 6.75 – 7.25 63 62 2 Property is a leasehold property. 3 Stockland’s share of this property is held through a direct interest in the asset. Macquarie Technology Business Park, Macquarie Park NSW 1 Jun-18 59 6.63 – 7.50 6.63 – 7.50 59 59 A better way 4 Book value includes the retail component of the property. to deliver Balcatta Distribution Centre, Balcatta WA Dec-18 56 7.00 6.75 56 55 5  The book value excludes the revaluation relating to the area occupied by Stockland. This owner-occupied area is classified as property, plant and equipment and is recognised at historical cost. shared value Altona Distribution Centre, Altona VIC 1, 3 Dec-18 59 6.00 6.25 – 7.25 59 55 6 Property was disposed of during the period. Jun-19 7 Property is not held by the Trust. 16 Giffnock Avenue, Macquarie Park NSW Jun-19 64 7.00 6.75 64 55 8 Totals may not add due to rounding. Altona Industrial Estate, Altona VIC Jun-19 50 6.00 7.50 50 37 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Governance and remuneration 23 Wonderland Drive, Eastern Creek NSW Jun-19 47 6.00 6.25 47 42 Commercial properties comprise investment interests in land and buildings including integral plant and equipment held for the purpose of Willawong Industrial Estate, QLD Dec-18 38 7.00 – 38 – producing rental income, capital appreciation, or both. 72-76 Cherry Lane, Laverton North VIC Jun-19 33 6.00 6.50 33 32 Commercial properties are initially recognised at cost including any acquisition costs and subsequently stated at fair value at each balance date. Fair value is based on the latest independent valuation adjusted for capital expenditure and capitalisation and amortisation of lease incentives Financial Wetherill Park Distribution Centre, Wetherill Park NSW Dec-18 33 6.00 6.50 33 29 report since the date of the independent valuation report. Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the profit or loss in the Smeg Distribution Centre, Botany NSW Dec-18 32 5.00 5.50 32 28 period. The valuation of Commercial properties is a key area of accounting estimation and judgement for the Group. Erskine Park, Erskine Park NSW Jun-19 28 5.00 5.75 28 24 Commercial properties under development are classified as investment properties and stated at fair value at each balance date. Fair value 40 Scanlon Drive, Epping VIC 2 Jun-19 12 6.00 7.00 13 10 is assessed with reference to reliable estimates of future cash flows, status of the development and the associated risk profile. Finance costs incurred on properties undergoing development or redevelopment are included in the cost of the development. Independent Export Distribution Centre, Brisbane Airport QLD4 Jun-18 6 11.00 11.20 7 7 auditor’s M1 Yatala Enterprise Park, Yatala QLD Jun-18 6 n/a n/a 6 6 As at 30 June 2019, the fair value for commercial properties in development has been assessed by the Directors after considering the latest report valuations and subsequent capital works-in-progress. An independent valuation of the property will be undertaken upon completion of Owned through equity-accounted investments the works. Optus Centre, Macquarie Park NSW (51%) Jun-19 240 6.00 6.50 240 230 A property interest under an operating lease is classified and accounted for as an investment property on a property-by-property basis Securityholder Logistics5 2,537 2,229 when Stockland holds it to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both. Any such property interest under a financing lease classified as an information investment property is carried at fair value. 1 A range of cap rates are disclosed for a complex comprising of a number of properties. and key dates 2 Asset held for sale at year end. SUBSEQUENT COSTS 3 Includes 11-25 Toll Drive transferred to asset held for sale at year end. 4 Property is a leasehold property. Stockland recognises in the carrying amount of an investment property the cost of replacing part of that investment property if it is probable Glossary 5 Totals may not add due to rounding. that the future economic benefits embodied within the item will flow to Stockland and the cost can be measured reliably. All other costs are recognised in the profit or loss as an expense as incurred. 128 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 129 LEASE INCENTIVES Key inputs used to measure fair value for commercial properties are: Introduction Lease incentives provided by Stockland to lessees, and rental guarantees which may be received by Stockland from third parties (arising Item Description from the acquisition of investment properties) are included in the measurement of fair value of investment property and are treated as separate assets. Such assets are amortised over the respective periods to which the lease incentives and rental guarantees apply using a DCF method Under the DCF method, a property’s fair value is estimated using explicit assumptions regarding the straight-line basis. benefits and liabilities of ownership over the asset’s life including an exit or terminal value. The DCF method involves the projection of a series of cash flows on a real property interest. To this projected If an investment property becomes owner-occupied, it is reclassified as property, plant and equipment and its fair value at the date of cash flow series, an appropriate, market-derived discount rate is applied to establish the present value reclassification becomes its cost for accounting purposes. of the income stream associated with the real property. Strategy and DISPOSAL OF REVALUED ASSETS Income capitalisation method This method involves assessing the total net market income receivable from the property and performance capitalising this in perpetuity to derive a capital value, with allowances for capital expenditure The gain or loss on disposal of revalued assets is calculated as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset at the time of disposal reversions. and the net proceeds on disposal and is recognised in the profit or loss in the year of disposal. Net market rent A net market rent is the estimated amount for which a property or space within a property should lease Business risks FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT, VALUATION TECHNIQUES AND INPUTS between a willing lessor and a willing lessee on appropriate lease terms in an arm’s length transaction, after proper marketing and wherein the parties have each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without The adopted valuations (both internal and external) for investment properties in the Retail Town Centres, Logistics and Workplace portfolios compulsion. In a net rent, the owner recovers outgoings from the tenant on a pro-rata basis (where and materiality are a combination of the valuations determined using the Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method and the income capitalisation method. applicable). The adopted value of properties in the properties under development portfolio is based on an internal tolerance check performed by the 10 year average specialty An average of a 10 year period of forecast annual percentage growth rates in Retail specialty tenancy Climate-related Directors at each reporting date. The tolerance check takes into account the expected cost of completion, the stage of completion, the risk market rental growth rents. Specialty tenants are those tenancies with a gross lettable area of less than 400 square metres (excludes ATMs and kiosks). associated with the project, expected underlying income and applying the income capitalisation method. risks 10 year average market The expected annual rate of change in market rent over a 10 year forecast period in alignment with The following table shows the valuation techniques used in measuring the fair value of commercial properties excluding assets held for sale, expected market movements. as well as significant unobservable inputs used. rental growth Adopted capitalisation rate The rate at which net market income is capitalised to determine the value of a property. The rate is Class Fair value Valuation determined with regards to market evidence and the prior external valuation. A better way of property hierarchy technique Inputs used to measure 2019 2018 to deliver Adopted terminal yield The capitalisation rate used to convert income into an indication of the anticipated value of the property Retail Town Level 3 DCF and income Net market rent (per sqm p.a.) $193 – 736 $197 – 794 shared value at the end of the holding period when carrying out the DCF method. The rate is determined with regards Centres capitalisation to market evidence and the prior external valuation. 10 year average specialty market rental growth 2.3 – 3.8% 3.1 – 3.9% method Adopted capitalisation rate 4.0 – 7.5% 4.0 – 7.0% Adopted discount rate The rate of return used to convert a monetary sum, payable or receivable in the future, into present Governance and value. It reflects the opportunity cost of capital, that is, the rate of return the capital can earn if put to Adopted terminal yield 4.3 – 7.8% 4.3 – 7.8% other uses having similar risk. The rate is determined with regards to market evidence and the prior remuneration Adopted discount rate 6.3 – 8.0% 6.8 – 8.3% external valuation. Logistics Level 3 DCF and income Net market rent (per sqm p.a.) $54 – 465 $54 – 456 capitalisation VALUATION PROCESS 10 year average market rental growth 2.4 – 4.0% 2.4 – 3.9% method Financial The Commercial Property valuation team are responsible for managing the bi-annual valuation process across Stockland’s balance sheet Adopted capitalisation rate 5.0 – 10.3% 5.5 – 11.2% report investment portfolio. The aim of the valuation process is to ensure that assets are held at fair value in Stockland’s accounts and facilitate Adopted terminal yield 5.25 – 13.1% 5.5 – 13.7% compliance with applicable regulations (for example the Corporations Act 2001 and ASIC regulations) and the STML Responsible Entity Adopted discount rate 6.75 – 9.5% 7.0 – 9.5% Constitution and Compliance Plan. Workplace Level 3 DCF and income Net market rent (per sqm p.a.) $389 – 947 $364 – 889 Stockland’s external valuations are performed by independent professionally qualified valuers who hold a recognised relevant professional Independent capitalisation qualification and have specialised expertise in the investment properties valued. Internal tolerance checks have been performed by Stockland’s 10 year average market rental growth 3.0 – 3.9% 2.7 – 4.0% auditor’s method internal valuers who hold recognised relevant professional qualifications. report Adopted capitalisation rate 5.0 – 8.1% 5.0 – 8.0% INTERNAL TOLERANCE CHECK Adopted terminal yield 5.4 – 8.3% 5.4 – 8.5% An internal tolerance check is performed every six months with the exception of those properties being independently valued during the Adopted discount rate 6.6 – 8.4% 6.6 – 7.5% current reporting period. Stockland’s internal valuers perform tolerance checks by utilising the information from a combination of asset plans Securityholder information Properties under Level 3 Income Net market rent (per sqm p.a.) $78 – 429 $96 – 731 and forecasting tools prepared by the asset management teams. For the Retail Town Centres, Workplace and Logistics classes, appropriate development capitalisation capitalisation rates, terminal yields and discount rates based on comparable market evidence and recent external valuation parameters are method Adopted capitalisation rate 6.25 – 6.5% 5.5 – 7% and key dates used to produce a capitalisation and DCF valuation. The internal tolerance check is generally weighted equally between the capitalisation value (50% weighting) and the DCF valuation (50% weighting). Glossary The current book value, which is the value per the asset’s most recent external valuation plus any capital expenditure since the valuation date, is compared to the internal tolerance check. • If the internal tolerance check is within 5.0% of the current book value, then the current book value is retained, and judgement is taken that this remains the fair value of the property. • If the internal tolerance check varies by more than 5.0% to the current book value (higher or lower), then an external independent valuation will be undertaken and adopted after assessment by the Commercial Property valuation team to provide an appropriate level of evidence to support fair value. The internal tolerance checks are reviewed by Commercial Property senior management who recommend the adopted valuation to the Audit Committee and Board in accordance with Stockland’s internal valuation protocol above. 130 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 131 A development feasibility is prepared for each commercial property under development. The feasibility includes an estimated valuation upon 8. RETIREMENT LIVING Introduction project completion based on the income capitalisation method. During the development period, fair value is assessed by reference to the value of the property when complete, less deductions for costs required to complete the project and appropriate adjustments for profit and risk. The fair value is compared to the current book value. KEEPING IT SIMPLE • If the internal tolerance check is within 5.0% of the current book value, then the current book value is retained, and judgement is taken that Stockland offers a range of independent living Retirement Living products to best meet the needs of the Group’s customers. Customers this remains the fair value of the property under development. have a choice of dwelling type and contractual arrangement, depending on their individual preferences, personal circumstances, and the • If the internal tolerance check varies by more than 5.0% to the current book value (higher or lower), then an internal valuation will be adopted services and support that they require. Strategy and with an external valuation obtained on completion of the development. Historically, all Retirement Living contracts were under the deferred management fee (DMF) model which allows residents to access the performance EXTERNAL VALUATIONS full lifestyle offering of a village today and pay for this when they leave the village. Each state has extensive laws and regulations which are The STML Responsible Entity Compliance Plan requires that each asset in the portfolio must be valued by an independent external valuer at least designed to protect resident interests which Stockland complies with. Generally, DMF contracts are affordable as they sell at a lower price than the non-retirement freehold properties in the area. In 2017, Stockland broadened its offering by launching a non-DMF village product Business risks once every three years. called Aspire villages offering freehold title rather than a DMF. In practice, assets are generally independently valued more than once every three years primarily as a result of: and materiality DMF contracts • A variation between book value and internal tolerance check. Refer to the internal tolerance check section on the previous page. Retirement Living residents lend Stockland an amount equivalent to the value of the dwelling in exchange for a lease to reside in the village • The asset is undergoing major development or significant capital expenditure on a property. and to access community facilities, which are Stockland owned and maintained for as long as the resident wants. Stockland records this • An opportunity to undertake a valuation in line with a joint owners’ valuation. Climate-related loan as a resident obligation liability. • Ensuring an appropriate cross-section of assets are externally assessed at each reporting period. During the resident’s tenure, Stockland earns DMF revenue which is calculated based on the individual resident contract and depends on SENSITIVITY INFORMATION the dwelling type, location and specific terms within the agreement. The contract will specify the DMF rate charged each year, and the risks maximum DMF that will be charged across the life of the contract. The DMF provides customers with the ability to free up equity (usually Impact on fair value of Impact on fair value of from the sale of their previous home), giving them extra capital that they can access to fund their retirement lifestyle. Significant input an increase in input a decrease in input A better way The DMF for an individual resident contract covers the right to reside in the dwelling and the resident’s share of up-front capital costs of Net market rent Increase Decrease to deliver building the common infrastructure of the village, which typically includes amenities such as a pool, bowling green and community hall, shared value 10 year specialty market rental growth Increase Decrease and allows the resident to pay for these at the end of their tenancy, instead of the start. DMF revenue is included in the Retirement Living FFO when Stockland receives the accumulated DMF in cash after a resident leaves and either a new resident enters the dwelling, or when 10 year average market rental growth Increase Decrease it is withheld under an approved investment proposal for development. Governance and Adopted capitalisation rate Decrease Increase The contracts determine how Stockland and the resident will share any net capital gain or loss when the dwelling is re-leased to the Adopted terminal yield Decrease Increase next resident. This can range from 0 100%; for the majority of existing contracts the capital gain or loss and refurbishment costs are remuneration Adopted discount rate Decrease Increase shared equally. The Retirement Living segment result also includes the settled development margin associated with new villages and village expansions Generally, a change in the assumption made for the adopted capitalisation rate is accompanied by a directionally similar change in the adopted or redevelopments. This margin represents the unit price realised on first lease less the cost of development and is recognised in FFO on terminal yield. The adopted capitalisation rate forms part of the income capitalisation approach and the adopted terminal yield forms part of the settlement of a newly developed unit. Financial DCF method. report Unrealised fair value gains or losses from revaluations of investment property and resident obligations are excluded from FFO. When calculating the income capitalisation approach, the net market rent has a strong interrelationship with the adopted capitalisation rate given the methodology involves assessing the total net market income receivable from the property and capitalising this in perpetuity to derive Contract choices a capital value. In theory, an increase in the net market rent and an increase (softening) in the adopted capitalisation rate could potentially offset Stockland continues to improve the Groups’ customer offer with Benefits Plus home care partnerships and our current up-front contract the impact to the fair value. The same can be said for a decrease in the net market rent and a decrease (tightening) in the adopted capitalisation choices, ‘Capital Share’ and ‘Peace of Mind’, which caps the DMF and secures the exit value for incoming residents. Independent rate. A directionally opposite change in the net market rent and the adopted capitalisation rate could potentially magnify the impact to the auditor’s The Capital Share contract offers the opportunity to offset the resident’s DMF by paying the resident 50% of any capital gain earned after fair value. report deducting 50% of any capital expenditures, when the home is resold or after a maximum of eighteen months after the resident leaves the When assessing a DCF valuation, the adopted discount rate and adopted terminal yield have a strong interrelationship in deriving a fair value village. DMF is calculated at 5% per annum, capped at 35%. given the discount rate will determine the rate in which the terminal value is discounted to the present value. The Peace of Mind contract offers certainty by ensuring the residents know what exit repayment will be when they leave the village. In theory, an increase (softening) in the adopted discount rate and a decrease (tightening) in the adopted terminal yield could potentially offset Securityholder It also guarantees that they will be repaid after a maximum of six months from their departure even if their unit hasn’t yet been sold. the impact to the fair value. The same can be said for a decrease (tightening) in the discount rate and an increase (softening) in the adopted DMF is calculated at 5% per annum, capped at 25%. information terminal yield. A directionally similar change in the adopted discount rate and the adopted terminal yield could potentially magnify the impact and key dates to the fair value. Non-DMF product (Aspire villages) NON-CANCELLABLE OPERATING LEASE RECEIVABLE FROM INVESTMENT PROPERTY TENANTS Under these agreements, residents purchase their dwelling outright. There is no DMF associated with these sales as the dwelling is no Glossary longer owned or maintained by Stockland. Stockland recognises profit based on property development sales revenue net of associated Annual rent receivable by the Group under current leases from tenants is from property held by the Commercial Property business. cost of property development sold. Non-cancellable operating lease receivable not recognised in the financial statements at balance date: As at 30 June Stockland Trust $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Within one year 650 638 652 639 Later than one year but not later than five years 1,665 1,693 1,677 1,706 Later than five years 912 1,034 912 1,026 Non-cancellable operating lease receivable 3,227 3,365 3,241 3,371 132 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 133 NET CARRYING VALUE The DCF methodology uses unobservable inputs and these are further explained below: Introduction As at 30 June Stockland Item Description $M 2019 2018 DCF method Under the DCF method, an asset or liability’s fair value is estimated using explicit assumptions regarding the benefits and liabilities of ownership over the asset’s life including an exit or terminal value. The DCF Operating villages 3,623 3,756 method involves the projection of a series of cash flows the property asset will generate. To this projected Villages under development 367 364 cash flow series, an appropriate, market-derived discount rate is applied to establish the present value of the income stream associated with the real property. Strategy and Retirement Living investment properties 3,990 4,120 Discount rate The rate of return used to convert a monetary sum, payable or receivable in the future, into present performance Existing resident obligations (2,585) (2,724) value. It reflects the opportunity cost of capital, that is, the rate of return the capital can earn if put to Net carrying value of Retirement Living villages 1,405 1,396 other uses having similar risk. The rate is determined with regards to market evidence and the external valuations performed. Net carrying value movement during the year Business risks 20 year growth rate This represents the rate that the unit is expected to increase in value by over 20 years. It is determined Balance at 1 July 1,396 1,208 on the basis of the historical performance of the property, available sector and industry benchmarks, Expenditure capitalised 143 249 available CPI forecasts and the external valuations performed. and materiality Cash received on first sales (114) (73) Average length of stay of Assumptions on future resident gender and entry age based upon analysis of historical entrant profiles existing and future residents are used to estimate average length of stay. Realised investment properties fair value movement 23 15 Climate-related Current market value Market values are generally reviewed semi-annually by the sales and operational teams in light of external Unrealised investment properties fair value movement (95) 44 valuation performed and market and approved by the National Sales Manager and CEO Communities. risks Retirement Living resident obligations fair value movement 19 (73) Renovation/Reinstatement The cost that is required to maintain the independent living units and serviced apartments to the Other movements 33 26 cost appropriate condition. Balance at 30 June 1,405 1,396 Renovation recoupment The percentage of renovation costs that will be recouped from the residents based on contractual terms. A better way to deliver A. Investment properties VALUATION PROCESS shared value The Retirement Living finance team are responsible for managing the bi-annual DMF valuation process across Stockland’s Retirement Living Retirement Living investment properties comprise retirement villages (both operating villages and villages under development) held to earn portfolio. The aim of the DMF valuation process is to confirm that assets are held at fair value on Stockland’s balance sheet. revenue and capital appreciation over the long-term. Retirement villages comprise Independent Living Units, Serviced Apartments, community Governance and facilities and integral plant and equipment. ESTABLISHED VILLAGES remuneration DISPOSALS Internal valuations are completed every six months using valuation models with reference to external market data. An independent professionally qualified valuer who holds a recognised relevant professional qualification and has specialised expertise in the investment During the year, Stockland disposed of three villages in Victoria for proceeds of $60 million, payable over two instalment in FY19 and FY20. properties valued provides assurance on the key assumptions used. The most recent independent assessment was obtained at 30 April 2019. During the prior year, Stockland disposed of one village in Victoria for proceeds of $5 million. Independent investment property valuations are also obtained from time to time. The Directors have considered the changes in market and FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT, VALUATION TECHNIQUES AND INPUTS village specific conditions since the independent assessment and valuations were obtained in their estimate of fair value at reporting date. Financial report The fair value of Retirement Living investment properties (including villages under development) is the value of the Retirement Living assets and VILLAGES UNDER CONSTRUCTION the future cash flows associated with the contracts. Changes in fair value of investment properties are recognised in profit or loss. Villages under construction are carried at fair value. There are two elements to the value of villages under construction: the value of land and The fair value is determined by the Directors using a DCF methodology. The valuation of Retirement Living investment properties and resident other development expenditure and the value of discounted future DMF revenue. The land and other development expenditure is made up of obligations is a key area of accounting estimation and judgement for the Group. costs incurred to date plus a development margin. Development margin is recognised on a percentage of completion basis and is based on an Independent Both the investment properties and resident obligations are considered to be level 3 in the fair value Hierarchy. internally certified level of completion of the stage. The DMF asset is recognised on a percentage of completion basis. auditor’s report Units are transferred from villages under construction to established villages once they have been leased for the first time. This transfer is at the The following table shows the valuation techniques used in measuring the fair value of Retirement Living investment properties excluding assets cost of the unit plus development profit recognised during construction. held for sale, as well as significant unobservable inputs used. The following significant unobservable inputs are used to measure the fair value of the investment properties: SENSITIVITY INFORMATION Securityholder Impact on fair value of Impact on fair value of information Inputs used to measure fair value 2019 2018 Significant input an increase in input a decrease in input and key dates Discount rate1 12.5 – 14.75% (Average: 13.0%) 12.5 – 14.75% (Average: 13.0%) Discount rate Decrease Increase Average 20 year growth rate 3.3% 3.1% 20 year growth rate Increase Decrease Glossary Average length of stay of existing and future residents 11 years 10.9 years Average length of stay of existing and future residents1 Decrease Increase Current market value of unit $0.1 – 2.2 million $0.1 – 2.2 million Current market value of unit Increase Decrease Renovation/Reinstatement cost $3 – 75k $5 – 90k Renovation cost Decrease Increase Renovation recoupment 0 – 100% 0 – 100% Renovation recoupment Increase Decrease 1 Discount rate includes a premium to allow for future village-wide capital expenditure. 1 This is dependent on the length of stay as the majority of contracts have maximum DMF periods. 134 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 135 B. Resident obligations 9. RECEIVABLES Introduction Resident obligations represent the net amount owed by Stockland to current and former residents. Resident obligations are non-interest bearing and movements are recognised at fair value through profit or loss as the Retirement Living portfolio is measured and assessed by Stockland on a As at 30 June Stockland Trust net basis. $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 CURRENT RESIDENT OBLIGATIONS Trade receivables 104 44 9 2 Based on actuarial turnover calculations, approximately 6% (2018: 7%) of residents are estimated to depart their dwelling each year and Allowance for expected credit loss (2) (1) (2) (1) Strategy and performance therefore it is not expected that the full obligation to residents will fall due within one year. In the vast majority of cases, the resident obligations are able to be repaid from receipts from incoming residents. Net trade receivables 102 43 7 1 Accounting Standards require that resident obligations are classified as current, unless Stockland has an unconditional contractual right to Straight-lining of rental income 7 1 7 1 defer settlement for at least 12 months, because residents have the right to terminate their occupancy contract with immediate effect. Other receivables 99 54 27 20 NON-CURRENT RESIDENT OBLIGATIONS Current receivables 208 98 41 22 Business risks The non-current obligation relates to certain legacy contracts that give Stockland a right to defer settlement for up to eight years. and materiality Straight-lining of rental income 67 71 70 75 Stockland Other receivables 27 28 – – Climate-related As at 30 June 2019 2018 Receivables due from related companies – – 3,518 3,288 $M Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total risks Allowance for expected credit loss 1 – – (8) – Existing resident obligation 2,490 95 2,585 2,567 157 2,724 Non-current receivables 94 99 3,580 3,363 Former resident obligation 6 6 12 10 7 17 1  The Trust has applied the expected credit losses impairment model to its unsecured intergroup loan receivable from Stockland Corporation Limited which is repayable in Resident obligation 2,496 101 2,597 2,577 164 2,741 2023 following the application of AASB9. While there has been no history of defaults, and the loan is considered to be low credit risk, an impairment provision determined A better way as twelve months expected credit losses has been recorded at balance date. This loan eliminates on consolidation so there is no impact on Stockland. to deliver shared value FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT, VALUATION TECHNIQUES AND INPUTS Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any allowance under the expected credit loss model. The fair value of the resident obligations is the amount payable on demand to residents and comprises the initial loan amount plus the resident’s share of any net capital gains or losses in accordance with their contracts less DMF earned to date. Changes in fair value of resident obligations 10. PAYABLES Governance and are recognised in profit or loss. remuneration Inputs used in relation to the resident obligations are identical to those used for Investment Properties. Refer above for a detailed description of the inputs used. As at 30 June Stockland Trust VALUATION PROCESS $M Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 Trade payables and accruals 281 273 120 134 Financial It is impractical to have the resident obligations valued externally, therefore these are valued every six months by the Directors as described report above. Key assumptions used in these valuations are externally reviewed and assessed for reasonableness each reporting period. Land purchases 69 157 – – SENSITIVITY INFORMATION Distributions payable 4 336 329 336 329 As the resident obligations are a financial liability, a quantitative sensitivity analysis has been disclosed. Sensitivity of the resident obligations to GST payable/(receivable) 10 51 (1) (1) changes in the assumptions are shown below: Current payables 696 810 455 462 Independent auditor’s Land purchases 147 173 – – report Increase/(decrease) in resident obligations Non-current payables 147 173 – – Increase in input Decrease in input Significant input Change in assumption 2019 2018 2019 2018 Securityholder Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value less transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost. Current market value 10% 163 177 (163) (177) The carrying values of receivables and payables at balance date represent a reasonable approximation of their fair value. information and key dates For the majority of existing contracts, the resident shares net capital gains or losses with Stockland upon exit; therefore, current market value is the only input that significantly impacts the fair value of the resident obligation. Glossary 136 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 137 11. INTANGIBLE ASSETS DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE Introduction Future development cash flows are based on formal budgets approved by management expected to commence in the next five year period and future development pipeline assumptions. The cash flows incorporate projections for development costs, selling price and associated DMF Stockland for the Retirement Living Communities in the development pipeline. As at 30 June 2019 2018 Future cash flows are discounted at 15.0% (2018: 15.0%). Cash flows beyond the five year period have been determined by applying a growth Under Under rate of 3.4% p.a. (2018: 3.5% p.a.). The growth rate applied does not exceed the long-term average rate for the Australian Retirement Living Strategy and $M Goodwill Software development Total Goodwill Software development Total property market. performance Gross carrying amount Management believe that due to the extended time it takes to develop a village and the general long-term nature of Retirement Living Opening balance 117 113 90 320 117 97 60 274 Communities, where Stockland has the ability to manage assets over that extended period, it is reasonable to use a cash flow period of greater Additions – – 54 54 – – 46 46 than five years. Business risks Retirements/disposals 1 – (79) – (79) – – – – SOFTWARE Transfer – 19 (23) (4) – 16 (16) – and materiality Software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Amounts incurred in design and testing of software are Closing balance 117 53 121 291 117 113 90 320 capitalised, including employee costs and an appropriate part of directly attributable overhead costs, where the software will generate probable future economic benefits. This is a key area of accounting estimation and judgement for the Group. Accumulated amortisation and impairment Costs associated with maintaining software are recognised as an expense as incurred. Opening balance (41) (85) – (126) (41) (77) – (118) All software is currently amortised based on the straight-line method and using rates between 10 – 100% (2018: 10 – 33%) from the point at Climate-related risks Retirements/disposals1 – 79 – 79 – – – – which the asset is ready for use. Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss. The range of amortisation rates has been updated to reflect new enterprise resource planning software, a part of which commenced amortisation during the year. Amortisation – (13) – (13) – (8) – (8) The residual value, the useful life and the amortisation method applied to an asset are reviewed at least annually. Impairment (38) – – (38) – – – – A better way Closing balance (79) (19) – (98) (41) (85) – (126) 12. NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE to deliver shared value Intangible assets 38 34 121 193 76 28 90 194 As at 30 June Stockland Trust Governance and 1  The net impact of these retirements and disposals on the intangible assets carrying value is $nil as these assets were fully depreciated. $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 GOODWILL remuneration Investment properties transferred from Commercial Property 171 65 171 22 Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of Stockland’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired Non-current assets held for sale 171 65 171 22 subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill that has an indefinite useful life is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if events or Investment properties held for sale at 30 June 2019 include Stockland Tooronga, Tooronga VIC, 40 Scanlon Drive, Epping VIC, Toll Drive, Altona Financial changes in circumstances indicate that they might be impaired. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying VIC and Port Adelaide Distribution Centre, Port Adelaide SA. Contracts for the sale of the properties have been exchanged after reporting date. report amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. The determination of the recoverability of goodwill is an area of accounting estimation and judgement for the Group. During the current year, Stockland completed the sale of Stockland Highlands, Craigieburn VIC and 40 Cameron Avenue, Belconnen ACT, which were classified as non-current assets held for sale at 30 June 2018. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and allocated to cash-generating units (CGU). The allocation is made to each CGU or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from Investment properties are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than Independent the business combination in which the goodwill arose, identified according to operating segments. through continuing use. This condition is met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present auditor’s condition. Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year Goodwill arose on the acquisition of the Retirement Living division of Australian Retirement Communities on 28 February 2007 and the report from the date of classification. acquisition of Aevum Limited on 31 October 2010. Investment properties held for sale remain measured at fair value in accordance with the policy presented in note 7. IMPAIRMENT TEST Securityholder An impairment of goodwill of $38 million was recognised in the current year (2018: $nil) primarily driven by a reduction in future development information pipeline. and key dates The goodwill impairment test is based upon the value in use method using cash flow projections for Retirement Living unrecognised development profits. Unrecognised development profits comprises of cash flows from both the development pipeline and deferred repayment contracts which are considered to benefit from the acquisitions. Glossary At year-end, the recoverable amount of the CGU was $406 million which is equivalent to the book value of the Retirement Living development business. Following the impairment recognised in the Retirement Living development business CGU, the recoverable amount is equal to the carrying amount. Therefore, any adverse movement in a key assumption would lead to further impairment. DEFERRED REPAYMENT (DR) CONTRACTS The Australian Retirement Communities portfolio acquired in 2007 included a number of Deferred Revenue (“DR”) contracts. These DR contracts were entered into prior to the Stockland acquisition at a wholesale price on development, and therefore were expected to result in higher conversion profit upon next settlement when they are priced at retail value and converted to Stockland target contracts. The cash flows are discounted over their forecast maturity at 13.0% (2018: 13.0%) and cash flows beyond the five year period have been determined by applying a growth rate of 3.1% p.a. (2018: 3.1% p.a.). The growth rate applied does not exceed the long-term average rate for the Australian retirement living property market. 138 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 139 Capital structure and financing costs Interest income is recognised in profit or loss as it accrues using the effective interest method. Introduction Finance expense include interest payable on short-term and long-term borrowings calculated using the effective interest method and payments on derivatives. IN THIS SECTION Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except to the extent that they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production This section outlines how the Group manages its capital structure and related financing costs, including its balance sheet liquidity and of a qualifying asset such as investment properties or inventories. Qualifying assets are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time access to capital markets. to reach the stage of their intended use or sale. The Board determines the appropriate capital structure of the Group; specifically, how much is raised from securityholders (equity) and Strategy and In these circumstances, borrowing costs are capitalised to the cost of the assets whilst in active development until the assets are ready for performance how much is borrowed from financial institutions and capital markets (debt), in order to finance the Group’s activities both now and in their intended use or sale. Total interest capitalised must not exceed the net interest expense in any period. Project carrying values, including the future. all capitalised interest attributable to projects, must continue to be recoverable based on the latest project feasibilities. In the event that The Board considers the Group’s capital structure and its dividend and distribution policy at least twice a year ahead of announcing development is suspended for an extended period of time or the decision is taken to dispose of the asset, the capitalisation of borrowing costs results, in the context of its ability to continue as a going concern, to execute the strategy and to deliver its business plan. During the year is also suspended. Stockland’s credit rating remained unchanged at A-/stable and A3/stable by S&P and Moody’s respectively. The Board continued to monitor The rate at which interest has been capitalised to qualifying assets is disclosed in note 6. Business risks and materiality the Group’s capital structure through its gearing ratio and maintains a capital structure to minimise the cost of capital. The Group has a stated target gearing ratio range of 20% to 30%. Where funds are borrowed generally, borrowing costs are capitalised using a weighted average capitalisation rate applied to the expenditures on the asset excluding specific borrowings. In addition, the Group is exposed to changes in interest rates on its net borrowings and to changes in foreign exchange rates on its foreign currency transactions and net assets. In accordance with risk management policies, the Group uses derivatives to appropriately hedge The accounting policy and fair value of derivatives are discussed in note 16 and 17. Climate-related these underlying exposures. 14. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS risks 13. NET FINANCING COSTS Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and at call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of Stockland’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement A better way of cash flow. As at 30 June 2019, Stockland does not have any bank overdrafts. to deliver KEEPING IT SIMPLE Included in the cash and cash equivalents balance of $140 million is $55 million (2018: $92 million) in cash that is relating to joint ventures and/or shared value This note details the interest income generated on the Group’s cash and other financial assets and the interest expense incurred on held to satisfy real estate and financial services licensing requirements, and is not immediately available for use by the Group. borrowings and other financial assets and liabilities. The presentation of the net financing costs in this note reflects income and expenses according to the classification of the financial instruments. 15. BORROWINGS Fair value movements reflect the change in fair value of the Group’s derivative instruments between the later of inception or 1 July 2018 and Governance and remuneration 30 June 2019. The fair value at year end is not necessarily the same as the settlement value at maturity. KEEPING IT SIMPLE Net financing costs can be analysed as follows: The Trust borrows money from financial institutions and debt investors in the form of bonds, bank debt and other financial instruments. The Trust’s bonds generally have fixed interest rates and are for a fixed term. Financial Year ended 30 June Stockland Trust The interest expense on these instruments are shown in note 13. report $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest income from related parties – – 282 266 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs and subsequently are stated at Interest income from other parties 4 3 2 2 amortised cost. Any difference between amortised cost and redemption value is recognised in profit or loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. However, where an effective fair value hedge is in place, borrowings are stated at the carrying amount Independent Finance income 4 3 284 268 adjusted for changes of fair value of the hedged risk. The changes are recognised in profit and loss. auditor’s report The table below shows the fair value of each of these instruments measured at level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. Fair value reflects the principal Interest expense relating to borrowings (192) (202) (192) (202) amount and remaining duration of these notes based on current market interest rates and conditions at balance date. Interest paid or payable on other financial liabilities at amortised cost (40) (34) – – Less: interest capitalised to inventories 136 142 – – Stockland and Trust Securityholder As at 30 June Carrying value information Less: interest capitalised to investment properties 9 17 3 10 and key dates Finance expense (87) (77) (189) (192) $M Note Current Non-current Total Fair value 2019 Glossary Gain/(loss) on net change in fair value of derivatives 233 (24) 233 (24) Offshore medium term notes A 78 3,694 3,772 4,215 Gain/(loss) on net change in fair value of borrowings (240) 12 (239) 12 Domestic medium term notes B 150 607 757 801 Net gain/(loss) on fair value hedges (7) (12) (6) (12) Bank debt facilities C 115 60 175 175 Gain/(loss) on foreign exchange movements (12) (19) (13) (19) Borrowings 343 4,361 4,704 5,191 Gain/(loss) on fair value movements (121) 24 (121) 24 2018 Net gain/(loss) on debt and derivatives (133) 5 (134) 5 Offshore medium term notes A 240 3,141 3,381 3,728 Net gain/(loss) on financial instruments (140) (7) (140) (7) Domestic medium term notes B – 557 557 595 Bank debt facilities C – – – – The interest expense relating to borrowings includes $62 million (2018: $67 million) related to interest on financial liabilities carried at amortised Borrowings 240 3,698 3,938 4,323 cost, and not designated in a fair value hedge relationship. 140 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 141 The difference of $487 million (2018: $385 million) between the carrying amount and fair value of the foreign and domestic medium term notes is The fair value of all the notes on issue as at 30 June 2019 is $1,399 million (2018: $1,316 million). Details of the offshore medium term notes on Introduction due to notes being carried at amortised cost under AASB 9 while the fair value represents the amount required to replicate at balance date the issue in the Asian and European private placement market are set out below: principal and duration of these notes based on current market interest rates and conditions. Stockland and Trust A. Offshore medium term notes $M CCIRS Face value1 Carrying amount Maturity date Fixed rate coupon Type Rate 2 2019 2018 2019 2018 US PRIVATE PLACEMENT Strategy and November 2021 1.50% Floating 1.48% 433 433 446 446 The Trust has issued fixed coupon notes in the US private placement market. Generally, notes are issued in United States dollars (USD) and performance converted back to Australian dollars (AUD or $) principal and AUD floating coupons through CCIRS. May 2025 3.37% Floating 1.89% 62 62 86 77 During the current year, the Trust repaid USD 176 million ($269 million) of notes in October 2018 and issued USD 250 million ($351 million) October 2025 4.00% Floating 1.62% 55 55 80 71 in April 2019. January 2026 3.38% Fixed 4.90% 100 100 99 84 Business risks The fair value of the US private placements as at 30 June 2019 is $2,816 million (2018: $2,412 million). Details of the offshore medium term notes April 2026 1.63% Floating 1.70% 478 478 519 480 on issue in the US private placement market are set out below: May 2028 3.70% Floating 1.53% 51 51 60 52 Stockland and Trust Total 1,179 1,179 1,290 1,210 and materiality $M Face value1 Carrying amount Less attributable transaction costs (7) (7) Fixed Climate-related Asian and European private placement 1,283 1,203 Maturity date rate coupon Floating CCIRS2 2019 2018 2019 2018 risks 1 Face value of the notes in Australian dollars after the effect of the CCIRS. Thus also representing 100% of the notional amount of the CCIRS. October 2018 6.01% 0.73% 0.65% – 269 – 240 2 Variable interest rate margin above the 90 day bank bill rate. The 90 day bank bill rate as at 30 June 2019 was 1.2046% (2018: 2.1105%). All of the CCIRS are in a July 2019 5.19% 0.85% 0.83% 71 71 78 75 designated hedge relationship. July 2020 5.24% 0.87% 0.86% 90 90 100 96 B. Domestic medium term notes A better way September 2021 4.32% 2.44% 2.48% 176 176 267 246 Domestic Medium term notes have been issued at either face value or at a discount to face value and are carried at amortised cost. The discount to deliver June 2022 6.15% 1.00% 28 28 41 39 is amortised to finance costs over the term of the notes. The medium term notes are issued on either fixed or floating interest rate terms. shared value August 2022 3.99 / 6.80% 2.93% 3.08% 105 105 101 98 During the current year, the Trust issued medium term notes with a face value of $200 million. The fair value of all the notes on issue as at August 2024 4.14% 2.99% 50 50 50 46 30 June 2019 is $801 million (2018: $595 million). Details of unsecured domestic medium term notes on issue are set out below: Governance and August 2025 3.75% 1.62% 157 157 181 162 $M Stockland and Trust remuneration December 2025 5.09% – 100 100 100 100 Maturity date Fixed rate coupon 2019 2018 August 2026 3.09% – 200 200 217 188 September 2019 5.50% 150 150 June 2027 6.28% 0.87% 20 20 32 31 November 2020 8.25% 160 160 August 2027 3.85% 1.63% 131 131 154 135 Financial November 2022 4.50% 250 250 report January 2028 3.63% 1.65% 47 47 55 48 March 2024 3.30% 200 0 August 2028 3.19 / 4.35% 2.23% / 139 139 143 131 Total 760 560 February 2029 4.67% 1.40% 141 141 204 180 Less attributable transaction costs (3) (3) April 2029 3.81% 1.75% 1.78% 162 0 170 0 Independent Domestic medium term notes 757 557 auditor’s January 2030 3.73 / 4.42% 1.75% 1.78% 106 106 117 108 report August 2030 4.00% 1.69% 72 72 87 75 C. Bank debt facilities April 2031 3.91% 1.84% 1.86% 162 0 172 0 The bank debt facilities are unsecured and held at amortised cost. Details of maturity dates, excluding bank guarantee facilities are set out below: August 2031 3.34% 2.27% 59 59 61 52 Stockland and Trust Securityholder January 2033 3.88 / 4.66% 1.90% 1.91% 133 133 139 134 $M 2019 2018 information and key dates May 2034 4.01% 1.91% 28 0 31 0 Maturity date Utilised Limit Utilised Limit Total 2,177 2,094 2,500 2,184 December 2018 – – – 100 Glossary Less attributable transaction costs (11) (6) July 2019 – – – 100 US private placement 2,489 2,178 August 2019 15 120 – 120 1 Face value of the notes in AUD after the effect of the CCIRS. Thus also representing 100% of the notional amount of the CCIRS. December 2019 100 200 – 100 2 Variable interest rate margin above the 90 day bank bill rate. The 90 day bank bill rate as at 30 June 2019 was 1.2046% (2018: 2.1105%). The majority of the CCIRS July 2021 60 100 – – is in a designated hedge relationship. January 2021 – – – 250 ASIAN AND EUROPEAN PRIVATE PLACEMENT January 2022 – 250 – – The Trust has issued medium term notes in the Asian and European capital markets with face values of Hong Kong dollars (HKD) 470 million February 2022 – 150 – 150 ($62 million), HKD 400 million ($55 million), HKD 540 million ($100 million), HKD 300 million ($51 million), Euros (EUR) 300 million ($433 million) and EUR 300 million ($478 million). November 2022 – 100 – 100 All notes are issued at a fixed coupon payable in either HKD or EUR and converted back to AUD floating coupons through CCIRS. Bank facilities 175 920 – 920 142 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 143 16. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Stockland holds a number of derivative instruments including interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and CCIRS. Introduction Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value and re-measured at each balance date. The valuation of derivatives is an area of accounting estimation and judgement for the Group. KEEPING IT SIMPLE Third party valuations are used to determine the fair value of Stockland’s derivatives. The valuation techniques use inputs such as interest rate Investments in other financial assets are managed in accordance with the Group’s documented risk policy. Based on the nature of yield curves and currency prices/yields, volatilities of underlying instruments and correlations between inputs. the asset and its purpose, movements in the fair value of other financial assets are recognised either through profit or loss or other Strategy and The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that Stockland would receive or pay to transfer or realise the swap at the reporting comprehensive income. date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of each counterparties. performance Stockland Trust The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined by using the difference between the contract exchange rate and the quoted forward exchange rate at the reporting date. Other Other Other Other As at 30 June financial assets financial liabilities financial assets financial liabilities The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised in profit or loss. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, Business risks recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged. $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 and materiality Stockland enters into ISDA Master Agreements with its derivative counterparties. Under the terms of these arrangements, where certain credit Fair value hedges – – – (29) – – – (29) events occur, the net position owing/receivable to a single counterparty in relation to all outstanding derivatives with that counterparty, will be CCIRS – through profit or loss 8 12 – – 8 12 – – taken as owing/receivable and all the relevant arrangements terminated. As Stockland does not presently have a legally enforceable right of setInterest rate derivatives – through profit or loss 1 – (2) (4) 1 – (2) (4) off, these amounts have not been offset in the balance sheet. In the event a credit event occurred, the ISDA Master Agreement would have the Climate-related effect of netting, allowing a reduction to derivative assets and derivative liabilities of the same amount of $195 million (2018: $136 million). Current 9 12 (2) (33) 9 12 (2) (33) risks Fair value hedges 355 156 – (25) 355 156 – (25) DERIVATIVES THAT QUALIFY FOR HEDGE ACCOUNTING Cash flow hedges 81 66 (14) (38) 81 66 (14) (38) Stockland uses a limited number of derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. At the inception of the transaction, Stockland designates and documents these derivative instruments into a hedging relationship with the CCIRS – through profit or loss 43 25 – – 43 25 – – hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. A better way Interest rate derivatives – through profit or loss 28 17 (204) (100) 28 17 (204) (100) to deliver Stockland documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions Other 18 18 – – 8 8 – – shared value have been and will continue to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of hedged items. Non-current 525 282 (218) (163) 515 272 (218) (163) FAIR VALUE HEDGE Governance and A fair value hedge is a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of an asset or liability that is attributable to a particular risk. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss, together with any KEEPING IT SIMPLE changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. remuneration Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument matures or is sold, terminated or exercised, or until such time where the A derivative is a type of financial instrument typically used to manage the underlying risk. A derivative’s value changes over time in response hedging relationship ceases to meet the qualifying criteria. Any adjustment between the carrying amount and the face value of a hedged to underlying variables such as exchange rates or interest rates and is entered into for a fixed period. A hedge is where a derivative is used financial instrument is amortised to profit or loss using the effective interest rate method. Amortisation begins when the hedged item ceases Financial report to manage the underlying exposures. The Group uses derivatives to manage exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risk. to be adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged. Stockland manages its exposure to financial market risks as part of its operations through the use of derivatives. CASH FLOW HEDGE Stockland’s treasury policy requires: A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows attributable to a particular risk associated with an asset, liability or highly probable forecast transaction that could affect profit or loss. Independent • all contractual or committed foreign exchanges payments or receipts to be fully hedged back to Australian dollar unless the exposure is auditor’s immaterial in nature.; and The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity in report • interest rate risk exposures to be managed to operate within a fixed hedge ratio of: the cash flow hedge reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss within finance income or expense. • 45 to 55% on debt due to mature within 5 years; and • 30 to 40% on debt maturing in more than five years. Amounts in the cash flow hedge reserve are recognised in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss. Securityholder Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument matures or is sold, terminated or exercised, no longer qualifies for hedge Deviation from these benchmarks at any point in time requires approval from the CFO and/or Audit Committee. information accounting, or when Stockland revokes designation. Any cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity at that time remains in equity and is Stockland assesses whether the derivative designated in each hedging relationship is expected to be and has been effective in offsetting and key dates recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, changes in cash flows of the hedged item using the hypothetical derivative method. the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss. In these hedge relationships, the main sources of ineffectiveness are: Glossary Additionally, there are a number of derivatives that are not designated as fair value and/or cash flow hedges. These are used to hedge economic • the effect of the counterparty and Stockland’s own credit risk on the fair value of the swaps, which is not reflected in the fair value of the exposures and the gains or losses on re-measurement to fair value of these instruments are recognised immediately in profit or loss. hedged item; and • changes in interest rates will impact the fair value of the Australian dollar margin and implied foreign currency margin respectively. In order to qualify for hedge accounting, prospective hedge effectiveness testing must meet all of the following criteria: • an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument; • the effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes resulting from the economic relationship; and • the hedge ratio is the same as that resulting from actual amounts of hedged items and hedging instruments for risk management. 144 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 145 Stockland and Trust Stockland Introduction Borrowings Derivatives As at 30 June 2019 2018 Carrying Amount Market to market Net gain $M Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Gain or Cash flow Gain or or loss Derivative assets – 516 – 516 – 276 – 276 loss Termihedge Loss on recognised Move(Repaid) on FV Movenated reserve FV of in profit Securities in unlisted entities – – 8 8 – – 8 8 Strategy and $M 2019 2018 ments Drawn of Debt 2019 2018 ments Paid impact derivatives or loss Other investments 10 – – 10 10 – – 10 performance US Dollar 2,500 2,184 316 82 (234) 337 113 224 – (10) 234 – Financial assets carried at fair value 10 516 8 534 10 276 8 294 Effective 2,249 1,943 306 82 (224) 286 76 210 – (10) 220 (4) Derivative liabilities – (220) – (220) – (196) – (196) Ineffective 251 241 10 – (10) 51 37 14 – – 14 4 Retirement Living resident obligations – – (2,597) (2,597) – – (2,741) (2,741) Business risks Euro 965 926 39 – (39) 92 39 53 – 15 38 (1) Financial liabilities carried at fair value – (220) (2,597) (2,817) – (196) (2,741) (2,937) HK Dollar 325 284 41 – (41) 44 15 29 – (10) 39 (2) Net position 10 296 (2,589) (2,283) and materiality 10 80 (2,733) (2,643) Trust Foreign 3,790 3,394 396 82 (314) 473 167 306 – (5) 311 (3) As at 30 June 2019 2018 exposure $M Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Climate-related risks AUD Bank Debt 175 – 175 175 – – – – – – – – Derivative assets – 516 – 516 – 276 – 276 AUD MTNs 760 560 200 200 – – – – – – – – Securities in unlisted entities – – 8 8 – – 8 8 Financial assets carried at fair value – 516 8 524 – 276 8 284 AUD IRS – – – – – (177) (87) (90) (47) – (137) (137) A better way Derivative liabilities – (220) – (220) – (196) – (196) to deliver Financial liabilities carried at fair value – (220) – (220) – (196) – (196) shared value Borrowings (21) (16) (5) costs Net position – 296 8 304 – 80 8 88 Derivative financial assets and liabilities are not offset in the balance sheet as under agreements held with derivative counterparties, the Group Governance and Total 4,704 3,938 766 457 (314) 296 80 216 (47) (5) 174 (140) does not have a legally enforceable right to set off the position payable/receivable to a single counterparty. remuneration The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for fair value measurements in Level 3 of the fair 17. FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY value hierarchy. There were no transfers between levels during the year. Stockland 2019 2018 Financial KEEPING IT SIMPLE Securities Retirement Securities Retirement report The financial instruments included on the balance sheet are measured at either fair value or amortised cost. The measurement of fair value in unlisted Living resident in unlisted Living resident may in some cases be subjective and may depend on the inputs used in the calculations. The Group generally uses external valuations $M entities Derivatives obligations Total entities Derivatives obligations Total based on market inputs or market values (e.g. external share prices). The different valuation methods are called hierarchies and are Balance at 1 July 8 – (2,741) (2,733) 32 – (2,629) (2,597) described below: Independent Gain/losses recognised in auditor’s • Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; • Profit or loss1 – – 267 267 (1) – 10 9 report • Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) • Other comprehensive income – – – – 2 – – 2 or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and Cash receipts from incoming – – (295) (295) – – (272) (272) • Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). residents on turnover Securityholder information Cash payments to outgoing – – 172 172 – – 150 150 residents on turnover, net of DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUE and key dates DMF The fair value of derivative financial instruments, including domestic and offshore medium term notes, interest rate derivatives and CCIRS, is Return of capital – – – – (25) – – (25) determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models by discounting the expected future cash flows using assumptions supported Glossary by observable market rates. Whilst certain derivatives are not quoted in an active market, Stockland has determined the fair value of these Balance at 30 June 8 – (2,597) (2,589) 8 – (2,741) (2,733) derivatives using quoted market inputs (e.g. interest rates, volatility, and exchange rates) adjusted for specific features of the instruments and 1 Include impact of derecognition of obligations related to village disposals of $187m (FY18 $21m). debit or credit value adjustments based on the current credit worthiness of Stockland or the derivative counterparty. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is the quoted market price of the derivative at balance date, being the present value of the quoted Trust forward price. 2019 2018 The table below sets out the financial instruments included on the balance sheet at fair value. Securities Retirement Securities Retirement in unlisted Living resident in unlisted Living resident Quantitative sensitivities required under AASB 13 Fair Value Measurement in relation to the Retirement Living resident obligations have been $M entities Derivatives obligations Total entities Derivatives obligations Total disclosed in note 8. Balance at 1 July 8 – – 8 9 – – 9 Loss recognised in Profit or loss – – – – (1) – – (1) Balance at 30 June 8 – – 8 8 – – 8 146 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 147 18. FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS – CURRENCY RISK Introduction The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on the profit or loss and equity if there was an increase/decrease in AUD exchange rates of 10% at balance date with all other variables held constant. KEEPING IT SIMPLE Stockland and Trust The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risks (including currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk), credit 2019 2018 risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on financial performance. As at 30 June Profit or loss Equity Profit or loss Equity Strategy and performance $M Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease The Group uses derivatives within its policies described below as hedges to manage certain risk exposures. EUR – – (55) 55 – – (54) 54 Financial risk and capital management is carried out by a central treasury department. The Board reviews and approves written principles of overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas such as managing capital, mitigating interest rates, liquidity, HKD – – (11) 14 – – (9) 11 Business risks foreign exchange and credit risks, use of derivative and investing excess liquidity. The Audit Committee assists the Board in monitoring the USD (1) 2 (24) 30 (1) 2 (23) 28 implementation of these treasury policies. Impact (1) 2 (90) 99 and materiality (1) 2 (86) 93 The sensitivity analysis included in this note shows the impact that a shift in the financial risks would have on the financial statements at year-end, but is not a forecast or prediction. In addition, it does not include any management action that might take place to mitigate these B. Interest rate risk risks, were they to occur. Climate-related Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in interest rates. The Trust’s interest rate risk arises from borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Trust to cash flow interest rate risk. risks A. Market risk Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Trust to fair value interest rate risk. The Group’s treasury policy allows it to enter into a variety of Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect Stockland’s financial approved derivative instruments to manage the risk profile of the total debt portfolio to achieve an appropriate mix of fixed and floating interest performance or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk rate exposures. The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. Such interest rate swaps have exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising returns. the economic effect of converting borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates. The Trust manages its fair value interest rate risk through CCIRS A better way and fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. to deliver CURRENCY RISK shared value These derivatives have been recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value in accordance with AASB 9. These derivatives have not been Currency risk arises when anticipated transactions or recognised assets and liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not Stockland’s functional designated as hedges for accounting purposes, nevertheless management believe the hedges are effective economically. As a result movements currency, being Australian dollars (AUD). Stockland has currency exposures to the Euro (EUR), Hong Kong dollar (HKD) and US dollar (USD). in the fair value of these instruments are recognised in profit or loss. Governance and The Group manages its currency risk by using CCIRS and forward exchange contracts. The table below provides a summary of the Group’s interest rate risk exposure on interest-bearing loans and borrowings after the effect of the The Group’s offshore medium term notes create both an interest rate and a currency exchange risk exposure. The Group’s policy is to minimise interest rate derivatives. its exposure to both interest rate and exchange rate movements. Accordingly, the Group has entered into a series of CCIRS which cover 100% of remuneration Stockland and Trust the US, European and Asian private placement principals outstanding and are timed to expire when each note matures. These CCIRS also swap the obligation to pay fixed interest to floating interest. When these swaps held are no longer effective in hedging the interest rate and currency Net exposure (after the effect of derivatives) risk exposure, management will reassess the value in continuing to hold the swap. $M 2019 2018 Financial report These CCIRS have been designated as fair value and cash flow hedges and are accounted for in line with the accounting principles highlighted Fixed rate interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1 3,837 3,655 in note 16. Floating rate interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1 453 177 The following table provides a summary of the face values of the Group’s currency risk exposures together with the derivatives which have been Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 4,290 3,832 entered into to manage these exposures. Independent auditor’s Stockland and Trust 1 Notional principal amounts. As at 30 June 2019 2018 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS – INTEREST RATE RISK report Currency $M EUR1 HKD1 USD1 EUR1 HKD1 USD1 The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on profit or loss and equity if market interest rates at balance date had been 100 basis points Borrowings (600) (1,710) (1,468) (600) (1,710) (1,394) higher/lower (2018: 100 basis points) with all other variables held constant. Securityholder CCIRS 600 1,710 1,468 600 1,710 1,394 Stockland Trust information Exposure – – – – – – 2019 2018 2019 2018 and key dates 1 All amounts are denominated in their natural currency. $M Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Impact on interest income/(expense) 1 (1) 3 (3) 36 (36) 35 (35) Impact on net gain/(loss) on derivatives – 107 (113) 102 (106) 107 (113) 102 (106) Glossary through profit or loss Impact on profit or loss 108 (114) 105 (109) 143 (149) 137 (141) Impact on equity 15 (16) 30 (31) 15 (16) 30 (31) 148 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 149 C. Equity price risk E. Liquidity risk Introduction Equity price risk is the risk that the fair value of investments in listed/unlisted entities fluctuate due to changes in the underlying security price. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. Due to the dynamic nature of the The Group’s equity price risk arises from investments in listed securities and units in unlisted funds. These investments are classified as financial underlying businesses, the Group aims to maintain flexibility in liquidity and funding sources by keeping sufficient cash and cash equivalents assets carried at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss or other comprehensive income. and/or undrawn committed credit lines available whilst maintaining a low cost of holding these facilities. Management prepares and monitors rolling forecasts of liquidity requirements on the basis of expected cash flow. Material investments within the portfolio are managed on an individual basis and all buy and sell decisions are approved by the Board. The Group manages liquidity risk through monitoring the maturity profile of its debt portfolio. The current weighted average debt maturity SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS – EQUITY PRICE RISK is 5.8 years (2018: 6.2 years). Strategy and The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on profit or loss and equity if the market price of the underlying equity securities/units at performance balance date had been 10% higher/lower with all other variables held constant. KEEPING IT SIMPLE Stockland Trust The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities including derivatives into relevant maturity groupings based on the period Business risks remaining until the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows (including As at 30 June 2019 2018 2019 2018 interest), and therefore may not reconcile with the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet. and materiality $M Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease As derivative assets have been excluded from these tables, refer to note 17 for the fair value of the derivative assets to provide a meaningful Impact on profit or loss 2 (2) 2 (2) – – – – analysis of Stockland and Trust total derivatives. Impact on equity – – – – – – – – Climate-related Stockland Carrying Contractual 1 year 1–2 2–5 Over risks D. Credit risk $M amount cash flows or less years years 5 years Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations resulting in a financial loss 2019 to the Group. Non-derivative A better way The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk to any single counterparty and has policies to review the aggregate exposure of Payables (excl. GST) (497) (522) (350) (34) (53) (85) to deliver tenancies across its portfolio. The Group also has policies to ensure that sales of properties with deferred payment terms and development Dividends and distributions payable (336) (336) (336) – – – shared value services are made to customers with an appropriate credit history. Derivative counterparties and cash deposits are currently limited to financial institutions approved by the Audit Committee. There are also Borrowings (4,704) (5,711) (514) (409) (1,763) (3,025) policies that limit the amount of credit risk exposure to any one of the approved financial institutions based on their credit rating and country Retirement Living resident obligations (2,597) (2,597) (2,496) – (1) (100) Governance and of origin. Derivative remuneration The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the gross carrying amount of each class of financial assets mentioned Interest rate derivatives (205) (199) (41) (46) (86) (26) in this Report. CCIRS (15) As at 30 June 2019, these financial institutions had an Investment Grade rating (greater than BBB-) provided by S&P. • Inflows 389 10 10 30 339 Bank guarantees and mortgages over land are held as security over certain receivables balances. Financial • Outflows (396) (14) (13) (41) (328) report As at 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2018, there were no significant financial assets that were past due. Financial assets are subject to the expected Financial liabilities (8,354) (9,372) (3,741) (492) (1,914) (3,225) credit loss model as per AASB 9. Stockland Carrying Contractual 1 year 1–2 2–5 Over Independent $M amount cash flows or less years years 5 years auditor’s 2018 report Non-derivative Payables (excl. GST) (603) (647) (435) (50) (110) (52) Securityholder Dividends and distributions payable (329) (329) (329) – – – information Borrowings (3,938) (5,020) (396) (366) (1,703) (2,555) and key dates Retirement Living resident obligations (2,741) (2,742) (2,577) (4) (1) (160) Derivative Interest rate derivatives (104) (116) (40) (30) (34) (12) Glossary CCIRS (92) • Inflows 1,815 279 34 103 1,399 • Outflows (2,011) (322) (50) (159) (1,480) Financial liabilities (7,807) (9,050) (3,820) (466) (1,904) (2,860) Retirement Living resident obligations are classified as current under Accounting Standards, however, it is not expected to result in actual net cash outflows within the next 12 months. In the vast majority of cases, settlement of Retirement Living resident obligations are able to be repaid from receipts from incoming residents. As at 30 June 2019, $2,585 million (2018: $2,724 million) existing resident obligations do not represent an anticipated net cash outflow as they are expected to be covered by receipts from incoming residents. 150 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 151 Trust 19. ISSUED CAPITAL Introduction Carrying Contractual 1 year 1–2 2–5 Over $M amount cash flows or less years years 5 years KEEPING IT SIMPLE 2019 This note explains material movements recorded in issued capital that are not explained elsewhere in the financial statements. Non-derivative The movements in equity of the Group and the balances are presented in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. Payables (excl. GST) (120) (120) (120) – – – Strategy and Issued capital represents the amount of consideration received for securities issued by the Group. Transaction costs of an equity Dividends and distributions payable (336) (336) (336) – – – transaction are accounted for as a deduction from equity, net of any related income tax benefit. performance Borrowings (4,704) (5,711) (514) (409) (1,763) (3,025) For so long as Stockland remains jointly quoted, the number of shares in Stockland Corporation Limited and the number of units in the Derivative Stockland Trust shall be equal and the securityholders and unitholders shall be identical. Unitholders of Stockland Trust are only entitled Business risks Interest rate derivatives (205) (199) (41) (46) (86) (26) to distributions and voting rights upon stapling. and materiality CCIRS (15) – • Inflows 389 10 10 30 339 Holders of stapled securities are entitled to receive dividends and distributions as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per stapled security at securityholder meetings. The liability of a member is limited to the amount, if any, remaining unpaid in relation to a member’s • Outflows (396) (14) (13) (41) (328) subscription for securities. A member is entitled to receive a distribution following termination of the stapling arrangement (for whatever Climate-related Financial liabilities (5,380) (6,373) (1,015) (458) (1,860) (3,040) reason). The net proceeds of realisation must be distributed to members, after making an allowance for payment of all liabilities (actual and anticipated) and meeting any actual or anticipated expenses of termination. Trust The following table provides details of securities issued by the Group: risks Carrying Contractual 1 year 1–2 2–5 Over $M amount cash flows or less years years 5 years Stockland and Trust Stockland Trust A better way 2018 Number of securities $M $M to deliver Non-derivative As at 30 June 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 shared value Payables (excl. GST) (134) (134) (134) – – – Ordinary securities on issue Dividends and distributions payable (329) (329) (329) – – – Issued and fully paid 2,384,351,503 2,434,469,276 8,692 8,884 7,393 7,571 Governance and Borrowings (3,938) (5,020) (396) (366) (1,703) (2,555) Other equity securities remuneration Derivative Treasury securities (6,691,865) (7,786,666) (35) (34) (34) (33) Interest rate derivatives (104) (116) (40) (30) (34) (12) Issued Capital 2,377,659,638 2,426,682,610 8,657 8,850 7,359 7,538 CCIRS (92) A. Ordinary securities Financial Inflows 1,815 279 34 103 1,399 report Outflows (2,011) (322) (50) (159) (1,480) The following table provides details of movements in securities issued: Financial liabilities (4,597) (5,795) (942) (412) (1,793) (2,648) Stockland and Trust Stockland Trust Number of securities $M $M Independent As at 30 June 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 auditor’s report Opening balance 2,434,469,276 2,418,400,142 8,884 8,817 7,571 7,507 Securities buy back (50,117,773) – (192) – (178) – Securityholder Securities issued under the DRP – 16,069,134 – 67 – 64 Issued Capital 2,384,351,503 2,434,469,276 8,692 8,884 7,393 7,571 information and key dates SECURITIES BUY-BACK On 6 September 2018, Stockland announced the intention to initiate an on-market buy-back for up to $350 million of Stockland securities on issue as part of its active approach to capital management, over up to 24 months. A total of 50,117,773 stapled securities have been bought back Glossary on market and cancelled since the commencement of the buy-back on 24 September 2018. 152 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 153 B. Other equity securities LTI Introduction TREASURY SECURITIES The fair value of LTI rights is measured at grant date using the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo Simulation option pricing models taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the rights were granted. The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, Treasury securities are securities in Stockland that are held by the Stockland Employee Securities Plan Trust. Securities are held until the end of the period over which the rights are subject to performance and service conditions, with a corresponding increase in reserves. the vesting period affixed to the securities. As the securities are held on behalf of eligible employees, the employees are entitled to the dividends and distributions. Where the individual forfeits the rights due to failure to meet a service or performance condition, the cumulative expense is reversed through profit or loss in the current year. The cumulative expenditure for rights forfeited due to market conditions are not reversed. MOVEMENT OF OTHER EQUITY SECURITIES Strategy and Where amendments are made to the terms and conditions subsequent to the grant, the value of the grant immediately prior to and following the modification is determined. This occurs upon resignation or termination where the amendment relates to rights becoming vested in terms of performance Stockland and Trust Stockland Trust beneficial ownership, which would otherwise have been forfeited due to the failure to meet future service conditions. In this situation, the value Number of securities $M $M that would have been recognised in future periods in respect of the rights not forfeited is recognised in the period that the rights vest. 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Business risks The number of rights granted to employees under the plan for the year ended 30 June 2019 was 3,564,400 (2018: 3,916,652). The number of Opening balance 7,786,666 6,002,501 (34) (27) (33) (27) LTI rights awarded is based on the Volume Weighted Average Price of Stockland securities for the ten working days post 30 June (face value and materiality Securities acquired1 3,605,889 4,674,128 (15) (20) (15) (19) methodology), this is consistent with the approach for determining number of Deferred STI awards. Securities transferred to employees on vesting (4,700,690) (2,889,963) 14 13 14 13 Assumptions made in determining the fair value of rights granted under the security plans are: Issued Capital 6,691,865 7,786,666 (35) (34) (34) (33) Climate-related Details 2019 2018 1 Average price: $4.20 per security (2018: $4.37). Grant date 1 October 2018 27 September 2017 Fair value of rights granted under plan $2.48 $2.55 risks C. Security based payments Securities spot price at grant date $4.11 $4.27 KEEPING IT SIMPLE Exercise price – – A better way Distribution yield 6.34% 6.0% to deliver Stockland operates three Security Plans at its discretion for eligible employees which are described below: shared value Long term incentives (LTI) Risk-free rate at grant date 2.05% 2.0% Expected remaining life at grant date 2.8 years 2.8 years Under the LTI, employees have the right to acquire Stockland securities at nil consideration when certain performance conditions are met. Volatility of Stockland 17% 19.0% Governance and Each grant will comprise two equal tranches, each of which vest based on separate performance hurdles (being underlying EPS growth and/or relative TSR) and has a three year vesting period. Eligibility is by invitation of the Board and is reviewed annually. Volatility of Index price 14% 17.0% remuneration Deferred short term incentives (DSTI) For Executives and Senior Management there is a compulsory deferral of at least one third of STI incentives into Stockland securities to The LTI rights of 7,073,951 (2018: 7,865,999) are outstanding as at 30 June 2019, which have a fair value ranging from $1.50 to $2.07 (2018: $1.50 further align remuneration outcomes with securityholders. Half of the awarded DSTI securities will vest 12 months after award with the to $2.04) per right and a weighted average restricted period remaining of 1.5 years (2018: 1.5 years). remaining half vesting 24 months after award, provided employment continues to the applicable vesting date. Financial During the year, 1,627,781 rights (2018: 1,997,042) vested and will convert to securities with a weighted average fair value of $2.82 (2018: $2.52). report $1,000 Plan DSTI Under this plan, eligible employees receive up to $1,000 worth of Stockland securities. The fair value of securities granted under the DSTI has been calculated based on the 10 day volume weighted average price post 30 June 2019 The security options granted under the three Security Plans are held at fair value. The valuation of security options is a key area of of $4.44 (2018: $4.05). accounting estimation and judgement for the Group. Independent The DSTI outstanding as at 30 June 2019, included in the table above, are 2,121,166 (2018: 3,156,676). The DSTI outstanding have fair value ranging auditor’s from $4.05 to $4.33 (2018: $4.00 to $4.84) per security. report The number and weighted average fair value of LTI rights and DSTI securities under the Security Plans are as follows: $1,000 PLAN Weighted average price Number of Stockland securities issued to eligible employees under the Tax Exempt Employee Security Plan ($1,000 Plan) are recognised as an expense with per right/security rights/securities a corresponding increase in issued capital. The value recognised is the market price of the securities granted at grant date. Securityholder Details 2019 2018 2019 2018 information Opening balance $2.97 $3.04 11,022,675 11,551,943 and key dates Granted during the year $2.93 $2.93 4,923,260 5,951,652 Forfeited and lapsed during the year $2.72 $2.30 (3,218,341) (2,524,555) Rights converted to vested Stockland stapled securities $3.56 $3.51 (3,532,477) (3,956,365) Glossary Outstanding at the end of the year $2.79 $2.97 9,195,117 11,022,675 154 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 155 Taxation STOCKLAND Introduction Income tax expense is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income (OCI) or directly in equity. Income tax expense is calculated at the applicable corporate tax rate of 30%, and is comprised of current and deferred IN THIS SECTION tax expense. This section sets out Stockland’s tax accounting policies and provides an analysis of the income tax expense/benefit and deferred tax Current tax expense represents the expense relating to the expected taxable income at the applicable tax rate for the financial year. Deferred tax balances, including a reconciliation of tax expense to accounting profit. Accounting income is not always the same as taxable income, expense represents the tax expense in respect of the future tax consequences of recovering or settling the carrying amount of an asset or liability. Strategy and creating temporary differences. These differences usually reverse over time. Until they reverse a deferred asset or liability must be recognised on the balance sheet, to the extent that it is probable that a reversal will take place. This is known as the balance sheet liability method. Tax consolidation performance Stockland Corporation Limited is head of the tax consolidated group which includes its wholly-owned Australian resident subsidiaries. As a 20. INCOME TAX consequence, all members of the tax consolidated group are taxed as a single entity. Members of the tax consolidated group have entered into a tax sharing agreement and a tax funding arrangement. The arrangement requires that Stockland Corporation Limited assumes the current tax liabilities and deferred tax assets arising from unused tax losses, with payments to Business risks A. Income tax recognised in profit or loss or from subsidiaries settled via intergroup loan. Any subsequent period adjustments are recognised by Stockland Corporation Limited only and do not result in further amounts being payable or receivable under the tax funding arrangement. The tax liabilities of the entities included in the and materiality Year ended 30 June Stockland tax consolidated group will be governed by the tax sharing agreement should Stockland Corporation Limited default on its tax obligations. $M 2019 2018 TRUST Current tax – – Under current Australian income tax legislation, Stockland Trust and its sub-trusts are not liable for income tax on their taxable income Climate-related risks Adjustments for prior years – – (including any assessable component of capital gains) provided that the unitholders are attributed the taxable income of the Trust. Securityholders are liable to pay tax at their effective tax rate on the amounts attributed. Current tax – – Tax losses recognised during the year – 139 21. DEFERRED TAX 1 A better way Tax losses utilised during the year 2 (19) (14) to deliver Capital losses utilised during the year 2 (4) (11) shared value Stockland Origination and reversal of temporary differences (24) (55) As at 30 June Assets Liabilities Net Deferred tax (47) 59 $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Income tax in profit or loss (47) 59 Inventories 52 65 (151) (144) (99) (79) Governance and remuneration 1 Tax losses and capital losses are fully recoverable based on the profitability of Stockland Corporation Group during the year and the latest available profit forecasts. Investment properties 7 11 (433) (438) (426) (427) 2  There is no current tax expense because tax and capital losses totalling $23 million (2018: $25 million) have been utilised to offset the Stockland Corporation Group's taxable income. Property, plant and equipment 3 4 – – 3 4 B. Reconciliation of profit before tax to income tax recognised in profit or loss Payables 13 13 – – 13 13 Financial Year ended 30 June Stockland Retirement Living resident obligations 14 19 – – 14 19 report Provisions 7 5 – – 7 5 $M 2019 2018 Reserves 7 9 – – 7 9 Profit before tax 358 966 Tax losses carried forward 521 544 – – 521 544 Less: Trust profit before tax (242) (712) Independent Adjust for: Intergroup eliminations 13 9 Tax assets/(liabilities) 624 670 (584) (582) 40 88 auditor’s report Profit before tax of Stockland Corporation Group 129 263 Movement in temporary differences Prima facie income tax calculated at 30% (39) (79) Recognised in Recognised in Securityholder Impact on income tax recognised in profit or loss due to: Non-deductible expenses for the year (12) – Profit or Retained Profit or information $M 2017 loss OCI 2018 earnings1 loss 2019 Other deductible expense for the current period 4 – and key dates Inventories (84) 5 – (79) – (20) (99) Tax losses recognised during the year – 139 Investment properties (372) (55) – (427) – 1 (426) – Glossary Underprovided in prior years (1) Property, plant and equipment (7) – 7 – – – – Income tax in profit or loss (47) 59 Other financial assets 6 (2) – 4 – (1) 3 Effective tax rate (benefit)/expense 36% (22%) Payables 13 – – 13 (1) 1 13 Effective tax rate (excluding tax losses recognised) 36% 30% Retirement Living resident obligations 22 (3) – 19 – (5) 14 Tax benefit relating to items of other comprehensive income Provisions 5 – – 5 – 2 7 Year ended 30 June Stockland Reserves 9 – – 9 – (2) 7 $M 2019 2018 Tax losses carried forward 430 114 – 544 – (23) 521 Fair value reserve – 7 Tax assets/(liabilities) 22 59 7 88 (1) (47) 40 Tax benefit relating to items of other comprehensive income – 7 1 Impact of adoption of new accounting standards recorded in retained earning on 1 July 2018. Refer to note 35 for further details. 156 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 157 STOCKLAND The following table analyses, in aggregate, the carrying amount and share of profit or loss and other comprehensive income of these Introduction joint ventures. A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed for recoverability at each balance date and the recognised amount is adjusted as Stockland Trust required. This is a key area of accounting estimation and judgement for the Group. $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Deferred tax is based upon the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities using the applicable Aggregate carrying amount of individually immaterial joint ventures 612 613 620 595 tax rates. Aggregate share of: Strategy and Deferred tax arises due to temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: • profit from continuing operations 75 69 56 69 performance • initial recognition of goodwill; • other comprehensive income – – – – • the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit (for example acquisition of customer lists); and Total comprehensive income 75 69 56 69 • differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they are unlikely to reverse in the foreseeable future. Business risks The ownership interest in each of these immaterial entities is: and materiality RECOVERABILITY OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS An assessment of the recoverability of the net deferred tax asset has been made to determine if the carrying value should be reduced with Stockland Trust reference to the latest available profit forecasts, to determine the availability of suitable taxable profits or taxable temporary differences. % 2019 2018 2019 2018 The assessment for the current year determined that there is convincing evidence, based upon the profitability of Stockland Corporation Group Brisbane Casino Towers 50 50 – – Climate-related during the year and latest available profit forecasts, that all income tax losses of the tax consolidated group have been recognised as deferred risks Compam Property Management Pty Limited 1 50 50 50 50 tax assets. This is consistent with the prior year. Eagle Street Pier Pty Limited 50 50 – – At each reporting period end, the net deferred tax asset will be assessed for recoverability. Macquarie Park Trust 51 51 51 51 TRUST A better way Riverton Forum Pty Limited 50 50 50 50 to deliver There are no deferred tax assets or liabilities in the Trust. As the Trust limits its activities to deriving income from renting commercial property, The King Trust 2 50 50 50 50 shared value and attributes all of its taxable income each year to its investors, the Trust is not subject to tax. However, all of the annual taxable income is subject to tax in the hands of Stockland’s investors. The Trustee of Stockland Trust should be liable to pay tax to the extent that Stockland Willeri Drive Trust 3 50 50 50 50 Trust does not distribute all of its ‘net income’, as determined under Stockland Trust’s trust deed. It is not anticipated that Stockland Trust will 1 Manager for The King Trust. Governance and distribute less than its net income for the current year. 2 Owns 50% of the 135 King Street, Sydney NSW. 3 Owns 50% of the Stockland Riverton, Riverton WA. Group structure CHANGES TO JOINT VENTURES remuneration There have been no changes to the above listed investments in joint ventures during the financial year. IN THIS SECTION Financial This section provides information which will help users understand how the Group structure affects the financial position and performance 23. OTHER ARRANGEMENTS report of the Group as a whole. The Group includes entities that are classified as joint ventures, joint operations, associates and structured entities. Joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method, while joint operations are proportionately consolidated and A. Investments in unconsolidated structured entities structured entities are recorded as investments at cost. In this section of the notes there is information about: A structured entity is an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls Independent the entity. The Group considers all Retail Funds in which it currently holds an investment, and from which it currently earns fee income, to be auditor’s (1) Interests in joint operations; structured entities. report (2) Transactions with non-controlling interests; and The Group holds an interest in a closed-end, unlisted property fund that invests in real estate assets in Australia for the purpose of generating investment income and for capital appreciation. The fund finances its operations through unitholder contributions and also through external (3) Changes to the structure that occurred during the year as a result of business combinations or the disposal of a discontinued operation. banking facilities. The fund has been determined to meet the definition of a structured entity. Securityholder SDRT No.1 information 22. EQUITY-ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS As at 30 June 2019, Stockland held a 19.9% interest in SDRT No.1 (2018: 19.9%), valued at $8 million (2018: $8 million). The Group’s interest in this and key dates fund is included in the ‘Other Financial Assets’ line item on the balance sheet. Stockland and the Trust have interests in a number of individually immaterial joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method. The maximum exposure to risk for SDRT No.1 is the carrying value of its investment in the Fund. Note that at a Unitholder meeting in March 2019, The Group did not have investments in associates at 30 June 2019 or 30 June 2018. the unitholders passed a resolution to wind-up the SDRT No 1 Trust and sell all of the properties. Glossary A joint arrangement is either a venture or operation over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement. Investments in joint ventures are accounted for on an equity-accounted basis. Investments in joint ventures are assessed for impairment when B. Joint operations indicators of impairment are present and if required, written down to the recoverable amount. Joint operations are discussed in note 23. Interests in unincorporated joint operations are consolidated by recognising the Group’s proportionate share of the joint operations’ assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the joint operation’s revenue from the sale of their share of goods or services on a line-by-line basis, from The Group’s share of the joint venture’s profit or loss and other comprehensive income is from the date joint control commences until the date the date joint control commences to the date joint control ceases and are not included in the above table. joint control ceases. If the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in a joint venture, the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture. Transactions with the joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the joint venture until such time as they are realised by the joint venture on consumption or sale. 158 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 159 24. CONTROLLED ENTITIES Stockland Aevum Limited1 Stockland Retail Services Pty Limited1 Introduction Stockland Aevum SPV Finance No. 1 Pty Limited Stockland Retirement Pty Limited1 The following entities were 100% controlled during the current and prior years: Stockland Affinity Retirement Village Pty Limited Stockland Richmond Retirement Village Pty Limited CONTROLLED ENTITIES OF STOCKLAND CORPORATION LIMITED Stockland Bellevue Gardens Pty Limited Stockland Ridgecrest Village Management Services Pty Limited Albert & Co Pty Ltd 1 Stockland Greenleaves Management Services Pty Limited Stockland Bells Creek Pty Limited 1 Stockland Ridgecrest Village Pty Limited ARC Joint Ventures Pty. Ltd. 1 Stockland Greenleaves Village Pty Limited Stockland Birtinya Retirement Village Pty Limited 1 Stockland RRV Pty Limited1 Strategy and Bayview Road Property Trust Stockland Hibernian Investment Company Pty Limited1 Stockland Buddina Pty Limited1 Stockland RVG (Queensland) Pty Limited performance Bellevue Gardens Trust Stockland Highett Pty Limited 2 Stockland Caboolture Waters Pty Limited 1 Stockland Salford Living Pty Limited1 Endeavour (No. 2) Unit Trust Stockland Highlands Pty Limited1 Stockland Caloundra Downs Pty Limited1 Stockland Scrip Holdings Pty Limited IOR Friendly Society Pty Limited Stockland Highlands Retirement Village Pty Limited Stockland Capital Partners Limited Stockland Selandra Rise Retirement Village Pty Limited Business risks 1 and materiality Jimboomba Trust Stockland Holding Trust No. 3 Stockland Care Foundation Pty Limited Stockland Services Pty Limited1 JT Bid Co No. 1 Pty Limited Stockland Holding Trust No. 4 Stockland Care Foundation Trust Stockland Singapore Pte Ltd JT Bid Co No. 2 Pty Limited Stockland Holding Trust No. 5 Stockland Castlehaven Pty Limited Stockland South Beach Pty Limited1 Climate-related Knowles Property Management Unit Trust Stockland Holding Trust No. 6 Stockland Castleridge Pty Limited Stockland Syndicate No. 1 Trust risks Knox Unit Trust Stockland IOR Group Pty Limited1 Stockland Catering Pty Limited Stockland Templestowe Retirement Village Pty Limited1 Mayflower Investments Pty Ltd Stockland Kawana Waters Pty Limited1 Stockland Development (Holdings) Pty Limited1 Stockland The Grove Retirement Village Pty Limited4 Merrylands Court Pty Limited Stockland Knox Village Pty Limited 1 Stockland Development (NAPA NSW) Pty Limited1 Stockland The Hastings Valley Parklands Village Pty Limited A better way Northpoint No. 1 Trust Stockland Lake Doonella Pty Limited 1 Stockland Development (NAPA QLD) Pty Limited1 Stockland The Pines Retirement Village Pty Limited1 to deliver Northpoint No. 2 Trust Stockland Lensworth Glenmore Park Limited Stockland Development (NAPA VIC) Pty Limited Stockland Trust Management Limited shared value 1 1 Northpoint No. 3 Trust Stockland Lincoln Gardens Pty Limited Stockland Development (PHH) Pty Limited 1 Stockland Vermont Retirement Village Pty Limited1 Northpoint No. 4 Trust Stockland Long Island Village Pty Limited1 Stockland Development (PR1) Pty Limited Stockland WA (Estates) Pty Limited1 Governance and Northpoint No. 5 Trust Stockland Management Limited Stockland Development (PR2) Pty Limited Stockland WA Development (Realty) Pty Limited1 remuneration Northpoint No. 6 Trust Stockland Maybrook Manor Pty Limited Stockland Development (PR3) Pty Limited Stockland WA Development (Vertu Sub 1) Pty Limited Nowra Property Unit Trust Stockland Mernda Retirement Village Pty Limited Stockland Development (PR4) Pty Limited Stockland WA Development Pty Limited1 Patterson Lakes Unit Trust Stockland Miami (Fund) Unit Trust Stockland Development (Sub3) Pty Limited Stockland Wallarah Peninsula Management Pty Limited1 Retirement Living Acquisition Trust Stockland Miami (Non-Fund) Unit Trust Stockland Development (Sub4) Pty Limited Stockland Wallarah Peninsula Pty Limited1 Financial report Retirement Living Holding Trust No. 1 Stockland Miami (QLD) Pty Limited1 Stockland Development (Sub5) Pty Limited Stockland Wantirna Village Pty Limited1 Retirement Living Holding Trust No. 2 Stockland Midlands Terrace Adult Community Pty Limited1 Stockland Development (Sub7) Pty Limited1 Stockland Willowdale Retirement Village Pty Limited Retirement Living Holding Trust No. 3 Stockland Newport Retirement Village Pty Limited2 Stockland Development Pty Limited1 Stockland Willows Retirement Village Services Pty Limited Retirement Living Holding Trust No. 4 Stockland North Lakes Development Pty Limited1 Stockland Direct Retail Trust No. 2 Templestowe Unit Trust Independent auditor’s Retirement Living Holding Trust No. 5 Stockland North Lakes Pty Limited 1 Stockland Epping Retirement Village Pty Limited The Mount Gravatt Retirement Village Unit Trust report Retirement Living Holding Trust No. 6 Stockland Oak Grange Pty Limited 1 Stockland Eurofinance Pty Limited1 The Pine Lake Management Services Unit Trust Retirement Living Unit Trust No. 1 Stockland Ormeau Trust Stockland Farrington Grove Retirement Village Pty Limited Toowong Place Pty Limited Retirement Living Unit Trust No. 2 Stockland Patterson Village Pty Limited Stockland Financial Services Pty Limited Vermont Unit Trust Securityholder 1 1 Rogan’s Hill Retirement Village Trust Stockland Pine Lake Management Services Pty Limited Stockland Golden Ponds Forster Pty Limited information and key dates SDRT 2 Property 1 Trust Stockland Pine Lake Village Pty Limited 1 These entities are parties to the Deed of Cross Guarantee and members of the Closed Group as at 30 June 2019. SDRT 2 Property 2 Trust Stockland PR1 Trust 2 These entities were incorporated in the current financial year. 3 These entities were sold or liquidated in the current financial year. Glossary SDRT 2 Property 3 Trust Stockland PR2 Trust 4 This entity changed its name during the financial year from Stockland Newport Retirement Village Pty Limited. The change was effective from 12 July 2018. SDRT 2 Property 4 Trust Stockland PR3 Trust Stockland (Boardwalk Sub 2) Pty Limited Stockland PR4 Trust Stockland (Queensland) Pty. Limited1 Stockland Property Management Pty Ltd1 Stockland (Russell Street) Pty Limited1 Stockland Property Services Pty Limited1 Stockland A.C.N 116 788 713 Pty Limited1 Stockland Queenslake Village Pty Limited 160 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 161 CONTROLLED ENTITIES OF STOCKLAND TRUST 25. DEED OF CROSS GUARANTEE Introduction 9 Castlereagh Street Unit Trust Stockland Harrisdale Trust Stockland Corporation Limited and certain wholly-owned companies (the Closed Group) are parties to a Deed of Cross Guarantee (the Deed). ADP Trust Stockland Industrial No. 1 Property 1 Trust The effect of the Deed is that the members of the Closed Group guarantee to each creditor, payment in full of any debt, in the event of winding up Advance Property Fund Stockland Industrial No. 1 Property 4 Trust of any of the members under certain provisions of the Corporations Act 2001. Capricornia Property Trust Stockland Industrial No. 1 Property 5 Trust ASIC Corporations (Wholly-owned Companies) Instrument 2016/785 provides relief to parties to the Deed from the Corporations Act 2001 requirements for preparation, audit and lodgement of Financial Reports and Directors’ reports, subject to certain conditions as set out therein. Strategy and Endeavour (No. 1) Unit Trust Stockland Industrial No. 1 Property 6 Trust Pursuant to the requirements of this instrument, a summarised consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 performance Flinders Industrial Property Trust Stockland Industrial No. 1 Property 7 Trust June 2019 and consolidated balance sheet as at 30 June 2019, comprising the members of the Closed Group after eliminating all transactions Flinders Industrial Property Subtrust (No. 1) Stockland Industrial No. 1 Property 8 Trust between members, are set out on the following pages. Hervey Bay Holding Trust Stockland Industrial No. 1 Property 9 Trust Hervey Bay Sub Trust Stockland Industrial No. 1 Property 11 Trust Consolidated balance sheet Closed Group Business risks and materiality Industrial Property Trust Stockland Marrickville Unit Trust $M 2019 2018 Jimboomba Village Shopping Centre and Tavern Trust Stockland Mornington Unit Trust Cash and cash equivalents 50 90 SDOT 4 Property # 1 Trust Stockland Mulgrave Unit Trust Receivables 101 58 Climate-related SDOT 4 Property # 2 Trust Stockland North Ryde Unit Trust Inventories 1,007 707 risks SDOT 4 Property # 3 Trust Stockland Padstow Unit Trust Other assets 15 22 SDRT 1 Property # 3 Trust Stockland Parkinson Unit Trust 1,173 877 SDRT 3 Property # 1 Trust Stockland Quarry Road Trust Non-current assets held for sale – 43 A better way SDRT 3 Property # 2 Trust Stockland Retail Holding Sub-Trust No. 1 Current assets 1,173 920 to deliver SDRT 3 Property # 3 Trust Stockland Retail Holding Trust No. 1 Receivables 16 15 shared value Shellharbour Property Trust Sugarland Shopping Centre Trust Inventories 2,500 2,749 Stockland Baringa Shopping Centre Trust Stockland Wholesale Office Trust No. 1 Investment properties 2,349 2,234 Governance and Stockland Bayswater Unit Trust Stockland Wholesale Office Trust No. 2 Equity-accounted investments – 25 remuneration Stockland Birtinya Shopping Centre Trust Stockland Richlands Unit Trust Other financial assets 38 38 Stockland Bundaberg Trust Stockland St Marys Unit Trust Property, plant and equipment 31 27 Stockland Brooklyn Industrial Trust Stockland Tingalpa Unit Trust Intangible assets 156 119 Deferred tax assets 40 88 Financial Stockland Castlereagh Street Trust Stockland Truganina Industrial Trust report Stockland Direct Diversified Fund Stockland Willawong Industrial Trust Other assets 3 – Stockland Direct Office Trust No. 4 Stockland Wonderland Drive Property Trust Non-current assets 5,133 5,295 Stockland Direct Retail Trust No. 3 SWOT2 Sub Trust No. 1 Assets 6,306 6,215 Payables 571 638 Independent Stockland Eastern Creek Trust SWOT2 Sub Trust No. 2 auditor’s Retirement Living resident obligations 1,322 1,207 Stockland Finance Holdings Pty Limited1 SWOT2 Sub Trust No. 3 report Stockland Finance Pty Limited1 Stockland Kemps Creek Industrial Trust 2 Provisions 357 575 Other liabilities 20 33 1 These entities are parties to the Deed of Cross Guarantee (Finance) as at 30 June 2019. 2 These entities were formed/incorporated or acquired in the current financial year. Current liabilities 2,270 2,453 Securityholder Payables 147 173 information All Stockland entities were formed/incorporated in Australia with the exception of Stockland Singapore Pte. Ltd. which is incorporated in Singapore. Borrowings 2,972 2,770 and key dates Stockland owns all the issued shares/units of the respective controlled entities (unless otherwise stated) and such shares/units carry the voting, Retirement Living resident obligations 38 38 dividend/distribution and equitable rights. Glossary Provisions 396 383 Non-current liabilities 3,553 3,364 Liabilities 5,823 5,817 Net assets 483 398 Issued capital 1,298 1,313 Reserves 2 2 Accumulated losses (817) (917) Securityholders’ equity 483 398 Refer to the basis of preparation for comments on the net current asset deficiency position of the group. 162 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 163 Summarised consolidated statement of comprehensive income Closed Group Other items Introduction $M 2019 2018 Profit before tax 129 157 In this section Income tax (29) 59 This section includes information about the financial performance and position of the Group that must be disclosed to comply with the Profit after tax 100 216 Accounting Standards, the Corporations Act 2001 or the Corporations Regulations 2001. Other comprehensive income – (1) Strategy and Total comprehensive income 100 performance 215 27. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW Summarised movement in consolidated accumulated losses Closed Group A. Reconciliation of profit after tax to net cash flows from operating activities $M 2019 2018 Business risks and materiality Accumulated losses at 1 July (917) (1,133) Stockland Trust Adjustment for entities added/removed – – $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Profit after tax 100 216 Profit after tax 311 1,025 242 712 Climate-related Accumulated losses at 30 June (817) (917) Adjustments for: – risks Net impact on fair value hedges 7 12 6 12 Net impact on derivatives 133 (5) 134 (5) 26. PARENT ENTITY DISCLOSURES Interest capitalised to investment properties (9) (17) (3) (10) Net impact on sale of non-current assets 21 (16) 21 – A better way Stockland Stockland to deliver Net impact on other financial assets – (26) – (16) Corporation Limited Trust shared value $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 DMF base fee earned, unrealised (26) (31) – – Results for the year ended 30 June Net write-back of inventories impairment provision 1 – – – Governance and Profit for the year 85 310 242 686 Depreciation 16 16 – – Straight-line rent adjustments (3) (6) (3) (6) remuneration Other comprehensive income – (1) (6) 22 Total comprehensive income for the year 85 309 236 708 Impairment of Retirement Living goodwill 38 – – – Financial position as at 30 June Net unrealised change in fair value of investment properties 297 (180) 210 (109) (including equity-accounted investments) Current assets 4,555 4,436 466 549 Financial Share of profits of equity-accounted investments, net of distributions received – 1 – 1 report Assets 1 4,688 4,617 22,678 21,684 Equity-settled security based payments 12 15 – – Current liabilities – – 9,597 8,762 Other items (3) (9) 7 1 Liabilities 3,831 3,831 13,739 12,130 Adjustments for movements: Net assets 857 786 8,939 9,554 Independent • Receivables (69) 18 (11) (5) auditor’s Issued capital 1,299 1,313 7,358 7,538 • Other assets (4) 14 (10) 10 report Reserves 2 2 86 96 • Inventories (40) (974) – – (Accumulated losses)/retained earnings (444) (529) 1,495 1,920 • Deferred tax assets 48 (61) – – Equity 857 786 8,939 9,554 Securityholder • Payables and other liabilities (169) 337 (1) 14 information 1 There were no intangible assets as at 30 June 2019 (2018: $nil). • Resident obligations (net of impact of village disposals) 43 112 – – and key dates PARENT ENTITY CONTINGENCIES • Other provisions (210) 503 – – There are no contingencies within either parent entity as at 30 June 2019 (2018: $nil). Net cash flows from operating activities 394 728 592 599 PARENT ENTITY CAPITAL COMMITMENTS Glossary Neither parent entity has entered into any capital commitments as at 30 June 2019 (2018: $nil). ASIC DEED OF CROSS GUARANTEE Stockland Corporation Limited has entered into a Deed of Cross Guarantee with the effect that it has guaranteed debts in respect of its subsidiaries. Further details of the Deed of Cross Guarantee and the subsidiaries subject to the deed are disclosed in note 25. 164 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 165 B. Reconciliation of movement in financial liabilities arising from financing activities 30. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES Introduction Stockland and Trust Non cash movements Year ended 30 June Stockland Trust Opening Net cash Foreign exchange Fair value Closing $’000s 2019 2018 2019 2018 $M balance flow movements changes balance Responsible Entity fees 564 576 – – Offshore medium term notes 3,381 82 10 299 3,772 Management and service fee 77 77 – – Strategy and Domestic medium term notes 557 200 – – 757 Property management, tenancy design and leasing fees 2,423 2,098 – – performance Bank facilities and commercial paper – 175 – – 175 Rental income – – 4,774 5,125 2019 3,938 457 10 299 4,704 Finance income – – 282,166 266,448 Business risks Offshore medium term notes 2,842 504 40 (5) 3,381 Revenue from related parties 3,064 2,751 286,940 271,573 and materiality Domestic medium term notes 557 – – – 557 Responsible Entity fees – – 37,700 37,583 Bank facilities and commercial paper 130 (130) – – – Property management, tenancy design and leasing fees – – 28,304 28,567 2018 3,529 374 40 (5) 3,938 Recoupment of expenses – – 63,156 66,382 Development management fee capitalised to investment property – – 6,183 23,657 Climate-related 28. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES risks Expenses to related parties – – 135,343 156,189 RESPONSIBLE ENTITY AND OTHER MANAGEMENT FEES KEEPING IT SIMPLE A better way Stockland received Responsible Entity and other Management Fees from the unlisted property funds managed by Stockland during the A contingent liability is a liability that is not sufficiently certain to qualify for recognition as a provision where uncertainty may exist to deliver financial year. regarding the outcome of future events. shared value The Trust pays Responsible Entity fees to Stockland Trust Management Limited, calculated at 0.3% to 0.35% of gross assets of the Trust less intergroup loans (2018: 0.3 – 0.35%). Contingent liabilities at 30 June 2019 comprise bank guarantees, letters of credit and insurance bonds. Governance and Property management expenses and tenancy design fees were paid by the Trust to Stockland Trust Management Limited (the Responsible Stockland and Trust Entity) or its related parties provided in the normal course of business and on normal terms and conditions. remuneration $M 2019 2018 RENTAL INCOME Bank guarantees, letters of credit and insurance bonds issued to semi and local government and 443 421 Rent was paid by Stockland Corporation Limited, a related party of the Responsible Entity to Stockland Trust in the normal course of business other authorities against performance contracts, maximum facility $750 million (2018: $610 million) and on normal terms and conditions. Financial FINANCE INCOME report 29. COMMITMENTS The Trust has an unsecured loan to Stockland Corporation Limited of $3,533,931 thousand (2018: $3,303,404 thousand) repayable in 2023. Interest on the loan is payable monthly in arrears at interest rates within the range of 7.5% to 8.2% during the year ended 30 June 2019 (2018: A. Capital expenditure commitments 7.7% to 8.1%). Independent Commitments for acquisition of land and future development costs not recognised in the financial statements at balance date are as follows: Interest was paid by Stockland Corporation Limited to Stockland Trust, a related party of the Responsible Entity provided in the normal course of auditor’s business and on normal terms and conditions. report Stockland Trust DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT FEE $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 A development management deed was executed between Stockland Trust and Stockland Development Pty Limited (a controlled entity of the Inventory 395 363 – – Stockland Corporation Limited) effective 1 July 2012 in relation to a management fee in respect of Retail developments. The fee represents Securityholder information Investment property 106 218 30 36 remuneration for the Corporation’s property development expertise and for developments which commenced after 1 July 2016 is calculated based on a fixed 4.0% of total development costs in line with recent changes to benchmark methodologies (for developments which Capital expenditure commitments 501 581 30 36 and key dates commenced prior to 1 July 2016, the fee is calculated as 50.0% of the total valuation gain or loss on the completion of a development). Fees are paid by Stockland Trust to Stockland Development Pty Limited. B. Operating lease commitments Glossary Stockland has trade receivables of $381 thousand (2018: $379 thousand) due from the unlisted property funds. Stockland Trust As at 30 June 2019, the carrying amount of Stockland’s investment in the unlisted property funds was $8,323 thousand (2018: $8,203 thousand). $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Within one year 8 9 – – Later than one year but not later than five years 29 31 – – Later than five years 2 8 – – Operating lease commitments 39 48 – – During the current financial year, $9 million was recognised as an expense in Stockland’s profit or loss in respect of operating leases (2018: $9 million). No operating lease expense was recognised in the Trust’s profit or loss. 166 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 167 31. PERSONNEL EXPENSES OTHER TRANSACTIONS WITH KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL Introduction There are transactions between the Group and entities with which key management personnel have an association. These transactions do not meet the definition of related parties since the key management personnel as individuals are not considered to have control or significant Year ended 30 June Stockland Trust influence over the financial or operating activities of the respective non-Stockland entities. Furthermore, the terms and conditions of those $M 2019 2018 2019 2018 transactions were no more favourable than those available, or might reasonably be available, on similar transactions to non-key management Wages and salaries (including on-costs) 210 214 – – personnel related entities on an arm’s length basis. Equity-settled security based payment transactions 12 15 – – From time to time key management personnel acquire Residential land lots from the Group. These purchases are at market rates and on an Strategy and performance arm’s length basis. For FY19 this amounted to $518 thousand (2018: $nil) net of deposits received in FY18 of $58 thousand (2019: $nil). Contributions to defined contribution plans 14 12 – – Increase in annual and long service leave provisions 3 5 – – 33. AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION Redundancy provision 6 6 – – Personnel expenses 245 252 – – Year ended 30 June Stockland Trust Business risks $000’s 2019 2018 2019 2018 and materiality PERSONNEL EXPENSES PricewaterhouseCoopers Australia The total personnel expenses for the year was $245 million (2018: $252 million), which includes $12,407 thousand of equity-settled security based Audit and review of Financial Report 1,942 1,669 561 565 Climate-related payment transactions (2018: $15,472 thousand). Audit of Unlisted Property Fund Financial Reports 112 108 – – risks ANNUAL LEAVE Regulatory audit and assurance services 647 847 393 587 Accrued annual leave of $13 million (2018: $12 million) is presented in current liabilities, since Stockland does not have an unconditional right Other audit and assurance services – – – – to defer settlement for any of these obligations. Based on past experience, Stockland expects all employees to take the full amount of accrued leave within the next 12 months. Remuneration for audit services 2,701 2,624 954 1,152 A better way Other non-audit services 199 98 – – to deliver LONG SERVICE LEAVE Remuneration for non-audit services 199 98 – – shared value The current portion of long service leave includes all unconditional entitlements where employees have completed the required period of service and also those where employees are entitled to pro-rata payments in certain circumstances. Auditor remuneration 2,900 2,722 954 1,152 Governance and The liability for long service leave expected to be settled more than 12 months from the balance date is recognised in the provision for employee benefits and measured as the present value of expected payments to be made in respect of services provided by employees up to the Auditor’s fees are paid by Stockland Development Pty Limited on behalf of the Group. remuneration balance date. 34. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Consideration is given to expected future wage and salary levels, past experience of employee departures and periods of service. Expected future payments are discounted using market yields at the balance date on corporate bonds with terms to maturity that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash outflows. KEEPING IT SIMPLE Financial BONUS ENTITLEMENTS report Accounting policies that apply to a specific category in the profit or loss or balance sheet have been included within the relevant notes. A liability is recognised in current trade and other payables for employee benefits in the form of employee bonus entitlements where there is a The accounting policies listed below are those that apply across a number of the Group’s profit or loss and balance sheet categories and contractual obligation or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation. Liabilities for employee bonus entitlements are not specific to a single category. are expected to be settled within 12 months and are measured at the amounts expected to be paid when they are settled. Independent SUPERANNUATION PLAN auditor’s Stockland contributes to several defined contribution superannuation plans. Contributions are recognised as a personnel expense as they are A. Principles of consolidation report incurred. The annual expense was $14,268 thousand (2018: $12,403 thousand). CONTROLLED ENTITIES The consolidated financial statements of the Group incorporate the assets, liabilities and results of all controlled entities. 32. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL DISCLOSURES Securityholder information Controlled entities are all entities over which the parent entities Stockland or the Trust is exposed to, or has right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the relevant activities of the entity. and key dates Year ended 30 June Stockland Trust Intergroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between controlled entities are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also $000’s 2019 2018 2019 2018 eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of the impairment of the asset transferred. Glossary Short term employee benefits 8,631 13,205 – – FOREIGN CURRENCY Post-employment benefits 255 309 – – Transactions Other long term benefits 68 172 – – Foreign currency transactions are translated into the entity’s functional currency at the exchange rate on the transaction date. Termination benefits 817 1,050 – – Security based payments 2,872 7,631 – – Key management personnel compensation 12,643 22,367 – – Information regarding individual Directors’ and Executives’ remuneration is provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 103 of the Directors’ Report. 168 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 169 Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Australian dollars at balance date using the following applicable C. New and amended Accounting Standards Introduction exchange rates: MANDATORY IN FUTURE YEARS Foreign currency amount Applicable exchange rate Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for the year ended 30 June 2019. Stockland’s Monetary assets and liabilities Balance date assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost Date of transaction AASB 16 Leases (effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019) Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value Date fair value is determined AASB 16 Leases replaces existing guidance, including AASB 117 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease. AASB Strategy and 16 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. performance Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the profit or loss. The revised lease standard sets out a comprehensive model for identifying lease arrangements and subsequent measurement. Under the new Translation of financial reports of foreign operations standard, the lessee is required to recognise all right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities on the balance sheet, with the exception of short term and low value leases. The right-of-use asset reflects the lease liability, direct costs and any adjustments for lease incentives or Business risks Financial reports of foreign operations are translated to Australian dollars using the following applicable exchange rates: restoration. Foreign currency amount Applicable exchange rate The lease liability is the net present value of future lease payments for the lease term, which incorporates any options reasonably expected and materiality to be exercised. The contracted cash flows are separated into principal repayments and interest components, using the effective interest Revenues and expenses of foreign operations Date of transaction rate method. Depreciation expense on the right-of-use asset and interest expense on the lease liability will now be recognised instead of a Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill Balance date rental expense. and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation Climate-related An assessment has been performed based on each operating lease arrangement that exists in the current reporting period. The assessment risks Equity items Historical rates confirmed that the new standard will not have a material impact on Stockland or the Trust. Based on the assessment performed, if AASB 16 had been adopted for the year ended 30 June 2019, a right-of-use asset and a lease liability would have been recognised on the balance sheet, while straight line rent liabilities would have been derecognised. Total assets and total liabilities would have increased by less than 1%, Net Assets The following foreign exchange differences are recognised directly in the foreign currency translation reserve, a separate component of equity: would decrease by less than 1%. Statutory profit would decrease by less than 1%. The operating lease commitments would also have been A better way • foreign currency differences arising on translation of foreign operations; adjusted accordingly. to deliver • exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities and of related hedges (which are recycled into profit Lessor accounting remains largely unchanged, and hence there is no material impact on accounting for income from Stockland’s Retirement shared value or loss upon disposal); and Living and Commercial Property businesses. • foreign exchange gains and losses arising from a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, the settlement of which is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable future (which are monetary items considered to form part of the net investment in a foreign 35. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES operation). Governance and B. Reserves A. AASB 9 Financial Instruments remuneration EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION RESERVE The Group has adopted AASB 9 as issued in December 2014. The accounting policies were updated to comply with AASB 9. AASB 9 replaces the provisions of AASB 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement that relate to the recognition, classification and measurement The executive remuneration reserve arises due to the rights and deferred securities awarded under the LTI and DSTI being accounted for as Financial of financial assets and financial liabilities; derecognition of financial instruments; impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting. AASB security based payments. The fair value of the rights and deferred securities is recognised as an employee expense in profit or loss with a report 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures was also amended to incorporate more extensive qualitative and quantitative disclosure requirement corresponding increase in the reserve over the vesting period. On vesting, the LTI and DSTI awards are settled by allocating treasury securities relating to AASB 9. to the rights holder, the cost to acquire the treasury securities is recognised in the executive remuneration reserve by a transfer from treasury securities. Where rights are forfeited due to failure to satisfy a service or performance condition, the cumulative expense is reversed through Adoption of AASB 9 has resulted in a change in accounting policies and adjustments to certain amounts recognised in the financial statements. profit or loss in the current year. The cumulative expenditure for rights which lapse due to failure to satisfy a market condition are transferred to The new accounting policies apply to the period commenced 1 July 2018 and the policies in the 30 June 2018 annual financial statements apply Independent retained earnings on expiry. to the comparative periods. auditor’s CASH FLOW HEDGE RESERVE IMPACT OF FIRST TIME ADOPTION OF AASB 9 report The cash flow hedge reserve is used to record the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as The Group has fully adopted AASB 9 using the modified retrospective approach, with the effect of initially applying the standard recognised as cash flow hedges, refer to note 16. a transition adjustment to the opening balance sheet and retained earnings at the date of initial application of 1 July 2018. Comparatives for the 2018 financial year have therefore not been restated. Securityholder FAIR VALUE RESERVE The adoption of AASB 9 resulted in the following classification changes on initial application at 1 July 2018: information and key dates The fair value reserve comprises the cumulative net change in the fair value of available for sale financial assets until the assets are derecognised or impaired. Former classification Financial assets under AASB 139 New classification under AASB 9 FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION RESERVE Glossary Trade receivables Loans and receivables Financial assets subsequently measured at amortised costs The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of Other receivables Loans and receivables Financial assets subsequently measured at amortised costs foreign operations and from derivatives used to hedge operations/funding. Other assets Loans and receivables Financial assets subsequently measured at amortised costs Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets Financial assets subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss or other comprehensive income Financial assets are classified based on the business model within which the asset is held and on the basis of the financial asset's contractual cash flow characteristics. The above changes in classification has not had any impact on measurement except as explained below. AASB 9 also introduces an expected credit loss (ECL) impairment model which differs significantly from the incurred loss approach under AASB 139. The ECL model is forward looking and does not require evidence of an actual loss event for an impairment provision to be recognised. 170 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 171 For trade receivables, Stockland and the Trust apply the simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses as prescribed by AASB 9, Directors’ declaration Introduction which provides for the use of the lifetime expected loss provision for all trade receivables. There was an immaterial impact to Stockland’s financial asset provisions on adoption of AASB 9. (1) In the opinion of the Directors of Stockland Corporation Limited, and the Directors of the Responsible Entity of Stockland Trust, Stockland The Trust has applied the new expected credit losses impairment model to the $3,288 million unsecured intergroup loan receivable from Trust Management Limited (collectively referred to as the Directors): Stockland Corporation Limited which is repayable in 2023. While there has been no history of defaults, and the loan is considered to be low credit risk, an impairment provision determined as twelve months expected credit losses of $8 million has been recorded in retained earnings on (a) the financial statements and notes of Stockland Corporation Limited and its controlled entities, including Stockland Trust and its Strategy and adoption as follows. This loan eliminates on consolidation so there is no impact on Stockland. controlled entities (Stockland) and Stockland Trust and its controlled entities (Trust), set out on pages 108 to 172, are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: performance Consolidated balance sheet Trust Amount under AASB 139 Amount under AASB 9 (i) giving a true and fair view of Stockland’s and the Trust’s financial position as at 30 June 2019 and of their performance, for the financial $M 30 June 2018 1 July 2018 Decrease year ended on that date; and Non-current receivables due from related companies 3,288 3,280 (8) (ii) complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001; and Retained earnings 2,000 1,992 (8) (b) there are reasonable grounds to believe that both Stockland and the Trust will be able to pay their debts as and when they become Business risks and materiality due and payable. B. AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (2) There are reasonable grounds to believe that Stockland Corporation Limited and the Stockland entities identified in note 24 will be able to meet any obligations or liabilities to which they are or may become subject to by virtue of the Deed of Cross Guarantee between those Group AASB 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised. It replaces existing Climate-related entities pursuant to ASIC Corporations (Wholly-owned Companies) Instrument 2016/785. revenue recognition guidance, including AASB 118 Revenue, AASB 111 Construction Contracts and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes. (3) Stockland Trust has operated during the year ended 30 June 2019 in accordance with the provisions of the Trust Constitution of 24 October risks The core principle of AASB 15 is that an entity recognises revenue related to the transfer of promised goods or services when control of the 2006, as amended. goods or service passes to the customer. It requires the identification of discrete performance obligations within a transaction and allocating an associated transaction price to these obligations. The Group adopted AASB 15 with effect from 1 July 2018. (4) The Register of Unitholders has, during the year ended 30 June 2019, been properly drawn up and maintained so as to give a true account of the unitholders of the Stockland Trust. Adoption of AASB 15 has resulted in a change in accounting policies and adjustments to certain amounts recognised in the financial statements A better way as noted below. The new accounting policies apply to the period commenced 1 July 2018 and the policies in the 30 June 2018 annual financial (5) The Directors have been given the declarations required by Section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001 from the Managing Director and Chief to deliver statements apply to the comparative periods. Financial Officer for the year ended 30 June 2019. shared value IMPACT OF FIRST TIME ADOPTION OF AASB 15 (6) The Directors draw attention to the basis of preparation section to the financial statements, which includes a Statement of Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards. The Group has adopted AASB 15 using the modified retrospective approach, with the effect of initially applying the standard recognised as a Governance and transition adjustment to the opening balance sheet and retained earnings at the date of initial application of 1 July 2018. Comparatives for the Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Directors: 2018 financial year have therefore not been restated. There has been no change in the timing of recognition of revenue on adoption of this standard for property development sales and outgoings remuneration recoveries. Commercial Property rental income and Retirement Living DMF revenue continue to meet the definition of a lease arrangement and fall outside of the scope of AASB 15. Financial AASB 15 requires incremental costs which are directly attributable to obtaining a contract (e.g. a sales commission) to be deferred and report recognised as a capitalised cost to acquire a contract on balance sheet. This treatment is optional under AASB 15 where the related benefit (revenue) is expected to flow within one year or less of incurring the commission cost, which is the case for the majority of Residential land and Tom Pockett Mark Steinert Retirement Living sales. Chairman Managing Director On adoption of AASB 15, a $4 million asset relating to capitalised cost to acquire a contract has been recorded at 1 July 2018, with a Independent corresponding increase in retained earnings, in relation to Medium Density sales commissions incurred where settlements are not forecast Dated at Sydney, 21 August 2019 auditor’s to occur within one year. There will be an immaterial impact on the timing of the recognition of the commission expense in future periods. report Stockland Amount under AASB 118 Amount under AASB 15 Increase/ $M 30 June 2018 1 July 2018 (decrease) Securityholder Consolidated statement of comprehensive income information Management, administration, marketing and selling expenses: and key dates • residential sales commissions 5 – (5) Glossary • amortisation expense (contract asset) – 6 6 Expense 5 6 1 Consolidated balance sheet Non-current capitalised cost to acquire a contract – 4 4 Non-current deferred tax liabilities – 1 1 Retained earnings – 3 3 In addition to revenue generated directly from leases, which are accounted for in accordance with AASB 117, rent from investment properties includes non-lease revenue earned from tenants, predominantly in relation to recovery of asset operating costs (known as ‘outgoings’). This outgoings revenue is within the scope of AASB 15 and therefore recognised and measured under that standard. The outgoings recoveries element of external segment revenue is disclosed in note 1. 172 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 173 Independent Introduction auditor’s report Strategy and performance Business risks and materiality Independent auditor’s report Our audit approach Our audit approach Climate-related To the stapled securityholders of Stockland and the unitholders of Stockland Trust Group An audit is designed to provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial report is free from An audit misstatement. material is designed to provide mayassurance reasonable Misstatements about arise due to whether fraud or error. financial theThey report is free are considered from if material risks material misstatement. individually Misstatements or in aggregate, they could may arise due reasonably be to fraud ortoerror. expected influence areeconomic Theythe considered materialofif decisions Report on the audit of the financial report individually users taken on in aggregate, or the they basis of the could reasonably financial report. be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial report. Our opinion We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an We tailored thefinancial scope of report our audit ensuretaking as atowhole, that we performed enough work toand be management able to give an In our opinion: opinion on the into account the geographic A better way opinion structureon ofthe financial Stockland report and as a whole,Trust the Stockland taking into account Group, the geographic their accounting and and management processes controls and the to deliver The accompanying financial reports of Stockland, being the consolidated stapled entity, which structure ofwhich industry in Stockland they and the Stockland Trust Group, their accounting processes and controls and the operate. industry in which they operate. shared value comprises Stockland Corporation Limited and its controlled entities, and Stockland Trust and its controlled entities (together the “Stockland Trust Group” or the “Trust”) are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: (a) giving a true and fair view of the financial positions of Stockland and the Stockland Trust Group as at 30 June 2019 and of their financial performance for the year then ended Governance and remuneration (b) complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001. What we have audited The financial reports of Stockland and the Stockland Trust Group (the financial report) comprise: • the consolidated balance sheet as at 30 June 2019 Financial report • the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Materiality Audit scope Key audit matters Materiality Audit scope Key audit matters • the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended • For the purpose of our audit • Our audit focused on where • Amongst other relevant topics, • the consolidated statement of cash flow for the year then ended For the purpose • of Stockland andofthe our audit • Our Stockland and the on audit focused where Stockland • Amongst other relevant we communicated the topics, • the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies of Stockland Stockland Trust the we andGroup, Stockland Trust Groupand the Stockland made subjective following key auditthe we communicated matters to Stockland used overall Trust Group, we materiality of Trust Group made judgements; subjective for example, the Audit key following audit matters to Committee: Independent • the directors’ declaration. used overall $44.8 millionmateriality and $34.9of judgements; significant for example, accounting the Audit Committee: auditor’s $44.8 million million, and $34.9 respectively, which estimates accounting significantinvolving Valuation of Investment Basis for opinion million, respectively, represents approximately which 5% estimates involving assumptions and inherently propertiesof Valuation – Investment Commercial report represents approximately properties Property – Commercial of Funds from Operations.5% assumptions uncertain inherently andevents. future Property We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under of Funds The metric from Operations. is defined in note 2 uncertain future events. Valuation of Investment those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial The of metric the is defined financial report.in note 2 • The audit of Stockland and propertiesof Valuation Investment Retirement of the financial report. • TheStockland audit of Stockland the Trust Group and properties Retirement report section of our report. Living • We applied this threshold, the Stockland was performedTrust Group by a team Living Securityholder We applied this threshold, was performed Carrying value of inventory • basedby in aSydney. team information together with qualitative primarily Carrying value of inventory We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for together with qualitative primarily based and cost of property considerations, to determine We ensured thatintheSydney. audit and cost of property and key dates our opinion. considerations, developments sold the scope of ourto determine audit and the We ensured team possessed the audit thatthe developments sold the scope nature, of ourand timing audit andof extent the team possessed the appropriate skills and Recoverability of deferred nature, timing and extent of appropriate skills and for the Recoverability tax assets of deferred Independence our audit procedures and to competencies needed our auditthe evaluate procedures effect of and to competencies audits, and this needed included for the tax assets We are independent of Stockland and the Stockland Trust Group in accordance with the auditor • These are further described in evaluate the effect of audits, and this included Glossary misstatements on the industry expertise in real • These the Keyare further audit described matters in section independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 and the ethical requirements of the misstatements financial reporton as the a whole. industry estate, well as ITin real asexpertise the Key of our audit matters section report. Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional financial report as a whole. estate, as well specialists, as IT tax and valuation, of our report. Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to our audit of the financial report in Australia. We have also • We chose Funds from specialists, treasury valuation, tax and professionals. fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. • We chose Funds Operations because,fromin our treasury professionals. Operations view, because, it is the primaryinmetric our view, it is against the primary which the metric against whichofthe performance Stockland is performance most commonly of Stockland measuredisin most the commonly measured in industry. PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 the industry. • We chose 5% based on our One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo, GPO BOX 2650, SYDNEY NSW 2001 • We chose 5%judgement, based on our professional T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au professional judgement, Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 noting that it is within the T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au common range relative to profit-based benchmarks. Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. Key audit matters 174 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of mostYear significance ended 30 Junein2019 175 our audit of the financial report for the current period and were determined separately for Stockland and the Stockland Trust Group. Relevant amounts listed for each part of the stapled group represent Introduction Strategy and performance noting that it is within the Business risks noting that it is relative within the and materiality common range to common range profit-based relative to benchmarks. profit-based noting that itbenchmarks. is within the common range relative to Key profit-based audit matters benchmarks. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit Key audit matters Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit Climate-related Key audit matter matter How our audit addressed the key audit Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in matter Key Key audit audit our audit matters of matters the are those financial matters report that, for the professional in ourperiod current and werejudgement, determinedwere of most significance separately for Stockland in matter risks our relative Key•audit mattersize of the Commercial Property adopted How our for capitalisation audit addressed discount andthe rates key audit and audit of the financial the Stockland report Relevant Trust Group. for the current period amounts and listed forwere eachdetermined part of the separately for Stockland stapled group represent • relative size of the Commercial Property adopted relative capitalisation forcomparable to and discount market rates data. In addition, Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance portfolio to net assets and related and the balancesStockland as Trust they were Group. presented Relevant in the amounts financial listed report forshould and each not of part bethe stapled aggregated. group The auditin represent key • relative portfolio of the sizenet Commercial Property matter adopted for capitalisation and discount rates relative to comparable market data. In addition, our the of they auditwere financial valuationto assets movements and related and for a sample of investment properties that were balances matters as addressed inreport were presented for theof in the the context current financial period report our audit and and of the were should financial determined not be as report aseparately aggregated. The whole, and Stockland forinkey audit forming portfolio valuation to net assets and movements and related relative for a sample externally to comparable of investment valued, we: market data. Inthat properties addition, were and the Stockland matters werethereon, addressed our opinion Trust Group. andinwe Relevant thedocontext not provideamounts of our aaudit listed of the separate for each financial opinion onpart ofmatters. report these as astapled the whole, group and in Further, represent forming any ••• inherent relative valuation subjectivity size movements ofand the key Property of the Commercial adopted for a sample capitalisation forvalued, of investment and discount properties rates that were inherent subjectivity of the key externally • evaluated we: the competence and capabilities balances as they were presented in the financial report and should notin aggregated. bematters. The anykey audit assumptions that underpin the valuations. relative our opinion commentary thereon, on the and we do outcomes ofnot provide a particular aaudit separate opinion procedure is on these made that Further, context. • portfolio to net assets inherent subjectivity assumptions of therelated and that underpin key the valuations. • to externally of comparable valued, evaluated the we: market data. In addition, the competence relevant valuer, and capabilities A better way matters were on commentary addressed in the of the outcomes context of our audit procedure a particular of the financial report is made as acontext. whole, and in forming in that valuation movements and assumptions that underpin the valuations. for a•sample of investment evaluated the competenceproperties andthat were capabilities our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Further, any • inherent subjectivity of the key • of externally read of thethe relevant valued, the valuers’ relevant valuer, we: valuer,terms of engagement we to deliver Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit • did readnot valuers’any theidentify terms of engagement we commentary on the outcomes of a particular audit procedure Key audit matter in that context. madeaddressed How ourisaudit the key audit assumptions that underpin the valuations. •• evaluated read the competence valuers’ theidentify terms terms that might have and capabilities of engagement we shared value matter did not affected any their objectivity terms orthat might have imposed matter of did the not identify affected relevant their valuer, any termsorthat objectivity might have imposed Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit • limitations read affectedthe their valuers’ limitations on theirterms onobjectivity their work work relevant oforengagement imposed relevant to their we to their Valuation of Investment properties – Commercial Property valuation, did not identify any terms that might have Valuation of Investment properties – matter Commercial Property limitations valuation, on their work relevant to their (Refer to note 7) made inquiries • affected of a sample their objectivity or of the external imposed Governance and (Refer to note Stockland 7) million $9,145 • valuation, made valuers inquiries as toontheir of akey sample of the external considerations in Valuation of Investment properties – Commercial Property • limitations made inquiries valuers asfair their to their of a work sample key relevant of the external considerations to their in Stockland $9,145 Stockland -Trust million Group $9,133 million assessing valuation, value, and valuers as to their key considerations in remuneration (Refer to note assessing fair value,valuation and Stockland Stockland and7)the Trust Group $9,133 Trust’s million Property Commercial We obtained a sample of publicly available ••• madeinspected the inquiries final of a sample ofreports. the external Stockland(“Commercial Stockland the million $9,145 -and Trust’s Commercial Property We obtained a sample publicly of to assessing inspected fair the final and value,valuation reports. portfolio Property”) is primarily property market reports obtainavailable an • valuers inspected to their as the finalkey considerations reports. in valuation Stockland(“Commercial portfolio comprised Trust Group of retail townProperty”) $9,133 is primarily million centres, logistics, and property market understanding ofreports to obtain the prevailing an conditions and We also used quantitative assessing fair value, andandqualitative measures comprised of retail town centres, logistics, Wedetermine also used to quantitative those properties and atqualitative greater measures risk of Stockland workplace and the Trust’s investment Commercial properties, as well asand Property understanding We obtained trends of the prevailing sample in the amarkets in publicly ofwhich conditions availableand Stockland andthe We also• usedinspected the quantitative finaland valuation qualitative reports. measures workplace investment properties, Property”)as is well as trends markets the and in market in which Stockland and the to being carried those determine properties at an amount at above greater fair value risk of and portfolio properties(“Commercial under development. primarily property Trust invest, reports we comparedto obtainthesean factors to determine those properties at greater riskand of Financial properties under comprised development. of retail town centres, logistics, and Trust invest, understanding andof we the compared prevailing these factorsand conditions being varied carried the at anand nature amount extent above of audit value fairtesting to against the current year valuations. We also used quantitative and workplace investment against the current in valuations. year being varied respond carried theto nature the at anand risk amount extent criteria ofqualitative aboveaudit identified. fairtesting value The measures and to report Commercial Propertiesproperties, are valuedas at well as as at fair value trends in the markets which Stockland and the to determine varied the those properties ofataudit greater risk to of respond procedures tonature the riskand conducted, extent criteria identified. amongst testing The Commercial properties reporting date Properties under are valued atoffair development. using a combination thevalue incomeas at Trust We met with and invest, we compared management these factors and discussed the being carried respond procedures to the atrisk an amount conducted, criteria amongstaboveothers, identified. value fair The others, included: and included: reporting capitalisationdatemethod using a and combination of the cash the discounted incomeflow We metthe against specifics with management of current selected year discussed the and properties valuations. individual varied the nature and extent of audit testing to procedures conducted, amongst others, included: capitalisation Commercial method. TheProperties method value and arethe discounted valued of Commercial cashisas at fair value Properties flowat specifics including,ofamongst selected other individual things,properties any significant • compared respond to the risk the valuations criteria to the identified. Thefair value method. reporting dependent The onvalue date using the ofaCommercial combination valuation Properties of the adopted methodology is income including, newmet We leases amongst with management entered other into things, duringand the any discussedsignificant year, the lease • compared listed the valuations in the accounting to the fair records,included: value procedures • listed conducted, compared amongst others, the valuations to the fair value dependent capitalisation on method the intovaluation theand methodology the discounted adopted cash flow new leases specifics selectedinto of entered forduring the year,capital futureproperties individual lease theaccounting in the records, and the inputs valuation model. Factors expiries, expectations leases, • assessed listed in the reasonableness accounting records, of the Independent and suchthe method. inputs The value as prevailingintomarket theCommercial of valuation model.theFactors Properties conditions, is expiries, including, expenditure expectations amongst and vacancyother future for rates. things,leases, capital any significant • assessed the reasonableness of the •• valuation compared assessed the methodology, the valuations to reasonableness of the the fair value auditor’s such as prevailing dependent individual nature, market on the valuation condition conditions, methodology and locationthe of adopted each expenditure new and vacancy leases entered rates. the year, lease into during • valuation assessed listed valuation the in the methodology, key assumptions accounting records, methodology, adopted individual and the inputs property nature, and into the condition and location the valuation expected future model. of each incomeFactors for each expiries, For a sample expectations of leases for agreedleases, we future capital the underlying • assessedtothe key assumptions adopted report property and the expected future incomethe for each For •• relative assessedtothe assessed industry the benchmarks reasonableness key assumptions and ofadopted the such as prevailing property, directly marketfair impact conditions, values. Amongst leasea terms sampleto expenditure and leases ofthevacancy we rates. agreed tenancy schedule underlying theand, for a relative market industry data, including benchmarks comparable and valuation relative methodology, to industry benchmarks and property, individual nature,impact others, thedirectly condition values. fairand Amongst location of each lease sample terms to the tenancy of properties, schedule the we compared for a and,rental market transactionsdata, including where comparable possible, and others, property following theand the expected assumptions are future income for each key in establishing fair sample For a sample income of properties, used of the in leases wecompared we valuation agreed andthe the rental underlying internal tolerance • assessed market transactions the key data, including where assumptions comparable possible, adopted and tested the • transactions to mathematical accuracy of a following property, value: assumptions directly impact arefair keyvalues. in establishing Amongst fair income lease checkterms usedtointo models thethe valuation tenancy the tenancy and internal schedule schedule. and,We tolerance for a found • relative samplethe tested of industry the where benchmarks mathematical possible, accuracy calculations. valuationcomparable andand of a Securityholder value:• the others, net market rent check sample that the models of properties, data to the used intenancy the schedule. compared we samples theWe tested rental wasfound • market tested data, the including mathematical sample of the valuation calculations. accuracy of a following •• net assumptions market average rentare market key in rental establishing fair growth that incomethe used consistent data withused in theinvaluation the samples tenant leases. and tested internal wastolerance sample of thewhere transactions valuation possible, and calculations. information value: consistent check modelswith totenant leases.schedule. We found the tenancy Valuation of Investment properties Retirement Living • tested the mathematical accuracy of a and key dates •• average market capitalisation rate rental growth Valuation of8)Investment properties Retirement Living •• net market rent that the data used We discussed within the samplesthe management tested was rationale (Refer to note Valuation of Investment properties Retirement Living sample of the valuation calculations. capitalisation discount rate rate (Refer to note 8) million •• average We discussed consistent supporting thewith with management tenant key assumptions the rationale leases. adopted in the Stockland $3,990 discount rate rental growth terminalmarket yield. supporting the key assumptions adopted in the (Refer to Stockland -Trust Stockland note 8) $3,990 million Group – thisproperties KAM is not applicable as the Trust does not invest in Retirement Living assets. terminal yield.rate • capitalisation valuations, and compared them to comparable Valuation Stockland of Investment -Trust $3,990 million Retirement Living valuations, Stockland Group this KAM –Living is not applicable as the Trust does not invest PwCin Retirement Livingweassets. We dataand discussed market with for compared management reasonableness. them to thecomparable rationale Stockland’s Retirement portfolio Together with the valuation expert, had Glossary • end of eachrate discount (Refer to Stockland note 8) Trust this KAM Group –Living is not applicable as the Trust does not invest At the reporting period the directors market datathe supporting reasonableness. forkey assumptions adopted in the Stockland’s (“Retirement Retirement Living”) comprises portfolio retirement village Together discussions withwiththe PwCin valuation management, Retirement and Living expert, read weassets. had market At the • end determine of each terminal the reporting fairyield. value of the period the directors Commercial Stockland $3,990 Stockland’s million Retirement Living portfolio Together with the PwC valuation expert, we had (“Retirement investment Living”) comprises properties, as well as retirement properties under discussions village research and with management, reports to obtain and an read market understanding Properties the determine fair value of in accordance thetheir with Commercial valuation policy valuations, For investment compared them and properties to comparable that were externally Stockland (“Retirement investment Trust Living”) properties, –asthis Group comprises KAM well as is not applicable villageas the retirement properties under Trust does discussions research and not with invest reports to inobtain Retirement management, and an Living read assets.of market understanding of Properties ininaccordance For investment market valued, data for properties we compared reasonableness. that were to the valuations externally the fair development. the prevailing conditions and trends in the markets At the end of as described each note 7. with reporting period valuation their the policy directors valued, we compared the valuations Stockland’s investment properties, development. Retirementas Living portfolio well as properties under Together research the prevailing withreports the PwC and conditionsto valuation obtain and an expert, trendsunderstanding in thewemarkets had of as described determine the note infair 7. of the Commercial value value listed in the accounting recordstoofthe fair Stockland development. Living”) comprises retirement village discussions (“Retirement in the which prevailing Stockland with invests, management, conditions and and we and trends compared read in themarket those markets value listed and investment For the Trust,in theproperties and accounting assessedthat records the were of Stockland externally reasonableness of Retirement Living investment properties areunder in which factors Stockland against invests, the current and year we compared valuations. those This was a in Properties keyaccordance audit matter with their valuation because of the: policy investment Retirement properties, Living as well as investment properties properties are a research in which factors and Stockland against reports to obtain invests, the current andan year weunderstanding compared those valuations. of This was a key and the we valued, Trust, the valuation and assessed compared methodology the the the valuations and to the fair of reasonableness assumptions valued at fair value at the reporting date using as described inaudit note 7.matter because of the: development. Retirement valued at fairLiving value investment at the properties reporting date are a using the prevailing conditions and factors against the current year valuations. trends in the markets the valuation value listed inmethodology the accounting and the assumptions records of Stockland discounted cash flow analysis. The value of We met with in which management Stockland invests,and anddiscussed we compared the those valued at fair discounted value cash flow the reporting atanalysis. date using The value of a We met with management and discussed the This was a key audit matter because of the: and the Trust, and assessed the reasonableness of investment Retirement properties Living in this segment investment is dependent properties are specifics factors of selected against the individual current year properties valuations. discounted investment cash flow properties analysis. The in this segment value of dependent isand We met with specifics ofamongst management selected other individual and discussed properties the the valuation methodology and the assumptions on the valued terms at fair of the value residents’ at the contracts reporting date the using including, things, vacancy rates, investment on the terms inputs to the properties of in this the residents’ valuation model. segment contracts Factors dependent isand such thea as specifics including, growth ofamongst rates, selected other discount individual things, rates, properties unit vacancy values, rates, and discounted on the terms inputs to the cash of flow valuation analysis. The model.contracts the residents’ value Factors and as suchof the We met including, growth withamongst rates, management discount otherrates, and discussed unitvacancy things, values, and the rates, prevailing investment market conditions, properties in the individual this segment is dependent capital specifics expenditure. of selected individual properties inputs to the prevailing valuation market model. conditions, Factors the such individual as growth capital rates, discount expenditure. rates, unit values, and on the terms prevailing of theconditions, market residents’ contracts and the the individual including, amongst other things, vacancy rates, capital expenditure. inputs to the valuation model. Factors such as growth rates, discount rates, unit values, and prevailing market conditions, the individual capital expenditure. 176 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 177 addition, at each reporting period a selection of properties are individually valued by an external limitations on their work relevant to their valuation expert. valuation assessment, • assessed the reasonableness of the This was a key audit matter because of the: assumptions adopted relative to • relative size of the Retirement Living comparable market data, and portfolio to net assets and related • inspected the final valuation assessment valuation movements, and and compared the assumptions to those Introduction • inherent subjectivity of the key used in Stockland’s valuation model. assumptions that underpin the valuations. For a sample of Retirement Living property valuations, we: • compared the resident information used in the valuation model to a sample of resident contracts, • assessed the design and operating Strategy and effectiveness of the relevant key controls over the valuation model and the performance associated key assumptions used by Stockland to satisfy ourselves that the model was operating as designed, • tested the mathematical accuracy of a sample of the valuation calculations, and Business risks • examined the property valuations and materiality undertaken by management’s expert and compared them with the outputs from the valuation model. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit Carrying value of inventory and cost of property developments sold Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit Climate-related matter (Refer to note 6) matter Stockland $3,505 million nature, condition and location of each property and For a sample of resident contracts across the risks Stockland Trust Group – this KAM is not applicable as the Trust does not hold inventory assets. nature, the expectedcondition futureand for of location income each each For property and property a sample portfolio, of residentthe we compared contracts across in the terms used the the expected directly impactfuture for each property incomeAmongst fair values. portfolio, valuationswe others, the underlyingthe to compared terms used contracts. We in the that found Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit directly following impact fair values. assumptions are Amongst others, the valuations the data usedto underlying in the samples tested We contracts. wasfound that materially Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter following assumptions key in establishing fair are value: the data used consistent withinthe thesampled tested was samples resident materially contracts. matter key in • establishing fair value: discount rates consistent with the sampled resident contracts. A better way discountrates rates Carrying value of inventory We obtained a sample of the publicly available •• growth We discussed with management the rationale Carrying Stockland has value of inventory a portfolio of residential We obtained property a sample market reports of to theobtain an available publicly to deliver •• growth averagerates We discussed supporting thewith key management the rationale assumptions adopted in the Stockland hasprojects a portfolio length of stay of existing and supporting the key assumptions adopted in the development thatofitresidential develops for future property market understanding ofreports to obtain the prevailing an conditions and shared value • average length of stay of existing and future residents valuations, and compared them to the valuation development projects thatasitinventory. develops for future understanding of the prevailing and conditionsinvests, valuations, compared andand sale, which are classified Stockland’s trends in the markets in which Stockland • future currentresidents expert’s report marketthemdata.to the valuation sale, whichisare classified market value of units expert’s report and market data. inventory accounted forasatinventory. the lower Stockland’s of the cost trends and wein the markets compared those which Stockland in factors against theinvests, current market •• renovation value of units / reinstatement costs inventory is accounted and net realisable valuefor the inventory forateach lower of the cost project, and we compared assumptions adoptedthose in factors against the current the year’s For the external review of key valuation and net realisable renovation recoupment. •• renovation / reinstatement costs as assessed at eachvalue for each reporting inventory project, date. assessment ofadopted assumptions in the current value ofyear’s net realisable inventory. Governance and • renovation recoupment. For the external assumptions reviewby obtained key valuation we also: ofmanagement, as assessed at each reporting date. assessment of net realisable value of inventory. assumptions • assessed obtained by management, the competency we also: and capabilities The Stockland valuation policy requires that all key The cost of the inventory is calculated using actual For each project we discussed with management • assessed the competency and capabilities remuneration The valuationStockland valuationbepolicy assumptions requires externally that allby key appraised of the relevant external expert, landcost The of the inventory acquisition is calculated costs, construction using actual costs, For matters project eachsuch as the discussed we overall management with strategy project and valuation an assumptions be externally appraised by • of thethe read relevant expert’s external terms ofexpert, engagement we land acquisition development related construction costs,costs and interestcosts, capitalised matters forecast such as the overall project strategy and profitability. an external valuation expert each reporting period. In • read did not expert’sany theidentify terms of engagement terms that might we development related costs and interest capitalised for eligible projects. forecast profitability. addition,valuation external expert each at each reporting reporting period period. a selection of In did nottheir affect identify any terms objectivity that might or impose for eligible projects. Using the information gained from these propertiesatare addition, each individually period by reporting valued a selection of an external affect their objectivity limitations on their workor impose relevant to their Using the information from theseof the gainedknowledge Net realisable value is calculated based on the discussions and our existing limitations on their work relevant to their valuation assessment, Net realisable value is calculated based on the discussions Financial properties valuation expert.are individually valued by an external estimated selling price of the inventory, less the business, weandusedour existing a risk based approachof knowledge tothe select a valuation expert. • valuation assessed the assessment, reasonableness of the estimated costs ofprice estimated selling of the inventory, includingless completion, the forecast sample of we business, used aon projects risk based which to approach to select a perform further report This was a key audit matter because of the: • assessed assumptions adopted relativeoftothe the reasonableness capitalisedcosts estimated of completion, interest, and associated sellingforecast including costs. sample procedures over theonnet of projects which value further to perform realisable and This•wasrelative size matter a key audit because of the: of the Retirement Living assumptions comparable marketadopted relative data, and to capitalised Each of these interest, factorsand associated is impacted byselling expected costs. procedures over the net realisable value and margin recognition. portfoliosize • relative of the to net Retirement assets Living and related • comparable inspected themarket data, andassessment final valuation futureofmarket these factors Each is impacted and economic by expected conditions which margin recognition. portfolio valuationto movements, andrelated net assets and • inspected and compared the final valuation assessment the assumptions to those future includemarket and economic sales prices, sales rates conditions which and development For the sample of projects selected we: usedcompared and the assumptions in Stockland’s to those valuation model. costs. sales prices, sales rates and development include • sample For the projects selected Furtherofdiscussed we: • valuation movements,ofand inherent subjectivity the key with management the Independent • inherent subjectivity of the key used in Stockland’s valuation model. costs. life cyclediscussed • Further of the project,with management key project risks,the assumptions that underpin the valuations. assumptions that underpin the valuations. For a sample of Retirement Living property Where an inventory project’s net realisable value is life cycleto changes the project, ofproject strategy, currentrisks, key project and auditor’s For a sample valuations, of Retirement Living property we: Where lower thanan inventory its cost, the project’s inventorynet realisable value is project is written changes to projectsales future estimated strategy, prices, current and development report valuations, we: • compared the resident information used in lower down to than netcost, its its the inventory realisable project value under is written Australian future progressestimated and costs andprices, sales any new development and • compared the valuation a sample of used in to information resident themodel down to its net Accounting realisable value under Australian Standards. progress previous andwritecosts downs.and any new and the valuation resident model to a sample of contracts, Accounting Standards. Obtainedwrite • previous downs.model of the Stockland’s resident contracts, • assessed the design and operating Cost of property developments sold • Obtained Stockland’s project’s forecast futuremodel of the returns, known as Whenof Cost property developments by Stockland sold Securityholder • assessed the design effectiveness and operating of the relevant key controls inventory is sold the carrying feasibilityforecast project’s models,future returns, and tested theknown as information effectiveness over the valuation thecontrols andkey relevant of themodel When amount inventory of the relevant by Stockland is sold inventory the carrying is recognised as feasibility mathematical models, and tested of the the accuracy model to over the valuation associated model andused key assumptions the by amount an expense of the same inventory relevant in the period that is the recognised sale is as mathematical accuracy of the model to and key dates satisfy ourselves that it was operating associated Stockland to key assumptions satisfy ourselves thatby used the an expense in recognised. The theexpense same period that the recognised sale is is based satisfy ourselves that it was operating effectively. recognised. Thetheexpense forecastrecognised is based Stockland model wasto satisfy ourselves operating that the as designed, directly upon profit margin for the • effectively. Compared the estimated selling prices to directly relevantupon theasforecast profit marginin forthe the • model wasmathematical tested the operating as designed, accuracy of a project a whole, and results • Compared market sales thedata estimated selling in similar pricesor, locations to relevant project as a whole, andinresults in the market sales datatoinrecent similar locations • tested samplethe mathematical of the accuracy of aand valuation calculations, recognition of a profit margin the period the in the or, Glossary where available, sales • sample examined of the the valuation calculations, and property valuations inventory is of recognition a profit sold. To the extentinthat margin period the the expected future project.available, to recent sales in the where inventory is sold. To the extent that expected future • examined undertaken thebyproperty valuations management’s expert and costs exceed costs exceed expected expected future future revenues revenues the the • project. Compared the forecast costs to complete undertaken compared them by management’s with the outputs expert fromand the inventory is written down to its net realisable • the project the Compared to theforecast costs relevant to complete construction inventory value. is written down to its net realisable the project(iftoapplicable) the relevant compared them with the outputs from the valuation model. value. contracts orconstruction the Carrying value of inventory and cost of property developments valuationsoldmodel. contracts construction (if applicable) or the contract proposals. Carrying value of inventory and cost of property developments sold These were key audit matters because of the: • construction contract proposals. Tested the mathematical accuracy of a (Refer to note 6) These (Refer to note 6) million • were key audit relative size ofmatters because the inventory of the: balance to net samplethe • Tested mathematical of the accuracy of a feasibility models. Stockland $3,505 • relative size of the inventory balance to net $3,505 Stockland Trust million assets, and • sample Compared thefeasibility of the models. carrying value to the Stockland Group – this KAM is not applicable as the Trust does not hold inventory assets. Stockland Trust Group – this KAM is not applicable as the Trust does not hold inventory assets. • assets, inherent andsubjectivity of the key • Compared project’s net therealisable to the value(NRV). carryingvalue • inherent assumptions subjectivity of the key that underpin net realisable project’s net realisable value (NRV). assumptions value, and thethat profit marginnet underpin realisable recognised. In addition we: value, and the profit margin recognised. In addition we: a sample of additions to the cost of • Traced • Traced a sample the project of additions to (e.g. development the cost costs) to of the project invoices and (e.g. development verified that theycosts) to were valid invoices costs thatand verified could that they were valid be capitalised. costs that could be capitalised. 178 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 179 Introduction Strategy and performance Business risks and materiality Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in responsible for the for other theinformation. The other information but does comprises not includethe theinformation included in Climate-related matter the Annual Report responsible for the other year ended 30 information. June The 2019, other information comprises the financial report information and our included in Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit the Annual auditor’s Report report for the year ended 30 June 2019, but does not include the financial report and our thereon. the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2019, but does not include the financial report and our matter auditor’s report thereon. risks Key audit matter Checked How• our audit addressed was that interestthe key audit for capitalised auditor’s report thereon. Key audit matter How our matter qualifying key auditthe recalculated assets andthe audit addressed Our opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information and accordingly we do not • Checked that interest interest capitalised was capitalised during the period.for Our opinion express on the any form offinancial assurancereport does not conclusion cover the other information and accordingly we do not thereon. matter Our opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information and accordingly we do not • qualifying assets of Traced a sample andsales recorded the recalculated to the express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. • Checked that interest was capitalised for express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. Checkedcapitalised interest underlying sale that during documents interest the andperiod. the receipt was capitalised In connection with our audit of the financial report , our responsibility is to read the other information • qualifying assets and recalculated the for In connection with our audit of the the financial report , our responsibility other is to read thewith A better way • Traced of cash.a qualifying sample of assets and interest capitalised sales recalculated during recorded to the the period. the and, In in doing so, connection consider with whether our audit other information of the financial is materially inconsistent report , our responsibility is to read the othertheinformation financial information • underlying Recalculated thedocuments sale cost of property the receipt andperiod. and, report doing inor so, considerobtained our knowledge whether the other information is materially appears toinconsistent be materiallywith the financial to deliver • interest Traced a capitalised sample of during sales the recorded to the and, in doing so, consider whetherin thethe audit, other or otherwise information is materially inconsistent misstated. with the financial of cash.a sample report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. • developments Traced underlying of recognised sold sales recorded sale documents for thethe and thetoreceipt report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. shared value • Recalculated sample of sales underlying sale cost of property therecorded documents and on based thethe receipt If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of of cash. If, • of developments cash. project’s relevant Recalculated soldforecast the recognised cost of property formargin. profit the thisbased If, on the auditor’s based workwe report, work weconclude on the we have performed that there have performed the other on is information material on thea other information that we misstatement that we obtained other prior of this obtained prior to the date information, we of to the date of Recoverability of deferred tax assets sample of sales • Recalculated therecorded cost based on the of property this auditor’sto are required report, reportwe conclude that fact. Wethat havethere nothing to reportmisstatement is a material in this regard.of this other information, we developments sold recognised the formargin. this auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we (Refer to note 21) relevant project’s forecast profit are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Governance and developments sold recognised sample of sales recorded basedfor onthethe are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Recoverability of deferred tax assets Stockland $40 million relevantofproject’s sample sales recorded profiton forecastbased the margin. Responsibilities of the directors for the financial report (Refer to note Stockland Trust 21)Group – this KAM is not applicable as while the Trust relevant project’s generates forecast taxable profit profits eachmargin. year, Responsibilities Responsibilities of the of directors for the directors for the financial report the financial report remuneration Recoverability of deferred tax assets Stockland $40 million Recoverability The directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view this Trust income 21) of deferred tax is distributable eachassets year in full and is taxed in the hands of the unitholders as a Trust The directors are responsible Australianfor the preparation of the financial gives report thatAct a true andand for fair suchview (Refer to note Stockland (Refer Trust to note Distribution. Group – this KAM is not applicable as while the Trust generates taxable profits each year, 21)million in accordance The directors arewithresponsible Accounting for Standards the preparation and of the the Corporations financial 2001 report that gives a true and fair view Stockland $40 in accordance internal controlwith Australian as the directors determineStandards Accounting is necessaryandtothe Corporations enable Act 2001 the preparation andfinancial of the for such this Trust income Stockland $40 million -Trust is distributable each year in full and is taxed in the hands of the unitholders as a Trust in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Act 2001 and for such Stockland Group – this KAM is not applicable as while the Trust generates taxable profits each year, internal report control that as givesas the a truedirectors determine and fair view is and is is free necessary to enable from material the preparation misstatement, of whether the financial due to fraud or Distribution. Stockland Stockland recognised Trust Group thisdeferred a–net KAM tax is not asset applicable as is The while recoverability the of the unitholders DTA and carried forward internal control the directors determine necessary to enable the preparation of the financial this Trust income is distributable each year in full and taxed inTrust generates of thetaxable the hands profitsaseach year, a Trust error. that report gives a true and fair view and is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or this Trustofincome (“DTA”) $40 million at 30 June is distributable each year in full and is tax 2019, losses, in theand taxed period the of hands over whichasthey the unitholders will be a Trust report that gives a true and fair view and is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or Financial Distribution. error. Stockland comprisingrecognised Distribution. a deferredatax deferred netasset of $624tax million asset and The used,recoverability depends upon theforecast ofthe DTA andprofitability carried forward of the error. report (“DTA”) a deferred $40liability oftax millionofat$584 30 June 2019, million. tax and the period losses, Corporation Stockland over which Limited they will be tax consolidated In preparing the financial report, the directors are responsible for assessing the ability of Stockland Stockland comprising recognised a deferredatax a net deferred asset of $624tax asset The recoverability of the DTA and carried forward andpreparing In the financial the Stockland report, Trust Group to the directors as aare continue responsible concern, for going assessing disclosing, asthe ability ofmatters applicable, Stockland Stockland (“DTA”) ofrecognised $40liability million net30 deferred asset and used, tax million group (“SCL”). upon depends recoverability Thelosses, and the of theforecast the DTA overand profitability of the they forward carried In and preparing theto the financial Stockland report, Trust Group the directors to continue are responsible asconcern a going basis concern, for assessing the as applicable, disclosing,unless ability of Stockland matters a Thedeferred tax availability (“DTA”) of $40 million ofat of tax losses at $584 30 isJune 2019, million. dependent June 2019, on the tax Stockland tax losses, Corporation and periodLimited which will be tax consolidated related going concern and using the going of accounting the and the Stockland Trust Group to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters directors either comprising aofdeferred taxcontinuity asset of $624 million and used, depends will upon the forecast profitability ofbethe the period over which they related to liquidate going concern and using theStockland going concern satisfaction comprising either the a deferred assetmillion. tax$584 of $624 million and group of ownership Our used,audit (“SCL”). depends focussed workupon on the review theLimited forecast of the of Board profitability the intend to related Stockland to going concern and the and using Trustbasis the going concern Group basis of or accounting to cease operations, of accounting unless the directors or have no unless the directors either either a deferred tax liability of Stockland Corporation tax consolidated The test availability a deferred of tax losses tax liability of $584 is dependent million. on the approved Stockland forecast which Corporation supports Limited taxthe strategic and consolidated realisticto intend intend liquidate Stockland toalternative and the Stockland Trust Group or to cease operations, or have no but to do so. liquidate Stockland and the Stockland Trust Group or to cease operations, or have no satisfaction (“COT”) or, whereof either the this continuity fails, the same of business ownership test group Our (“SCL”). audit work focussed on the review of the Board realistic alternative but to do so. Independent The availability of tax losses is dependent operational group plans of Stockland, including SCL. We (“SCL”). realistic alternative but to do so. test (“SBT”) The under the availability Income of tax losses Tax Assessmenton is dependent Act on the the approved forecast which supports the strategic and auditor’s satisfaction (“COT”) of or, where either the this continuity fails, the same of ownership then Our examined audit work SCL’s focussedtaxable on theprofit review of the to forecasts Board Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report 1997. satisfaction test Where ofeither either these ofthe tests continuity of business is satisfied, ownership test a DTA operational Our audit assess plans work whether keyofassumptions Stockland, focussed on the including review were of the consistent We SCL.Board Auditor’s Auditor’s responsibilities responsibilities forfor the the audit audit of the financial of the financial report report report (“SBT”) is undertothe recognised extent Tax theIncome thereAssessment Act is an offsetting approved forecast which supports the strategic and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial report as a whole is free test (“COT”) or, then examined approved SCL’s forecast taxable which profit supports forecasts the In toWe strategic and 1997. (“COT”) taxwhere Where deferred or, eitherthis liability where this fails, tests the of(“DTL”), these fails, the same and istax same business satisfied, business test a DTA losses in test operational plansboard with Stockland’s of approved Stockland, forecast. including SCL. Our fromobjectives Our material misstatement, objectives are to obtain reasonable whether due are to obtain reasonable assurance to fraudabout assurance about and tothe whether or error, whether the financial issue an auditor’s financial as a whole report report that is report as a whole free is free (“SBT”) is under recognised to the the Income extent Tax there Assessment is an Act offsetting assess whether operational addition, we keyof plans used assumptions Stockland, PwC tax were consistent including experts to SCL. assist in We our from material misstatement, whether due to isfraud or level error,ofand an auditor’s to issue but report thatthat an (“SBT”) to thethe additionunder offsetting Income DTL are recognised to the then examined SCL’s taxable profit forecasts to includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance a high assurance, is not a guarantee 1997. Where either theseTax of(“DTL”), Assessment andis tests satisfied,Act a DTA with then Stockland’s examined board approved forecast. In to from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that deferred extent 1997. that Where liability taxthereeitheris evidence of that tests thesethere istax the losses in generation satisfied, a DTA of assess whetherofSCL’s consideration taxable Stockland’s key assumptions profit assessment wereforecasts that tax consistent includes includes our opinion. audit conducted in accordance our opinion. Reasonable with Reasonable assurance the Australian assurance is a high Auditing is a high level ofStandards assurance, butalways level of assurance,will is not a guarantee but is not adetect guarantee that an a material that an Securityholder is recognised addition future to taxablethe to the profit extent offsetting against DTL are which is an the offsetting recognised unused to the tax addition, assess losses we used whether would be key PwC taxfor assumptions available experts the to assist were relevant in our consistent periods. audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards willand always detect a material is recognised deferred tax to the liability extent (“DTL”), there is andthe an tax offsetting losses in of with Stockland’s board approved forecast. In misstatement audit conductedwhen it exists. Misstatements in accordance can arise with the Australian from fraud Auditing or error Standards are considered will always material detect a material extent losses that can bethere is evidence utilised that is considered generation probable. consideration of Stockland’s assessment that tax information with Stockland’s we usedboard approved expertsforecast. to assistIn misstatement deferred addition future tax to taxabletheliability profit (“DTL”), offsetting against DTL and are recognised which tax the losses into the addition, unused tax losses would be PwC tax available for the relevant in our periods. if, individuallywhen or in it misstatement when the it exists. Misstatements aggregate, exists. they couldcan Misstatements can arise from reasonably arise from befraud fraud or error expected and are considered to influence or error the economic and are considered material material addition the offsetting to there DTL arethe recognised addition, we used PwC tax experts to the consideration of Stockland’s assessment that taxto assist in our if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic and key dates extent losses that can Stockland be is evidence utilised likelythat is considered generation taxable of probable. decisions if, of users individually taken or in on the basis the aggregate, of the they financial could report. reasonably be expected to influence the economic extent future thatestimates taxablethere the is evidence profit against forecast that which thethegeneration unused taxof consideration losses would be Stockland’s ofavailable for assessment the relevant that tax periods. decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial report. decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial report. profits future each year taxable based profit against whichand on current the approved unused tax losses would be available for the relevant periods. losses Board can Stockland losses be utilised estimates strategies can be utilised is considered the to assess likely probable. forecast the utilisation is considered taxable period of probable. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial report is located at the A further description of our responsibilities audit of the financial report is located at the for theat: profits eachtax recognised year based on current and approved losses. A further and Auditing Assurance description Standards of our Board website responsibilities for the audit of the financial report is located at the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: Glossary Stockland Board estimates strategies the likely to assess forecast taxable the utilisation period of http://www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_responsibilities/ar1.pdf. Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: This description forms part of our Stockland profits eachestimates year basedtheon likely forecast current andof taxable approved http://www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_responsibilities/ar1.pdf. This description forms part of our recognised This was a tax key losses. audit matter because the size of auditor's report. http://www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_responsibilities/ar1.pdf. This description forms part of our profits each year based on current and Board strategies to assess the utilisation period of approved auditor's report. the Boardgross DTA strategies and DTL. to assess the utilisation period of auditor's report. recognised was a taxkeylosses. This recognised tax audit matter because of the size of losses. Report on the remuneration report the gross DTA and DTL. This was a key audit matter because of the size of on the Report on Report remuneration report the remuneration report Thisgross the was aDTA key and auditDTL. matter because of the size of Our opinion on the remuneration report the gross DTA and DTL. Our Our opinion on opinion the remuneration on the remuneration report report Other information We have audited the remuneration report included in pages 90 to 107 of the directors’ report for the We have year audited ended 30 June remuneration report included in pages 90 to 107 of the directors’ report for the the2019. We have audited the remuneration report included in pages 90 to 107 of the directors’ report for the The directors of Stockland Corporation Limited and the directors of Stockland Trust Management year ended 30 June 2019. Other information year ended 30 June 2019. Limited, the Responsible Entity for Stockland Trust, (collectively referred to as “the directors”) are Other information The directors of Stockland Corporation Limited and the directors of Stockland Trust Management Limited,information Other the Responsible Entity for Stockland Trust, (collectively referred to as “the directors”) are The directors of Stockland Corporation Limited and the directors of Stockland Trust Management The directors Limited, of StocklandEntity the Responsible Corporation Limited for Stockland and the Trust, (collectively to asTrust of Stockland directors referred Management “the directors”) are Limited, the Responsible Entity for Stockland Trust, (collectively referred to as “the directors”) are 180 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 181 in accordance with Australian accordance with Accounting Standards Australian Accounting Standards and and the Act 2001 Corporations Act for such and for such internal control as internal control as the directors determine the directors determine isis necessary enable the to enable necessary to the preparation of the preparation of the financial financial report report that that gives a true gives a true and and fair fair view view and is free and is free from material misstatement, from material misstatement, whether due to whether due to fraud fraud or or error. error. Securityholder In In preparing the financial preparing the report, the financial report, the directors directors are responsible for are responsible for assessing the ability assessing the ability of of Stockland Stockland and the Stockland Trust Group to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, and the Stockland Trust Group to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters matters related to related concern and going concern to going and using using the going concern the going concern basis basis of of accounting accounting unless unless the the directors directors either Introduction either intend to intend Stockland and liquidate Stockland to liquidate and the the Stockland Trust Group Stockland Trust Group oror to to cease cease operations, or have have no operations, or no realistic alternative realistic to do but to alternative but do so. so. information and Auditor’s Auditor’s responsibilities responsibilities for for the audit of the audit of the the financial financial report report Our objectives Our objectives are to obtain are to obtain reasonable reasonable assurance assurance about whether the about whether the financial financial report report as whole is a whole as a is free free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that Strategy and from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes includes our our opinion. Reasonable assurance opinion. Reasonable assurance isis a a high level of high level of assurance, but is assurance, but not a is not guarantee that a guarantee that an an performance audit audit conducted conducted inin accordance with the accordance with Australian Auditing Auditing Standards the Australian will always Standards will always detect detect a a material material misstatement misstatement when when it exists. Misstatements it exists. Misstatements cancan arise from fraud arise from or error fraud or error and are considered and are considered material material if, if, individually in the or in individually or the aggregate, aggregate, they could reasonably they could reasonably be be expected expected toto influence influence the the economic economic key dates decisions decisions of of users users taken taken on the basis on the of the basis of the financial financial report. report. Business risks A A further further description of our description of our responsibilities responsibilities for for the audit of the audit of the the financial financial report located at is located report is at the the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: at: http://www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_responsibilities/ar1.pdf. This and materiality http://www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_responsibilities/ar1.pdf. This description part of forms part description forms of our our auditor's report. auditor's report. Report on Report on the the remuneration remuneration report report Climate-related Our opinion Our opinion on the remuneration remuneration report on the report We have audited We have the remuneration audited the remuneration report report included included in in pages 90 to pages 86 to 103 of the 107 of the directors’ report for directors’ report for the the risks year year ended ended 30 30 June June 2019. 2019. In our opinion, the remuneration report of Stockland and the Stockland Trust Group for the year In our opinion, the remuneration report of Stockland and the Stockland Trust Group for the year ended 30 June 2019 complies with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. A better way ended 30 June 2019 complies with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. to deliver Responsibilities shared value Responsibilities The directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the remuneration report in The directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the remuneration report in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express an accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express an opinion In on the remuneration our opinion, report, the remuneration based report on our audit of Stockland andconducted in accordance the Stockland Australian withfor Trust Group the year Governance and opinion on the remuneration report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing ended 30Standards. June 2019 complies with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Auditing Standards. Responsibilities remuneration Theour In opinion, directors the are remuneration responsible report for the of Stockland preparation of theTrust and the Stockland and presentation Group forreport the year remuneration in ended 30 accordanceJune with2019 complies section PricewaterhouseCoopers 300A with of section the 300A Corporations of the Act Corporations 2001. Our Act 2001. responsibility is to express an PricewaterhouseCoopers opinion on the remuneration report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Financial Responsibilities Auditing Standards. report The directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the remuneration report in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the remuneration report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian SJ Hadfield Auditing Standards. NR McConnell Sydney SJ Hadfield PricewaterhouseCoopers NR McConnell Sydney Partner Partner 21 August 2019 Independent Partner Partner 21 August 2019 auditor’s report PricewaterhouseCoopers SJ Hadfield NR McConnell Sydney Partner Partner 21 August 2019 Securityholder information and key dates SJ Hadfield NR McConnell Sydney Partner Partner 21 August 2019 Glossary 182 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 183 Securityholder Number of Introduction Substantial securityholders as at 31 July 2019 Securities held Vanguard Investments Australia Limited/Vanguard Group Inc. 244,010,845 information and BlackRock Group (BlackRock Inc. and subsidiaries) 209,276,672 State Street Corporate and subsidiaries 136,943,104 Strategy and key dates ATTRIBUTION MANAGED INVESTMENT KEY DATES performance TRUST MEMBER ANNUAL STATEMENT Business risks and materiality 21 OCTOBER 2019 After the announcement of the Group’s full year results each year, Securityholders you will receive a comprehensive attribution managed investment Annual General Meeting The Westin Sydney, 1 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 at 2.30pm trust member annual statement. This statement summarises 31 DECEMBER 2019 Climate-related As at 31 July 2019, there were 2,384,351,503 Securities on issue and the top 20 securityholders as at 31 July 2019 is as set out in the table below. the distributions and dividends paid to you during the year, and In September 2018, Stockland announced an intention to buy-back up to $350 million of Securities over 24 months. As at 31 July 2019, a total includes information required to complete your tax return. risks of 50,117,773 Securities have been bought-back on-market and cancelled since the commencement of the on-market buy-back programme Record date ANNUAL REPORT 19 FEBRUARY 2020 Number of Percentage (%) Securityholders securities held of total securities Half-year results announcement A better way Securityholders have a choice of whether they receive: HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 892,151,668 37.42 30 JUNE 2020 to deliver • An electronic version of the Annual Report shared value J P Morgan Nominees Australia Pty Limited 486,342,843 20.40 Record date • A printed copy of the Annual Report Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 284,317,933 11.92 25 AUGUST 2020 National Nominees Limited 141,107,050 5.92 REGISTRY Governance and Full-year results announcement BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd <Agency Lending DRP A/C> 75,359,000 3.16 HEAD OFFICE remuneration BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd <DRP> 29,999,046 1.26 Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited operates a freecall number on behalf of Stockland. Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited <Colonial First State Inv A/C> 26,228,612 1.10 Contact Computershare on 1800 804 985 for: HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited-GSCO ECA 13,016,067 0.55 Level 25, 133 Castlereagh Street • Change of address details Financial Sydney NSW 2000 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited <NT-COMNWLTH SUPER CORP A/C> 10,961,273 0.46 report • Request to receive communications online Toll free: 1800 251 813 AMP Life Limited 10,727,653 0.45 • Request to have payments made directly to a bank account Telephone: (61 2) 9035 2000 Australian Executor Trustees Limited <IPS Super A/C> 8,588,593 0.36 • Provision of tax ﬁle numbers HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 7,036,594 0.30 • General queries about your securityholding. STOCKLAND ENTITIES Independent E G Holdings Pty Limited 6,411,632 0.27 auditor’s Netwealth Investments Limited <Wrap Services A/C> 5,436,638 0.23 DIVIDEND/DISTRIBUTION PERIODS Stockland Corporation Limited report ACN 000 181 733 National Nominees Limited <N A/C> 5,160,271 0.22 1 July – 31 December Stockland Trust Management Limited Navigator Australia Ltd <SMA Antares Inv DV Build A/C> 4,634,367 0.19 Securityholder ACN 001 900 741 1 January – 30 June CPU Share Plans Pty Ltd <SGP STI CONTROL ACCOUNT> 4,592,913 0.19 AFSL 241190 information and key dates Buttonwood Nominees Pty Ltd 4,330,850 0.18 As responsible entity for Stockland Trust Argo Investments Limited 4,017,934 0.17 ARSN 092 897 348 Milton Corporation Limited 3,844,940 0.16 CUSTODIAN Glossary Number of Number of Percentage (%) of Distribution of securityholders as at 31 July 2019 securityholder securities total securityholders The Trust Company Limited ACN 004 027 749 1 – 1,000 12,275 5,510,355 0.23 Level 13, 123 Pitt Street 1,001 – 5,000 23,161 63,368,001 2.66 Sydney NSW 2000 5,001 – 10,000 9,740 70,580,121 2.96 10,001 – 100,000 7,151 148,960,104 6.25 100,001 – over 187 2,095,932,922 87.90 There were 1,737 securityholders holding less than a marketable parcel (110) at close of trading on 31 July 2019. 184 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 185 Glossary DIRECTORS Introduction NON-EXECUTIVE Tom Pockett – Chairman Melinda Conrad Strategy and Carolyn Hewson Barry Neil Stephen Newton AA1000 AA1000 AccountAbility Principles performance Christine O’Reilly AASBs or Accounting Standards Australian Accounting Standards as issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board Carol Schwartz AFFO Adjusted funds from operations Andrew Stevens Business risks A-REIT Australian Real Estate Investment Trust EXECUTIVE ASIC Australian Securities and Investments Commission Mark Steinert – Managing Director Aspire villages Non-DMF product and a purposebuilt neighbourhood exclusively for people aged over 55 years and materiality COMPANY SECRETARY ASX Australian Securities Exchange CCIRS Cross currency interest rate swaps Climate-related Katherine Grace CDP Carbon Disclosure Project risks SHARE/UNIT REGISTRY DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index D-Life Project development lifecycle Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited DCF Discounted cash flow Level 3, 60 Carrington Street A better way DMF Deferred management fees earned from residents within the Retirement Living business Sydney NSW 2000 to deliver DRP Dividend/distribution reinvestment plan shared value Freecall: 1800 804 985 Telephone: (61 3) 9415 4000 DSTI Deferred short term incentives Email: stockland@computershare.com.au EBIT Earnings before interest and tax Governance and EPS Earnings per security AUDITOR Executive Committee Comprise the Executive Director and the Executive team of Stockland Executive Director Mark Steinert, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Stockland remuneration PricewaterhouseCoopers FFO Funds from operations YOUR SECURITYHOLDING GRESB Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Financial GRI Global Reporting Initiative report If you would like to update your personal details or change the GST Goods and services tax way you receive communications from Stockland, please contact IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Financial Computershare on the detail provided. Computershare will also be Reporting Standards Board able to provide you with information on your holding. Independent IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change auditor’s IRR Internal rate of return FURTHER INFORMATION report KMP Key management personnel For more information about Stockland, including the latest financial KPI Key performance indicators information, announcements, property news and corporate LBG London Benchmarking Group Securityholder governance information, visit our website at www.stockland.com.au LTI Long term incentives information MAT Moving annual turnover and key dates NGERs National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting NRV Net realisable value RAP Reconciliation Action Plan Glossary Report This Stockland Annual Report 2019 ROA Return on assets ROE Return on equity SCPL Stockland Capital Partners Limited SDGs Sustainable Development Goals SDRT No. 1 Stockland Direct Retail Trust No. 1 Security An ordinary stapled security in Stockland, comprising of one share in Stockland Corporation 1 Carolyn Hewson retired on 24 October 2018. and one unit in Stockland Trust 2 Christine O’Reilly was appointed on 23 August 2018. 186 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Year ended 30 June 2019 187 Security plans Employee security plans which comprise the LTI, DSTI and $1,000 employee plans Statutory profit Profit as defined by Accounting Standards STI Short term incentives STML Stockland Trust Management Limited (ACN 001 900 741, AFSL 241190), the Responsible Entity of Stockland Trust Stockland or Group The consolidation of Stockland Corporation Group and Stockland Trust Group Stockland Corporation or Company Stockland Corporation Limited (ACN 000 181 733) Stockland Corporation Group Stockland Corporation and its controlled entities Stockland Trust Stockland Trust (ARSN 092 897 348) Stockland Trust Group or Trust Stockland Trust and its controlled entities TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure TSR Total securityholder return WALE Weighted average lease expiry 4 Stockland Annual Report 2019 Stockland Corporation Ltd ACN 000 181 733 Stockland Trust Management Limited ACN 001 900 741; AFSL 241190 As responsible entity for Stockland Trust ARSN 092 897 348 Head Office Level 25, 133 Castlereagh Street Sydney NSW 2000 Sydney T 02 9035 2000 Melbourne T 03 9095 5000 Brisbane T 07 3305 8600 Perth T 08 6141 8000 stockland.com.au
