1 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – COP Participant Name : M/s Krishak Bharati Cooperative Ltd. Country : India Sector : Cooperative Sector Annual Time Period Covered : 2018-2019 (Financial Year AprilMarch) Contact Person : Sh. S.S. Yadav, ED (HR) Contact E-mail : ssyadav@kribhco.net Date : 5th November, 2019 Other Relevant Links : www.kribhco.net 2 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COP 2018-19 KRIBHCO (KRISHAK BHARATI COOPERATIVE LIMITED) 3 KRISHAK BHARATI COOPERATIVE LIMITED (KRIBHCO) – AN OVERVIEW KRIBHCO has setup a Fertilizer Complex to manufacture Urea, Ammonia & Bio-fertilizers at Hazira in the State of Gujarat, on the bank of river Tapti, 15 Kms from Surat city on Surat – Hazira State Highway. Hazira Fertiliser Complex consists of 2 x 1350 MTPD Ammonia Plants and 4 x 1100 MTPD Urea Plants each with annual installed capacity of 8.91 Lakh MT Ammonia and 14.52 Lakh MT of Urea. In an endeavour to make constant improvements, KRIBHCO implemented various schemes to enhance its capacity and improve the energy consumption. Capacities of Ammonia & Urea plants were reassessed to 2x1520 MTPD Ammonia and 4x1310 MTPD Urea with annual installed capacity of 10.03 Lakh MT Ammonia and 17.29 Lakh MT of Urea. The Hazira Fertilizer Complex was subsequently revamped in 2013 to increase its capacity by 4.65 LMTPA Urea as well as to infuse new life. After the revamp, the rated capacity has been enhanced to 2x3325 MTPD Urea (21.95 LMTPA) and 2x1890 MTPD Ammonia (12.47 LMTPA). With this, the Hazira Fertilizer Complex has become the largest Single Location Urea Plant in India. Vision: To become a World Class Organization that Represent the Farmer’s Community and Maximizes their return through specialization in Agricultural inputs, rural need-based products and other diversified businesses that maximize stakeholders value. Mission: To act as a Catalyst to Agricultural and Rural Development by selecting, financing and managing projects that are both socially desirable and commercially profitable. Objectives:  To undertake the activities for the rural upliftment and agriculture development.  To promote economic interest of its members by undertaking manufacturing of chemical fertilizer and allied products.  To enhance the urea installed capacity and increasing its market share. KRIBHCO has made remarkable progress in the areas of production, productivity and all other parameters of performance and has made significant strides towards structured community initiatives in line with the overall CSR philosophy. KRIBHCO has an exemplary track record in the areas of Health, Safety and Environment and is consistently upgrading its performance on safety indices and delivering beyond statutory norms. Our community initiatives have contributed positively to the lives of people in the areas where we operate. KRIBHCO strives to:  Be compliant with labour laws of the country we operate in. Uphold human rights aligned with national and international regulations as applicable;  Ensure that our employees including contract employees are fairly and reasonably paid and remuneration structure is compliant with statutory obligations of the jurisdiction we operate in. Our operations will be based on zero tolerance for any form of forced, compulsory or child labour directly or through contracted labour. We recognise and respect employee rights to associate freely and to collective bargaining. We promote fair working conditions as guided by international conventions wherever applicable; 4  Be an equal opportunity employer, all employees will be treated with respect and dignity and judged solely on their performance irrespective of their race, religion, caste, gender, age, disability, HIV/AIDS status and any other characteristic;  Respect and preserve the culture and heritage of the local stakeholders including socially vulnerable groups which are impacted by our operations activities and work towards developing a constructive relationship with such groups and local communities, seeking broad-based support for our operation activities;  Respect the social, economic, cultural and human rights of communities stakeholders and will regularly communicate social performance in an accurate, transparent and timely manner;  Work with Government and Regulatory agencies to develop a common understanding and agreement to protect human rights in the event of any unforeseen situations. We will ensure protection of our people, equipment and assets. Our units have Grievance Redressal mechanisms that are accessible, accountable and fair, which let our stakeholders raise concerns without fear of recrimination. Human rights training are provided to all the new joinees and Security personnel. KRIBHCO, being a member of Global Compact Network maintains its active status by submitting annual report for adhering to Global Compact Principles. The brief report on various activities undertaken by KRIBHCO showing its commitment towards Global Compact Principles is as under: 1. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HRD is a centre for nurturing and developing attitude, behaviour & skilful working atmosphere for new joinees & existing employees. KRIBHCO aims to develop a variety of competencies of employees and develop a culture of organizational development. Human Resourse Development is concerned with the people’s multi-dimensional development. Since every organization is made up of people acquiring their services, developing their skills, motivating them to high level of performance and ensuring that they continue to maintain their commitment to the organization are essential to achieve organizational objectives. HRD Department has made efforts for development of employees through Developmental and Functional Training. HRD activities are based on identified developmental training needs of employees to achieve organizational goals and to meet the challenges. HRD is imparting and continuously monitoring the performance of 81 Trainees. Training Programmes play a vital role in organizational development & strengthening as well as their human capital. To work towards the vision and mission of society, HRD Department has organized the following Training Programmes in 2018-19 for the employees: I. Training Programmes  Developmental Training Programme Training is a learning experience and a key to progress & development of workforce and organization. Learning is concerned with bringing about relatively permanent change as a result of experience. Human 5 Resource Development Department (HRD) – Plant at Surat organized 31 Developmental Training Programmes like Building Rapport at work Place, Emotional Intelligence at work place, Inspiring Ownership Mentality within an Organization, the key to managing People, Relationship & Conflicts, You can win and First Aid. During 2018-19, 14 Developmental Training Programmes were organized and 317 employees gained the benefit from these Developmental Training Programmes. HRD completed approx. 63 % of annual target till December 2018. During 2018-19, HRD Department at Corporate Office, Noida organized 12 in-house training programs for the development of 160 employees and 9 external training programs for the development of 80 employees. 6  Functional Training Programme Plant In 2018-19, 5 Functional Training Programmes like Gujarat Field Staff & GAIC Marketing Meeting, Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System, Cooling Water Treatment, Swachh Bharat Pakhawada and in-service Training Programme for Sales Personnel were conducted.  IMS Training Programme for HAEP Plant IMS Training Programme pertaining to ISO 9001/14001:2015 (06 batches-each batch of 30 persons), half day awareness for Senior Executives (single batch of 18 persons) and a single batch of 22 persons for a two day Internal Auditor Training was organized in December, 2018. Approximately 242 HAEP employees attended IMS Awareness & Internal Auditor Training Programme.  External Sponsorship Training Programme Plant External Sponsorship Training Programmes were organized by different Government Department/AgenciesScaffolding Inspector Training by ASK-EHS Engineering & Consultant Pvt. Ltd., Surat, Group Discussion on Operation & Maintenance Problems of Ammonia Plant at FAI, New Delhi, Training on Ageing & Life Extension of concrete structure Corrosion-waterproofing Repairs at Marcep, Mumbai, Training on corcon-2018-International Conference & Expo on Corrosion at NACE, Mumbai and two days on Condition Monitoring & Health Assessment of Power Transformers at ERDA, Vadodara were organized and 15 KRIBHCO employees participated in this External Sponsorship Training Programme during 2018-19.  Soft Skill Training Programme Plant Looking at the changing scenario, HRD has designed soft skill Training programme for new joinees/society training and Apprentices. 52 Apprentices & 12 GETs joined the services of KRIBHCO in the month of October 2018. A training programme on ‘IPR to win more sale’ for Marketing Personnel and ‘Campus to Corporate’ for GETs was organized by HRD. HRD has planned to organize at least one half-day soft skill training for Society Trainees and Apprentices of HRD Personnel.  Vocational Training Plant Vocational Training is important part of Industrial Education. KRIBHCO is also providing Vocational /Industry Training facility to Students and Research Students under their Social responsibility commitment. In this regard, Permission/Registration works for winter session is on progress. During the year 111 students has taken & benefited from Vocational Training Programme of KRIBHCO, Hazira, Surat (Gujarat). 7  Plant Visit KRIBHCO Fertilizer complex is largest Urea Plant in Cooperative Sector, so several Cooperative Leaders, Cooperative Society Members, Cooperative Marketing personnel, Farmers College, University level Student and Researchers come to the Plant. During 2018-19, approximately 546 visitors have visited KRIBHCO Plant, Surat. During 2018-19, KRIBHCO HRD Department, Corporate Office introduced a training program – ‘Plant Training’ for the employees in Head Office, Central Marketing Office and Field Offices. The training program aimed to cover those employees who have not visited the plant during their service at KRIBHCO. 70 employees from Corporate Office and Field Offices attended the training program in which they were taken on a tour of the plant facility and a visit to Statue of Unity.  Technical Library Plant Under control of HRD Department, a Technical Library is running and providing books on Technical, Engineering, Power, Chemical, Production of urea and other field related to fertilizer industry to readers. Approximately 315 visitors/readers have taken benefit of books available in Technical Library during 2018-19. An e-Library is also running by HRD Department & providing on line articles to readers.  Employee Health Awareness Sessions HRD Department at Corporate Office focuses not only the work-related growth but also their physical and mental health. Thus, various talks, sessions or training programs are organized which helps them in achieving better health and mental peace. o Programme on Mental and Physical Detoxification through Yogic Technique and diet A session on ‘Mental and Physical Detoxification’, by Shri Arun Yogi Jian international guru, was organized in March 2019 at KRIBHCO, Noida. Shri Arun Yogi Ji shared his knowledge of yoga and dietary requirements for a better health with the audience. Various yoga poses which could be done on the working desk was told by him and has helped the employees of KRIBHCO. 8 HRD Department efforts especially on training regularly that upgrade the employee`s skills and incorporating other dimensions such as ethic, morals, culture and value. KRIBHCO is treating their employees as Human Capital. KRIBHCO has realized the importance of training as a tool to achieve strategic goals. KRIBHCO management is viewing training as an investment on one of KRIBHCO`s most dynamic and valuable Human Capital. II. Employee Engagement Activities  YOGA DAY CELEBRATION KRIBHCO organized Yoga Training program for all the employees in KRIBHCO Bhawan, Noida on 21st June 2018. All the employees from Corporate Office participated in the International Yoga Day with full enthusiasm. Hazira Plant The International Day of Yoga was celebrated at KRIBHCO Staff Club KRIBHCO Township, Hazira, Surat on 21st June 2018. Operations Director, Senior Executives with members of KRIBHCO Parivar, ladies and children participated in the event. The yoga classes are regularly conducted at KRIBHCO Township to create health awareness amongst KRIBHCO employees. 9  HINDI WEEK CELEBRATION Plant KRIBHCO concluded its week-long celebration on September 14, 2018 on the occasion of Hindi Diwas. To mark the occasion, various competitions were organized throughout the week. The celebrations began on September 7 where Hindi Gyan of the employees was put to test. As the week progressed, various other competitions were organized, which gauged the aptitude of employees for the language and they got various opportunities throughout the week to hone their Hindi language abilities and skills. The week-long celebrations were successfully concluded on the eve of September 14. Thereafter the Chief Guest and Operations Director gave away the awards to the winners of various competitions that were organized during Hindi Week. The ceremony was concluded with the vote of thanks by Additional Chief Medical Officer. KRIBHCO, Corporate Office celebrated Hindi Pakhwada from 4th September to 18th September 2018. During the Hindi Pakhwada celebration, all employees were motivated to work in Hindi and the employees who had used the maximum Hindi words in their work were awarded with prizes. Various competitions including Hindi Noting-Drafting Competition, Hindi Dictation Competition, Hindi Essay Writing Competition, Hindi Business Knowledge Competition and Hindi Quiz were organized during the 2-week celebration. All the prize winners were awarded by Managing Director on 26th October 2018.  Visit of Members of Legislative Assembly, Gujarat to KRIBHCO Plant Hon’ble Members of Legislative Assembly, Gujarat under the Chairmanship of MLA, Olpad along with MLAs of other District from Gujarat visited KRIBHCO Hazira Plant, Surat on 26.09.2018 for Industrial Study Tour in the region of Hazira Industrial Area. During their visit at KRIBHCO Plant, Operations Director welcomed the delegates and gave a detailed technical presentation on the activities of KRIBHCO Plant. 10  MONTHLY BIRTHDAY CELEBRATIONS Celebrating employee birthdays never gets old. Between the confetti, and cake, office birthday parties offer employees a brief respite from their day-to-day, not to mention an opportunity to appreciate peers. Thus, Team HRD at Corporate Office has started a tradition of celebrating the birthday of KRIBHCO employees on a monthly basis. The activity includes cake cutting. The celebration gives a chance to share their stories and interact with each other.  FAREWELL FOR SUPERANNUATING EMPLOYEES KRIBHCO honours the superannuating employees by organizing Farewell for them at Plant, Corporate Office and Field Offices. 11  MOVIE & IPL SCREENING Plant To promote the culture of togetherness amongst the township residents and to increase entertainment value in the lives of residents, movie screenings have been revived. In this series, three movies were screened at the Open Air Ground during May & June 2018. The screenings got an extremely positive response from the residents, who attended the screenings in huge number. KRIBHCO Staff Club also arranged for Live Screening of IPL Final Match on May 27, which was attended by a huge number of cricket lovers.  PRERNAEK NAYI SOCH Plant KRIBHCO Mahila Jagriti Club has today become a runway for the women of KRIBHCO Township from where the members of the club are fulfilling their dreams. In addition to their social responsibilities, all the members are pursuing their hobbies like dance, drama, decoration, presentation, anchoring, etc. The addition of new members in the club in January has broken all the previous records. Every festival is celebrated with full enthusiasm and zeal by the club. The following events were organized by the club in the whole year: 1. JanuaryPicnic was organized on Makar Sakranti 2. FebruarySalad Making Competition was held on Basant Panchami and ‘Ek Sham Shaheedo ke naam’ program was organized in memory of those army men who sacrificed their lives in Pulwama Attack. 3. MarchNew name was coined for the club-‘PrernaEk Nayi Soch’ after which holi was celebrated by the club members. Also, the children of Bal Bhawan, which is run by the club, were taken on picnic to Bharat Mandir. 4. April – Tableau, Dance drama, Rangoli Making, etc. was organized on the occasion of Ram Navami. 5. JuneEnvironment Day was celebrated with enthusiasm by the members. In addition to the events, the members of the club fulfil all their responsibilities including Medical Camp, Prerna Kidzee School, Social work, etc. 12  “18th ASHIRWAD FOUNDATION DAY” – 14 July, 2018. Senior Citizen Club Ashirwad Club: Plant KRIBHCO also supports “Ashirwad” in its Township at Surat where Senior Citizens are provided facilities for meetings, prayers, reading Newspapers and religious books. Also, celebrations of Foundation Day, Annual excursion trips to nearby religious places were organized as a welfare measure for the senior citizens. AshirwadA senior citizen club in KRIBHCO Township was established on 14 July 2001. The club has completed 18 successful years, on 14 July 2018. On this occasion Satyanarayan Pooja was performed to celebrate the joyous journey of this club by the club members. The event was inaugurated by Operations Director along with other dignitaries of KRIBHCO and Ashirwad Club members. Operations Director has paid a tribute to the Senior citizens and addressed the Club members. The function was attended by a large number of senior citizens, top senior officials of KRIBHCO and members of Mahila Jagruti Club who are regular companions of Ashirwad members in the weekly Bhajan-Kirtan. In his address, our Operations Director highlighted the importance of our parents & grandparents in our life. Due to their contribution we are able to climb the ladders of success. Aarti & Puja was done in front of Lord Krishna in the “Ashirwad Club”. Sweets were distributed among all senior citizens. All of them were very happy to see the senior management among them. A gala lunch was also organised.  26th WORLD CHILDREN’S PICTURE CONTEST “26th World Children’s Picture Contest” was held on 12th August, 2018 at Hazira KRIBHCO Township and on International Cooperative Day i.e. on 7th July, 2018 at KRIBHCO Township, Noida on the theme of Agriculture/ Farming Area/Nature/ Environment/ People/ Family. Children between the age group of 615 years participated in the contest. Selected paintings were sent to “IE-NO-HIKARI, Japan”. 13  72nd INDEPENDENCE DAY CELEBRATION KRIBHCO Corporate Office KRIBHCO celebrated the 72nd Independence Day at KRIBHCO Office, Noida with full rigor. Our Managing Director hoisted the flag and shared the accomplishments of KRIBHCO in his speech. All the wards of employees who secured more than 80% in their 10th or 12th class were rewarded with prize money. Long Service Award was presented to the employees who have completed 25 years or 30 years of service at KRIBHCO followed by releasing of tri-coloured balloons by the Managing Director. KRIBHCO Hazira Plant On this occasion, Hon’ble Chairman, KRIBHCO and Member of Rajya Sabha hoisted the National Flag, followed by march-past (parade) by personnel from Security Department and the students of Kendriya Vidyalaya & New Flower School. Students of both the schools and kids of Bal Bhavan (run by Jagruti Mahila Club, KRIBHCO) presented patriotic songs & dance performances on the theme “Unsung Heroes of India’s Freedom Struggle” in front of august presence of the Honourable Chairman, KRIBHCO; Director, KRIBHCO; Operations Director, KRIBHCO, employees and their family members, and other associates gathered to celebrate the occasion in the Open Air Theatre Ground, KRIBHCO Township. With a view to boost the morale of employees, prizes & certificates were distributed by the Honourable Chairman of KRIBHCO for their excellent performance and commendable suggestions for betterment of KRIBHCO Plant. Besides this, prizes were also distributed to the meritorious wards of KRIBHCO employees for their outstanding academic achievements. Operations Director, hoisted the National Flag at Plant HRD Centre. 14  SWACHHTA PAKHWADA-2018 Plant Swachhta Pakhwada2018 was held on our Township from 1st to 15th September. Operations Director actively initiated the program among all township residents. The 15 day Cleanliness Drive program was actively participated by one & all. Each & every resident of the township took pledge to keep their township clean & green. A cleanliness lecture was also organised with the assistance of Additional Chief Medical Officer, Township Hospital. Due to this whole-hearted effort by one & all, KRIBHCO was awarded the 1st Prize in Swachhta Pakhwada2018. Honourable Managing Director received the award from Ms. Bharathi S Sihag, IAS, Secretary, Dept. of Fertilizers, Govt. of India. As we all know that Swachh Bararat Abhiyan is a national mission to make India’s street roads and infrastructure clean by 2019. Under this programme it is expected that bringing a behavioural change of the people in general and improving the cleanliness and scientific disposal or recycling of soild waste. As part of this mission and to make our township neat and clean “Clean KRIBHCO, Green KRIBHCO”, cleanliness drives has held in the township. With the aim of cleaning and beautifying the township, many residents come together and participate in the drives with zest. Operations Director, with his constant support and guidance, is playing an instrumental role in making the drives successful. 15  8TH GUJARAT STATE WOMEN AND MEN’S BADMINTON CHAMPIONSHIP,2018 Plant 8th Gujarat State Women and Men’s Badminton Championship, 2018 sponsored and organized by KRIBHCO under the aegis of Gujarat Badminton Association was held in KRIBHCO Township from 59th September 2018. The championship was inaugurated by the IPS Police Commissioner of Surat. The Prizes were distributed by Operations Director, KRIBHCO.  LORD GANESH UTSAV CELEBRATION Plant LORD GANESH UTSAV was celebrated during the period from 13th September to 23rd September, 2018 in KRIBHCO Township-Surat organized by “KRIBHCO Ganesh Yuva Mandal”. All the Township residents were gathered at Ganesh Chowk to seek blessings of Lord Ganesha. Cultural programmes and daily poojas were conducted during the Celebrations. A Drawing competition for children and Garba competition for elders and children were special attractions. The Utsav ended on 23rdSeptember, 2018 with immersion of Lord Ganesha in river Tapti. 16  149th BIRTH ANNIVERSARY OF FATHER OF NATION Plant Father of Nation was fondly remembered on his 149th birth anniversary at KRIBHCO NAGAR, Surat. A “Prabhat Pheri”, early in the morning, by school children dressed as “Bapu” holding placards, displaying memorable quotes and photographs of his path-breaking work for Peace & Love, for humanity, circled the township with cheerful slogans. Operations Director, KRIBHCO Hazira Plant inaugurated a 10-Day “Khadi Gramodyog” Exhibition-cumSale in the township shopping centre in association with SaghanKshetra Yojana, Surendranagar, showcasing Khadi apparel products & fabrics along with readymade garments to spread awareness amongst township residents.  KRIBHCO DAY CELEBRATION Plant One among the most attractive programme was KRIBHCO Day Cultural Show held on 14thNovember, 2018. Employees and their family members together actively participated in different cultural events and exhibited wonderful performance. We understand that it is our responsibility to bring out the hidden talents of the young and old generation alike. Presence of our Operations Director and Other Senior Officials along with KRIBHCO Officers Association & KRIBHCO Karmachari Sangh Executives added gleam to the show. The programme was a grand success and participants from all age group exhibited excellent talent in the cultural activities. In future also, we may boost up morale of our employees and their family members by way of giving opportunities to exhibit their talent. With the wholehearted support from the Management and support from people of our Township has made it a grand success. 17  NAVARATRI FESTIVAL Plant NAVARATRI FESTIVAL was celebrated from 10th October to 19th October, 2018 organized by Navaratri Mandal at KRIBHCO Township, as usual, the special attraction of Navaratri festival is Garba, on all days, Township residents gathered at the venue and sought blessing from Maa Durga and performed Garba. For each and every celebration audience/ viewers is a must, so without the support of Members of KRIBHCO Parivar, no programme can be successfully conducted.  HON’BLE CHAIRMAN & BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ VISIT TO PLANT Our Hon’ble Chairman, Managing Director along with other Directors of KRIBHCO visited the Plant on 28th & 29th October. During their visit, they had various meetings including Union & Association. A cultural program “Godhuli” was organised on 28th October evening at Kendriya Vidyalaya-II Auditorium in which township children along with township residents performed various entertainment programs which was appreciated by one and all. 18  GUJARATI NAV-VARSH MADHUR MILAN Plant NAV-VARSH MADHUR MILAN Gujarati New Year was celebrated on 8th November, 2018 at Samaj Sadan Hall with much pomp & show. Employees and their family members actively participated.  ‘KRIBHCOTSAV-2018’ – Anand Mela Plant ‘KRIBHCOTSAV-2018’ – Anand Mela was organized jointly by KRIBHCO Officers’ Club, KRIBHCO MahilaJagruti Club and KRIBHCO Staff Club on 15th December 2018 at KRIBHCO Open Air Ground, KRIBHCO Township, Surat. Operations Director and other Director of KRIBHCO inaugurated ‘KRIBHCOTSAV-2018’. Wonderful arrangements were made with Food Stalls, Game stalls, Entertaining activities, Live Music, Traditional Indian Cuisine, Camel/Horse Rides arts, Fire Camp and overwhelming shopping opportunities to engage all attendees from start to finish. Thousands of KRIBHCO residents, nearby villages and industries were also visited to the Mela. It was full of fun and enjoyable with lots of tasteful house-made items, fun and games. This Mela has again united all township residents after a very long period. 19  NEW YEAR CELEBRATION On January 1, 2019, a cultural programme was organized in KRIBHCO Auditorium at KRIBHCO Corporate Office, Noida. In this programme, employees of KRIBHCO and KFL participated with full rigor and enthusiasm. It was a half day program with dance performances of various styles including Bollywood, Bhangra and Garba, and singing stars entertaining the audience with their soulful melodies.  MAKAR SANKRANTI (PATANG UTSAV) Plant Makar Sankranti is a blissful festival celebrated by Hindus. All enthusiasts step out of their houses and enjoy flying kites. Colourful kits fill the sky on the auspicious day of Sankranti. Gujarat is probably the best place to experience Makar Sankaranti in its most popular form with kite flying competition. This year, KRIBHCO Staff Club organized Patang Utsav (Kite Festival) at KRIBHCO Sports Complex and traditional food stalls were also arranged wherein everyone, young and old, participated with great zeal. On this occasion at evening, musical dance program was also arranged with fire-cracker show and township residents enjoyed with great zeal. 20  KRIBHCO INTER UNIT CRICKET TOURNAMENT ”KRIBHCO Inter Unit Cricket Tournament” was arranged at KRIBHCO Hazira Plant. The Inter Unit Cricket matches were played between KRIBHCO Plant, KRIBHCO Head Office and KRIBHCO Shahjahanpur Plant which was held at KRIBHCO Sports Complex from 10.01.2019 to 11.01.2019. Operations Director inaugurated the Tournament on 10.01.2019 at 8.30 am at KRIBHCO Sports Complex. The prize distribution function was held on 11.01.2019 and KRIBHCO Hazira Plant Team won the title. All township residents witnessed the live Cricket matches and made the tournament a grand success.  70th REPUBLIC DAY KRIBHCO Corporate Office Republic day was celebrated at Kribhco Corporate office. Managing Director hoisted National flag which was followed by march-past by Security personnel. On this occasion, Excellent Service Award was given to the employees who have shown high performance in their work during 2018. In addition to the employees of KRIBHCO, the contract workers were also awarded with Best Performance Award on this day. Long service award was presented to the employees, who had completed 20 years or 30 years of service at KRIBHCO, by the Managing Director. The event witnessed Ms. Roopa Sharma singing soulful patriotic songs followed by releasing of the helium tri-colored balloons in the air by the Managing Director. 21 KRIBHCO Hazira Plant Operations Director hoisted the National Flag, followed by march-past (parade) by personnel of Security Department and the students of Kendriya Vidyalaya & New Flower School. Students of both the schools and kids of Bal Bhavan (run by Jagruti Mahila Club, KRIBHCO) presented patriotic songs & dance performances. Employees and their family members, and other associates gathered to celebrate the occasion in the Open Air Theatre Ground, KRIBHCO Township. Operations Director appreciated the “Clean KRIBHCO, Green KRIBHCO” drives by the township residents to keep the township & nearby areas clean & green. He also stressed about the importance of Sports in maintaining a healthy & balanced lifestyle for all. With a view to boost the morale of employees, prizes & certificates were distributed by Operations Director of KRIBHCO for their excellent performance and commendable suggestions for betterment of KRIBHCO Plant. Besides this, awards were also distributed to the children who excelled in sports activities in Regional, State & National level for their outstanding sports achievements. At Hazira Plant, GM (HR) hoisted the National Flag, followed by march-past (parade) by personnel of Security Department. 22  SAI MANDIR PUJA & MAHAPRASADAM Plant Shree Sai Satsang Mandal, KRIBHCO Nagar celebrated Sai Mandir Puja on January 30, devotees from KRIBHCO and nearby villages attended the Puja at Sai Mandir and feasted on the Mahaprasadam served on the occasion. Operations Director graced the occasion with his presence.  CELEBRATION OF BHARAT MANDIR PATOTSAV Plant Bharat Mandir Kaylaya Trust, KRIBHCO Nagar celebrated Bharat Mandir Patotsav on 17.02.2019 at Bharat Mandir. Large number of devotees attended the ceremony and took blessings. Hon’ble Managing Director and Operations Director offered pooja. Employees & families and people from nearby villages have participated in large number. The function was concluded with distribution of Mahaprasad to all devotees at mandir premises.  PRODUCTIVITY WEEK National Productivity Council has announced observance of ‘Productivity Day’ on 12th February 2019 throughout the country. This year, the theme of the Productivity Week was ‘Circular Economy, a Force Multiplier for Productivity & Sustainability’. In order to create awareness about the theme of Productivity 23 Week, like previous years, this year also KRIBHCO celebrated National Productivity Week from 12th to 18th February 2019 at Corporate Office, KRIBHCO Bhawan, Noida and Plant, Hazira, Surat. During the productivity week various activities were conducted at Corporate Office including Essay writing, Slogan writing, Quiz, Talk on Circular Economy, etc.  KRIBHCO INTER-DEPARTMENT SPORTS TOURNAMENT KRIBHCO, Corporate Office at Noida organizes a Sports Tournament annually in the months of February to March. In 2019, the Tournament held in February 2019 included the sports Cricket, Volleyball, Badminton, Carrom and Table Tennis. The teams were categorized in Inter-Departmental teams for Cricket and Volleyball, Singles, Doubles & Mixed doubles for Badminton, Table Tennis and Carrom. The winners along with two runner ups were awarded with trophies and prizes. 24  BI-CYCLE RACE Plant To encourage sporting spirits amongst employees and children, KRIBHCO Staff club has organized a Bicycle race for the employees and their wards at Township – Surat on 25.02.18. In this event many employees and children were participated and the winners were given prizes by the Staff Club.  TRIBUTE TO CRPF MARTYRS Plant To pay tribute to the 40 CRPF soldiers who died in a car bombing in Pulwama, a candle march was organized on 17th February 2019 at evening 7 pm at KRIBHCO Township Open Air Ground, KRIBHCO Nagar, Hazira, Surat. KRIBHCO Township residents with candles in their hands walked together in silence to remember those who lost their lives to the terror attack by holding national flags and posters. The candle march was led by Managing Director, KRIBHCO and Operations Director of KRIBHCO Hazira Plant along with senior executives, employees and hundreds of children and township residents participated in the march. They remembered the Jawans as brave souls who sacrificed themselves for the country and observed two minute’s silence as a mark of respect to the brave hearts.  WOMEN’S DAY International Women's Day is celebrated on 8th March across the world. The theme for International Women's Day (8 March) this year, “Think Equal, Build Smart, Innovate for Change”, puts innovation by women and girls, for women and girls, at the heart of efforts to achieve gender equality. Women's Day was celebrated on 8th March, 2019 for all female employees of HO & CMO at KRIBHCO Bhawan, Noida by conducting learning activities. All the female employees were given a title which states 25 their personality. A talk by Dr. Neha Manchanda, an Organizational Psychologist, was organized. A funfilled quiz was conducted followed by distribution of gifts to all the women.  HOLI CELEBRATION KRIBHCO Corporate Office Holi Milan Samaroh was organized at KRIBHCO Premises, Noida on 20th March 2019. All the employees exchanged holi greetings by applying herbal colors on each other. 26 Holika Dahan was celebrated on March 20, 2019 at KRIBHCO Township, Noida. On the next day, Dhulendi was organized at the Township where everyone present played with colors and danced on the tunes of Holi songs. KRIBHCO Hazira Plant Holika Dahan was celebrated on March 20 at the Open Air Theatre Ground wherein, the residents celebrated the victory of good over evil by lighting the bonfire. On March 21, Dhuleti Milan Samaroh was organized at VIP Guest House Lawn, wherein residents exchanged Holi greetings with each other. The township, like every year, was yet again smeared in various colors on the occasion thereby bearing witness to the fun that people had on the occasion. 27  26th KRIBHCO Cup for Invitation Industrial Direct and Indirect Volleyball Tournament 26th KRIBHCO Cup for Invitation Industrial Direct and Indirect Volleyball Tournament was organized by KRIBHCO Staff Club on 23-24th March 2019 at KRIBHCO Nagar, Surat. Operations Director, KRIBHCO inaugurated the Tournament on 23rd March 2019. 24 Volley ball teams from different Industries of Gujarat state participated in this Tournament. III. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities The overall aim of CSR is to achieve a positive impact on society as a whole while maximising the creation of shared value for the owners of the business, its employees, shareholders and stakeholders. The CSR Activities conducted by KRIBHCO Hazira are as follows:  In KRIBHCO’s adopted village– Kawas, drinking water is provided to villagers free of cost and the approximate expenditure is around Rs.60 Lacs per annum.  To provide better educational facilities to the nearby villagers, KRIBHCO is running two schools up to 12th standard; one Gujarati Medium, and one English medium at our township. The total cost of running the schools is around Rs. 430 Lacs.  Study materials are being provided to Kawas & Icchhapore Schools at cost of Rs.1.5 lacs. Social work by KRIBHCO KARMACHARI SAHKARI DHIRAN &PURVATHA SOCIETY LTD KKSD & PS LTD is not limited to sales grocery and other items, since 5 years doing social work to donate old clothes, warm clothes, blankets, and notebooks and snacks for poor and tribal children in the area of Dang, Ahwa. On 9th December 2018, KKSD&PSL General Secretary Shri M.S. Kansara and his team went to hindla , Virthwa village near Songadh and Vasurna (Ahwa) to donate these items to the villagers. KKSD is very thankful to all members and families for donating these items. 28 Agriculture income is the main strength of farmers. A large number of them are members of our member cooperatives; KRIBHCO with its large dedicated team of agriculture professionals continued its significant contribution in latest farm technology transfer and other rural welfare schemes for improving the profitability of farming community. Tree Plantation Campaign in UP KRIBHCO started transferring improved farm technology under the head Benefit to farmers programmes since 1984, indicating a real concern for farmers, their cooperative societies and environment where they resides, i.e., rural areas. In the past 35 years, KRIBHCO has actively reached more than 1.45 crore farmers benefiting them directly by raising their farm income through 99 thousand tailor-made programmes. Minikit Distribution to the Fani Cyclone Cooperative Conference in Gujarat affected Farmers of Odisha. This makes on an average one programme /day/state. This is the magnitude of our transfer of farm technology programmes. KRIBHCO has evolved a strong promotional strategy involving about 300 agriculture graduates and postgraduates to uplift farming community through its Farm Advisory Services. KRIBHCO has been 29 organizing farm technology transfer programmes in more than 16 states through highly trained field force whose skills are updated regularly. Over a period of time, it was observed that farmers are hesitant to adopt new farm technology unless their whole system is likely to be benefited economically and socially. Farmers are also deeply attached to their fields, livestock and cooperative societies since these are their lifelines. They are also equally concerned about their family welfare including health and children education as well as improvement in rural areas where they spend most of their life time. KRIBHCO carefully considering the above observations adopted the Farming Model which has 5 components, viz., farmers, his fields, livestock, family and cooperative society, all located in rural environment of his village. Sanitation Campaign in Haryana Income Generation Programme in UP During 2018-19, KRIBHCO organized 4514 programmes for our farming community such as Farmers Meetings, Crop Shows, Field Demonstrations, Field Days, Cooperative Conferences, Group Discussions, Soil Testing Campaign, Seed Grower Conference etc. benefiting 6.83 lakh farmers and cooperatives across the country. To back up the Agriculture Technology transfer, the Society also made available 10.18 lakh technical folders on KRIBHCO products for the farmers and cooperatives. Sanitation Campaign in Gujarat Drinking Water Facility in AP Hence, KRIBHCO is a cooperative Identity governed by seven Principles of cooperation. So strengthening cooperatives and rural development always remained a top priority for KRIBHCO. In this direction, 81 Cooperative Societies were adopted, 13754 cooperative managers were trained through 126 Cooperative Conferences and workshops. The society also organized 43 Income Generation Programmes and 66 Health Campaigns for livestock and humans, promoted 30 Drinking Water Facilities and 35 Rural Sports programmes for integrated 30 rural development. Storage-cum-community centre scheme started on Golden Jubilee celebration of India independence occasion, is still continuing193 such centres are completed and being used by farming community. Soil Testing Campaign in Punjab Human Health Campaign in Haryana KRIBHCO Krishi Pramarsh Kendra, a high-tech centre at KRIBHCO Bhawan, NOIDA continued free consultancy to farm-related issues. The centre also propagated efficient and balanced use of fertilizer by testing 6661 soil samples collected scientifically free of cost (3434 for micro-nutrients and 3227 samples for macro-nutrients & irrigation water) from 13 states during 2018-19. Results along with recommendations were forwarded through electronic medium to farmers at their door-steps, apart from uploading KRIBHCO website for display of results. Through its Kisan Helpline, Pramarsh Kendra also providing, latest information on weather & monsoon movement etc. for use in planning farm operations and mid-term corrections in crop cultivation. Animal Health Campaign in Tamil Nadu Rural sports Programme in Punjab KRIBHCO continued to promote Information Communication Technology (ICT) system through KRIBHCO Kisan helpline using e-mail, phone, computer and its website for informing farmers about latest farm technology alongside with traditional tools. Information on monthly farm operation is also made available on website. IV. Awards and Achievements  KRIBHCO awarded “Swachhata Pakhwada Award-2018” Krishak Bharati Cooperative Limited (KRIBHCO), the world’s premier fertilizer producing cooperative, has been awarded the 1st prize on Swachhata Pakhwada Award-2018 at a function in New Delhi on 31 September 28, 2018. The award was received by Sh. N.Sambasiva Rao, Managing Director, KRIBHCO from Ms. Bharathi S. Sihag, IAS, Secretary, DOF, Government of India. The Award has been given for outstanding contribution of KRIBHCO towards cleanliness drive during Swachhata Pakhwada from 1-15th September, 2018. Swachhata Pakhawada observed in all states/field offices, Plant, Head Office and Township etc. Shri N. Sambasiva Rao, Managing Director, KRIBHCO receiving Swachhata Pakhwara Award From Ms. Bharathi S. Sihag, IAS Secretary, DOF, Govt of India.  PRSI Award PRSI has awarded KRIBHCO NEWS under its National Award 2018. The Award was declared by a jury consisting of Shri Ashish Mehta, Editor of Governence Now, Ms. Yeshi Seli, Associate Editor Business India, Mr. Wajahat Habibullah, Ex Chief Information Commissioner, GOI, Ms. Stuti Kakkar, Ex Chairperson, National Commission for protection of Child rights, Prof. Madhabhushi Sreedhar, Ex CIO, Shri V.M.Bansal,Chairman, New Delhi Management Institute. The Award was conferred in 40th All India Public Relations Conference-2018 in Dehradun by Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat, Chief Minister of Uttrakhand and received by Shri Gajendra Singh Rana, CSM,kribhco –Uttrakhand. Shri Gajendra Singh Rana, CSM, KRIBHCO – Uttrakhand receiving PRSI Award-2018 from Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat, Chief Minister of Uttrakhand 32  KRIBHCO ‘s Film Awarded by FAI Krishak Bharati Cooperative Limited (KRIBHCO), the world’s premier fertilizer producing cooperative, produced a film titled “Ek Nai UdanSamridh Kisan” inspired by the Prime Minister’s vision on “Doubling Farmers Income”, has been adjudged Best Video Film and awarded 1st prize by FAI in its Annual Conference held at Hotel Pullman in New Delhi. The award was given by Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda, Hon’ble Union Minister of Chemicals & Fertilizers. The award was received by Shri V.S. Sirohi, Marketing Director, KRIBHCO in the presence of Sh. Rao Inderjit Singh, MOS, Chemicals & Fertilizers, Ms. Bharathi S. Sihag, Secretary, Fertilizers and Shri Sanjay Agarwal, Secretary (Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare). KRIBHCO’s subsidiary company, KRIBHCO Fertilizers Ltd (KFL) has also received Runner-up award for “ Best Innovative Practices”. An article written by KRIBHCO Surat, Plant Officers published by FAI Journal was also awarded by FAI. Shri V.S. Sirohi, Marketing Director, KRIBHCO receiving FAI award from Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda, Hon’ble Union Minister of Chemicals & Fertilizers , in the presence of Sh. Rao Inderjit Singh, State Minister of Chemicals & Fertilizers, Ms. Bharathi S. Sihag, Secretary, Fertilizers and Shri Sanjay Agarwal , Secretary(Agri., Cooperation and FW). 2. LABOUR Principle 3 : Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  Registered Unions & Associations: We recognize the employees’ right to form associations and to participate in management. In accordance with this principle, the workmen have formed their own Trade Unions which are registered and the same have been recognized for the purpose of collective bargaining. The decisions related to the workmen are taken in consultation with the said unions. 33 Complete industrial peace and harmony has been prevailing since the setting up of the Plant and not a single man-hour has been lost due to industrial unrest.  Compliance to Labour Laws: KRIBHCO does not encourage any form of forced or compulsory labour. No child labour is engaged either directly or indirectly. No discrimination is shown in employment or in extending any type of benefit/ advantage on the ground of gender, place of birth, caste or community.  Women are provided a healthy and safe working environment & equal opportunities, keeping in mind the principles of equality in gender with respect of their working, development and growth.  Protection of Women at Workplace at Plant: As per the notification published by the Central Government on “The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013”, an Internal Complaint Committee has been constituted to comply with the provisions of the Act. KRIBHCO ensures that a safe environment is being extended to all female employees. 3. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. KRIBHCO is fully conscious about its responsibility to the environment. Therefore, care of environment has always been paramount importance to KRIBHCO and has adopted methods to contribute towards this responsibility.  Environmental Management System at KRIBHCO Environmental Protection is a practice of protecting the natural environment on individual, organizational or governmental levels for the benefit of both the natural environment & human. Environmental protection is influenced by three interwoven factors: environmental legislation, ethics & education. KRIBHCO recognizes its ethical responsibility to protect environment and is committed to regulate all its activities using best available technology to mitigate adverse environmental impact, if any that may arise out of its operations. Emission of pollutants to air from the various stacks is well below the limits specified by regulatory bodies. Six ambient air quality-monitoring stations have been set up within a radius of 10 kms for periodic monitoring of air quality in surrounding area. Wet de-dusting system at Prilling tower top has been installed and emission of the Urea dust and Ammonia in the atmosphere is well below the specified limits. To ensure clean and green environment, society has created a green belt by planting trees of different species based on Air Pollution Tolerance Index thus helping to improve the ambient air quality within the complex. To create awareness among contract workers an Environment Protection Module video has been prepared which is shown to all the contract workers and only after that they are allowed to work in the plant premises. 34 Environmental Management System (EMS) of society has been certified as in-line with international standard ISO 14001. Internal & External Audits are conducted periodically for checking efficacy of the system. The society is recycling the rinsing water of Anion & Cation exchangers & boiler blow down water of power plant to D.M plant intake. Recycling of process waste condensate of ammonia plants & urea plants after treatment in deep hydrolyser used as boiler feed water make up. Tertiary treated sewage water is being reused as cooling water make up. Part of Cooling Tower blow down water is being Reused for horticulture / farming.  AMMONIA SAFETY AWARENESS PROGRAMME Krishak Bharati Cooperative Limited, Hazira-Surat Fire & Safety organised Ammonia Safety Awareness Programme on 09/10/2018 at 11:00 Hours for Kawas residents at KAWAS Gram Panchayat Office to familiarize with Ammonia Gas Safety Precaution and Emergency Preparedness in case of any incidental Ammonia Leakage in the Plant. KRIBHCO Fire and Safety divulged the Various Safety Precaution of ammonia, Disaster Management and Emergency Preparedness, First-Aid and Health & Safety Precautions to the audience. Ammonia Safety Pamphlet in Gujarati was distributed among the Villagers.  QUALITY CIRCLES IN KRIBHCO: KRIBHCO has adopted the Quality Circle concept in the organization to fulfil this need of quality management. KRIBHCO have various quality Circles functioning in plant and have contributed well in improving the quality in the entire complex. KRIBHCO has become popular among all fertilizer units to start Quality circle in the plant. The journey started in the late 2002 with the dynamic leadership of KRIBHCO management. Quality circles excelled with the enthusiastic coordination of Mr. MR Sharma, Operations Director of KRIBHCO. Quality circles in KRIBHCO started with two circles initially and after implementation the response from Executives, staff and workers were commendable and this motivated to add one more circle in the very next year to the QC activities. Quality circle Forum of India, Baroda chapter imparted the QC methodology training for implementation of QC activities to employees. Quality circle has 4 or more members in each team. Quality circles are given freedom to choose their members and set their agenda. Team will decide 35 when and where to meet in office hours for a particular problem. Quality circle teams feel that problems are their opportunities and enjoy in solving them. Quality circle teams are given chance to present their case studies before Operations Director in KRIBHCO plant monthly maintenance review meetings(MRM). All the teams based on the strength of the problem solving & savings are recognized and rewarded suitably time to time in the functions of Independence day and Republic day celebration. Quality circle teams Photos are published in the KRIBHCO house journal. KRIBHCO executed many modifications for the improvement of the life of equipment and ease of operation. Some of them are reactor gasket leakage, improving reciprocating packing life, reduction in valve maintenance, turbine gear problem, introducing software to identify the duplicate & unused spares in stores, energy saving schemes like running less number of blowers, steam trap auditing, mass flow rate reduction in Air compressor, and coupling membrane failure saved good amount of money every year to KRIBHCO company. In 2018: KRIBHCO’s KARTAVYA” team participated in Gujarat state level Quality circles annual convention held in September 2018 at Baroda and won Gold award. The same KARTAVYA” team also participated in QCFI Surat chapter in December 2018 at AURO University, Surat and won gold award. The QCFI Surat chapter delegates’ valedictory function was addressed by OD, Shri MR Sharma at AURO University, Surat on 1st December 2018. Empowering employee considerably exhibits owing the responsibility of managing the organization. This change revealed that quest for quality services is in the hand of all employees. The sustenance of success will lead to total quality improvement emerging as a centre of excellence of its own.  Workshop on Steam Boiler Safety Aspect, Energy Conservation, Efficient Operation & Maintenance' Like previous years this year also KRIBHCO has organised IBR programme on topic 'Workshop on Steam Boiler Safety Aspect, Energy Conservation, Efficient Operation & Maintenance' at KRIBHCO central school auditorium on 12.09.2018 wherein more than 250 participants from renowned organisation of Gujarat states, director and Dy. director of boilers , Gujarat state , knowledgeable faculty members were participated. KRIBHCO provided all the necessary facilities for this seminar and made the seminar a grant success. From KRIBHCO, Additional General Manager (Marketing) and Manager (Marketing) took keen interest and looks after all the arrangement. In the welcome address, Chief General Manager (Marketing) highlighted how a tragic explosion of boiler in Calcutta in 1863 was the origin of the Indian Boiler Regulation. Similarly, the sinking of steamship Sultana in USA, on 27th April, 1865 due to explosion of three of the four boilers powering the 36 craft and thousands of boiler explosions took place in the United States and Europe in the 19th century resulted in many deaths which ultimately was the reason for the conceive of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (B&PVC) and ISO standard. In Europe, USA and India, boilers are manufactured as per ISO, ASME sec VIII Div 1, 2 & 3 and the Indian Boiler Regulation (IBR). IBR code is the safest code for safety of equipment, pipes and vessels in compared to other standards. To make the boiler more efficient and working old Pneumatic control system has been replaced with DCS control system, relay based shutdown system has been taken over by PLC based ESD system. All the field pneumatic instrument has been replaced with electronic one and these will not only help in better control , but also event happened in micro second can be recorded which help to identify the problem. IBR also time to time updates its regulations for the benefit of industries of essential commodities subject to monitoring the water quality to the boiler is maintained up to the requirement on line along with other requirement like implementation of RLA etc 37  WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY-2018 CELEBRATIONS AT KRIBHCO, SURAT Healthy planet is the key to our healthy existence. With this aim, United Nations dedicated a day to the cause of raising awareness among people about the severity of the issue of Pollution and the damage that it has caused to our planet. This edition of World Environment Day is special, since India is hosting the event. KRIBHCO too celebrated 43rd World Environment Day at its township. A Tree Plantation drive was organized at the township under the guidance of Operations Director, and other senior officials. Employees and township residents participated with enthusiasm in the drive and planted tree saplings of fruits in the township. Keeping in sync with this year’s theme, “Beat Plastic Pollution”, KRIBHCO has also started an initiative to reduce the use of plastic in everyday lives of its employees so that the burden of plastic pollution in the environment can be reduced. KRIBHCO has always come forward to contribute to the environmental causes. Along the similar lines, ‘Green KRIBHCO, Clean KRIBHCO’ campaign has been started, in which Cleanliness drives is being organized regularly in order to create awareness and sensitivity towards cleanliness amongst the residents. 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  Vigilance Awareness: KRIBHCO considers Vigilance as an integral part of the Management Function. Main stress of the management is on transparency in the Organization and accountability in the day to day functioning/working of the Society. There is a full-fledged Vigilance set up being headed by a Chief Vigilance Officer. KRIBHCO management has been emphasizing on the efficacy of preventive vigilance to improve systems and procedures in a way so as to reduce scope of discretion and eliminate corruption. Efforts are on towards sensitization of employees through “Group Discussion and power point presentations” on Vigilance Activities carried out in the organisation. Surprise and regular inspections are carried out by VOs on a regular basis. On the basis of findings of VOs during the inspections, remedial action is taken by the Management whenever adverse findings come to the notice. All officers are required to submit Annul Property Returns of their moveable and immoveable properties for the period from 1st January to 31st December every year, which are scrutinized by the Vigilance Department. 38 Vigilance Awareness Week was celebrated in all the units of KRIBHCO viz. Plant, HO and Field Marketing Offices during 29th October to 3rd November, 2018. The theme of this year’s Vigilance Week was “Eradicate Corruption – Build a New India”. Vigilance Awareness Week Celebration was one step towards sensitizing the employees of the organisation to bring more transparency in the working of individual and shouldering the responsibility that each and every employee of the organisation should work as a Vigilance Officer. Besides the above, efforts are also made to sensitize the public/customers/ employees about the evil consequences of corruption and ways to prevent it. During Vigilance Awareness Week celebrations, in addition to the Pledge Ceremonies, Group Discussions, Cooperative Conferences, Workshops, Theme Lecture, Essay writing, Quiz competitions on Moral Values involving employees were organized by the Society to highlight the evil consequences of corruption and ways to prevent it. Vigilance Awareness Week was observed with the theme of “Eradicate CorruptionBuild a New India” at KRIBHCO Plant Hazira, from 29thOctober to 03rdNovember, 2018. 39 A pledge was administered on 29th October, 2018 by our H’ble Chairman, wherein Board of Directors, Managing Director, Finance Director, Marketing Director, Operations Director-Plant, Sr. officers, employees of HR, F&A, Purchase and MS Dept were present. Inside plant also, pledge in front of all control rooms was administrated by shift-in charge, which includes Production, Mechanical, Instrumentation, Electrical & other departments. Pamphlets were distributed to all participants in programme. As a part of Observance of Vigilance Week, banners & slogans in English, Hindi & Gujarati with vigilance and corruption themes displayed at prominent locations at Plant and KRIBHCO & HAEP Township throughout the week. Theme depicting on banner was displayed on cable TVs which was throughout the week. Individuals indulging in unethical activities for personal gains at the cost of the organisation lead to wastages, losses and economic decline. There is a need to control or restrict such persons’ misendeavours and promote organisational interest. Our Vigilance department has adopted pro-active approach to create incorruptibility in the administration and works for systems improvement and simplification and codification of rules and procedures. The culture of taking independent initiatives and decision making at all levels is constantly strengthened. We encourage transparency (openness), fairness (applying same principles to all concerned), and competition amongst vendors, in the interest of the organisation. It is the endeavour of our Vigilance Team to create an ethos of Organisational Citizenship” among all the employees so that there is voluntary compliance of rules and procedures. In cases where irregularities are detected ‘Zero Tolerance’ concept is adopted and Punitive Vigilance is used as a management tool to provide positive discipline in the society. Action Plan against Corruption: For achieving the vision of the society, a strategic action plan has been implemented. A. Awareness:  Seminars, Workshops, Lectures and Debates, power point presentation on Vigilance;  Distribution of in-house pamphlets, articles on Vigilance Awareness;  Giving due protection to the whistle blower/complainant. B. Preventive Vigilance:  Simplification of Rules and procedures;  Plugging loopholes of systems/procedures to reduce corruption; 40  Sensitizing employees through Group Discussion’s power point presentation, Dos & Don’ts at various offices about evil consequences of corruption;  Increasing Transparency and accountability in day to day working  Effective machinery to deal promptly with complaints;  Regular and surprise Inspections;  Ensuring high standard of integrity amongst the employees;  Exploring fresh areas of corruption resulting due to technological advancements and use of I.T. C. Punitive Vigilance:  Speedy disposal of vigilance cases and disciplinary inquiries;  Steps to maintain positive discipline. 41
