UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Nissens 2019 Nissens’ Communication on Progress Reporting is available on: UN Global Compact’s website Nissens’ website: www.nissens.com For more information about Nissens’ CSR profile and activities, please contact the CSR officer at Nissens: Rikke Kroer Høberg Vice President, Global HR & Group Services Email: rkh@nissens.com UN Global Compact / Communication on Progress / 2019 Contents: Statement Nissens develops, manufactures and markets cooling systems for the international automotive aftermarket and To us, Delivering the Difference to our customers is partly anchored in our focus on corporate social responsibility Statement of Continued Support 3 of customized cooling systems for the and sustainability. For that reason, I am CONTENTS / STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT renewable energy and special vehicles pleased to submit the first Communication Continued segments. We are considered a market on Progress Report from Nissens, which Human Rights Principles 4-5 leading brand on thermal solutions in is our formal commitment and official the automotive aftermarket for thermal statement of Nissens’ continued support Labor Rights Principles 6-7 Support solutions. In addition, we are recognized to the ten principles of the UN Global as a globally leading partner in cooling Compact within the areas of Human Environmental Protection Principles 8-9 systems for onand offshore wind Rights, Labor Rights, Environmental turbines and a leading niche manufacturer Protection and Anti-corruption. Anti-corruption Principles 10-11 of cooling solutions for a variety of June 25, 2019 industrial applications. Nissens’ CSR Policy and Code of Publication & Contact 12 Conduct are approved by Nissens’ Group The Nissens Group consists of two Management and Board of Directors. business units: Nissens Automotive, selling to wholesalers and distributers in In this annual Communication on Progress the aftermarket ; and Nissens Cooling Report for 2019, we are pleased to share Solutions, covering develop­ment and our commitments, focused actions and sales to two segments; the wind energy achievements in relation to securing our industry and the industrial segment, continued support of the principles of targeting respectively global wind turbine UN Global Compact with the public as OEMs and global heavy duty equipment well as with our stakeholders, including OEMs. our customers, employees, suppliers and other partners. Nissens is known for a strong brand, a wide product range, consistently high service levels, product quality, engineering Sincerely yours, capabilities, customization and innovation. We are driven by an ambition to keep Delivering the Difference to our customers across geographical areas, commercial Mikkel Krogslund Andersen markets and business segments. CEO, Nissens 2 3 UN Global Compact / Communication on Progress / 2019 Human Rights Implementation of Actions: 2018/19 In 2018, we have put focus into the implementation of the new EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), local level. Professional data privacy protection is important to leverage the speed of trust between Nissens and our Principles which is designed to harmonize data internal as well as external stakeholders. privacy regulations across Europe. At DATA PRIVACY POLICY Nissens, we are committed to ensuring To emphasize our focus on the 1. GENERAL Nissens is committed to ensuring the confidentiality, integrity and protection of information from our employees, customers, suppliers that the data privacy of our customers, importance of the GDPR implementation and other business partners, including their personal data. Nissens’ ambition is to be compliant with all personal data legislation and to work thoroughly and continuously to reach this ambition. Nissens will regularly manage the balance between the rights of the data subjects and Nissens’ legitimate commercial obligations as well as the consumptions of resources. Nissens will on a continuous basis review our formal Data Privacy Policy and improve the employees and other stakeholders is in the past year, Nissens has defined a Commitment outcome concurrently with this development, especially via adoption of new IT solutions. managed in a professional and respectful KPI in our CSR Policy, which outlines our This policy outlines the general policy of Nissens, and according to this policy, a number of guidelines will be issued and designated to relevant managers and employees at Nissens and communicated in the relevant fora. When the above and following paragraphs are referring to the “data subject”, it means the person whose personal data is involved. 2. RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE POLICY, ITS DEVELOPMENT AND THE COMPLIANCE OF IT At Nissens, the Data Privacy Policy has the attention and priority of the top management. The overall responsibility belongs to the CEO of the Nissens Group. In each subsidiary company, the co-responsibility belongs to the daily management. manner as well as in compliance with ambition for management signatures on applicable laws and regulations on Nissens’ Data Privacy Policy. A Data Privacy Committee is appointed to take the overall Nissens Group responsibility for the Data Privacy Policy and implementation. Nissens is headquartered in Horsens, Denmark, The committee consists of: VP, Global HR & Group Services, Rikke Kroer Høberg IT Manager, Helle Midtgaard Legal Director, Lars Brøgger The Data Privacy Committee directly reports to the CEO. with in-house production and assembly sites in 3. PERSONAL DATA COLLECTED AND PROCESSED BY NISSENS Nissens is responsible as a data controller when collecting personal data. a) General HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Nissens collects personal information, including information about names, titles, addresses, telephone numbers and e-mail Slovakia, Denmark, China and the US. In the addresses related to employees, job candidates, customers, suppliers, third parties, their owners and contact persons. Nissens Automotive can collect and process data about customers and their customers’ vehicles and their registration numbers. Nissens Automotive can collect and process data about mechanics’ training sessions and certifications. Nissens can collect information about passports (copy of passports) and civil registration numbers, but limited to where Action KPI Target Status 2018/19 necessary according to legislation or based on relevant purpose. This nature of sensitive information will be stored under Group, we have 22 subsidiaries across three intensified security and control. Rev1/2018.06/Group policy Policy responsible (initials): Latest revision (year): Implementation of Full compliance on 100% 100% continents performing activities within sales, LBR 2018 GDPR, incl. Nissens’ signatures on Data Privacy Data Privacy Policy Policy from Top Tier Three production and distribution. We have local Group of Managers employees in 20 countries. Nissens offers support and respect for the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and we are committed to leading and driving Our ambition on management signatures we internally received reports or made Performance our business in a manner that ensure our company’s compliance with on our new Data Privacy Policy remains registrations of any incidents involving the protection of human rights in our internal as well as in our external Evaluation & Outlook unaltered, and we will strive for 100% human rights violations in the past year, value chain. target fulfilment in the coming year. so Nissens reaffirms our commitment to UN Global Compact’s principles on In general, Nissens has not been subject Human Rights. We operate on the basis of respect of diversity, and we do not accept to any external investigations, nor have discrimination on the basis of race, religion, gender, age, nationality or sexual orientation within the company. Becoming an increasingly international company with offices and production sites across three continents, we embrace the diversity of different cultures and believe that our diversity is a strong asset in our ambition to keep Delivering the Difference to our customers on a global scale. THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT i) Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 4 5 UN Global Compact / Communication on Progress / 2019 Labor Commitment Being a supplier to the leading players in our dialogue and co-operation with the the international automotive aftermarket representatives of our employees through Rights and to the predominant OEMs in the formalized meeting structures and fora. wind turbine industry as well as in a variety of industrial segments stipulates In our Code of Conduct, we state that that Nissens is able to attract and retain Nissens has zero tolerance of forced Principles competent and dedicated employees in labor, child labor and discrimination. our 22 companies around the world. Our Code of Conduct is made publicly available to all employees at Nissens on Nissens is committing to securing a our InfoNet and in our local employee safe working environment with a good handbooks. Managers at top tier levels in working atmosphere based on open the organization are requested to provide communication and the possibility for their signature on their commitment personal and professional development to respect Nissens’ Code of Conduct. within the company. Suppliers to Nissens Automotive and Nissens Cooling Solutions are provided We respect the freedom of association with Nissens’ Code of Conduct upon of our employees as well as their right to engagement in co-operations with our collective bargaining, and we secure two business units. Implementation of Actions: To secure a safe and good working working environments in both China and 2018/19 environment, Nissens has carried out Denmark. Nissens regularly measures an employee satisfaction survey in and follows up on prioritized focus areas China in 2018. Additionally, a workplace serving as indicators of the well-being assessment survey was carried out in of our employees. We have included our Denmark in accordance with the Danish performance on absence due to injuries Working Environment Act in the spring and sickness absence below: LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES of 2019. The surveys testified of healthy Actions KPIs Baseline Status 2018/19 Performance We will maintain our ambitions for or made registrations of any incidents Absence Rate due to Improved performance in 4,5 3,5 Injuries in Denmark FY2018/19 compared to Evaluation & Outlook improving our TRIR and sickness involving labor rights violations in the absences rates in the coming year. past year, and, in the year to come, and Slovakia) baseline in FY2017/18 In the past year, Nissens has not been we will pursue our focus on Nissens’ (Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) subject to any external investigations, continued compliance with UN Global per 200000 working nor have we internally received reports Compact’s principles on labor rights. hours) Overall Sickness Maintained or improved Denmark: 2.20% Denmark: 2.59% Absence Rates sickness absence rates in Slovakia: 3.64% Slovakia: 4.30% (across DK, SK, CN) FY2018/19 compared to China: 0.96% China: 0.54% FY2017/18 NISSENS’ CODE OF CONDUCT We have developed seven codes that serve as guidelines for our ethical behavior: 1 2 Responsible business principles Responsible business principles THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Legal Compliance Prohibition of Corruption ii) Labor Rights Principle 3: 3 Responsible business principles Accounting & Reporting Standards 4 Responsible business principles Conflicts of Interest Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 5 Fundamental company ethics Non-Discrimination 6 Fundamental company ethics Environmental Protection & Work Environment 7 Principle 4: Fundamental company ethics The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Forced Labor & Child Labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and accupation 6 7 UN Global Compact / Communication on Progress / 2019 Environment Commitment Nissens is committed to act as an optimizations of operational processes Protection environmentally responsible company. providing environmental benefits. We are certified according to the ISO 14001 environmental standard across our To secure our organization’s awareness Principles production sites in Denmark, Slovakia and competence in relation to Nissens’ and China. Our environmental initiatives consideration for the environment, in the business include activities on we apply a Train the Trainer Concept e.g. reduction of energy consumption, for all of our blue-collar employees, emissions and waste. which includes training in guidelines on recommended environmental behavior Our ISO 14001 certification is an and energy consumption. acknowledgement of our responsibility towards environmental protection. ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION PRINCIPLES We wish to put emphasis on sustainability by minimizing the impact of the company’s physical surroundings through targeted environmental measures and by integrating an environmental focus into our business decisions. This is reflected in Nissens’ focus on supplies for the renewable energy segment, considerations for environmental enhancement through product development and Implementation of Actions: In the past year, we have implemented In 2017, Nissens started to measure the 2018/19 initiatives, which have contributed to CO2 emission per employee across the continuing our reduction of Nissens’ company. In the past 1.5 years, we have energy consumption, just as we keep a measured and followed the development positive trend in CO2 emission reductions of our company impact in this area. over the year. THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Action KPI Baseline Status 2018/19 iii) Environment Measurement Improved performance Index 100 Index 90 of CO2 emission of the CO2 emission per Principle 7: employee in FY2018/19 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to compared to FY2017/18 environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility Evaluation of We will continue to focus on In the past year, Nissens has not been Performance & Outlook improving our environmental footprint subject to any external investigations, Principle 9: through initiatives to limit our energy legal cases or incidents involving Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally consumption, emissions and waste violations of the environmental friendly technologies through planned initiatives in our global protection principles defined by UN factories. Global Compact. 8 9 UN Global Compact / Communication on Progress / 2019 AntiCommitment Nissens has zero tolerance on the maximum values for appreciations made application of corruption and bribery as by external partners to employees at an acknowledgement of corruption and Nissens in order to keep the professional corruption bribery being barriers to the development of free and fair trade between companies and countries. impartiality and personal integrity of Nissens’ staff. Principles Nissens has a whistleblower policy and In Nissens’ Code of Conduct, it is information channel, which serves the outlined that our employees must refrain purpose of providing access to named from offering rewards and means of or anonymous, formalized reporting of corruption when exercising their duties alleged breaches of laws, regulations, and acting as representatives of the Nissens’ Code of Conduct or other valid company. Additionally, our employee policies and processes. handbooks contain guidelines on Implementation of Actions: Action KPI Target Status 2018/19 FY2018/19 Measurement of Zero confirmed incidents 0 incidents 0 incidents whistleblower in whistleblower scheme incidents WHISTLE-BLOWER POLICY OBJECTIVE ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES In order to ensure that Nissens and all Nissens employees, in relation to their work at Nissens, comply with all laws, regulations and Nissens issued ethical guidelines in the Code of Conduct, a so-called whistle-blower arrangement has been established. The aim with the arrangement is for Nissens, through notifications, to detect, respond to and sanction violation of laws, rules and ethical guidelines. To achieve this, Nissens has established a process of reporting violations and reasoned suspected violations a whistle-blower arrangement through which employees can safely report violations or suspected violations and where employees can expect professional handling without the risk of sanctions or reprisals to the informer him-/herself. WHAT CAN BE REPORTED  Any condition, act or omission that may result in penalty under existing laws  Any violation of Nissens’ Code of Conduct  Any other circumstances, act or omission committed intentionally or severely negligent, which may have a significant negative effect on Nissens, Nissens’ employees and/or Nissens’ reputation WHAT CANNOT BE REPORTED  Standard industrial relations and action of the employee’s own working conditions, where irregularities must be reported in accordance with the company's usual procedures (notification to the direct manager, HR, trade union representative, work environment representative etc.)  Conditions where Nissens’ customers or suppliers complain about deliveries, quality and/or other services where irregularities should also be reported in accordance with the company's usual procedures TO WHO SHOULD YOU REPORT  whistleblowing@nissens.com, only the undersigned – the whistle-blower responsible – have access to this mail box; Vice President Global HR & Group Services, Rikke Kroer Høberg, rkh@nissens.com, +45 76 26 27 80 or +45 26 88 00 51 Legal Director, Lars Brøgger lbr@nissens.com, +45 76 26 27 72 or +45 25 22 36 36 WHAT SHOULD THE REPORT CONTAIN  It is recommended that the notification is done in your own name and not anonymously. In anonymous reviews, it can be difficult to review the notification, and it is not possible to return to the informer with results of the investigation  Moreover, no formal requirements are required, but it is recommended to give a thorough description of the reported conditions Policy responsible (initials): Latest revision (year): Rev1/2018.01/Group policy RKH 2019 Evaluation of We continue to strive for optimal business violations have been reported to Nissens Performance & Outlook ethics within Nissens and maintain a KPI or registered by Nissens, and we will of zero confirmed whistleblower incidents continue to focus on full compliance with in the coming year. the principles of anti-corruption defined by UN Global Compact. In the past year, no investigations or legal incidents on anti-corruption THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT iv) Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 10 11
