SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 corporacionalba.es SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN__02 2. COMPANY PROFILE AND PURPOSE OF THE ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT__03 3. ANALYSIS OF THE COMPANY ENVIRONMENT: SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTING (SRI) SITUATION AND TRENDS__05 4. CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA__06 5. PERFORMANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY__17 6. GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS__44 01 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN development. Nationally, it highlights the approval in 2018 of the Action Plan for We hereby present the Annual Sustainability Agenda 2030 and the Non-Financial Report of Corporación Financiera Alba for Information Act, applicable to the financial the third year, and with it, the Company’s year 2018. Follow-up on these initiatives performance on social, environmental and contributes to responsible decision-making, good governance matters. and allows for stable domestic and international financial systems to be The 2018 Annual Report captures the maintained, which are necessary for the performance of the organisation in the economic development of countries. current global context of sustainable development, marked by significant changes Corporación Financiera Alba is not in social and environmental settings. These obliged to present the state of non-financial changes range from the transformation information contemplated by law on such of the internal processes of entities for subject matters, as it does not exceed the value creation, to the application of social threshold of 500 employees. However, responsibility criteria in the configuration of aware of the importance of transparency investment portfolios. These transformations and good governance for stable growth, demand greater transparency from and following the recommendations of companies, which must address their triple the Unified Governance Code of Listed bottom-line as a requirement to ensure their Companies, it reports on corporate stable and sustainable growth. social responsibility issues, following the methodology of GRI [Global Reporting International initiatives – such as the Initiative] Standards applicable to it, Principles for Responsible Investment, some of which are applicable due to its adopted more than a decade ago, investment in listed companies. the United Nations 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement on Climate On the other hand, it reports the Change, both of 2015, the Principles development of its activities from for Sustainable Insurance of 2017, or the perspective of the Sustainable the European Commission’s 2018 Action Development Goals (SDGs), proposed Plan on Sustainable Finance – promote by the United Nations as a call to tools capable of leading sustainable private companies to help create a 02 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 2. COMPANY PROFILE AND global society from a common language. The main SDGs with which Corporación PURPOSE OF THE ANNUAL Financiera Alba contributes directly or SUSTAINABILITY REPORT through their participated companies, have been identified, aligning the sustainability challenges according to the content of the 2.1. Company Profile Non-Financial Information Act. Corporación Financiera Alba, S.A. Among the actions on Corporate Social (“Corporación Financiera Alba”) is an Responsibility during 2018, it highlights investment company created in 1986, the approval of a new Code of Ethics and listed on the Spanish Stock Exchange. Conduct, including a Complaints Channel. The Code captures the evolution of legal Corporación Financiera Alba holds regulations on criminal liability of legal significant interests in different companies persons and regulatory changes in market with activities in various economic sectors. abuse. Property management, under leasing arrangements, and interests in companies The scope of this Report is limited to via the private equity operations form part Corporación Financiera Alba and its of the activities of these companies. subsidiaries, but does not include its investee companies. However, it does The Company is part of the March Group, focus special attention on the influence over one of the main private Spanish familyinvestee companies, in which it encourages owned business and financial groups, of the implementation and development of which Banca March and the Juan March sustainability and corporate governance Foundation are also affiliated. best practices, in line with the philosophy of Corporación Financiera Alba on active Banca March, Alba’s primary shareholder, participation, as a key factor in making is the only 100% family-owned Spanish business decisions, deciding on projects and bank specialising in Private Banking and making investments that generate wealth. Corporate Banking, with a business model based on long-term relationships and prudence. 03 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Also, the Juan March Foundation, with obligated to present a statement of which Corporación Financiera Alba non-financial information under the Act collaborates, is a family-owned and equity11/2018. So, in accordance with good based institution with long-term, no-charge corporate governance recommendations, programmes. It organises exhibitions, for another year, it presents its Annual concerts and conferences and promotes Sustainability Report, where possible, scientific research in social sciences and the information required by the advanced post-graduate training. abovementioned Act, following the GRI Standards methodology. It is also taken into account that Corporación Financiera 2.2. Purpose of Annual Sustainability Report Alba hold shares in ten listed companies, with an aggregated stock market value On 29 December 2018, the legislative Act at 31 December 2018 of 2,865 million 11/2018, of 28 December entered into euros, for which they are obliged to force, by which the Code of Commerce, the present a statement of non-financial Capital Companies Act and the Audit Law information. were amended in respect of non-financial information and diversity. This law forces Thus, through this Annual Report, the companies that meet certain requirements to performance of the Company and its draw up a statement of their non-financial group companies regarding environmental, information, integrated into the performance social and personnel issues, human rights, report, or issued separately. This policy efforts against corruption and bribery, and should be applied for financial activities information on Company commitments with initiated on or after 1 January 2018. sustainable development, supply chain and society, is made available to the various This law transposes the Directive stakeholders of Corporación Financiera 2013/34/EU, of 26 June, aligning the Alba. current trend in reporting methods with the content of what is reported. The scope of Annual Report includes Corporación Financiera Alba, S.A., Alba Since it does not meet the first requirement Patrimonio Inmobiliario, S.A.U. and Artá of having more than 500 employees, Capital, SGEIC, S.A.U., with which the Corporación Financiera Alba is not Group is formed. 04 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 3. ANALYSIS OF THE COMPANY These initiatives, together with other ENVIRONMENT: SOCIALLY international ones, that promote sustainable RESPONSIBLE INVESTING (SRI) development-such as the Paris Agreement SITUATION AND TRENDS in the fight against climate change, the Principles for Responsible Investment or the Principles for Sustainable Insurance,constitute The United Nations 2030 Agenda reference documents for investment decision established the 17 Sustainable making and contribute to the drive for a Development Goals (SDGs) in 2015, with sustainable financial system. which it called for both public and private entities and the third industry to promote Financially, the international situation and make the necessary efforts and to in 2018 was characterised by global build the alliances that enable them to geopolitical uncertainties along with other achieve all of these goals. environmental and social sectors that have impacted the national and international The approval of the 2030 Agenda economy, with a consequent impact on the Action Plan in July 2018, the recent NonCompany. In this global picture, it is worth Financial Information Act or the European noting that non-economic aspects impact Commission’s Sustainable Finance the economy and are drivers of international Action Plan of 2018, are clear evidence economic change. of the political consensus and social demand that exists in terms of sustainable In this context, Spain ended 2018 with development. This will lead to the creation a GDP of €1.2 trillion, which was 2.5% of new policies, measures, governance up on 2017. However, this growth was and methods of work that will provide a lower, by five-tenths, than the GDP growth favourable framework for the increased in 2017 at 3%. This shows us a slowdown investment in our country. in the growth of the Spanish economy after three years in which it has been very high, The High Commissioner for Agenda 2030 as a result of factors such as the cyclical aims to track SDGs in a series of prioritised push and employment and financial reforms areas of action and establish policies to that assisted that growth, along with other achieve them. circumstantial factors in the economy. 05 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4. CORPORACIÓN In terms of geographic scope, the need FINANCIERA ALBA to diversify risk has led the Company to engage in domestic investment – it is in Spain where the entity currently 4.1. Responsible Business Model and maintains all its investments and where, Strategy for its reputation in the market, accesses relevant investment opportunities – as well Corporación Financiera Alba, which as in international investment, where the aims to create value in the long term for investment is intended to be preferentially its shareholders, has an Investment Policy done, together with local partners and in that establishes a responsible investment companies characterised by their stability, philosophy based on principles and reliability and security. criteria on which it operates. Active participation in companies and in One of these principles that guide other assets in which the Company invests, the actions of the entity is the need to is another key principle of the responsible have a high level of knowledge of the investment of Corporación Financiera Alba investments, both in its initial analysis and translates to the establishment of a and in the continuous monitoring of the number of requirements to invest. These company in which it invests, the sector in include having the sufficient percentage which it performs and the markets in which of shareholding required in order to have it operates. Thus, it establishes the most adequate representation on the Boards of appropriate procedures to understand the Directors and their committees and the duty quantitative and qualitative aspects that of compliance, by the investee companies, define the activity of companies involved, with corporate governance standards. with the latter particularly relevant in Additionally, the responsible modus operandi the long-term decisions of Corporación of the Company is acquired, which Financiera Alba. To do this, it uses, when translates into a high level of dedication and necessary, external counselling. commitment to the investee companies. 06 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA The credibility and reputation of 4.2. Main Figures of 2018 Activity Corporación Financiera Alba is understood from its long-term commitment During 2018, Corporación Financiera Alba and its adherence to the principles of has held direct or indirect shareholding in ten Good Corporate Governance and ethical listed companies and, through the vehicles behaviour promoted by the Company. managed by its private equity company Artá Capital, SGEIC, S.A.U., has participated Therefore, it promotes advanced policies in seven unlisted companies, which at 31 on good governance and environmental, December of 2018 were reduced to six labour, social and tax issues in its investee unlisted companies. companies. Potential conflicts of interest among investee companies, as well as investments in potentially conflicting sectors from a legal or social perspective, are also avoided. Given that economic and political factors can affect the volatility of Alba’s market value, the principle of prudence is essential in the business to minimise risks as much as possible. This has implications both for the composition of Corporación Financiera Alba’s portfolio, which is must diversify in order to reduce its volatility, and for the level of indebtedness, with liquidity of its assets allowing the Company to quickly execute investment and divestment decisions and maintain a level of coverage to cover financial risks. Diversification also advocates internationalisation of investments, as a way to reduce potential socio-political effects on acquisitions. 07 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT It is present in different sectors of activity, as shown below: Investment sectors Percentage at 31 December 2018 Industrial 22% Energy 21% Food 20% Property 10% Financial Services 7% Leisure 6% Technology 6% Telecommunications 4% Various 4% Table 1: Main investment sectors as at 31 December 2018. The investments of Corporación Financiera As at 31 December 2018, the shareholdings Alba in 2018 amounted to €639.0 million portfolio owned by Corporación Financiera in shares and sold assets for €139.9 Alba consisted of: million. In October 2018, Alba distributed a gross dividend of €0.50 per share to its shareholders, representing a disbursement of €29.1 million. 08 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Equity Share Company Company at 31 December 2018 Acerinox 18.96 % BME 12.06 % CIE Automotive 10.10 % Ebro Foods 14.00 % Listed Euskaltel 11.00 % companies Global Dominion 5.00 % Indra 10.52 % Naturgy 5.27 % Parques Reunidos 21.43 % Viscofán 13.00 % Alvinesa 16.83 % in-Store Media 18.89 % Unlisted Mecalux 24.38 % companies Monbake 3.70 % TRRG Holding 7.50 % Satlink 28.07 % Table 2: Portfolio of Corporación Financiera Alba as at 31 December 2018. 09 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Assets by investment type: Current Percentage at 31 December 2018 Listed Companies 73% Treasury and other Assets and Liabilities 13% Real Estate 9% Unlisted Companies 5% Table 3: Asset distribution as at 31 December 2018. Net asset value at year-end 2018 4.3. Organisational Structure amounted to 3,912 million. The organisational structure, which includes the companies Corporación Financiera Alba, S.A., Alba Patrimonio Inmobiliario, SAU and Artá Capital, SGEIC, SAU, is as follows: 10 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Staff Chairman (2) (1) Staff Vicechair (2) (2) Institutional Relationships CEO Staff Secretariat (1) (1) (2) (1) Real Estate, SecretariatInvestments Strategy Finance and Chairman of Director General Dir. Dir. Systems Dir. Artá Capital of Security Department (1) (1) (1) (1) (1) (1) (12) Legal Real Estate Finance Systems Department Department Department Department Department Director Department (2) (4) (6) (8) (4) (4) (1) Department Department (1) (7) Figure 1: Organisational structure as at 31 December 2018. 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4.4. Contribution to society Along with these, they highlight other general principles and Company guidelines, As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility such as the pursuit of excellence and Policy, Corporación Financiera Alba sets out adoption of best practices in corporate the principles and areas of scope to help governance, respect and promotion of improve the well-being of individuals and to human rights, safe and healthy work promote economic and social development environment and the firm commitment to of the communities in which it is present, conserving the natural environment. and to create value for the various stakeholders, both internal and external. In addition, Corporación Financiera Alba is focused on its stakeholders and establishes The Company’s main social responsibility is the communication channels necessary to ensure the utmost diligence and integrity in order to address all their needs and throughout the investment process. To do expectations. The scope of application this, it focuses on three principles that apply of the socially responsible commitments to their investments: extends to both the Company and its group companies. In addition, the Company strives • Long-term vision. to extend these guidelines and responsible principles through its representatives to all of • R esponsibility for management by selecting the investee companies. assets that have the greatest capacity for influence and transformation. As an investment entity that upholds responsibility in its own management • M  itigation of non-financial risks, including and legislative compliance, Corporación social, environmental and good Financiera Alba contributes more directly government-related risks. to the SDG 16, whose goal is to achieve peace, fairness and strong institutions in all countries, and to SDG 17, which encourages alliances to achieve goals, since their aims in society are achieved by collaborating with other partners. 12 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Furthermore, with its active participation in the Boards of Directors and Committees of investee companies, it promotes the SDG 16. Indirectly, together with the investee companies, it contributes to society through the pursuit of the SDGs of all companies in which it has interests. 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Listed companies in which Corporación Financiera Alba owns shares CIE Ebro SDG Acerinox BME Automotive Foods Euskaltel 1 No Poverty √ 2 Zero Hunger √ √ 3 Good Health and Well-Being √ √ 4 Quality Education √ √ 5 Gender Equality √ 6 Clean Water and Sanitation √ 7 Affordable and Clean Energy. √ 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth √ √ √ √ √ 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure √ √ √ 10 Reduced Inequalities √ √ 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities √ √ 12 Responsible Consumption and Production √ √ √ √ 13 Climate Action √ √ √ √ √ 14 Life Below Water 15 Life on Land √ 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions √ √ √ √ √ 17 Partnerships for the Goal √ √ √ √ Table 4: Identification of the contribution by Corporación Financiera Alba to SDGs through investee companies. 14 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Global Parques Dominion Indra Naturgy Reunidos Viscofan √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Through investee companies, Corporación F urthermore, for Corporación Financiera Financiera Alba provides social value in Alba’s investee companies in the industrial some priority areas set out in the 2030 sector-plastics, metals, automotive, Agenda Action Plan, such as: etc., such as Viscofan, Acerinox or CIE Automotive, particular attention is paid • T he Circular Economy, which is focused to its approach to waste management on the change from a linear economy and the circular economy and the digital model to the circular model and, above transformation of Spanish industry that, all, ensuring that available resources according to the 2030 Spain Circular remain as long as possible in the report, aims to articulate measures for the production cycle. In Spain, it is driven by industrial fabric to benefit from intensive the “Spanish Circular Economic Strategy”. use of information and communications in its production processes, so that resource  orporación Financiera Alba promotes C efficiency is improved and phased into the the optimisation of resource use among its circular model. companies, so waste is reduced, recycled, reused and revalued. •  limate Change and Energy Transition for C compliance with commitments signed by T he Circular Economy affects the agroSpain to comply with the Paris Agreement food sector in particular, in which EBRO and the energy and climate targets Foods belongs, with the aim of this sector, established in the EU framework. on the one hand, being to reduce the impact of production (in terms of resources  orporación Financiera Alba, through C used, emissions, waterprints or chemical its shareholding in Naturgy, supports products), and on the other hand, compliance with this goal set in SDGs 7 the results from product consumption. and 13. Corporación Financiera Alba is concerned about ensuring that the Company contributes to the sustainable use of natural resources and conservation of nature. 16 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 5. PERFORMANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYEES CLIENTS 5.1. Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainability Among the main guidelines in the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of Corporación Financiera Alba are the Company’s commitments to employees, shareholders, the third parties with whom they hire, the community in which Corporación Financiera Alba has presence ALBA and, ultimately, all of its stakeholders. With STAKEHOLDERS all of them, the Company establishes the right channels to enhance communication and relationship. Key stakeholders with which they establish communication channels. SOCIETY REGULATORS SUPPLIERS Figure 2: Stakeholders. 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The following are the commitments Corporación Financiera Alba has with its stakeholders and the dialogue channels it uses: Stakeholders Corporación Financiera Alba’s Dialogue of Alba commitment towards its stakeholders channels Shareholders Encourage and develop the mechanisms for building Website: corporacionalba.es and relationships and maintaining dialogue Investors Channel enabled for shareholders Encouraging the exercise of shareholders’ rights through Email: alba@corporacionalba.es informed participation and transparent communication Post Ensure accountability through relevant, reliable and rigorous information Electronic forum for shareholders Seek Financial Gain General Shareholders’ Meetings Provide information on environmental, social and good Annual Report governance objectives Sustainability Report Meetings with the Investor Relations Department Participation in forums of the different sectors related to investee companies Employees Ensure a healthy working environment in which equal Intranet for employees opportunities are respected Encourage healthy work-life balance Complaints Channel Maintain a permanent and transparent dialogue HR. Ongoing Training Plan Promote professional development and ensure the necessary training for the development of their functions 18 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Stakeholders Corporación Financiera Alba’s Dialogue of Alba commitment towards its stakeholders channels Clients Fair consideration of all their interests Website: corporacionalba.es Excellence in performance of the business activity to offer the Email: alba@corporacionalba.es best possible service Post Extension of the Corporación Financiera Alba values to its clients Annual Report Sustainability Report Complaints Channel Providers Apply corporate responsibility criteria in management and Website: corporacionalba.es promote responsible practices in supplier companies Post Maintain a permanent channel of dialogue Email: (personinchargeofcontract) @corporacionalba.es Complaints Channel Regulators Carry out fiscally responsible activities Direct communication or through the appropriate institutional channels for each case Regulatory Compliance CNMV (Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores [National Securities Market Commission]) Website Company Contribute to sustainable development, promoting integration Website: corporacionalba.es and social well-being in the territory in which it has a presence. Post Respect and promote Human Rights universally recognised in the Global Compact Email: alba@corporacionalba.es Respect the natural environment through measures that prevent Participation in Social and Environmental Forums pollution and through sustainable use of resources and correct waste management Adherence to the UN Global Compact Complaints Channel 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In short, Corporación Financiera Alba 5.2. Corporación Financiera Alba’s activity has intensified its focus in the needs of its and the Sustainable Development Goals stakeholders and in the periodic information (SDG) relating to society, taking advantage of the different means of interaction provided by Corporación Financiera Alba is an entity both traditional communication methods and committed to sustainable development, new technologies. based on sustainable investment, and to raising the awareness among its The purpose is to provide the appropriate stakeholders about the impact of their means for greater participation and dialogue economic activity on society. with shareholders and investors, suppliers, clients, regulators and society, as befits a Since 2015, it has adhered to the United listed company that is fully aware of the Nations Global Compact, the largest importance of information and transparency. international voluntary initiative to promote corporate social responsibility in the Moreover, the Communications Department Signatory Partner category. By adhering has smooth contact with national and to this initiative, Corporación Financiera international media, who follow the Alba undertakes a commitment to annually Company’s information, to keep them report its performance in relation to the informed of its status and activity, providing Ten Principles of the Global Compact, them the best possible information about it. addressing topics such as human rights, employment standards, the environment To all of them, Corporación Financiera Alba and anti-corruption. reports in this Annual Report about their performance on environmental, social and Corporación Financiera Alba is aware personnel issues, respect for human rights and of the key role that the private sector the fight against corruption and bribery and plays for achieving the Sustainable their contribution to society. Development Goals (SDGs). As a result, the following sections explain how they have aligned their activities and initiatives with the SDGs, depending on their direct contribution to them, or indirect, through their investee companies. 20 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Although it is not obliged to present a statement of non-financial information, the information presented is in line with, to the extent possible, the content of Act 11/2018. 5.2.a. Good Governance, Anti-Corruption and Compliance (SDG 16) Global Compact Material topics Scope Principles SDG Contribution Good Ethical issues 10 16 Direct Governance Good Regulatory compliance 10 16 Direct Governance Good Measures taken to prevent corruption and bribery 10 16 Direct Governance Mechanisms for the management of financial and Good 10 16 Direct non-financial risks Governance It is the responsibility of Corporación results in benefiting the entity itself, but also Financiera Alba to maximise the creation contributes to creating more transparent, fair of sustainable value for its shareholders and better governed markets in which more and for other stakeholders, as well as opportunities for development and economic for society. The multiplier effect of the prosperity are generated. Company’s responsible activity not only 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5.2.a.1. Ethics and Values at Alba • Information processing with rigour, integrity and transparency A new Code of Ethics and Conduct was approved by the Board of Directors of 22 It establishes mandatory standards of conduct October 2018. for both employees and members of the management bodies and the Board of This Code is an expression of the values Directors of Corporación Financiera Alba and and principles that must govern the conduct third parties that relate thereto. of Corporación Financiera Alba and reach all individuals who, in the exercise of their All the general standards listed, as well as the duties, employment, business or professional spirit thereof, determine the interpretation of relationships, relate to the Company. any other legislation or regulation dictated by Corporación Financiera Alba. Its values include: In the new Code approved in 2018, it was • R espect for Human Rights and a taken into account, in particular, the evolution commitment to the UN Global Compact. of the legal regulation of responsibility of legal persons and other regulatory changes, such • Ethical and legal conduct. as community regulation on market abuse, conflicts of interest and insider trading. • F air and respectful treatment in terms of equal opportunity and non-discrimination. In addition, given the importance of internal complaint channels, it regulates • Respect for the environment. a more detailed procedure for handling complaints which allows to communicate, in • R espect for the interests of other people a confidential manner, any acts or conduct relating to the Company. committed that may be contrary to applicable regulations or the Code of Ethics and Conduct • P rudence when performing activities, within the Company, in the performance assuming risks and in relations with of third parties that are in contract with the customers. Company or to its detriment. 22 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA The Complaints Channel may be used can make reports of acts that are illegal by all internal and external persons to the or contrary to the Code of Ethics via the Company, including within the latter to the Corporación Financiera Alba website, suppliers, contractors and collaborators of email or postal address, ensuring the Corporación Financiera Alba. confidentiality of the reporter’s identity. It also affects any person who becomes At least annually, the Audit and Compliance aware of a reportable fact in relation to the Committee and the Board of Directors are Alba Code of Ethics and Conduct. informed about the degree of follow-up on the Code of Ethics and Conduct, the The Audit and Compliance Committee reminder to the affected persons of the has a role in monitoring compliance with main obligations arising out of that Code this Code, and its performance is, among and whether communications from alleged others, in the area of compliance with legal irregularities or violations of the Code of ordinance and internal regulations, reflecting Ethics and Conduct have been received. their actions in relation to the Code of Ethics and Conduct in the Audit and Compliance The Company’s contracts include a Committee Performance Report. stipulation by which the supplier, contractor, customer or colleague agrees to use the The Company reminds the persons affected Complaints Channel of Corporación by this about the validity of the Code of Financiera Alba, S.A. to report any Ethics and Conduct. This reminder of 2018 improper behaviour of which he/she has informs about the general rules of conduct to reasonable knowledge or indication of be followed, the functions of the Monitoring acts that are illegal or contrary to what is Committee, the procedure for monitoring expected in the Code of Ethics and Conduct compliance with the Code and any new by the Company’s employees in relation to developments in relation to the Complaints such third party. Channel. No reports were received during 2018, nor In addition, the confidentiality of the process does it have any suggestions or inquiries was emphasised so that the covered person related to the Code of Ethics and Conduct. 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5.2.a.2. Regulatory Compliance Projects conducted by Corporación Financiera Alba over the past few years Responsibility and commitment to in response to these regulations include good government leads Corporación the creation and commissioning of the Financiera Alba to maintain a constant Internal Audit Service, the creation of the willingness to adapt to new regulatory Risk Management Unit and the Crime requirements and best practices in the Prevention Model. market. It is also important to note that in 2016, Thus, for example in 2018, in a Legal Compliance Unit was set up compliance with the LSC (art. 529 to coordinate, standardise and monitor novodecies and concordance), the the activities and efforts that the entity Remuneration Policy for the Board of is doing in this regard. And in March Directors was approved by the General 2018, the Corporación Financiera Alba’s Shareholders’ Meeting of 18 June. This Board of Directors approved the Charter Policy expressly includes provisions of the Legal Compliance Function and that the remuneration of the Directors entrusted the Secretary of the Board of must be compatible with the company Directors to oversee the Legal Compliance strategy, objectives, values and long-term Unit with the collaboration of an external interests and be based on moderation advisor. and balance with adequate and effective risk management. The remuneration of With regard to the financial year 2018, the Directors must reflect a reasonable a Compliance Analysis was conducted proportion in relation to the importance of according to the obligations of each the Company, the economic situation and of the major areas of business activity comparable business market standards. (Human Resources Management, Legal Consultancy, Internal Audit, Risk Moreover, the regulatory environment is Management, Compliance and Crime increasingly complex, and companies are Prevention, Tax and Accounting, Real increasingly exposed to reputational risks Estate, Investment in Private Equity, and economic damages resulting from CNMV Requirements and LOPD [Spanish potential regulatory compliance. Data Protection Law] Compliance 24 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Systems). Of the 95 identified and allows it to control potential situations requirements, 78 have been satisfactorily where irregularities may arise. met, and the remaining 17 requirements have not been applied during the year. This Policy is based on principles – coordination and involvement of all group professionals, transparency and 5.2.a.3. Corruption Prevention communication, effective action, training, etc. – ensuring proper implementation, The Company complies with its tracking and improvement of the Model. obligation, in respect of its stakeholders, to establish necessary measures to Together with the Crime Prevention ensure that Corporación Financiera Alba Model, Corporación Financiera Alba has complies with its monitoring duties to a Crime Prevention Manual, updated in prevent any kind of crimes from being 2017, aimed at the Directors, executives committed. and employees of the Company, the importance of regulatory compliance, Ethical values and responsible behaviour and in particular, on the prevention of are present in the day-to-day activity of criminal risks. all people who are part of Corporación Financiera Alba. To safeguard these Likewise, contracts with third parties values and in particular to fight corruption are also subject to clauses by which in any way, the Board of Directors they undertake to control situations of approved the Criminal and Fraud risk of committing crimes, infractions or Prevention Policy in 2015. serious irregularities, as well as to reject corruption and fraud, including, extortion, This Policy establishes a Criminal or bribery. Prevention Model, which comprises a number of effective measures aimed at Semi-annually follow-up reports are issued preventing, detecting and acting against on the effectiveness of the Prevention criminal behaviour. It applies to Board Model, which is given to the Audit and Members, executives and employees Compliance Committee and to the Board. integrated in the companies of the group, They report on the results of follow-up and 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT compliance with the recommendations of 5.2.a.4. Risk Analysis and Risk previous revisions, if issued. Management Model: Key Risks and Mitigation Measures With regard to the financial year 2018, a positive report was issued on the Corporación Financiera Alba, as part compliance of all aspects under internal of the good corporate governance control, with only two recommendations competencies, has approved a Risk being made. Management Policy, whereby it compiles data from systems of the prevention, Two training sessions in criminal and evaluation and control of risks to which the fraud prevention have been conducted Company is exposed. in 2018, aimed at the different career categories within the Company and The main activities of the Company its group. These sessions also gave a (investment in listed and unlisted special relevance to the Code of Ethics companies as well as in real estate for and Conduct approved in 2018. In total, property management) determine the types 18 people participated. of risks, financial and non-financial, to which it is exposed. These risks highlight the strategies relating to the corporate governance of the Company and its reputation; the operational strategies that relate to external or internal economic losses, financial strategies and those of regulatory compliance arising from potential violations of laws and regulations or breach of the Code of Ethics and Conduct and other internal regulations of Corporación Financiera Alba. 26 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Risk control is secured by the Company’s Integrated Risk Management System, which is characterised by a continuous process of identifying and managing potential risks, by its organisational approach adapted to the organisational structure and corporate culture, and by the follow-up model that provides the necessary information to make the right decisions. 5.2.b. Diversity in Governing Bodies (SDGs 5 and 10) Global Compact Material topics Scope Principles SDG Contribution Good Direct/ Diversity 6 5, 10 Governance Indirect Good Direct/ Equal opportunities 6 10 Governance Indirect 5.2.b.1. Diversity and Equal Opportunities companies must provide. Consequently, the Board of Directors is entrusted to Act 11/2018 has introduced amendments oversee “that their procedures for selecting to the Capital Companies Act, adapting their members favour diversity with regard the selection of Board Members to to matters such as age, gender, disability Directive 2014/95/EU, of the European or professional training and experience”. Parliament, which among other matters It is also encouraged to ensure that these refers to information about diversity that processes do not involve discrimination 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT and that they facilitate the balanced No new Board Members were appointed presence of Board Members. in 2018, and at year’s end the Board was composed of twelve members, with fifteen For the selection of candidates to the Board, being the maximum number allowed under since 2015 Corporación Financiera Alba Articles of Association. At 31 December has followed a Selection of Candidates for 2018, the Company had a Proprietary Director Policy, which is based on the prior Director, six Independent External Directors analysis of the Company’s needs conducted and the remaining five were executive by the Board of Directors and on the advice members1. and reporting from the Appointments and Remuneration Committee that defines the Of the total number of Board Members, necessary roles and skills of candidates who 25% are women. Corporación Financiera must cover each vacancy and assess the Alba aims to raise this percentage to 30% time and dedication required to effectively by 2020. 50% of Independent Directors perform their duties. are women. The selection of Board Members is considered a key element in the Company’s corporate governance strategy as, in good measure, the sustainability and good performance of the Company is due to the incorporation of appropriate candidates to properly lead the Company. Therefore, this Policy aims to ensure that it promotes diversity in terms of knowledge and experience, providing pluralistic points of view, and that the selection process does not lead to any gender discrimination. (1) During 2018, one of the Executive Directors has held the representation of Banca March, S.A. at Corporación Financiera Alba, S.A. 28 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 5.2.c. Environmental Concerns (SDGs 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 and 15) Global Compact Material topics Scope Principles SDG Contribution Pollution Environment 7, 8, 9 13 Indirect Circular Economy Environment 7, 8, 9 12 Indirect Sustainable use of resources Environment 7, 8, 9 6, 7, 12 Direct/Indirect Climate Change Environment 7, 8, 9 13 Indirect Biodiversity Protection Environment 7, 8, 9 14, 15 Indirect Among the values presented in the To this end, the actions of the Company will Corporación Financiera Alba’s Code of aim to prevent pollution, achieve rational and Ethics and Conduct, are respect for the sustainable resource usage and proper waste environment, both in terms of its direct management”. activity and commitment to investment in environmentally responsible companies. These values and guidelines were drawn up in 2017 with the approval of the Investment Together with this, one of the general Policy in which criteria for assessing principles of the Corporate Social environmentally responsible investments were Responsibility Policy is to “Maintain a firm introduced. and preventive commitment to conservation and improvement of the natural environment, In fact, among the Spanish companies who minimising any undesired effects of its formed a part of the Dow Jones Sustainability operation with a particular focus on climate World Index in 2018, developed by S&P change and the preservation of biodiversity. Dow Jones Indices and RobecoSAM, there 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT were two of Corporación Financiera Alba’s In this regard, the main SDGs that contribute investee companies, namely Indra and through their publicly traded investments Naturgy. have been identified as follows: an indirect contribution to renewable energy generation This way, although the environmental impact and energy efficiency (SDG 7), sustainable of the Company is not significant, the and efficient management of natural resources impact it has through its investee companies and waste management through prevention, is significant. So, the contribution to the reduction, recycling and reuse (SDG 12), environment is made through their various measures to tackle climate change and shareholding involvement, and where pollution (SDG 13) as well as measures taken applicable, in the governing bodies of such to conserve and sustainably use the seas and companies. oceans (SDG 14) and to protect, restore and promote terrestrial ecosystems (SDG 15). Company SDG 6 SDG 7 SDG 12 SDG 13 SDG 14 SDG 15 Acerinox √ √ √ √ BME √ CIE Automotive √ √ Ebro Foods √ √ √ Euskaltel √ √ Global Dominion √ √ √ Indra √ √ √ √ Naturgy √ √ √ √ √ √ Parques Reunidos √ √ √ Viscofan √ √ √ √ √ 30 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 5.2.c.1. Resource use and measures to T he Company’s fleet of vehicles already improve energy efficiency includes a hybrid (petrol-electric) vehicle. In terms of any direct impact on the T he table below shows the total litres environment, in addition to regulatory consumed by the fleet in 2018 compared compliance Corporación Financiera Alba to that in 2017, as well as the total takes into account other aspects such as kilometres travelled on business trips. the savings and efficiency of the resources used, as well as the proper management of T he use of air and land transport led waste resulting from its activity. to the emission of a carbon footprint of 59.93 Tn CO2. Specifically, there was a Corporación Financiera Alba calculates 3% increase in the TN CO2 derived from its carbon footprint (in which it takes into land travel while air transport emissions account its air transport and electrical increased by 37%. This is due to the consumption from its offices), to track increased activity of the Company. its impact and be able to take steps to minimise it. • Fuels: T he internationalisation strategy launched in 2017 and maintained in 2018 entails a need to fly to other countries to examine possible partners and investments. Nevertheless, good practices are promoted to minimise the kilometres travelled by its employees and, whenever circumstances permit, prioritises telephone meetings or video-conferencing to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Unit 2018 2017 Business fleet consumption broken down by fuel type L 11,392 9,986 Petrol L 8,416 7,739 Diesel L 2,976 2,247 Kilometres travelled on business trips (plane and train) Km 303,000 241,000 Total Km by plane Km 274,000 200,000 Total Km by train Km 29,000 41,000 Table 5: Fuel consumption and kilometres travelled on company trips. 2017-2018 comparison. • Electrical Energy: E  nergy consumption in Corporación LED lights and efficient appliances were Financiera Alba buildings comes mainly incorporated into Corporación Financiera from lighting systems, air conditioning Alba. systems and ICT equipment. In total, energy consumption from non series of reforms were performed A renewable sources in 2018 was as follows: in 2018 to achieve greater energy efficiency. In this sense, energy-efficient Unit 2018 2017 Electrical energy consumed (non-renewable source) KwH 304,175 317,503 CO2 emitted Tn 85.2 88.9 Table 6: Electric energy consumption and CO2 emitted. 2017-2018 comparison. 32 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA • Water: T he Company is aware of the importance of continuing to take measures that In the reforms indicated above, sanitary benefit the environmental impact and as fittings of low water consumption were stated, has incorporated practices for the also installed. differentiated treatment of waste occurring in Company offices (coffee capsules, It is worth noting that in the offices of plastics, batteries, etc.). Corporación Financiera Alba, the water used in the washrooms is reused and In 2018 144 plastic bottles, 7 Tetra consumption water is bottled in plastic, Brik cartons, 4 can of soft drinks and 60 allowing for selective collection where it coffee capsules were recycled daily. can then be recycled. Printer toner cartridges are also recycled. • Paper and Waste Management: In 2018, the practice of replacing printed papers with digital documents and reducing the number of prints has been maintained, which has allowed reduced paper consumption by 5% compared to the use in 2017. In addition, all the paper used is certified with the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) environmental seal. 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5.2.d. Social and personnel issues (SDGs 4, 8 and 10) Global Compact Material topics Scope Principles SDG Contribution Relative Direct/ Creation and stability of employment 1 8 to staff Indirect Relative Direct/ Work organisation and reconciliation 1 8 to staff Indirect Relative Direct/ Talent attraction and retention: training 1 4, 8 to staff Indirect Relative Direct/ Equal opportunities 6 10 to staff Indirect Both directly, in the Company, and the number of employees they have, and indirectly through the investee companies, indirectly in the total number of jobs created, Corporación Financiera Alba promotes the both direct and indirect, in all of its investee values and ethics required to form full and companies, as well as promoting good competent teams working to achieve the practices in human resources. sustainability of companies. It is worth noting the positioning of some This commitment to its personnel is evident the investee companies of Corporación in the creation of stable jobs, supporting Financiera Alba, such as Naturgy or Indra, career development of its employees, on the Merco Talent ranking in 2018, which facilitating a healthy working environment assesses the ability of companies to attract where diversity, equal opportunities and and retain talent. work-life balance is respected. Participation on the Boards of Directors of Corporación Financiera Alba’s commitment the investee companies is also addressed to employment is directly translated into from the perspective of contributing to the 34 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA creation of stable employment and personal Employees’ job security is achieved by development. offering decent and favourable employment conditions, adequate professional In relation to the Company’s team of human development, fixed hiring conditions for all of resources, social and personnel issues are its employees and social benefits. detailed in the following sections. Corporación Financiera Alba and the other two companies listed above – Alba 5.2.d.1. Employment, equality and Patrimonio Inmobiliario, S.A.U. and Artá organisation of work Capital, SGEIC, S.A.U. – closed 2018 with 67 employees, the same as in 2017. 100% Staff turnover (of only 7.4%) and the high of its employees are permanent. average time of remaining at the Company show the favourable working conditions Of the total workforce, 32.8% are women, for employees at Corporación Financiera same as in 2017. Alba. 2018 2017 2016 Men 45 45 42 Women 22 22 19 Total 67 67 61 Table 7: Gender employee distribution. 2016-2018 comparison. 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In 2018, those leaving the Company have been voluntary and retirement related, and the latter have accounted for 66% of the total leaving figure. All leavers have been covered, 66% of them women. The chart below shows the distribution of employees by age and gender. More than 50 Between 30 and 50 Less than 30 Nº of employees 30 25 26 20 15 16 10 13 5 9 0 3 0 Men Women Figure 3: Distribution employed by age and gender as at 31 December 2018. 36 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Corporación Financiera Alba applies Moreover, in terms of occupational safety, measures aimed at facilitating the enjoyment every year the external company that of family reconciliation that promote the coordinates the prevention of occupational need for balance between the personal and risks carries out an audit of the offices and professional life of its employees, in order issues a report with recommendations on to provide more options for the responsible the different aspects-light, workplaces, exercise of rights of parents. files, etc. – that are evaluated to propose improvement actions. 5.2.d.2. Health and Safety 5.2.d.3 Training: Career Development and The Code of Ethics and Conduct captures the Talent Retention Company’s commitment to ensuring health and safety. To comply with this, Corporación The talent of Corporación Financiera Alba Financiera Alba has an occupational health is managed in a personalised manner, and safety policy, as well as risk preventive identifying employee training needs measures and insurance policies for health from departments in which they operate, and accidents that cover all employees – as thus achieving the career development part of their remuneration in kind. required to meet the demands of a global marketplace and characterised by new Employees also have an obligation to know growth models that affect the stability of and comply with all the rules that affect them. investments. These rules are available to all of them in the “Office Work Health and Safety Manual” The total hours of training received by that everyone must know and comply with. employees in 2018 were 673 hours, an increase of 17% from the 2017 training The annual medical reviews of the workforce sessions. are part of the occupational health and safety policy. 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT No. of hours No. of hours No. of hours Departments 2018 2017 2016 Real Estate 84 190 433 Administration 253 150 150 Investments 69 81 75 Legal 105 72 70 Systems 142 60 32 Communications 20 21 20 Total 673 574 780 Table 8: Comparison of training by area. 2016-2018 comparison. TRAINING BY DEPARTMENT IN 2018 Administration 253 Systems 142 Legal 105 Real Estate 84 Investments 69 Communications 20 Figure 4: Training by departments in 2018. 38 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 5.2.e. Relating to Human Rights (SDG 16) Global Compact Material topics Scope Principles SDG Contribution Direct / Respect and promotion of Human Rights Human Rights 1, 2 16 Indirect Among the general principles comprising It is very noteworthy that all listed companies the framework of the Company’s Corporate in which Corporación Financiera Alba Social Responsibility Policy is the invests are committed to the 10 principles commitment to Human Rights. Not only to of the Global Compact and as indicated in respect compliance but to promote them their Codes of Ethics. in the sphere of influence across all group companies, following and supporting the Corporación Financiera Alba undertakes United Nations Global Compact and through its active participation to implement ensuring workers’ rights and avoiding any due diligence policies to prevent potential practice against the dignity of people. This risks of human rights infringement. In same outlook is contained in the Company’s addition, it establishes the procedures Code of Ethics and Conduct. necessary to be able to secure them in all communities where it is present, directly or It also respects and promotes these rights through their investee companies. throughout the supply chain through contracts that it subscribes to with its suppliers, customers and partners. 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5.2.f. Company: Commitment to Sustainable Development (SDGs 11, 16 and 17) Global Compact Material topics Scope Principles SDG Contribution Direct / Impact on territory in which it is present Social 1, 2,10 11,16 Indirect Direct / Relationships, dialogue with local communities Social 2, 3 16, 17 Indirect Depending on business models and the countries in which they operate, companies in which Corporación Financiera Alba invests contribute more directly to some SDGs. Company SDG 11 SDG 16 SDG 17 Acerinox √ √ BME √ √ CIE Automotive √ Ebro Foods √ √ Euskaltel √ √ √ Global Dominion √ √ √ Indra √ √ √ Naturgy √ √ √ Parques Reunidos √ √ Viscofan √ √ 40 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 5.2.f.1. Impact on communities where it is Financial Education Initiatives (SDG 4) present: Commitment to art (SDG 11) and education (SDG 4) 2018 was the second consecutive year in which Corporación Financiera Alba In addition to strengthening contribution joined Banca March for a new edition of in local communities through investee the Your Finances, Your Future Programme, companies, the organisation itself also driven by the Spanish Banking Association contributes to social, artistic and financial (Asociación Española de la Banca, AEB) education initiatives. These contributions and the Junior Achievement Foundation. In are made through economic donations, this program, financial education has been provision of services to society or active imparted to young people aged between volunteering. 13 and 15 years across different cities. The organisation collaborates with the In 2018, Corporación Financiera Alba Juan March Foundation to hold exhibitions supported the initiative Vis-à-vis financial that contribute to the cultural and artistic education, an educational experience that education of society. These free exhibitions is promoted by BME, one of its investee benefit hundreds of thousands of people companies. The seminar was conducted each year. To this end, it supports the in the cities where the four Spanish Stock SDG 11, which aims to redouble efforts Exchanges are located (Madrid, Barcelona, in protecting and safeguarding the world’s Bilbao and Valencia) on 2 October 2018, cultural heritage, among its various Financial Education Day. Throughout the objectives. day, those interested had the opportunity to ask questions on matters related to investment in the Stock Exchange and other securities markets. 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Moreover, BME has been a contributor to Employees are encouraged to participate the Financial Education Plan promoted by in forums in the different investee Companythe CNMV and the Bank of Spain since related sectors. 2008, the objective of which is to increase the level of financial culture among the population regardless of their economic 5.2.f.3. Other social initiatives status and age. The Financial Education Day is an initiative within this Plan to permanently Corporación Financiera Alba encourages contribute to improving the transparency of its employees and retirees to participate the system and the protection of investors. actively in different associations and NGOs to help the most disadvantaged, both economically through donations, as well 5.2.f.2. Promoting Dialogue with Local as with their direct and active involvement. Communities In 2018, it collaborated extensively with Cáritas. Corporación Financiera Alba is a member of the Board of Directors of FEDEA Furthermore, in December 2018, [Fundación de Estudios de Economía employees of Corporación Financiera Alba Aplicada (Foundation of Applied Economics participated in the “2018 Company Races” Studies)]. that promote healthy living habits, with sport as a key health lever, in which values of Since 2015, it has been a signatory to effort and teamwork are promoted. the United Nations Global Compact, committing itself to reporting annually on the progress made in this report, in which it must report on compliance with the 10 principles of the Compact. 42 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 6. GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS Organisation profile GRI Standards Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report 102-1 Organisation name Paragraph 2.2. 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Paragraphs: 2.2, 3.1 and 3.2 102-3 Location of headquarters C/ Castelló, 77 5ª planta 28006 MADRID 102-4 Location of operations Operations are carried out domestically and internationally 102-5 Ownership and legal form Public Limited Company 102-6 Markets served: geographical breakdown of where services Operations are carried out domestically and are offered internationally 102-7 Scale of the organisation Paragraph 4.2 102-8 Information about employees Paragraph 5.2.d. 102-10 Significant changes in the organisation and its supply chain Indicated in the Annual Report 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Paragraph 4.1. 102-12 External initiatives Paragraph 5.2.f. 102-13 Membership of associations Paragraph 5.2.f. Strategy and analysis GRI Standards Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report 102-14 Statement by senior decision-maker of the organisation on the Letter from the Chairman of the Board relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the strategy for addressing this issue. 102-15 Impacts, risks and opportunities Paragraph 5.2.a.4. 44 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Governance GRI Standards Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report 102-18 Corporate governance Paragraph 5.2.b.1. 102-19 Process of delegation of authority of the Board of Directors Paragraphs 5.2.b.1 and 4.3. 102-22 Composition of the Board of Directors and its committees Paragraph 5.2.b.1. 102-23 Chairperson of the Board of Directors Mr Carlos March Delgado 102-24 Appointment and selection of members of the Board of Directors Paragraph 5.2.b.1. 102-25 Conflicts of interest With regard to conflicts of interest, the members of the Board of Directors are governed by its specific regulations 102-26 Role of the Board of Directors in the selection of purposes, Paragraph 5.2.a.1. values and strategy Identification and management of economic, environmental 102-29 Paragraph 5.2.a.4. and social impacts 102-30 Efficiency in risk management processes Paragraph 5.2.a.4. 102-31 Evaluation of economic, environmental and social issues Paragraph 5.2.a.4. 102-35 Remuneration policies Paragraph 5.2.a.2. Participation of stakeholders GRI Standards Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report 102-40 List of stakeholders Paragraph 5.1. 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by collective agreements 100% 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholders Paragraph 5.1. 102-43 Approach for the participation of the stakeholders Paragraph 5.1. 102-44 Key issues and concerns mentioned Paragraph 5.2.: a, b, c, d, e and f. 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Material aspects and coverage GRI Standards Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 16,includes Group companies, associates and financial statements subsidiaries 102-46 Definition of the contents and scope of the report Paragraphs 2.1. and 2.2. 102-47 List of material topics Paragraph 5.2.: a, b, c, d, e and f. 102-49 Changes in drafting of reports Paragraph 5.2. 102-50 Period covered by the report Financial Year 2018 102-51 Date of last report 2017 102-52 Report drafting cycle Calendar Year 102-53 Point of contact for questions regarding this report alba@corporacionalba.es 102-54 Declaration of drafting the report in accordance with gri Some GRI-related content has been used in the standards preparation of the report 102-55 Gri table of contents Paragraph 6 102-56 External verification Not applicable Economic performance GRI Standards Contents Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its coverage Paragraph 4.1. Focus 103-2 Management focus Paragraph 4.1. Ethics and integrity in business GRI Standards Contents Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the topic and scope Paragraph 5.2. a.1. Focus 103-2 Management focus Paragraph 5.2.a.1. 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies Anti-Corruption Paragraph 5.2.a.3. and procedures 46 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Good governance GRI Standards Contents Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the topic and scope Paragraph 5.2.a. Focus 103-2 Management focus Paragraph 5.2.a. Energy GRI Standards Contents Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the topic and scope Paragraph 5.2.c.1. Focus 103-2 Management focus Paragraph 5.2.c.1. 302-1 Energy consumption Paragraph 5.2.c.1. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Paragraph 5.2.c.1. Water GRI Standards Contents Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the topic and scope Paragraph 5.2.c.1. Focus 103-2 Management focus Paragraph 5.2.c.1. 303-3 Reused water Paragraph 5.2.c.1. Emissions GRI Standards Contents Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the topic and scope Paragraph 5.2.c.1. Focus 103-2 Management focus Paragraph 5.2.c.1. 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Social action programmes GRI Standards Contents Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the topic and scope Paragraph 5.2. f Focus 103-2 Management focus Paragraph 5.2. f 413-1 Participation in the community Paragraph 5.2. f Quality of employment, stability and work/life balance GRI Standards Contents Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the topic and scope Paragraph 5.2.d Focus 103-2 Management focus Paragraph 5.2.d. 401-1 New employee recruitment and staff rotation Paragraph 5.2.d.1 Occupational health and safety GRI Standards Contents Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the topic and scope Paragraph 5.2.d.2. Focus 103-2 Management focus Paragraph 5.2.d.2. 48 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Diversity and equal opportunities GRI Standards Contents Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the topic and scope Paragraph 5.2.: b1 and d1 Focus 103-2 Management focus Paragraph 5.2. 405-1 Diversity in governing bodies Paragraph 5.2. b.1. Training and development GRI Standards Contents Description Reference in Annual Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the topic and scope Paragraph 5.2.d3 Focus 103-2 Management focus Paragraph 5.2.d. 404-1 Average training hours per year per employee Average: 10 hours/year 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A copy of this Report in PDF format is available to download in the website of CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA, S.A.: www.corporacionalba.es Edition: CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA, S.A. Design, layout and production: laofficinacorporativa.es All rights reserved. CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA, S.A. 77 Castelló, 5th floor 28006, Madrid, Spain Tel.: +34 91 436 37 10 Fax: +34 91 575 67 37 alba@corporacionalba.es www.corporacionalba.es corporacionalba.es
