ABOUT THIS REPORT Humanity and the Future Kyobo Life firmly believes that people are precious and that corporations exist to serve people. Inspired by this philosophy, the company’s slogan ‘Humanity and the Future’ expresses our deep commitment to people-centered management. Since the publication of Kyobo Life’s first annual sustainability report in 2011, which was also the first such report in Korea’s life insurance industry, it has served as the channel through which the company communicates its sustainability Management Approach to its stakeholders. The present report is Kyobo Life’s 9th Sustainability Report. Period and Scope of the Report 2018. As regards our quantitative performance, the data for the last three years are disclosed to show the prevailing trends, whereas data that do not correspond to this three-year period are indicated with notes. If any data in the financial statements have been revised, or if any errors found in the previous report have been corrected, such revisions or corrections are indicated with notes. The scope of this report includes the headquarters and branches of Kyobo Life, Customer PLAZAs, and other domestic operations, but excludes the company’s overseas offices and branches. As for our social contribution activities, it covers the activities of Kyobo Life’s subsidiaries, including the Kyobo Book Centre. Meanwhile, the environmental data concern only certain domestic operations, which are indicated with notes. The standard currency used in the report is the Korean Won (₩), while other currencies are indicated by including the relevant symbols next to the figures, where applicable. Reporting Principles This report has been prepared based on ‘In Accordance – Core’ so as to reflect the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’), which is the international guideline for the drafting of sustainable management reports. All financial data included in this report have been prepared in accordance with the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). Report Assurance This report has been subjected to an assurance process by the Korean Standards Association (KSA) in accordance with the three principles (namely, inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness) of the AA1000AS (2008) Sustainability Report assurance standards, and the assurance type is Type II. Please refer to the Independent Assurance Report provided in the appendixes. Contact · Corporate Planning Team, Kyobo Life, 1, Jong-ro (Jongro 1-ga), Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea · Phone: 02)721-3541, 3126 · Fax: 02)721-3849 · E-mail: kyobocsr@kyobo.com 01 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 KYOBO LIFE 02 CEO’s Message 04 Special 1. Kyobo Life’s 60th Anniversary 06 Top 10 News of Kyobo Life in 2018 08 The Four Seasons in Gwanghwamun 02 Company Overview 03 Kyobo Life’s Sustainable Management 04 Activities of Kyobo Life 10 Company Overview 20 Sustainability Management System 60 Governance 12 Business Overview 21 Stakeholder Engagement 62 Ethics 13 Vision and Strategies 22 Stakeholders Meeting 64 Win-Win Cooperation 14 Economic Value Creation and Distribution 24 Materiality Test 65 Environment 16 Special 2. Kyobo Chairman’s Keynote 26 Special 3. Kyobo Dasomi’s Support for IreundSpeech at the UN headquarters / Receipt of ungi(premature Babies) the Eungwan Order of Cultural Merit 28 Key Activities for Stakeholders in 2018 Customers 05 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities 56 Special 4. Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship Appendix 68 UN Global Compact 69 Status of Implementation of the Sustainability Development Goals 70 Awards / Association and Membership regarding Sustainability Management 71 GRI Standards Index 74 Third Party Assurance 76 Financial Highlights 77 Declaration of Vision2020 Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 02 CEO’s Message Dear Stakeholders, I would like to extend my sincere gratitude to all of you for your continued interest in and support for Kyobo Life. On August 7, 2018, Kyobo Life celebrated the 60th anniversary of its foundation. Looking back over the past sixty years, Kyobo Life has been able to overcome numerous hardships, such as the IMF crisis and the global financial crisis, thanks to the unwavering determination and unity of its members. This was only possible because of our stakeholders’ trust in Kyobo Life. Today, there is increasing uncertainty in the domestic and international business environments, which are changing so rapidly that it has become almost meaningless to even attempt to predict the year ahead. Amid such circumstances, Kyobo Life is tirelessly striving to achieve its Vision2020 to become ‘Korea’s Most Innovative Life insurer in Product and Distribution in Preparation for the Era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution’ in the midto long-term perspective and to wisely ride the crest of the massive wave of change commonly known as the Fourth Industrial Revolution. The contents and results of the pledges we made to our stakeholders in 2018 are as follows. Pursuing management ‘Of the People, By the People, For the People’ to build a company that is loved by our customers. CEO’s Message 03 The promise to ‘become a company that provides optimal insurance The promise to ‘become a company that grows coverage and on-going services’ together with the government and communities’ As a life insurance company, Kyobo Life believes that its insurance coverage capaKyobo Life actively carries out activities contributing to social bilities constitute its most important value. In order to enhance such capabilities, welfare that are clearly differentiated from those of other comKyobo developed the industry’s first ‘Smart Family Coverage Analysis System,’ panies with the aim of creating a healthy society and a conwhich incorporated the newest digital technology. Furthermore, we have strengthnected world by acting as kind neighbors. The most fruitful ened the Lifelong Care Service V3, originally launched in 2011, and newly estaboutcomes of such efforts include a deepening interest in socilished the Lifelong Care Support team. With the aim of providing better insurance ety and changes in public policy, which in turn bring more bencoverage, Kyobo will continue to listen to the diverse and precious voices of its cusefits to more people in need. Of course, these changes were tomers and make consistent efforts to think from their perspectives. only made possible by our working together with other institutions, local communities, and participants who share the same The promise to ‘become a company that succeeds together with our vision and dreams. Financial Planners’ In our continuous pursuit of becoming a truly ‘beloved comKyobo Life runs various programs designed to enable our Financial Planners to pany,’ Kyobo Life will apply former US President Abraham Lingrow in an ongoing manner by enhancing their customer reassurance competence. coln’s famous words from his Gettysburg Address of 1863, ‘Of In particular, Kyobo Life runs a variety of competence-building programs aimed at the people, by the people, for the people,’ to the company’s raising its Financial Planners’ understanding of digital innovation and improving management. their ability to utilize the digital work process effectively. In addition, the company has developed and enhanced the latest digital sales support system to ensure that Therefore, we will ensure that all our stakeholders have a the Financial Planners make full use of the digital process on the frontline without strong sense of ownership in our company to fulfill the idea of any difficulties or problems. ‘of the people’, encourage participation in corporate management by soliciting the opinions of all our stakeholders to fulFurthermore, Kyobo held the ‘Kyobo MDRT Mentoring Day’ with the aim of instilling fill the notion of ‘by the people’, and provide appropriate value pride and motivation in high-performing Financial Planners. The event served as an to all our stakeholders so that they can benefit from corporate opportunity to remind them of the fundamental spirit of life insurance and to reinmanagement to fulfill the idea of ‘for the people’. force their sense of duty. As a member of the UN Global Compact, Kyobo Life expresses The promise to ‘become a company that grows together with its constant support for the ten principles in the four fields our employees’ human rights, Labor, the environment and anti-corruption With an emphasis on ‘challenge and creativity,’ Kyobo Life has devised and implesuggested by the Global Compact, and observes them in allmented a number of training programs designed to help employees actively pursue management practices. new projects and grow further in preparation for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. We would like to once again thank all the stakeholders who In particular, we have organized the ‘Digital School’ program, in which professors have stood by us during growth and development of Kyobo invited from leading Korean universities and the CEOs of famous venture compaLife over the past sixty years and given us their support withnies give multiple lectures on cutting-edge technologies such as blockchain, the out fail. Internet of Things, and platform businesses in order to improve employees’ understanding of digital technology. Thanks to this program, employees have heightened We politely request your continued interest and support in the their understanding of and interest in the Fourth Industrial Revolution, which is now future. emerging as a crucial issue in markets. Thank you. The promise to ‘become a company that is attractive to investors’ In 2018, Kyobo Life set and implemented ‘active response to changes in the Financial Supervisory Service’s financial soundness system’ as one of its key tasks. As one of the most effective strategies among diverse proposals, we expanded asset duration and sought to minimize the interest rate risk while increasing capital efficiency March 2019 by reducing cash flow mismatches between assets and liabilities. Chang-Jae Shin, CEO & Chairman, Kyobo Life In addition, Kyobo is investing considerable resources in building infrastructures and systems for management and accounting in a drive to keep up with the ongoing changes in the institutional environment. Such an initiative is necessary to prepare for the implementation of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS17) and the new Korea Insurance Capital Standard (K-ICS), which is to be enforced in 2022. The fact that Kyobo Life has been rated ‘A1’ by Moody’s, one of the top global credit rating agencies, for four consecutive years proves that all of these efforts have also been acknowledged internationally. Along with the preemptive response to changes in the financial soundness system, Kyobo has also striven to improve its long-term profitability by developing and launching a competitive, new “family life insurance” product. Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 04 60th Anniversary Celebration Project Founded in 1958, Kyobo Life celebrated its sixtieth anniversary on August 7, 2018. On that day, we implemented various celebratory projects under broad two themes: We extended our ‘Appreciation’ to our stakeholders for their contribution to Kyobo’s development over the last sixty years, and made a ‘Pledge’ to preserve the company’s solid tradition while pioneering our future. Concept for a Memorial Project Appreciation Appreciation of stakeholders for their contribution to Kyobo’s development over the last 60 years Thank you visits and Kyobo Nobiliaire Concert To mark the 60th anniversary of Kyobo Life’s founCustomers dation, Financial Planners and FP Branch managEmployees/Financial Planners ers visited some 20,000 customers as a token of our ・Thank you visits appreciation. In addition, the company invited pre・Concert invitations ・Concert for employees mium customers to the Kyobo Nobiliaire Concert ・Souvenirs where we celebrated the meaning of the 60th anniSociety versary of Kyobo Life and expressed our apprecia・Volunteer services Investors tion for their love and interest. (social contribution activities) ・Thank you letters Pledge Pledge to preserve the company’s tradition and pioneer our future Preserving the tradition Pioneering the future ・Foundation anniversary event ・Pushing for a global confer・Launch of a new education ence on the 4th Industrial insurance Revolution Special Section 1 60th Anniversary Celebration Project 05 1958 Launch of a new education insurance in celebration of the company’s 60th anniversary 2018 Korean Education Insurance Co., the predecessor of Kyobo Life, introduced its new education insurance for the first time in the world on the date of its found2019. 1월 ing on August 7, 1958. In those now distant days when people could not even 상품개정 afford to pay college tuition, Kyobo’s education insurance sparked parents’ 미리 보는 enthusiasm for child education, gaining sensational popularity. Kyobo Life, 무배당 교보변액교육보험 which has made the history of education insurance in Korea, newly introduced the ‘Assessable (No-dividend) Kyobo Variable Education Insurance’ in line with K Y O B O L I F E E D U C A T I O N I N S U R A N C E the 60th anniversary celebration project’s slogan of “preserving tradition.” The new product, which is designed to prepare education funds for children’s future, can be flexibly utilized as either variable savings insurance or pension insurance 미리 준비한 아이의 미래는 다릅니다 while also covering various diseases prevalent among growing children. This insurance product has been recognized for its originality and granted an exclusive right of use, a kind of a patent, by the Life Insurance Association. 이 상품안내장은 2019년 1월 1일 기준으로 작성되었습니다. Thank you letter to major investors In order to convey our gratitude as a sustainable ‘growth partner’, Kyobo Life sent a letter of appreciation to its major investors at home and abroad. In this letter, we expressed our thanks for their support for our growth and development, as well as our commitment to making consistent efforts to achieve Vision2020 to become ‘Korea’s Most Innovative Life insurer in Product and Distribution in Preparation for the Era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution’ is preparing for the Fourth Industrial Revolution based on the pursuit of ceaseless innovation. 60th anniversary celebration concert for Kyobo people To mark the 60th anniversary of its foundation, Kyobo Life held the first ‘Concert for Kyobo People’ to show its appreciation to its employees and renew its pledge to become an ever-evolving company. The ‘60th Anniversary Celebration Concert for Kyobo People’ featured the Asia Philharmonic Orchestra conducted by world-renowned conductor Myung-Whun Chung and an operatic gala by Korea’s top vocalists, followed by a special performance conducted by Chairman Chang-Jae Shin in which a choral group composed of eleven Kyobo executives sang along to a piano accompaniment by maestro Myung-Whun Chung. Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 06 Top 10 News of Kyobo Life in 2018 1 To mark its 60th anniversary, Kyobo 4 Return of education insurance: renews its pledge to leap forward ‘Assessable (No-dividend) Kyobo and innovate Variable Education Insurance’ On August 7, 2018, Kyobo Life celebrated To celebrate the 60th anniversary of its the 60th anniversary of its foundation founding under the philosophy of proat its headquarters in Gwanghwamun, NEW moting education for the people, Kyobo Seoul. The participants used the event to Life introduced a new education insurance product appropriate for the changlook back over Kyobo’s sixty-year history ing times. This product, which reflects of challenges and passion and renewed 3 the current social conditions where the their commitment to building a beloved burden of college tuition rises continucompany. In addition, Kyobo Life held the ously and finding suitable employment 60th Anniversary Celebration Concert for is becoming increasingly difficult, has Kyobo People to show its appreciation received a highly positive response from Chairman Chang-Jae Shin receives of its employees and renew its pledge to the customers. In particular, this insurthe Eungwan Order of Cultural Merit become an ever-evolving company. ance has received an ‘exclusive right of Kyobo Life Chairman Chang-Jae Shin use’ from the Life Insurance Association received the Order of Cultural Merit from in recognition of its originality, includthe government in July 2018. As it is very ing the fact that it allows the subscriber rare for a businessperson to receive the to postpone the payment of education Order of Cultural Merit, this award is all funds, making it the first policy of its kind the more meaningful as the chairman is in the industry. only the second recipient of this prestigious award after his late father, group founder Yong-ho Shin. Chairman Shin’s award is attributable to his efforts, as chairman of the Daesan Cultural Foundation, to develop and globalize Korean 5 Kyobo Life ranks 1st in the industry literature. His activities in this sphere in the Sustainability Index for ninth include the discovery of promising new consecutive year 2 writers and support for the publication of Korean novels through the Daesan LiterKyobo Life has been selected as the top company in the Korea Sustainability ary Awards. Index’s life insurance business category Moody’s awards Kyobo Life the for nine straight years. This record-breakindustry’s highest A1 credit rating ing achievement means that Kyobo Life for fourth consecutive year has been recognized as a company that best fulfills its social responsibilities by Despite the difficult business environpursuing mutual development with all ment that has persisted for several years its stakeholders rather than seeking to now, Kyobo Life has once again been further its own interests only. Winners of rated A1 by Moody’s, a leading global the award are selected after a stringent credit rating agency. A1 is the credit rating evaluation by regular citizens and experts that only a select group of major global from the field under the supervision of financial companies such as Goldman the Korean Standards Association. Kyobo Sachs and Morgan Stanley have received. received high scores for such criteria as Kyobo Life is the only insurance firm in response to customer needs, financial Korea to be accorded such a high credit soundness, and digital innovation. rating for four consecutive years. An A1 Credit rating indicates a company’s insurance payment capacity after a compreA1 hensive assessment of its business stability and profitability as well as its financial soundness. It is also a symbol of unwavering trustworthiness that allows customers to choose Kyobo Life despite the increasMoody’s ingly uncertain market conditions. Top 10 News of Kyobo Life in 2018 07 To wrap up 2018, Kyobo Life conducted a survey of over 5,000 Financial Planners and 9 Kyobo Life opens the Consultant employees on the subject of the ‘Top 10 news Inconvienience Support Center items that made Kyobo Life shine in 2018.’ Kyobo Life opened its new Consultant Support Center to address the inconveniences experienced by Financial Planners, one of Kyobo Life’s important groups of stakeholders. The center aims to resolve promptly and accurately the 6 various difficulties encountered during sales activities and to improve the performance of Financial Planners. Smart Coverage Analysis’ gains popularity 8 Kyobo Life recently introduced the ‘Smart Coverage Analysis’ program which enables easy, fast and accurate coverage analysis via mobile devices. With this smartphone Chairman Chang-Jae Shin application, the program quickly collects delivers lecture on ‘Stakeholdercustomer insurance information and then Centered Management’ at the UN transfers it to the Financial Planner using Headquarters the latest digital technology. The program is designed to help Financial Planners offer Chairman Chang-Jae Shin gave a lecture customers even better insurance coverage. at the International Council for Small Businesses held at the United Nations headquarters in New York, U.S. At the International Council for Small Businesses Forum, which was attended by executives from small and medium-size enterprises as well as scholars around the world, 10 Kyobo Life wins the Korea Digital Chairman Shin introduced Kyobo Life’s Management Innovation Award ‘Stakeholder-Centered Management PhiThe Korea Digital Management Innovalosophy,’ which comprises respect for all tion Awards, hosted by Maeil Business 3W stakeholders, including customers, invesNews and MBN and sponsored by the tors, consultants, employees, and local 7 Ministry of Science and ICT, are presented 900weeks communities, as human beings. He also to companies that demonstrate exemstressed that ‘profit is the fuel need for plary performance in the field of digital survival but cannot be a purpose in itself.’ technology. In 2018, Kyobo Life won the FP Geum-ok Jeong achieves President’s Award, becoming the very amazing record of 3W 900 Weeks first insurance firm to achieve the feat. ‘3W 900 Weeks’ refers to the successKyobo Life was recognized for its efforts ful conclusion of more than three new to proactively adopt a variety of digital insurance contracts per week for an technologies and implement systematic unbroken 900 weeks. Financial Plandigital innovation management. ner Geum-ok Jeong, who works at the Icheon FP Branch of Kyobo Life, set this unprecedented record in the insurance industry, strictly keeping her own promise to meet more than ten customers per day in order to get at least three contracts signed every week. As a result, she was able to secure over new 2,000 customers in an area where she did not have any previous connections. Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 08 The Four Seasons in Gwanghwamun 2018 Ever since 1991 Kyobo Life’s Gwanghwamun Billboard, which is updated for each season of the year, has conveyed a powerful message of love and hope to the public. Similar Billboards can also be found at the Kyobo Tower in Gangnam, Seoul and the Kyobo Life building on Jeju Island, sharing the company’s heart-warming message with the general public. Spring The vibrant minds of children, Their soaring body and vigorous energy. Where do they come from? Summer At nightfall, The sun brightly tumbles down like an insect, Into the world that is the inside of a flower. Autumn I fold an airplane with a piece of scrap paper, The plane will fly high, flapping its wings, It will come back carrying a baby star from the sky world. Winter Although the forest is beautiful and deep, I have a promise to keep, I still have a road to take. Company Overview Company Overview 10 Business Overview 12 Vision and Strategies 13 Economic Value Creation and Distribution 14 Special 2. Kyobo Chairman’s Keynote 16 Speech at the UN headquarters / Receipt of the Eungwan Order of Cultural Merit Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 10 Company Overview Established in 1958 under the philosophy of promoting education for the people and creating national capital, Kyobo Life has been guided by its founding mission of ‘helping people to chase their precious lifelong dream with confident mind by overcoming unpredictable hardship through mutual assistance. Celebrating its 60th anniversary, Kyobo Life is striving to achieve Vision2020 as ‘Korea’s Most Innovative Life insurer in Product and Distribution in Preparation for the Era of the FourthIndustrial Revolution.’ Company Facts (As of December 2018) General Information Status of Operation Locations As of December 2018, Kyobo Life has 536 Branch Company Name Kyobo Life Insurance Co. Ltd (敎保生命保險株式會社) Offices and 57 Customer PLAZAs in Korea. Establishment August 7, 1958 Date CEO Chang-Jae Shin (愼 昌 宰) Head Office Kyobo Building, 1, Jong-ro (Jongro 1-ga), Jongro-gu, Seoul, Korea Credit Ratings Number of Personnel International A1 A+ Moody’s Fitch (4 consecutive years) (6 consecutive years) 3,832 AAA No. of Employees persons Domestic (stable) National Information & 15,656 Credit Evaluation No. of Financial Korea Investors Service persons Planners Korea Ratings Organization Status 108.8 Head Office Sales Total assets KRW trillion 15 Offices 4 Profit 11 Divisions 2 Divisions 4 Value Departments 4,250,000 Divisions 58Teams No. of policy holders persons Overview Company Overview 11 Corporate History 1958~1979 1958 ‘Foundation of Korean Education Insurance Co. Creation of Jinhak Insurance, the world’s first education insurance. 1964 W inner of the ‘Presidential Honor’ of Excellence in Saving at the First Savings Day Awards 1980~1999 1967 Becomes the best company in the insurance industry with 1980 Establishment of Kyobo Book Centre Co., Ltd. 32.7 billion won in insurance contracts just nine years after its foundation. 1983 F ounder Yong-Ho Shin awarded the ‘World Insurance Grand Prize’ by the International Insurance Society (IIS). 1978 Contracts exceed KRW1 trillion for the first time. 1991 E stablishment of the Daesan Agriculture & Cultural Foundation (Current ‘Daesan Agriculture Foundation). 2000~2010 1992 Establishment of the Daesan Cultural Foundation. 2000 Declaration of the ‘Ethics Charter of Kyobo people’. 1995 Company renamed as Kyobo Life Insurance Co., Ltd. 2001 Declaration of Vision2010 and the CI of Kyobo people. 1996 F ounder Yong-Ho Shin inducted into the IIS Insurance Hall of Fame. 2002 Foundation of the Kyobo Dasomi Volunteer Service Center. 1997 E stablishment of the Educational and Cultural Foundation of Kyobo Life (currently the Kyobo Foundation for Education). 2004 Wins the Customer Satisfaction Grand Prize (for the fifth consecutive year); inducted into the ‘Hall of Fame’. 2001~2017 2009 S elected as the Best Insurance Company of the Year in the Asia Life 2011 Declaration of Kyobo Vision 2015. Insurance Industry. 2012 C EO & Chairman Chang-Jae Shin wins the ‘Best Insurance CEO of 2010 J oins the International Agreement for Corporate Social the Year’ at the Asia Insurance Industry Awards. Responsibility and the UN Global Compact. 2013 Establishment of Kyobo Life Planet Life Insurance Co., Ltd. 2014 W ins the second ‘Beloved Corporate Government’ Presidential Award and the private company prize in the process category for Porter Prize for Excellence in CSV. 2018  2016 Declaration of Kyobo Vision 2020.  2018 Wins the President’s Award at the Korea Digital Management Wins the 12th Management Transparency Award. Innovation Awards. 2017 A warded a Citation from the Director-General of the Fair TradeAcquires A1 credit rating from Moody’s for fourth Commission in commemoration of Consumer Rights Day. consecutive year. Acquires the A+ credit rating from Fitch for sixth consecutive year. Chairman Chang-Jae Shin receives the Eungwan Order of Cultural Merit. Selected as a top company in the life insurance sector in the Korean Sustainability Index (KSI) for ninth consecutive year. Affiliated Companies Kyobo Life has twelve affiliated companies that operate mainly in the life insurance-related sector. The synergistic effects created by smooth exchanges between Kyobo Life and its affiliated companies positively enhance the brand and corporate values of Kyobo. Financial Kyobo Securities Co., Ltd. Kyobo AXA Investment Managers Co. Ltd NonKyobo Book Centre Co., Ltd. (8) financial A&D Credit Information Co., Ltd. Kyobo Life Asset Management Co., Ltd. (America) (4) Kyobo Realco Co., Ltd. KCA Claim Adjustment Co., Ltd. Kyobo Life Asset Management Co., Ltd. (Japan) Kyobo Information & Communication Co., Ltd. Saengbo Real Estate Trust Co., Ltd. Kyobo Life Planet Life Insurance Company Kyobo Data Center Co., Ltd. Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 12 Business Overview Life Insurance Business Process The life insurance business comprises the following three stages: product subscription → insurance contract retention → claim payment. In the product subscription stage, Kyobo Life analyzes the needs and financial conditions of customers and proposes appropriate products to provide the best coverage. In the insurance contract retention stage, Kyobo Life provides customers with consistent information on their contracts to help them maintain their insurance and receive proper coverage in times of need. In the claim payment stage, Kyobo Life makes promised payments promptly whenever an applicable reason for helping customers overcome their hardships arises. Meanwhile, the premiums paid by customers are managed according to the long-term asset management strategy of Kyobo Life. Subscription Retention Payment No. of new subscriptions No. of customers No. of paid claims 776,000 4,249,000 3,531,000 Initial premiums In-force premiums Claim payments KRW 1,278.3 billion KRW 10,890.0 billion KRW 9,005.7 billion Asset management Loans KRW 20.5 trillion Real estate KRW 2.0 trillion Securities KRW 73.3 trillion Kyobo Life’s Products as Life Partners Kyobo Life offers a wide range of insurance products to help customers overcome future adversities and pursue their cherished dreams with confidence. Introduction of Insurance Products Whole Life/Term Insurance Health/Integrated Insurance Pension Insurance This insurance protects you and This insurance covers major This insurance will provide assurance your family in the event of an diseases and death together. during the later days of your life which unfortunate accident. are expected to be longer than your ( No-Dividend) Kyobo Plus ( No-dividend) Kyobo Practical economically active period Health Insurance Whole-Life Insurance  y Future Pension Plan Kyobo M Variable Pension Insurance Ⅱ Education/Child Insurance Deposit Insurance Insurance for the Disabled This insurance provides education This insurance helps you prepare This insurance is exclusively designed funds for your child and covers funds for diverse purposes. to provide benefits for people with illnesses/injuries. ( No-Dividend) Kyobo Big Plus disabilities. ( No-Dividend) Kyobo My Child’s Deposit Insurance ( No-Dividend) Kyobo Gomduri First Insurance Coverage Insurance Overview Business Overview / Vision and Strategies 13 Vision and Strategies Since the establishment of Vision2020 in 2016, Kyobo Life has consistently strived to achieve this end. That being said, Kyobo Life will think and act from the perspective of its customers, upholding the principles of honesty and sincerity by taking full responsibility for the results, rising to new challenges, and never allowing the fear of failure to discourage the company from trying again. Visible Future VIsion 2020 Korea’s Most Innovative Life insurer in Product and Distribution in Preparation for the Era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution Core purpose Our mission is to help everyone confidently pursue their dreams throughout their lives, overcoming every adversity by mutual support Core Values We will always be We will always put We will always innohonest and sincere our customers first vate, starting over on every respect! in our thoughts again if at first we and actions! do not succeed! 2018 Business Environment and Responses In order to proactively respond to future changes and realize Kyobo Life’s Vision 2020, Kyobo Life analyzes the constantly changing industry trends and the business environment, identifies potential risk factors, and derives business potential from diverse opportunities. Category Business Environment & Implications Future Response ·E  nhancement of product competitiveness, such as the development of differentiated products, by reflecting customers’ needs. · Aging population and declining birth rate Society · Increase in single-person and senior households · I ncreased sales of family life guarantee products through strengthened marketing. · I mprove channel expertise · Continuing trend of low growth and low interest rates. · Limited economic recovery is expected due to increasing Economy uncertainties in domestic and global financial markets. · Probability of additional increases in Korea’s key interest rate. · Make use of overseas alternative assets · Asset management in response to increasing volatility in domestic and foreign financial markets. · Strengthening of regulations on financial soundness, · Continued strengthening of countermeasures in response to regulations on such as IFRS17 (to be introduced in 2021) and the K-Insurfinancial soundness. Politics ance Capital Standard (K-ICS). · Increased legal liabilities of financial companies due to enhanced protection of financial consumers. · Strengthen the competiveness of the insurance business by leveraging · Diffusion of convergence in the financial industry. Technology digital technologies · Increased use of fintech/big data. · Develop new growth engines based on digital technologies Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 14 Economic Value Creation and Distribution (As of 2018) 1 rs Customers me sto Cu Customers put their trust in Kyobo Life by choosing the company’s ❶ products and services and by entrusting their funds to Kyobo Life, while Kyobo Life reinvests and manages their funds responsibly Products and serand safely. vices (Psychological Stability / Financial Coverage) Reserve funds for claims: 12.2178 Insurance premiums Value distribution (Trust) KRW trillion al Planners Talent and effort 2 Financial Planners & Employees ❷ Financi Kyobo Life recruits talented personnel and benefits from the talents Support for skill enhancement of outstanding Financial Planners. In turn, the company provides them with a variety of services designed to help them achieve the best results and enhance their capabilities. Fees and training costs Emotional Stableness/ Talent and 613 425.4 Financial Guarantee effort Wages / Welfare KRW billion KRW billion and benefits ❷ Em plo yee s Creation of economic value The economic values that Kyobo Life newly creates through its business activities, such as premium income from life insurance sales and investment profits through asset management, are distributed to key stakeholders. Overview Economic Value Creation and Distribution 15 3 ❸ Inv Investors es to rs Kyobo Life obtains capital from shareholders and investors, and allocates the capital to different businesses to create the best possible results. Producing Results Dividends 102.5 Capital KRW billion 재정적 보장 (Finantial 4 Guarantee) Government & Communities Kyobo Life contributes to the government and local communities 혜택(Benefit ) by paying taxes and engaging in social contribution and purchasing activities, among other things. Taxes / donations, etc.: Mutual growth KRW 526.2 billion Participation in development of the local region nitie u s m m Co t& men rn ove ❹G Investment income Premium income Total revenue KRW 2.5 trillion KRW 12.2 trillion KRW 14.7 trillion Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 16 Kyobo Chairman’s Keynote Speech at the UN headquarters / Receipt of the Eungwan Order of Cultural Merit Kyobo Life Chairman Becomes First Korean Businessman to Give Keynote Speech at UN Forum In May 2018, Kyobo Life Chairman Chang-Jae Shin became the first Korean businessman to deliver a keynote speech at the United Nations headquarters in New York. Chairman Shin was invited to the forum held by the UN and the International Council for Small Businesses (ICSB) to share stakeholder-centered management cases and the management philosophy of Kyobo Life. He discussed the humanistic corporate culture inherited from company founder Yong-Ho Shin and explained that humanism, the basis of the life insurance business, has always been the foundation of Kyobo Life’s management philosophy. He went on to say that ‘stakeholder relationship management’ refers to respecting all stakeholders (customers, employees, investors, communities, the government, etc.) as human beings, rather than viewing them as mere business tools, and pursuing balanced development. Chairman Shin also stressed that if leaders satisfy their employees and employees satisfy their customers, the satisfied customers will, in turn, contribute to the company’s profits, thereby creating a virtuous cycle of shared development of all stakeholders. Chairman Shin expressed the view that modern society increasingly expects companies “to create not only economic values but also humanistic values” and emphasized that Kyobo Life will continue its unending journey toward human-centered management. Special Section 2 Kyobo Chairman’s Keynote Speech at the 17 UN headquarters / Receipt of the Eungwan Order of Cultural Merit Kyobo Life Chairman Honored with ‘Order of Cultural Merit’ Chang-Jae Shin, the chairman of Kyobo Life, received the Eungwan Led by Chairman Shin Chang-Jae, the Daesan Cultural Foundation (Silver Crown) Order of Cultural Merit in recognition of his endeavors not only hosts the Daesan Literary Awards but is also dedicated to over the past twenty-five years as the chairman of the Daesan Culinvigorating the literary community by discovering talented new writtural Foundation to develop and globalize Korean literature and his ers through the Daesan Creative Writing Fund and the Daesan Litercontribution to bringing literature to the public and expanding the ary Awards for College Students among other programs. In addition, reading culture through the Kyobo Book Centre and the Gwanghwathe foundation has translated the works of renowned Korean writmun Billboard. The South Korean government awards the Order of ers, including Pak Kyongni and Hwang Sok-yong, into various lanCultural Merit to persons who conduct outstanding meritorious serguages and helped to get them published internationally. Among vices in the fields of culture and art in the interest of promoting the them, author Han Kang’s The Vegetarian, which was published in the national culture and national development. As the medal is usually U.K. with the support of the foundation, became the first Korean-lanawarded to prominent art and cultural figures, presentation of the guage novel to win the Man Booker International Prize, one of the top honor to a business leader is not only exceptional but also highly three literary awards in the world. Kyobo Life will continue making meaningful, all the more so given that Chairman Shin has followed in concerted efforts to support the development and globalization of his father’s footsteps. Korean literature. Kyobo Life's Customer satisfaction 73.4 points ROE 5.6 % RBC 311.8 % 70.1 points Financial planners’ satisfaction 97 hours No. of training hours / employee Social contribution KRW 10.3 billion Kyobo Life’s Sustainable Key Activities for Stakeholders in 2018 Management Customers 28 Sustainability Management System 20 Financial Planners 34 Stakeholder Engagement 21 Employees 38 Stakeholders Meeting 22 Investors 44 Materiality Test 24 Government and Communities 50 Special 3. Kyobo Dasomi’s Support for 26 Special 4. Kyobo Life Youth Athletics 56 Ireundungi(premature Babies) Cup Championship Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 20 Sustainable Management System Kyobo Life’s sustainability management is based on the company’s sustainability management philosophy of “Pursuit of Shared Growth with All Stakeholders.” Kyobo Life defines its stakeholders based on the level of their legal responsibilities and their impact on the company’s business activities. The company then specifies its promises to the stakeholders and fulfills those promises through its sustainability Management Approach. Kyobo Life’s stakeholders are its customers, financial planners, employees, and investors, as well as the government and communities. The company’s sustainability management system consists of ①its promises to its stakeholders; ②the principles according to which its promises are implemented; ③and key performance indicators (KPI). In this report, stakeholder interest is treated as a very important evaluation criterion in the materiality test. Activities like communications and meetings with stakeholders are a means of listening to the voices of the stakeholders. Sustainable Management Philosophy Pursuit of Shared Growth with All Stakeholders For Kyobo Life’s Stakeholders Government & Customers Financial Planners Employees Investors Communities A company that A company that A company that grows A company that Our provides optimum succeeds together A company that is together with the grows together Promises insurance coverage and with our Financial with our employees attractive to investors government and ongoing services Planners communities 1. We will listen to 3. We will respect and 6. We will maintain our 9. We will continue to 11. We will actively carry out our customers and trust the Financial Plancorporate culture of joy, produce exceptional corporate social responmanage the company ners as our business pride and trust. profits on the basis of sibility activities to grow from their perspective. partners. good growth. together with our com7. We will provide equal munities. 2. We will enhance service 4. We will establish fair opportunities and 10. We will increase 12. We will manage our quality throughout the standards and help rewards according to the value of the business in an envipolicy life cycle, from the Financial Planners to fair evaluation criteria. company through Our ronmentally-friendly Principles underwriting to perengage in their sales and preemptive risk 8. We will support our way, reflecting the sistency and benefits service activities with management employees’ growth and nature of our payment peace of mind. business. development as insur5. We will support the ance experts. 13. We will grow together development of our with our partners Financial Planners into through fair compeinsurance experts. tition. Persistency Rate* Satisfaction Level Training Hours per Total Assets* Social Contribution 78.8 % 70.1 pts 108.8 trillion Employee Ratio*/Amount 97 hours 103 (1.9%) KRW KRW Customer Settlement Ratio* ROE* hundred million 36.4 % 5.6 % Satisfaction Level 73.4 pts Weight of Socially Responsible Investment* RBC* 75,199 (9.1%) KPI 311.8 % Market Share* 11.3 % KRW hundred million Energy Consumption 16,876 TOE* *Persistency Rate: (Contract Maintenance Fee /Underwriting Fee) × 100 *Market Share Rate: Based on premium income as of November 2018 *Financial Planner Settlement Ratio: (No. of advanced Financial Planners / No. of newly registered Financial Planners) × 100 ※ Financial Planners Settled in the 13th Month includes those who sign more than one more new contract and retain more than 10 contracts signed as of the 13th month * Return on Equity (ROE): Net Income / {(Capital at the Start of Period + Capital at the End of Period) / 2} × 100, based on consolidated financial statements. * Risk Based Capital (RBC): Available capital for insurance claim payments (payment capacity) / Required capital for risk management (RBC total risk) x 100, based on consolidated financial statements. * Total assets: Based on consolidated financial statements. * Social contribution ratio: Amount of social contribution / Net Income, based on consolidated financial statements. * Weight of Socially responsible investment (SRI) ratio: SRI investment / General account assets) x 100 * TOE (Tonnage of Oil Equivalent): Amount of energy produced by burning one ton of oil, standardized in calorific units. Kyobo Life’s Sustainable Management Sustainable Management System \ 21 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Channels of Communication with Stakeholders Kyobo Life operates various channels of communication to gather opinions from its key five stakeholder groups, namely, customers, Financial Planners, employees, investors, government, and communities. Employees 〮 Website customer panel (quarterly), Customers 〮 Newsletter (monthly), labor-management customer satisfaction survey (annual), meetings and council (quarterly), employee special event for premium customers satisfaction survey (as and when necessary), etc. (frequent), Kyobo Life official blog and SNS, etc. 〮 Inclusion of IR section on the company website, regular shareholders’meetings Communication (at least once per year), board of Channel Investors directors’meetings (monthly), IR 〮 Website exclusively for Financial activities (frequent), etc. Planners, Financial Planner satisFinancial faction survey (annual), support for Planners 〮 Website (social contribution section), high-performing Financial Planners Kyobo Dasomi Volunteer Service Center (quarterly), various meetings for (frequent), meetings with business Financial Planners (frequent), etc. Government partners (frequent), etc. and Communities Stakeholder Survey Category Method Purpose Content Summary To assess customer satisfaction with Kyobo Life · A ssessment of customer satisfaction with Kyobo Life vs and its major rivals, and to work out ways of competitors Satisfaction raising the level of satisfaction. · Corporate image · Satisfaction with insurance products Customers To measure the company’s brand power and · Company awareness and customer loyalty obtain data that can be used for strategic brand · Brand image of life insurance Brand · Survey on how customers use life insurance companies management. To assess the competitiveness of the Financial · Assessment of customer satisfaction with the Financial Planners. Financial Planners’ activities and devise ways of · Identification of strengths and weaknesses that affect the Satisfaction Planners improving customer satisfaction. competitiveness of the Financial Planners’ activities. · Identification of complaints and needs of the Financial Planners. Management Information Session for Employees Kyobo Life holds management information sessions in order to explain the key business issues to employees and thereby improve their understanding of those issues, and to facilitate two-way communication between the management and employees. Date and July 13, 2018, Two sessions (10:00~11:30 & 15:00~16:30) Time Convention Hall and Seminar Room, 23rd Floor, Kyobo Life Head Venue Office, Gwanghwamun ·FY2018 Business results and business environment issues in the Main Items first half of the year of Agenda ·FY2018 Direction of marketing strategy in the second half of the year Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 22 Stakeholders Meeting Kyobo Life held the expert meeting after renaming it the ‘stakeholders meeting’ Date / Time November 15 (Thu), 2018, 15:00~17:00 in order to improve its sustainability management and bring about meaningful changes. Customers, Financial Planners, investors, local community members, Seminar Room, 17th Floor, Kyobo Life Head Office, Venue employees and stakeholders in the field of environment attended the meeting and Gwanghwamun discussed ways of improving the sustainability management of Kyobo Life. Moderator THE CSR The level of customer exposure to customThere is high er-oriented Manmarket interest agement Approach in non-financial leaves a lot to be value. desired. New Financial Planners need a system by which they can become independent. Jong-seon Yun Customer (Customer Representative) Jin-won Oh F  inancial Investment (Investor representative) Page 6 of the 2017 Sustainability Report introduces some of the numerous ManageAll over the world, there is considerable ment Approach that the company launched interest in non-financial values such as the on behalf of its customers. However, I feel ESG(Environment-Social-Government) that the level of customer exposure to these assessment, which is considered an importactivities is less than expected. Kyobo Life is Hyun-soo Yun  inancial Planner F ant factor when reviewing investments. And a company that customers trust, but it has (FP Representative) with the National Pension Service adopting a weak brand image when compared to its a stewardship code, interest in non-financompetitors. The company needs to comAs a Financial Planner, one of the more cial values is currently very high in Korea. municate more actively with its customers Thus, from a long-term perspective, Kyobo through more diversified channels. agreeable aspects of working for Kyobo Life is its MDRT culture. Such a culture and the Life needs to prepare for non-financial valcompany’s support for its Financial Planuation. Also, for continuous growth, please ners fill me with pride. And HRD Training communicate more frequently with stakeCenter is a great place for experiencing and holders about the uncertainties inherent in learning about the culture of Kyobo Life. I a capital market and the direction in which hope more new Financial Planners will get a life insurance company can grow its new to experience the education center. The businesses. only shortcoming is that the system and the foundation through which new Financial Planners can grow and become independent are still inadequate. I hope that in future the company will pay more attention to the needs in the field and resolve them. Kyobo Life’s Sustainable Management Stakeholders Meeting 23 Working to improve the corporate culture. Kyobo Life must make sure that it implements sustainability Management Approach Exemplary that are sound and activities must be substantial. publicized extensively. Joong-rok Park S  enior Manager, Kyobo Life HR Operations Team (Employee representative) Gyeong-sin Kim P  rofessor, Sungshin Women’s University (Environmental representative) Kyobo Life works to foster a culture of trust Ji-min Hong Assistant Administrator among its members and is viewed as a (The Beautiful Foundation / Local community representative) family-friendly enterprise from the outside. Recently, however, as the culture has Since market interest in the environment become more job-centered, an atmosphere has increased enormously in recent years, of indifference to others has begun to seep Kyobo Life should also establish environCorporate social responsibility programs in among the members. We are trying to ment Management Approach and direclike the ‘Dasomi Save a Small Breath’ projmitigate this phenomenon by giving them tions that are appropriate for an insurance ect is an excellent case of CSR that other more encouragement and praise. In addicompany. And, as a person who has hancompanies are eager to benchmark. In tion, through an internal awareness survey, dled sustainability management tasks in order for more people to benefit from the we are trying hard to cultivate a more desircompanies for a long time, I can attest that program and to develop it into an importable corporate culture. while it is also important to publish a susant agenda for the whole of society, it has tainability report of high quality, what is to be promoted more intensively. Kyobo more valuable is substantial sustainability Life has behaved in an exemplary fashion in activities. Kyobo Life should engage more establishing strong partnerships with NGOs deeply in its sustainability Management through the joint office system and continuApproach. ing its social contribution activities for a long time. Please continue carrying out these good deeds. Stakeholder meeting concerning publication of the 2018 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 24 Materiality Test Kyobo Life has identified items of interest to external/internal stakeholders and factors that will impact the business (including potential factors), and has strived to incorporate those items in the course of managing its business. Kyobo Life derived issues that are of material importance to the stakeholders and business that need to be managed specially, and this Sustainability Report has been written in a transparent manner based on the key issues. Materiality Test Process In order to assess stakeholder interest and business importance by studying the issues that affect the company, Kyobo Life carried out a 3-step process of issue collection, interest level/importance identification, and validity confirmation. Materiality Test Model The materiality test is based on the evaluation model of the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies, and involves several different types of investigation and analysis. Step 3 Step 2 Validity Confirmation Step 1 Interest Level/Importance Identification ㆍAssess level of importance to business Issue Collection ㆍReview internal policy, rules, laws ㆍAssess level of stakeholder interest ㆍBenchmarking ㆍAnalyze media ㆍ2018 Kyobo Life Related Issues ㆍKey performance indicators(KPI) ㆍGRI Standards The validity was confirmed based on assessments of business importance and stakeholder interest. Kyobo Life’s systematically operated internal policies and domestic/international ①The total issue pool is created by considregulations and laws were analyzed to ering Kyobo Life’s past issues and the scope identify their level of importance to busiand aspects of the global guidelines (GRI ness. Benchmarking studies and media Standards). ②Issues were secured through analysis were conducted to check the the previous year’s sustainability report level of stakeholder interests. and media analysis and the benchmarking of other financial institutions. ③A total of 113 issues were derived for the first initial issue pool through the process above, ④The pool was then reduced to 69 issues through consolidations and deletions. Importance to Stakeholder 69 Issues business interest level ㆍInternal policies ㆍBenchmarking ㆍDomestic and ㆍmedia analysis 113 Issues International Regulations ㆍstandards and laws ㆍkey performance indicators (KPI) Kyobo Life’s Sustainable Management Materiality Test 25 Issue Confirmation The “top 20 issues” were derived from the level of importance of business and stakeholder interest based on a matrix analysis, and 5 key agenda items were selected for each group of Kyobo Life stakeholders. ❶Social contribution activities that match the ❶ characteristics of the industry ❷D  evelopment of products and services based on Stakeholder Interest ❾ ❷ digital innovations ❸ ❸E  stablishment of a workplace environment that is great for employees ❼ ❹ ❹ Asset management ❺ ❺ Ethics management ❿ ⓮ ❻C ustomer-centered management and develop❻ ment of customer-focused tailored products ⓫ ❼ Protection of personal information ❽ Improvement of financial soundness ⓬ ❾ Environmental management ⓰ ⓭ ❿ Win-win collaboration ⓯ ⓫H uman talent training and employee ⓱ capability development ⓲ ❽ ⓬ Eco-friendly financial services ⓳ ⓭ Governance ⓴ ⓮ Insurtech ⓯ Preemptive risk management ⓰ Strengthening of access to financial services ⓱ Socially responsible investment ⓲S upport for financial planners’ capability improvement training ⓳ Respect for human rights Importance of business ⓴ Opportunities for female advancement 5 Key Issues for Kyobo Life in 2018 Stakeholder Key Issues GRI Topic Reporting Boundary Contents Products and services based on digital innovations Product and Internal/External service labelling Internal/External Development products and services based on digital innovations Customers Protection of personal information Internal/External Insure Tech Internal/External Improvement of access to financial services Internal/External Financial Planners Support for financial planners’ capability improvement training Training and education Internal/External Establishment of a workplace environment that is great for employees Training and education Internal Activities for Employment Internal stakeholders Human talent training and employee capability development Employees Respect for human rights Internal/External Increased opportunities for women Internal/External Asset Management Financial results Internal/External Investors Stable management of assets Internal/External Preemptive risk management Internal/External Government/Communities Social contribution activities that match the characteristics of the industry Communities Internal/External *The 5 key issues of 2018 are described in detail in the ‘Kyobo Life’s Key Stakeholder Management Approach’ section of this report. Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 26 Dasomi Save a Small Breath Program With the mission of helping premature babies to grow up healthy and assisting Key Projects their families to overcome adversities, Kyobo Life and a public agency called Medical Expense Support Project The Beautiful Foundation teamed up to establish the Dasomi Save a Small Support for initial hospitalization, re-hospitalization, and re-haBreath Program in 2004. This program consists of social contribution activities bilitation expenses such as support for initial hospitalization, re-hospitalization and re-habilitaIreundungi Environment Project tion expenses for families of Ireundungi babies that face economic and emoResearch study and expert meetings, construction of an informational difficulties. For fifteen years up until last year, the social support systion network for Ireundungi baby-related topics. tem constructed as part of this program has helped 2,507 Ireundungi babies Support for Ireundungi babies and disclosure/provision of expert to become full members of society. information, support for families of Ireundungi babies. Dasomi Save a Small Breath Program Statistics (2004 ~ 2018) Total Donations Kyobo Life FP Donations Kyobo Life Donations KRW 10,949,468,138 KRW 5,073,762,461 KRW 3,198,400,307 The Beautiful Foundation Matching Fund Donations Material Donations 1% Donors Donations KRW 2,279,956,442 KRW 306,124,200 KRW 91,224,728 *Matching fund donations : LG Nanum Coffee Fund, Balinae House Fund, Yul-Ee Fund, etc. Special Section 3 Dasomi Save a Small Breath Program 27 A Brief History of the Dasomi Save a Small Breath Program The social significance of support for Ireundungi babies Some babies are born weaker and smaller than others. We used to call them premaKyobo Life and The Beautiful Foundation sign ture babies. However, the word premature is considered suggestive of some type of 2004 agreement on joint operation deficiency and hints of stigma made use of the word rather undesirable. But these Kyobo Life launches the Beautiful Workplace campaign days we refer to such babies with the more acceptable word ‘Ireundungi’. In fact, Kyobo Life holds ceremony to commemorate the first 2005 the widespread use of the word ‘Ireundungi’ is a remarkable achievement of the anniversary; appoints Ji-chang Son and Yeon-su Oh as good will ambassadors of the program. Dasomi Save a Small Breath program. Kyobo Life holds kickoff ceremony for Dasomi Hope Let’s go over the social contributions made by the ‘Dasomi Save a Small Breath’ Santa and Secret Santa project, which was jointly organized and developed by Kyobo Life and The Beautiful Kyobo Life launches support program for premature 2006 baby’s medical expenses Foundation over many years. The word ‘Ireundungi’ is chosen in a public naming contest to refer to premature babies Government’s support program for initial First, this could be a great model for social contribution 2007 activity by the private sector hospitalization expenses is expanded This case is a great model of a private company developing a social concern and an Kyobo Life launches program to improve agenda and then addressing that concern through a very flexible approach. This prothe environment of Ireundungi babies gram greatly increased government funding of medical expenses for premature babies 2008 Government supported re-hospitalization and and babies with congenital anomalies, which until now have been processed through re-habilitation expense categories are expanded the routine disbursement of public money. This is a good example of a public-private 2009 Categories for re-habilitation expense support are expanded. partnership that both works well and serves as a model of how leadership by the private Company opens the Nanum Camp for children of Kyobo Life FP donors sector could pull along public policy. Company opens the Dasomi Nanum 2010 Study Camp and Ireundungi Family Camp Second, the program attracted many donations for the Ireundungi agenda Kyobo Life launches the Gwangmyeong Under this program, Kyobo Life’s Financial Planners and company employees make 2011 Health Center and the tailored home visit donations each month. Today, we can find other private support programs that employ health management pilot project. a similar donation-seeking strategy. But back in 2004, getting company support to match The Ireundungi Family Camp makes appreciation the amount raised by the voluntary donations of Financial Planners and then, on top 2012 gifts for donors of corporate donations, collecting donations from ordinary citizens through non-profit Dasomi Hope Santa undertakes research survey on 2013 organizations was, for that time, a radical approach. It heralded the emergence of a new 10 years of operation trend in the culture of donating. 10th Anniversary of Dasomi Save a Small Breath Pro2014 gram, medical expense support program is revamped. Third, the program is an excellent example of partnership between Company launches Pilot project to support 2015 the families of Ireundungi babies. a corporation and a non-profit organization Through the combination of physical support and human resources support and the Kyobo Life launches the online awareness campaign 2016 formation of a joint office, this program has demonstrated how organic cooperation named ‘Get Strong Ireundungi !’ between a business organization and an NGO can work. The process of cooperation Kyobo Life sets up donation booth at the 2017 2017 shaped by intense discussions between the two parties over a period of fifteen years Kyobo MDRD Day event through the joint office serves as a model of partnership between a corporation and a Kyobo Life participates in the 8th National Nanum Festival non-profit organization. Fourth, effective use of different groups of experts The Dasomi Save a Small Breath program uses inputs from a variety of academics and experts in related sectors such as healthcare, rehabilitation, and social welfare, as well as soliciting the advice of corporate and nonprofit organizations through steering committees and professional committees. The program’s singular agenda, namely, the project of supporting Ireundungi babies, is a comprehensive challenge that calls for expert knowledge from diverse sectors. The Dasomi Save a Small Breath program is well organized and operated; the expertise of related sectors is properly reflected in the program; and the comprehensive challenges and needs surrounding the problem are all taken into account. Professor Ki-cheol Nam / Dongduk Women’s University Handwritten letters from Ireundungi baby Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 28 2018 Five Key Issues of Kyobo Life MANAGEMENT APPROACH FOR CUSTOMERS Importance Key Performance Indicators Kyobo Life has been guided by its founding mission of helping people to overcome future Persistency ratio*(13th month) adversities through mutual assistance and (Unit : %) thereby fulfill their lifelong dreams. Thinking and acting from the customer’s perspective 80.0 78.7 78.8 are the most important considerations in achieving this goal. The latest digital technologies like Blockchain have been adopted to increase convenience when handling customer tasks, while new products and services have been developed to further expand customer values. These activities are important 2016 2017 2018 Management Approach for customers who are one of Kyobo Life’s stakeholder groups. Customer satisfaction level (Unit : Points) Key Activities in 2018 76.4 73.8 73.4 ·Innovations in product/service competitiveness aimed at customers ·Provision of customer convenience using digital innovations ·Continual strengthening of customer protection activities 2016 2017 2018 Market share ratio* (Unit : %) Management Method Kyobo Life will commit its resources to pro11.3 10.3 10.5 viding better values in all areas related to customers. The company will assess the needs of customers through continuous communication and develop new products based on the findings. It will differentiate its Lifelong Care Service in order to improve policy persistency. It will also utilize the latest IT tech2016 2017 2018 nology to increase customer convenience in receiving insurance claim payments. Insurance claim payments (Unit : KRW hundred million) 94,159 Future Areas of Focus ·Strengthen insurance products and 90,057 customer interaction point service 84,545 (subscription, persistency, payment) handling capabilities. ·Speed up customer-centered digital innovations. 2016 2017 2018 ·Establish a trusted customer protection culture. *Persistency rate = (Retention contract premium / New contract premium) × 100 *The market share rate is based on Premium Income. All data for 2018 are as of November 2018. *78.6 -> 78.7% Kyobo Life Stakeholder Management Customers 29 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities Improvement of customer value and customer protection Smart Insurance Coverage Analysis System ance payout claim process into a one-stop automated process. Kyobo Life was the first company in the insurance industry to Even if the consumer fails to file a claim, when a case meets pioneer the use of a new digital technique called “scraping” in the conditions for insurance payment, copies of the medical developing a new type of family coverage analysis system. The record and insurance payout claim applications are automatsmart family guarantee analysis system automatically visits ically generated. With this service, the insurance payment prothe cyber windows of all insurance companies (life insurance, cedure is expected to be greatly simplified and, since the whole property insurance, post office and deductible insurance), process is recorded in the blockchain, the secure management extracts all subscription information at once, and automatiof insurance payouts has been made possible. This new sercally sends the extracted data to the third party information vice will be piloted until 2019 and then expanded gradually. section of the Kyobo Life coverage analysis system. In sum, it Kyobo Life receives the Presidential Prize at the 18th Korea is a complete end-to-end family coverage analysis system. With Digital Management Innovation Awards the scraping technology of the Smart Coverage Analysis SysIn July 2018, Kyobo Life was awarded the Presidential Prize, tem, Financial Planners can provide accurate coverage analythe overall award given at the 18th Korea Digital Management sis to their customers. Innovation Awards, which are jointly organized by the Ministry *Scraping: Scraping is a technique in which a computer program extracts desired data from the website where they reside without actually having of Science and ICT, the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourto visit the website ism, and the Ministry of SMEs and Startups. The company was recognized for developing diverse insurance service products Adoption of Kakao Pay authentication service based on digital technologies in a bid to increase its competKyobo Life was the first insurance company to adopt the Kakao itiveness in the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and Pay authentication service for its mobile banking service in build a platform for future growth. The company was also comorder to increase customer convenience. The company signed mended for accelerating innovations in the field of insurance an MOU with Kakao Pay and adopted the Kakao Pay authenservices and improving customer convenience by introducing tication service for its mobile (web) application process for simplified authentication and the smartphone insurance payadvance withdrawals. When a customer visits the Kyobo Life out claim system. As this was the first time that an insurance mobile website, with just the Kakao Pay authentication to concompany won the Presidential Prize since its creation in 2012, firm his or her identity, the customer can use all the different it represents a huge milestone in the industry, and is all the banking services available through the mobile website with just more significant in that it is an acknowledgement on the part fingerprint authentication, thus dispensing with the need for a of academia and the government that the company has made digital signature. In addition, important documents that require a significant contribution to digital innovation. digital signatures can be opened and read by downloading them using the Kakao talk messaging service and entering the relevant password, without the need to install digital signatures or a separate app. With the Kakao Pay authentication service, customers can now download documents securely and easily. Automatic Insurance Payout Claim Service Using Blockchain To reduce the inconvenience of small insurance payout claimants and increase the economic benefits, Kyobo Life offers a ‘Smartphone Insurance Payout Claim’ service that is based on blockchain technology. By simplifying the complex insurance payout claim process, this service tries to mitigate the inconvenience experience by small insurance payout claimants. The ‘Smartphone Insurance Payout Claim’ turns the entire insurGrand award at the 2018 Korea Digital Innovation Management Awards Improvement of work efficiency through the smart app-based coverage analysis service As-Is To-Be Customer FP Customer FP Scraping information Send policy system transmits information Insurance policy Family Coverage Dedicated app gives Family Coverage (Company A, Analysis System approval Analysis System Company B, etc.) (3rd party information is (3rd party information is manually entered) automatically reflected) Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 30 Health Management in Daily Life ‘Kyobo Health Customer-Centered Enhancement of Product and Coaching Service’ Service Value Kyobo Life expanded from its treatment support-oriented serKyobo Life is striving to provide differentiated and customvice structure when it began offering a unique and compreer-centered insurance products and enhance the value of its hensive health management service called the Kyobo Health supplementary services through product innovations. Coaching Service. Based on digital technologies and composed of five elements, this health improvement service helps Development and Launch of New Insurance Products customers to maintain a healthy lifestyle in their daily life. This In its development of new products, Kyobo Life aims to procustomer-tailored service managed by health experts encourvide insurance products that will satisfy the life stage needs of ages customers to pay close attention to their health and pracits customers. In 2018, the company’s efforts to create products tice good health habits. that meet the needs of its customers have led to the release of the following new products. Important new products Elements of the Health Coaching Service · Everyday Challenge: IoT-based measurement of exercise and (No-Dividend) Kyobo My Child’s First Insurance reward (walking challenge). ·This insurance product covers children for a period · 5! My Coaching: 1:1 customized health improvement from birth up to 100 years old. Notably, it provides program, consisting of 5 programs of exercise/nutrition/stress thorough coverage for growing children and management/moderation in drink/prohibition of smoking. supports their education funds. · Check-Check My Health: Evaluation of the customer’s biological age and provision of a health report based on the results of a health check. Assessable (No-Dividend) Kyobo · Health Library: Retrieval of health information checked by a Variable Education Insurance medical professional and provision of the Webzine service. ·Parents can prepare education funds for their · Coach 1:1 Consulting: Support for 1:1 chatting with a health children’s future, including preparation for college expert and consultation through KAKAO talk. admission, language exchange, and studying abroad. If the need arises, the insurance can be converted into pension insurance for parents. The Launch of Kyobo Life’s Digital Character New (No-Dividend) Kyobo In-Advance CI Insurance Last June, Kyobo Life launched ‘Kyobo Lovers’ – a series of ·In the event of an accident (critical illness, etc.), the digital characters designed to facilitate smoother communicacustomer can receive the estimated funds required tion between the company and customers in their 20s~30s and for treatment or living expenses in advance to convey the company’s philosophy of respect for life and love of ensure a stable family life. the family. The design motif of the ‘Kyobo Lovers’ was inspired by the ‘gokok’, a traditional Korean ornament made from jade which symbolizes life and bud. The design consists of the four New (No-Dividend) Kyobo In-Advance Hangeul letters that make up ‘Kyobo Life’, with each charWomen CI Insurance acter rendered in a primary color and given a compact form. ·This insurance product covers serious diseases The name itself was inspired by the word ‘rubber’ (suggestive that are prevalent among women. of puffy round rubber) and ‘lover’ (as in a fan or devotee). The name reflects the aspirations of the company to become an organization loved by its customers through the flexibility and expandability of rubber and the importance of family. From (No-dividend) Kyobo Practical Whole-Life Insurance now on, Kyobo Life will leverage the ‘Kyobo Lovers’ in an effort ·Customers are provided with a range of insurance to make the company’s activities including its customer conplans according to their needs. The product helps sulting, Lifelong Care Service, and social responsibility activifamilies maintain a stable life in the event of ties more comprehensible and closer to its customers. difficulties. Kyobo Lovers Kyobo Life Stakeholder Management Customers 31 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities Product Innovation Efforts: Kyobo Life Awarded Exclusive Customer Satisfaction Survey (Unit : Points) Commercialization Rights When Kyobo Life introduced the ‘Assessable (No-dividend) 76.4 Kyobo Variable Education Insurance’ in response to changing customer needs to commemorate the 60th anniversary of 73.8 its foundation, the company was awarded the exclusive right 73.4 to commercialize the new product from the Korea Life Insurance Association based on the merits of product originality and utility. The exclusive commercialization right is intended to protect the initial interests of any company that develops a new product for a fixed period of time (three months or six months) by prohibiting other companies from launching a sim2016 2017 2018 ilar product. This product has received good reviews because it allows the customer to postpone the reception of education funds and the warranty period depending on the needs of the Category 2016 2017 2018 customer. This achievement is the fruit of the company’s susTotal 76.4 73.8 73.4 tained efforts to develop products and supplementary services that are highly competitive. This is how Kyobo Life became the Company image 76.2 75.4 74.4 life insurance company with the highest number of exclusive Insurance products 75.9 73.8 73.0 commercialization rights to insurance products. Subscription Process 76.6 74.4 72.1 Advance withdrawal products 72.4 70.8 74.1 Face-to -face customer service 76.6 73.5 72.1 Kyobo Life Products Granted New Product Development Contract management service 75.2 71.4 68.6 Profit (Exclusive Commercialization) Rights Payment service 78.0 73.6 73.6 · (No dividend) Kyobo Variable Education Insurance (2018) Customer PLAZA 80.4 75.9 76.8 · (No dividend) Kyobo My Whole-Life Customized Health Call center response 78.2 76.2 77.3 Insurance (2017) · (No dividend) Kyobo Substantial Variable Whole-Life Insurance (2017) · (No dividend) Kyobo In-Advance CI Insurance (2017) · Keep-Your-Dream-Alive Kyobo Pension Insurance II (2016) · (No dividend) Kyobo Premier CI Insurance (2016) Lifelong Care Service – Focus on ‘acquisition of new customers and optimization of customer coverage’ · (No dividend) Kyobo My Child Guardian Insurance (2012) · (No dividend) Second CI Coverage Special Policy Conditions Kyobo Life provides a service called the Lifelong Care Service (renewable) (2010) to focus on customers’ insurance coverage more effectively. As a ‘maintenance service’ for its subscribers, the Lifelong Care Service is a manifestation of Kyobo Life’s permanent commitment to its ‘customer satisfaction management’ philosophy. Customer Satisfaction Survey Since 2011, Kyobo Life has been operating the Lifelong Care Since 2000, Kyobo Life has conducted its annual customer satService Support Team to strengthen the customer manageisfaction survey in order to respond swiftly to changes in the ment and service quality of the Lifelong Care Service. In 2018, market as well as changes among its customers. The company the company worked hard to acquire new customers and uses the results of each survey to assess the level of customer expand its customer base with the high-quality Lifelong Care satisfaction and identify customer needs, and then attempts to Service. In addition, the company provided insurance coverage devise ways of improving its services to raise customer satisto more people by expanding its pool of weak coverage cusfaction. The results of the 2018 survey show that overall customers from 500,000 to 700,000. tomer satisfaction fell by 0.4 points to 73.8 points, although the company received high ratings for its call center response and advance withdrawal products. Lifelong Care Service Stats Category 2016 2017 2018 Adults aged 20 64 who subscribed to life Survey subjects insurance within the preceding three years No. of customers who experienced 2,516,000 2,612,000 2,827,000 subscribers to the service (81.2%) (82.4%) (81.6%) No. of respondents 2,000 persons Payments for unclaimed accident KRW 35.9 KRW 40.2 KRW insurance benefits billion billion 42.1billion Period of survey April ~ May 2018 *Cumulative data since project launch Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 32 Kyobo Nobiliaire Society hosts Protection of Customer Rights and Interests and the ‘Kyobo Nobiliaire Flower Concert’ Prevention of Unfair Trade Since 2012, the Kyobo Nobiliaire Society has hosted the Kyobo Kyobo Life is committed to protecting the rights and interests Nobiliaire Concert to communicate with customers more closely of its customers by complying with insurance-related governand effectively. In addition to the regular classical performances, ment regulations. It also operates an advertisement review systhe concert showcases a wide spectrum of artistic genres includtem that requires new product advertisements and insurance ing literature, film, and fine arts, making a deep and lasting brochures to be approved by the legal compliance monitoring impression on our customers. In 2018, Kyobo Nobiliaire organized body. Furthermore, it is committed to preventing unfair trade a classical concert with the master conductor Chung Myungpractices such as poaching the customers of its competitors. whun’s Philharmonic Orchestra for the company’s Financial PlanTo date, the company has never violated any national laws or ners and customers in Seoul and the Gyeonggi-do region. self-imposed regulations related to the aforementioned issue. Notably, in November of last year, the society hosted the ‘Dear Vincent’ concert, which combined the works of Vincent van Gogh Status of product advertisement with music. Through episodes about the artist’s life and work, and insurance product brochure reviews (Units : case) intriguing interpretation based on a storytelling format, and Category 2016 2017 2018 music that expressed the great artist’s life poetically, the concert presented an eclectic mix of entertainment and a moving perforStatus of cases under review 1,166 971 1,038 mance. The concert represented a serious attempt to reach out to Kyobo Life’s customers through the humanities. Insurance Payout Disbursements by Kyobo Life Kyobo Life currently disburses insurance payouts through 57 Customer PLAZAs and 42 insurance payout reception windows. In addition, for customers who are unable to visit the reception windows, Kyobo Life provides assistance with insurance payment claim application and collection through Financial Planner insurance claim proxy filing and insurance payout home delivery services. Status of accident claim proxy filing and payout home delivery services (Units : KRW 100 million) Category 2016 2017 2018 Kyobo Nobiliaire Flower Concert Accident claim proxy filing 5,121 5,158 5,272 Insurance payout home 3,170 2,666 1,135 delivery service Responsibility for Insurance Products and Services Putting into Practice Faultless Insurance Sign-up Procedures Strengthened Customer Protection Activities Kyobo Life is educating all of its Financial Planners on the Kyobo Life makes sure that the valuable data of its customers importance of faultless insurance sign-up and has added the are fully protected. The company devotes part of its resources related provisions to the company’s standard to ensure that to strengthening awareness among all its employees and its Financial Planners strictly observe the proper insurance Financial Planners of the absolute importance of customer sign-up procedures. protection. To that end, it has systemized the relevant internal processes to lay the foundations for reflecting the VOC in manFaultless Insurance Sign-up agement. ·Issuance of a contract containing the personal VOC Management Support Compliance with signatures of the contracting party and the Kyobo Life regards the voice of the customer as an important insurance subscriber, full explanation of the asset. The company analyzes customer opinions and looks for 3 principles contract, and delivery of contract copy to the improvement areas. In 2018, the VOC Management Council subscriber. was convened twelve times. Of the 36 proposals taken up by Notification of ·Clients are advised to fill out all the the council, 21 have led to improvements and 15 are currently requirements before requirements on the form prior to signing. being implemented as of the end of December, 2018. One fine signing example of such an improvement proposal, aimed at improvFull explanation of ·Clients receive a detailed and accurate ing convenience for customers with disabilities, was the proinformation that cusexplanation of all items requiring explanation, duction and issuance of product brochures printed in Braille tomers need to know such as product characteristics and guarantees. for the company’s Gomduri insurance product. Kyobo Life Stakeholder Management Customers 33 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities Customer Information Protection Education Strengthen accessibility to financial services To guarantee the protection of customers’ personal informaConsulting Service for customer with a hearing or tion, Kyobo Life has established internal regulations and prospeech disability vides education on personal information protection to all its Kyobo Life operates a call center consultant service through employees and Financial Planners on a continuous basis. As a which customers with hearing or speech disabilities can obtain result of these efforts, no cases of customer information leaks assistance with financial services. A customer with a hearing or have ever been reported to date at Kyobo Life. speech disability can call a Kyobo Life counselor at the Sonmal Eeum Center, which is run by the National Information SociCustomers Information Protection ety Agency. When the customer sends a message to the SonTrainning Statues (Units : hours) mal Eeum Center sign-language interpreter via video streaming (sign language), the interpreter delivers the content of the Category 2016 2017 2018 message to the Kyobo Life call center consultant by voice, Employees 16 11 10 thus enabling the customer to receive the benefits of a conFinancial Planners 12 12 11 sulting session with a Kyobo Life consultant. Using the service IT Management Staff 16 13 10 described above, customers with a hearing or speech impairment can obtain detailed information about insurance prodManager of Information 16 28 21 Protection Management ucts along with information on how to pay insurance fees and apply for insurance payouts. text or Stricter Disclosures for Customer Protection voice video Kyobo Life’s website has a section titled “Customers’ Plaza” where, with just one click, customers can view all of the essential information on customer protection. The information proA customer with a hearing Sonmal Kyobo Life vided in this section is regularly updated to guarantee the cusor speech Eeum Center Call Center tomers’ right to know. disability FSS Financial Customer Protection Survey In the 2018 Financial Customer Protection Survey conducted by the FSS, which assesses companies in ten categories, Kyobo Insurance Product Guidebook for the Visually Impaired Life received ‘Good’ ratings in 7 categories and an ‘Excellent’ rating in 1 category. The competition among financial compaKyobo Life has produced a Braille-based product guidebook nies to get the best “customer protection ratings” looks set to and distributed it to customers with visual impairments in an become even fiercer in the future. As such, Kyobo Life plans to effort to rectify any difficulties they may experience when using address this challenge with even more differentiated customer our financial services. Although at present there are not many protection efforts. blind people among Kyobo Life’s customers, the company *FSS Financial Customer Protection Survey: A program for comprehensively views them as valuable customers nonetheless. The guideevaluating the customer protection capabilities of a financial company book was produced after insurance sales personnel in the field across ten categories in total. communicated to the management about the need to help disabled people overcome such difficulties. The Braille-based Customer-Centered Management (CCM) Certification guidebook has been produced as a special product for blind Kyobo Life has been pursuing customer-centered managecustomers. ment in order to prevent customer complaints, be able to promptly resolve complaints, and respond positively with the end goal of increasing customer satisfaction. The Customer-Centered Management (CCM) certification is a system for assessing whether a company conducts all its activities from 무배당 교보 the customer’s perspective, organizes its business Manage곰두리보장보험 ment Approach around the customer, and tries to improve them constantly. The CCM certification in Korea is awarded by , : 0 # 0  * ' &  * / 4 6 3 / $ & the Fair Trade Commission. Kyobo Life has been awarded the 더 가까이! 더 든든하게! certification on six consecutive occasions (i.e. once every two 장애인을 위한 전용보험 years) between 2007 and 2017. ੉࢚ಿউղ੢਷֙ਘੌӝળਵ‫۽‬੘ࢿ‫঻غ‬ण‫׮פ‬ Gomduri Coverage Insurance brochure printed in Braille Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 34 2018 Five Key Issues of Kyobo Life MANAGEMENT APPROACH FOR FINANCIAL PLANNERS Importance Key Performance Indicators Financial planners are both essential business partners and valuable stakeholders of Kyobo Life. They provide Financial Planner Kyobo Life products and services and satisfaction level (Unit : %) create values at the customer interaction points. Helping them enhance their expertise, listening to their difficulties 71.0 70.8 70.1 when doing sales, and increasing their motivation are important activities that Kyobo Life must undertake since they are the company’s partners. Key Activities in 2018 ·Operation of the Customer Coverage 2016 2017 2018 FP Academy ·Opening of the Consultant Inconvienience Support Center Financial Planner settlement ·Organization and holding of Kyobo MDRT Day ratio* (13th month) (Unit : %) Management Method 43.8 41.1 In order to be able to correctly explain 36.4 the products and service values of Kyobo Life to customers, to produce solid results consistently, and to be acknowledged as experts in finance, financial planners are expected to update their skills on a continuous basis. To this end, Kyobo Life provides 2016 2017 2018 comprehensive educational programs every year that are a class above that of competitor companies. No. of Financial Planners (Unit : No. of persons) Future Areas of Focus 17,870 ·Strengthen process handling capabilities 17,348 in a way that is faithful to the basics. 15,656 ·Modernize sales culture through expansion of MDRT culture. ·Achieve a level of competitiveness among financial planners that can win customers’ trust. 2016 2017 2018 *Financial Planner Settlement Ratio: (No. of advanced Financial Planners / No. of Newly Registered Financial Planners) ×100 Financial Planners Settled in the 13th month include those who sign more than one new contract and retain more than 10 contracts signed as of the 13th month. Kyobo Life Stakeholder Management Customers 35 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities Kyobo Life’s Management Approach for Financial Planners Financial Planners Training Support in 2018 responds to the Financial Planners directly with the results of In 2018, Kyobo Life instituted many changes in a drive to raise their requests. With the launch of the Consultant Support Centhe skill levels of its Financial Planners. Financial planners ter, Kyobo Life hopes that the company will become a workwere separated according to their skill levels and given tailored place where Financial Planners feel happy and fulfilled. training programs. The programs for high performers that had existed in each department were consolidated to increase training effectiveness. The Customer Coverage FP Academy, originally established for average performers, was expanded to provide a greater number of Financial Planners with opportunities to enhance their skills. High-performing FP Opening of the Consultant 2017 2018 Support Center Operation of the highperforming FP training Integration of the course as separate courses high-performing (Training Team + Financial FP Training System Kyobo MDRT Day ‘Work with passion to achieve Planner Center) one’s goals with a sense of duty’ To instill a sense of pride among the top-performing Financial Planners and boost their motivation, Kyobo Life held the 2018 Average-performing FP Kyobo MDRT Day event under the theme of ‘Work with passion 2017 2018 to achieve one’s goals with a sense of duty’. The event showcased the example of a postpartum care center Operation of Planned expansion of the Customer in Pohang whose employees’ first impulse was to ensure the the Customer Coverage Coverage FP Academy FP Academy safety of newborn babies even when an earthquake struck. A (in 9 regions) (to more than 16 regions) lecture was given by Dr. Guk-jong Lee, a surgeon who vividly demonstrated the meaning of duty through scenes of the hard life of a doctor working in a trauma center. The day was also a Low-performing FP valuable occasion to reflect on the philosophy of life insurance and the duties of Financial Planners. Kyobo Life Chairman Shin 2017 2018 Chang-Jae told the Financial Planners: “You will make a strong Operation of Strengthening of FP impression on your customers and they will trust you if you the Hi Center Branch in-house training work with a sense of duty.” He then emphasized that it is the + Provision of support for duty and passion of a Financial Planner to help customers sucFP Branch training of FP Branch ceed and attain good coverage. in-house training manager and manager levels Establishing Kyobo’s MDRT Culture By fostering the MDRT culture, Kyobo Life aims to lead its Financial Planners to becoming the practitioners of good ‘Establishment of the Consultant Inconvienience Support social ideals and responsibilities, rather than mere purveyors Center – A Platform for Distressed Financial Planners of insurance products. There is a saying that the respect and interest one shows towards another person begins with listening to what that MDRT Culture other person has to say. Financial Planners are people who Learn, Spread and work diligently and give 100% to their work in a very competRecognize and Master and Build Internalize the Share the Culture the Culture itive environment. To better listen to their problems and diffiCulture culties and to build a strong sales culture in the field, Kyobo Life has set up the Consultant Inconvienience Support Center2014 ~ 2016 2017 ~ 2022 2023 ~ whose role is to listen to the problems of distressed Financial Planners and quickly resolve their difficulties so that they can Skills Social Kyobo Life’s return to their customer coverage activities. Financial Planners enhancement responsibility MDRT culture can request counseling and assistance by visiting the center in /motivation activities person, by phone or via the Internet. Such requests are relayed Sprout Blossom Bear fruit to the corresponding departmental managers at the HQ office to ensure that they are quickly processed. The center then Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 36 Kyobo Life’s MDRT Culture ·Achieve even greater success by giving generously. ·Work with passion to achieve one’s goals with a sense of duty. ·Be cheerful, optimistic and perform challenging work dynamically. ·Show a passion commitment to learning (training). ·Senior employees must lead junior employees, and junior employees must show respect to senior 2018 MDRT Annual Meeting employees. ·Aim for long-term, continuous success. ·Provide a lending hand to neighbors in difficulty (social volunteer work). *MDRT: MDRT is the acronym for “Million Dollar Round Table”. In 1927, the MDRT was established in Memphis, Tennessee, USA for the purpose of sharing the knowledge and information possessed by top life insurance consultants. It has now become a global professional organization, boasting 62,000 members in 69 countries. As part of its efforts to foster a culture of high performance among its financial planners, Kyobo Life actively supports various MDRT related programs. Donations by Kyobo MDRT members Interview with a financial planner who took part in the 2018 MDRT Day The ‘2018 MDRT Day’ took place in Bangkok, Thailand in February, 2018. The MDRT Day is an event for mentor and mentee financial planners who both achieve MDRT. It provides an opportunity for junior and senior financial planners to learn from each other through mentoring and to boost their motivation. Let’s hear from a mentor and mentee who took part in the 2018 MDRT Day. Mentor Financial Planner A Mentee Financial Planner B Q : How was the Bangkok MDTR Day? Q : When did you feel the greatest sense of fulfillment A : To work together and share the same as a mentee last year? dream in a different look, in a different lanA : That would be the moment when I finally achieved MDRT after guage and in a different place felt very spereaching the target I had set myself, after faithfully listening to cial. I felt the desire to work in the field with words of advice from my mentor. It gave me a sense of fulfillment more passion. that I wouldn’t exchange for anything. Q : What would you say is the greatest Q : What was your experience of the Bangkok MDRT Day like? advantage of the MDRT Day? A : The MDRT Day was an event in which I participated for the first A : It is easy to dream about doing something time since joining the company. It was a festival filled with the but it is difficult to put it into practice. I passion and excitement of life insurance professionals from all became passionate about the idea of putover the world. I could commiserate and understand and form ting something into practice rather than solidarity as I listened to the experiences of others and the stories just dreaming about it. of people who had overcome difficulties. Q : What would you say is the greatest advantage of the MDRT Day? A : I felt a great sense of pride in my job as a financial planner. Its greatest advantage was that it provided us with a chance to correctly set the direction regarding what challenges to choose and what targets to set. I believe the experience will serve as a great motivator that will pull me forward. Kyobo Life Stakeholder Management Customers 37 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities Operation of the Customer Coverage FP Academy in the insurance industry to introduce this type of program. The to Enhance the Skills of Financial Planners program is entirely overseen by the company and hence parIn February 2017 Kyobo Life launched the Customer Coverage ents trust it implicitly when it comes to their children’s safety, FP Academy to help Financial Planners enhance their skills in and the costs of study are also paid by the company. For these customer lifelong insurance planning and customer coverage. reasons the program is extremely popular with the Financial In 2018, the academy greatly expanded its enrollment eligibilPlanners. One student who studied in New Zealand as part of ity criteria in order to welcome more students. The academy the program had this to say: “I had wondered why my mother program runs for 10 weeks and is offered to Financial Planners worked so hard. Now I realize that she did it so that I could be who are customer-oriented, have a mindset of sharing with selected for this program. I am so proud of my mother, and others, and display a certain level of performance in their jobs. grateful to Kyobo Life for giving me this opportunity.” The training program is focused on helping Financial Planners to produce concrete results on a regular basis by training them to change their attitudes and incorporate the entire sales activity process into their working habits. One of the most important persons at the Customer Coverage FP Academy is the instructor. The instructor is responsible for training and coaching the Financial Planners and therefore has to be selected from among a pool of FP Branch managers with impeccable records. At the academy, Financial Planners are given an important opportunity to boost their capabilities. Overseas Program for Financial Planners with Oustanding Performance in Customer Coverage Kyobo Life selected financial planners with the most outstanding performance in customer coverage and sent them on a 7-day overseas trip. This event was sponsored for the purpose Operation of the Long-term Training Program of firing up the motivation of financial planners who produced for New Financial Planners top results in customer coverage and providing them with a In order to keep Financial Planners more satisfied with their chance to recharge to make sure that they keep on producing jobs and give them unique support that’s distinct from that high performances. The participating financial planners visited provided by other insurance companies, in 2017 Kyobo Life historical sites and got to experience the art and culture of a launched a pilot program called the Long-term Training Proforeign country. gram for New Financial Planners. The program has been rolled out at a select number of Kyobo Life branches, and, through a pilot operation, the company intends to identify which aspects require improving in order to arrive at the best operating model. The long-term program is targeted at Financial Planners who have been appointed within the last two years, with the aim of training Financial Planners who properly understand what life insurance is all about and are capable of conveying the value of life insurance to the customers. The program curriculum is a systematic combination of education and training with the focus on getting the participants to develop and cultivate the right attitude and habits at their jobs rather than forcing them to simply memorize facts and master technologies. Any deficiencies in the program will be rectified when the program ends, and it will be expanded nationwide in 2019. Overseas Language Program for Children of High-Performing Financial Planners For the last fourteen years, Kyobo Life has been providing the ‘Overseas Language Program for Children of High Performance Financial Planners’ with the objective of nurturing a sense of pride in their achievements. The program gives the children of a select group of high performers the opportunity to go overseas on a language study program twice a year, in summer and winter. The selected children receive English classes appropriate to their level of ability in the overseas country and get to live with a host family, directly experiencing how people from other countries go about their daily lives. Kyobo Life was the first company Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 38 2018 Five Key Issues of Kyobo Life MANAGEMENT APPROACH FOR EMPLOYEES Importance Key Performance Indicators Kyobo Life is a company that ensures Training hours per person its employees can work in a culture (Unit : hour) characterized by fun, pride and trust, and, through its comprehensive skills 97 enhancement program, makes 94 tremendous efforts to foster them 89 into experts in their respective fields. At a time when it has become exceedingly difficult to predict how the external environment will change, such employee-oriented activities as helping them understand how IT will drive changes 2016 2017 2018 in the market, making sure that they do not forget about the nature of the insurance business, and maintaining a working environment where they l Skill enhancement cost ove to work are all very important. per person (Unit : 1,000 won) Key Activities in 2018 249 ·Raising awareness and understanding 202 of the Fourth Industrial Revolution 159 ·Providing a wide range of skill enhancement programs ·Create a work environment that is conducive to working ·Increase awareness of the true nature of the insurance business 2016 2017 2018 Management Method Kyobo Life regards its employees as Parental leave applicants valuable in-house customers. As such, Return from parental leave* the company sets the direction of its (Unit : person, %) human resource training each year and then offers a systematic, high-quality 91.7 90.7 94.4 training program to its employees. Furthermore, through HR surveys, 256 the company measures employee 221 awareness of job stress and job involvement and utilizes the results. 178 Future Areas of Focus ·Promote mutual encouragement and team-work enhancement ·Improve channel expertise 2016 2017 2018 ·Procure talented human resources and develop comprehensive training plan *Return from parental leave (%): Continue to operate a job-centered No. of persons returning from parental leave) / (No. of persons availing HR system themselves of parental leave) x 100 Kyobo Life Stakeholder Management Customers 39 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities Employee Status degree stood at about 205% of the minimum wage (KRW41.88 The total number of Kyobo Life employees was 3,832, an million), and the base salary and compensation rate are the increase of 2% from last year. In 2018, there were 193 newly hired same for female and male employees. employees and 79 employees retired (2.06%). The total number Protection and Respect for Human Rights of employees comprised 1,553 female employees (40.5%) and Kyobo Life recognizes that violations of human rights in the form 2,227 male employees (59.5%). In 2018, 29 employees with disof sexual harassment do occur in the workplace and thus strives abilities were on the company’s payroll, representing a hiring to prevent or reduce the incidence thereof. Kyobo Life’s comrate of 0.8%. There were 80 female managers (executive levels) pliance officer training emphasizes this important fact, and the representing 11.5% of the total workers and this figure has been company holds sexual harassment training sessions for all Finansteadily increasing for the last 9 years. cial Planners and employees under the supervision of the head of the organization. In addition to regular group training, Kyobo Anti-discrimination in the Workplace Life provides additional resources on the intranet and in-house Kyobo Life is dedicated to ensuring that respect for the human satellite broadcasts in comic, animated and other forms of rights and workers’ rights of its employees is maintained. media to convey the extremely serious nature of the subject. In Kyobo life actively supports and complies with the principles addition, Kyobo Life does not recruit employees below the age of human rights and labor as defined in the UN Global Comof 15 so as to prohibit child labor, and limits the employment pact (Protection and Respect of Human Rights, Prevention of of teenagers below the age of 18. We also prohibit all forms of Human Rights Violations, Effective Recognition of the Freedom forced labor that violate the free will of the employees. of Association and the Right to Collective Bargaining, Elimination of all Forms of Forced and Compulsory Labor, Abolition of Status of Sexual Harassment Training Child Labor, and the Elimination of Discrimination in Respect Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 of Employment and Occupation). Employees % 100 100 100 Eliminating Employment and Occupation Discrimination Kyobo Life provides equal employment opportunities regardless of gender, age, religion, and hometown through its blind Building a Cooperative Labor Management Culture recruitment procedure. All opportunities and decisions relatBecause advanced labor-management relations are a fundaing to base pay, promotion, compensation, training, and retiremental prerequisite of any company’s competitiveness, Kyobo ment are made fairly and solely based on individual perforLife is enhancing communications about the company’s manmance and capability, regardless of gender. At the beginning of agement information so that the management and the labor each fiscal year, all employees, including the CEO, have to sign union can form a strategic partnership based on a clear undera pledge to comply with the company’s ethical standards, and standing of one another. As of December 2018, of the 3,937 included in this pledge is a clause prohibiting the formation employees eligible to join the labor union, 2,640, or 72%, of of cliques within the company environment. This has raised them joined the labor union on their own free will. Also, in awareness of the need to be careful about unintentional dis2018, 100% of Kyobo Life employees were covered by colleccrimination that can occur in the workplace. In addition, wages tive bargaining agreements. are paid equally to both genders. As of 2019, the base salary *The number of employees eligible to join a labor union is not the same as for newly hired permanent employees with a 4-year university the number of persons employed by the company. Employee Status Category Units 2016 2017 2018 Permanent Males persons 2,312 2,264 2,279 Females persons 1,963 1,493 1,553 No. of female managers (ratio) persons(%) 73(9.5) 80(10.7) 80(11.5) No. of employees with disabilities (ratio) persons(%) 52(1.2) 29(0.8) 29(0.8) Non-permanent Males persons 7 7 2 Females persons 202 152 89 New hires Employees persons 215 40 193 Retirees No. of persons persons(%) 92(2.2) 73(1.9) 79(2.1) Parental leave Usage rate (Male) persons 2 6 6 Usage rate (Female) persons 254 215 172 Return rate (Males) % 100 100 100 Return rate (Females) % 91.7 90.7 94.19 % of returning employees who stay on the job (Males)(greater than 1 year) % 100 % of returning employees who stay on the job (Females)(greater than 1 year) % 83.8 *Job placement of employees with disabilities: IT 3 persons/ Field 18 persons/ HQ8 persons Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 40 Competency Development and Human Resource Training Employee Competency Development Key Tasks Skill Development Training Support Costs (Unit : KRW 1,000) Category 2016 2017 2018 Embedding a Support for promoting Supporting Total amount 566,094 783,602 818,518 digital mindset innovation activities education programs within the company throughout the aimed at improving Support cost per person* 159 202 249 and nurturing company the performance of human talent the sales force Digital School To raise awareness of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and increase employees’ understanding of digital innovation, the HR company has set up the ‘Digital School’ program. This program Development invites industry experts including renowned academics and startup founders to give a talk about digital technology. For example, a typical topic could be blockchains, platform business, or AI. The talks were given once a week for a total of seven weeks at the company’s Gwanghwamun office. At the end of Supporting the Systematic Strengthening the each lecture there was time for a separate Q/A session, which establishment of an training of the infrastructure for provided an ideal opportunity for the audience to come to a organizational culture next generation of year-round studies centered on creativity human resources better understanding of each topic. The lecture contents were and innovation later produced in the form of videos and reading materials and made accessible through smartphones to allow all Kyobo Life employees not based in the company HQ office to view them. Employee Training Hours Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Annual training hours 317,871 328,819 320,009 Training per person hours 89 94 97 Male hours 87 95 99 Female hours 86 93 95 Organizational heads hours 45 60 60 Organizational members hours 92 94 97 Training costs per person* KRW 1000 1,045 1,122 1,248 Digital School Digital School Program Session 1 02. 07(Wed) Session 3 02. 21(Wed) Session 5 03. 14(Wed) Session 7 04. 04(Wed) Professor Jae-bung Choi, CEO Byung-cheol Hong, Professor Se-beom Baek, Professor Su-yong Park, Sungkyunkwan University Red Herring KAIST Sogang University Session 2 02.14(Wed) Session 4 03.07(Wed) Session 6 03.21(Wed) Vice-President Gil-young Song, CEO Jin-young Kim, Professor Ji-hyeon Kim, Daum Software ROA Invention Lab KAIST Kyobo Life Stakeholder Management Customers 41 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities Kyobo Inside Hackerthon Flexitime Characteristics Kyobo Life hosted the ‘Kyobo Inside Hackerthon’ in an attempt Selective This policy allows employees to choose when they to build an innovative company culture through an open innoworking come to and leave the workplace, while abiding by the vation program and find innovative ideas that use digital techhours 8 hours per day mandated by the Korean labor law. nology. A ‘hackerthon’ (a compound word made from the Flexible This policy allows employees to adjust their working words ‘hacking’ and ‘marathon’) is a contest in which the parworking hours for a 3 month-period, which may be extended ticipants have to continuously come up with fresh ideas for a hours under certain circumstances. (The workload will be certain period of time without resting, like a marathon. Some factored in to allow a person to do this.) 571 Kyobo Life employees applied to compete in the contest, which required the participants to brainstorm ideas involving the use of digital technology to improve the job handling process and to propose platform ideas. 64 people were chosen from the 571 applicants and grouped into 20 teams to compete in the Hackerthon, which was staged in HRD Training Center(Kyobo Life’s workshop center) for two days. The best performing teams were awarded prizes like trips to Silicon Valley, China, laptops and tablet PCs. In 2017, Kyobo Life became the first insurance company to co-host the InsurTech Hackerthon contest with the Korea Internet & Security Agency (KISA), which ultimately became the catalyst for holding a similar type of contest for company employees in 2018. Employees going home after work with the start of the new 52-hour work week. Team Award for Excellence in Promoting the Use of the Praise Corner Among Employees Kyobo Life operates the Praise Corner as a management tool for nurturing an organizational culture in which members readily give praise and encouragement to each other. In 2018, under the motto of ‘A Culture of Mutual Growth through Collaboration’, the company began to select for recognition not individuals, but rather teams that demonstrated the highest 2018 Kyobo Inside Hackerthon level of praise. The organizations with the most outstanding Praise Corner culture were identified by checking the number of praise flowers exchanged by team members in the Praise Corner of ‘Ezmore’, the Kyobo Life company intranet used by Employee-Friendly Work Environment all the employees. The winning organization is selected once every quarter and presented with souvenir gifts. Early adoption of the 52-hour work week to preserve the work-life balance of employees The family-friendly management policy of Kyobo Life has the following goals: to improve its employee’s quality of life so they can maintain a harmonious balance between their family life and career, become a socially respected company that can recruit and retain the best human talents while improving productivity on the job, and create a workplace where employees feel contented and happy. To achieve these goals, Kyobo Life adopted the 52-hour work week in 2018, one year ahead of the rest of the industry, and is now working actively to protect the work-life balance of its employees. Moreover, in September 2018 it instituted its flexitime working hour policy to ensure that its employees are never asked to work longer than what is legally permitted and to enable the company to manage its workforce more effectively. A team awarded for “excellence in employee collaboration”. Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 42 Safe Working Environment : contribute to helping them achieve superior results at work. Occupational health and Safety Committee Therefore, in 2018, distinguished individuals from different Due to the nature of the insurance business, Kyobo Life does fields were invited to give lectures. In his welcoming address not have any employees in positions that are exposed to a Chairman and CEO Chang-Jae Shin said that in order to evolve high risk or possibility of accidents or diseases. Items regarding into an organization capable of rapid innovation in the era of employee health and safety are reflected and monitored in the the Fourth Industrial Revolution, it is important to increase employment regulations (Chapter 6 Health and Safety), and employees’ agility and responsiveness to environmental the company has formed the Occupational Safety and Health change. To make this possible, CEO Shin said that the comCommittee under Chapter 19 (Occupational Health and Safety pany would have to create an organizational culture in which Committee) of the Act on Occupational Health and Safety. employees are unafraid of failure and always eager to take up new challenges. During these lectures which formed the main Establishment and Operation of part of the conference, a number of KAIST professors, a GooProtection Guidelines for Customer Service Staff gle executive, a GE executive, and other distinguished guests Kyobo Life has established and is currently operating guidetalked about their experiences with the Fourth Industrial Revolines on the protection of its customer service staff. Through lution and case studies in leadership. periodic training such as “Manual (Instructions) on Handling Problematic Customers” and such organizations as the ‘Customer Service Staff Grievance Council’, Kyobo Life provides assistance to the members of its customer service staff when dealing with on-the-job stresses of working as a customer service operator. At the same time, the company has adopted measures designed to help the customer service staff do their jobs, such as preventing the recurrence of customer-induced stress. Support for Female Employees’ Skills Development 2018 KWICK (Korea Women’s Innovative 2018 KWIN D&I Conference Council in Korea) Mentoring Program Many companies support the career development efforts of female employees and are investing considerable resources in awakening the hidden potential of females. Kyobo Life also Category Subject Speaker considers female workers to be valuable company resources AI and Diversity in the Era Dae-sik Kim, and runs a mentoring program called KWICK whose objecLecture1 of the Fourth Industrial Professor, KAIST tive is to encourage the growth and development of female Revolution workers and get them to produce solid results in their work. The Working Culture Hyun-yu Kim, Executive Vice Through KWICK, which has become an important compaLecture2 President of Google’s Asiain Silicon Valley Pacific Division ny-wide networking program, senior female colleagues act as mentors to junior female colleagues and pass on their experiReimagination of Mi-ra Lee, HR Executive Vice Lecture3 Leadership at GE President, GE ence and knowledge, as well as coaching them when necessary. In 2018, the program was structured around the topics Capabilities Required Mi-nam Shin, Director, Lecture4 in the Soft Age K-Auction of self-reflection, self-healing and personal growth, which the participants were able to experience through a practical and Woo-jin Jung, Senior Vice Lecture5 Digital Innovation President, LG CNS Future experience-based program format. Male or female department Strategy Division heads or assistant heads gave their services as mentors, while the mentees largely consisted of female employees below manager level. In the future, Kyobo Life will continue to operate and support growth programs aimed at enhancing the professional skills of female employees. 2018 KWIN D&I (Korea Women’s Innovative Network Diversity and Inclusion) Conference Kyobo Life organizes and hosts the annual KWIN D&I Conference to inspire the growth and development of female employees and help them develop their careers and leadership skills. The conference organizers at Kyobo Life felt that in this era of digital revolution, the conference should serve to increase female employees’ leadership capabilities and Kyobo Life Stakeholder Management Customers 43 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities Educational Program on ‘Getting to Know the True Nature of the Insurance Business’ Death experience – A review (60-Year History Compilation TF) Kyobo Life offers an educational program entitled ‘Getting to Know the True Nature of the Insurance Business’ that aims to “Director, I am now going to die and will see you raise employees’ awareness of what the life insurance business is truly about and increase their understanding of the value of tomorrow after my rebirth.” At lunchtime on the day life insurance and the significance of customer coverage. Last of my death simulation experience, I cheerfully left year’s program, which was offered only to HQ employees, was my office. I vowed not to cry when I arrived at the experience divided into theoretical and practical experience modules. The center, in a state wavering between worry program was designed to serve one purpose, namely, to raise and excitement. The moment I began writing my will while the participants’ awareness of family love and their sense of duty as life insurance experts. looking at my funeral portrait beneath the dim light, nothing particular came to my mind, not even the work The highlight of this program is the ‘Death Experience’ course, which asks participants to engage in the following sequence of I’d left behind in my office, but my lighthearted frame activities: take your funeral portrait photo, write your will, and of mind gradually became increasingly somber as time meditate and lie down in your funeral casket. Originally offered passed. All the things I felt sorry about and the things ten years ago as part of Kyobo Life’s Family Love project, the I felt grateful to my family for, all the things I regretted ‘Death Experience’ course has been revived in a bid to raise not doing together with my family, flashed across employees’ awareness of the true nature of the business to which the company dedicates all its efforts. my mind one after another in rapid succession. I regretted shouting at my child in the morning. As I began to write “My loving son…” in my will, my eyes began to well up with tears. The casket was narrow and as soon as I lay down, I experienced a shortness of breath. The cheerfulness I felt upon arrival was gone. The impending sense of death terrified me. Then, suddenly, the lid of the casket opened, and I returned to this world once more. Take your After the death simulation experience, I realized that funeral portrait I needed to add another item to my bucket list. I had to prepare an ending note. Write your will Casket experience Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 44 2018 Five Key Issues of Kyobo Life MANAGEMENT APPROACH FOR INVESTORS Importance Key Performance Indicators As an insurance company, Kyobo Life Total Assets considers as its top priorities the stable (Unit : KRW 1 trillion) generation of profit and sustaining financial soundness through steady 108.8 growth, while trying to increase 104.6 corporate value. The stable maintenance 96.7 of credit ratings, management of assets based on a consistent set of strategies and principles, and thorough and disciplined management of risk are important elements for investors. 2016 2017 2018 Key Activities in 2018 ·Received the ‘A1’ rating from Moody’s for fourth consecutive year Return on Equity(ROE) ·Decision made to pursue IPO (Unit : %) ·Systematic risk management 7.5 7.0 Management Method 5.6 Based on its asset management principles and strategies, the company seeks to accomplish the strategic allocation of assets in the long term and the tactical allocation of assets in the short term. At the same time, the company manages both short-term 2016 2017 2018 and long-term risks from a companywide perspective, and actively responds to various risk factors Risk Based Capital(RBC) (Unit : %) Future Areas of Focus ·Maintain and improve the company’s com311.8 petitive advantage in asset management. 296.0 ·Increase returns by diversifying the asset portfolio. 233.9 ·Expand alternative investment in overseas markets. ·Maintain a portfolio composed of products with high returns. 2016 2017 2018 *Based on consolidated financial statements *ROE: Net Income / {(Capital at the Start of Period + Capital at the End of Period) / 2}×100, based on consolidated financial statements *RBC: Available capital for insurance claim payments (payment capacity) / Required capital for risk management (RBC total risk) x 100, based on consolidated financial statements. *2017 data correction 104.5 → 104.6 Kyobo Life Stakeholder Management Customers 45 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities Kyobo Life’s Management Approach for Investors Moody’s Gives Kyobo Life the ‘A1’ Rating As of the end of FY 2018, the proportion of domestic bonds in the for Fourth Consecutive Year, Fitch Gives Kyobo Life company’s assets under management declined from the prethe ‘A+’ Rating for Sixth Consecutive Year vious year, yet at 40.7% it still remains the largest component. In 2018, Kyobo Life was given an ‘A1’ rating by Moody’s Loans and overseas securities accounted for 24.7% and 19.8%, (Moody’s Investors Service), a world-leading credit rating respectively, with both increasing from the previous year. agency. ‘A1’ is the highest credit rating ever received by any Korean life insurance company. Moody’s acknowledged Kyobo Life’s excellent financial stability and risk management capaKyobo Life’s Asset Portfolio (Unit : %) bility in giving it an ‘A1’ rating for a fourth consecutive year. In its report, Moody’s stated that Kyobo Life showed robust capital adequacy, low financial leverage, outstanding business, 1.9 Stocks Bonds 40.7 and a stable business outlook for the future. Meanwhile, Fitch Ratings, another global credit rating agency, gave Kyobo Life Overseas an ‘A+’ credit rating for the sixth consecutive year. 2.3 Cash and Deposits securities 19.8 2018 2.5 R eal Estate Beneficiary Credit Rating Certificates 7.9 24.7 Loans Overseas Other Securities 0.2 A1 A+ Moody’s Fitch (4 consecutive years) (6 consecutive years) 2.2 Stocks Bonds 42.9 Overseas 1.5 Cash and Deposits securities Domestic 2017 19.3 Korea Ratings, Korea Investors Service, 2.7 R eal Estate Beneficiary AAA National Information & Credit Evaluation Certificates 24.0 Loans 7.1 Other securities 0.1 Asset Management Principles and Strategies To protect itself against a decline in its holding period rate The basic principle of Kyobo Life’s asset management is to conof return, Kyobo Life made adjustments to its asset portfolio, sistently generate stable earnings with the best possible asset expanded investments in high-interest earning assets, and portfolio, taking into account the constraints related to asset strived to obtain additional profits by taking advantage of management, such as risk limits and duration targets. Kyobo volatility in the financial market. As a result, the company was Life’s asset management is based on Asset Liability Manageable to record an ROI of 3.9% despite low interest rates. ment (ALM), which is well suited to long-term insurance products like the ones provided by life insurers. As such, Kyobo Life seeks to generate steady earnings through the long-term StraReturn on Investment(ROI) (Unit : %) tegic Asset Allocation (SAA) model, and responds actively to financial market changes to generate excess earnings through the short-term Tactical Asset Allocation (TAA) model. 4.2 3.9 3.9 2016 2017 2018 ROI = [Investment Gain / {(assets at the start of period + assets at the end of period – Investment Gain) / 2}]×100 Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 46 Key Financial Performances Profitability Index Growth ROE (Units : %) Kyobo Life seeks to generate profits based on long-term stable management of its assets and strict management of risks while 7.3 conducting a customer coverage-oriented insurance sales 6.6 operation that is faithful to the core aims of the life insurance 5.2 business. Its total assets at the end of FY 2018 stood at KRW 101.4882 trillion, showing an increase of 3.8% from the previous year, while its capital amounted to KRW 10.248 trillion, an increase of 7.2% from the previous year. Furthermore, through strategy-based sales of insurance products that adeptly took into account the market characteristics of each channel, the 2016 2017 2018 company earned premium income of KRW 12.1683 trillion in FY 2018, showing growth of 4.7% over the previous year. ROA (Units : %) Growth Index (Units : KRW billion) 0.6 0.5 0.5 Category 2016 2017 2018 Total assets 91,672.7 97,791.9 101,488.2 Capital 7,424.2 9,351.4 10,024.8 Premium income 12,242.5 11,621.3 12,168.3 General account 7,874.1 7,613.9 7,334.0 Special account 4,368.4 4,007.4 4,834.3 2016 2017 2018 *Based on separate financial statements. ROE = Net Income / {(Capital at the Start of Period + Capital at the End of Period) / 2} × 100 ROA = Net Income / {(Asset at the Start of Period + Asset at the End of Period) / 2} × 100 *Based on separate financial statements. Profitability Due to factors like increased guarantee reserves in variable insurance caused by low market interest rates, net profits for FY 2018 amounted to KRW 506.6 billion, showing a decline of Stability 17.1% from the previous year. Also, the decline in net profits As of the end of FY 2018, the RBC Ratio of Kyobo Life was led to a reduced ROE and ROA when compared to the previ311.8%, an increase of 15.8% over the previous year. Through ous year. However, in terms of ROE, the company has been one continuous structural improvements of assets and debts, and of the best and most consistent performers among domestic rigorous management of risk, the company manages RBC insurers since 2004. effectively, resulting in a level that greatly exceeds the 150% required by the Financial Supervisory Service. Net profit for period (Units: KRW billion) Stability Index 611.1 RBC Ratio (Unit : %) 506.6 311.8 296.0 481.2 233.9 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 *RBC Ratio = Available capital for insurance claim payments *Source: Separate financial statements (payment capacity) / Required capital for risk management (RBC total risk) x 100 * Based on consolidated financial statements Kyobo Life Stakeholder Management Customers 47 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities Insurance Sales Performance Socially Responsible Investment The majority of life insurance companies, including Kyobo Life, Kyobo Life is continuously expanding its socially responsible experienced many difficulties in 2018. Although most such difinvestments in order to contribute to the public good while ficulties were attributable to a shrinking life insurance marsimultaneously pursuing the long-term, stable generation of ket caused by falling consumer confidence, the low national profits. Kyobo Life’s social responsibility investments started birth rate and the aging population, these are external enviwith social overhead capital investments in such areas as ronmental factors that insurance companies cannot control. road and harbor construction projects, but it has now been In addition, advancements in IT have made it much easier expanded to eco-friendly social overhead capital investments for consumers to obtain information, customer needs have such as sewage plants, waste incineration facilities, and renewbecome increasingly diverse, and competition among insurable energy development projects. The reason Kyobo Life is ance companies that provide health insurance and other covexpanding its investment in eco-friendly social overhead caperage products has become even more intense. Under these ital is because, along with generating profits, the company also circumstances, Kyobo Life was able to record a 4.7% increase wants to see local communities become beneficiaries of its in income premium in 2018 compared to the previous year by investment activities. focusing on expanding its customer base and improving channel expertise. Premium Income Data (Unit : KRW billion) Amount and weight of Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) (Unit: KRW hundred million, %) 12,243 12,168 9.11 11,621 8.8 8.50 75,199 66,793 64,786 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 * Based on separate financial statements. *SRI: SRI investment / General Account Assets×100 Kyobo Life will make ceaseless efforts to improve customer coverage, which is the key attribute of life insurance. It will operate marketing campaigns for each target customer segment to Amount and weight of eco-friendly financial investment in SRI meet the needs of a more diverse market and strengthen prod(Unit: KRW hundred million, %) uct/channel competitiveness in ways that align with the vision of the company. 33.3 30.9 APE Data (unit : KRW billion) 29.8 1,609 25,207 20,620 19,311 1,382 1,351 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 *Retirement pensions are excluded. *APE(Annualized Premium Equivalent) Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 48 2019 Asset Management Strategy Furthermore, on the strength of these new growth engines, the Compared with last year, uncertainties and volatility in company could make the leap to becoming an advanced finanthe financial markets look likely to increase in 2019. This is cial company and increase its brand value. Although the marbecause the momentum for global growth is slowing due to ket situation is not particularly good at present, Kyobo Life will external risks such as the reduction in liquidity resulting from focus all its resources on obtaining the valuation it deserves for the expansion of tight fiscal policies around the world, the a successful IPO. intensification of global trade disputes, and political confusion in European countries. Amid this environment, Kyobo Life Risk Management has decided to maintain and strengthen its competitive advanRisk management is one of the key competitive strengths of tage in asset management as one of the key tasks that must be Kyobo Life. The company quantifies risk and manages it syspursued in 2019. Accordingly, the company plans to establish tematically in order to reduce and eliminate managerial uncerand implement an asset management strategy which can be tainty in advance and thereby enhance stability. Especially summed up as follows. now that the scheduled enforcement of the international financial reporting standard (IFRS17) and the Korea Insurance ·Continuously find and invest in assets that Capital Standard (K-ICS) is looming on the horizon, Kyobo Life Focus on produce high returns relative to risk. is making all the necessary preparations in terms of infrastrucmaintaining its competitive ·Actively adjust the portfolio when the market ture and systems. Kyobo Life Insurance’s thorough risk mansituation changes. agement is helping to raise corporate value. advantage in returns ·Respond pro-actively in bond and stock markets (both domestic and overseas). Strategic Risk Management to Maximize ·Prepare the response to the international Respond to Corporate Value financial reporting standard (IFRS17) and the regulatory changes ·Manage risk by including non-financial risks Korea Insurance Capital Standard (K-ICS) due in the market such as operation/strategy/reputation risk to be enforced in 2022. ·Conduct a risk control assessment of each Strengthen ability ·Respond pre-emptively to risk situations through business division to respond to risk the management of risk assets situations ·Improve the financial soundness of household debt Systematic Risk Management for Stable Management ·Measure and manage risks that can occur in ordinary business Management Approach Preparations for an IPO ·Prevent in advance any losses arising from sudden changes in the financial market, and build system In December of last year, Kyobo Life held the regular BOD of preemptive management meeting and made the decision to pursue an IPO. The compa·Develop risk situation scenarios and establish ny’s main reason for going public is to put itself in a position appropriate response plans for each type of risk where it can proactively respond to the anticipated adoption of from the company’s perspective the international financial reporting standard (IFRS17) and the Korea Insurance Capital Standard (K-ICS) and to enable itself to Pursue the Safe Management of Long-term Risks increase its profitability and achieve further growth. If the IPO ·Continuously improve the asset/debt structure and improve the accuracy of cash flow calculations goes well, Kyobo Life is expected to maintain the highest level (i.e. improve the ALM system) of financial solvency in the industry. In addition, with the funds ·Build an asset portfolio of increased scale and thus secured the company could invest in new business fields duration of interest rates such as digital innovation and acquire future growth engines. Changes expected after IPO IPO Schedule 01 Improved financial soundness Submittal of Submittal of Decision Assemble application for registration to pursue IPO investors 02 preliminary review statement Enhanced brand awareness 03 Korea Exchange Financial Supervisory Service Listing Performance-oriented management 04 BOD Reform of Submittal of BOD resolution Submittal of Holding of nonMarket survey Opportunity to grow into resolution the internal application for on issuance of registration deal roadshow (demand survey, a leading financial institution regulations preliminary review new stocks statement overseas set price) Kyobo Life Stakeholder Management Customers 49 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities Risk Management Organization Risk Management Administration Organizations Kyobo Life operates the Risk Management Committee and a The risk management administrative organizations which team dedicated to risk management to preemptively and sysassist the Risk Management Committee and the Risk Managetematically manage risk. It also has separate risk management ment Council are divided into a risk management dedicated departments for each type of risk. The company comprehenteam and individual risk management teams, based on the sively manages its asset/debt portfolio. It establishes risk limits roles involved. The Risk Management Team is the risk manageso that the risk level of the entire company can be adequately ment dedicated team and is accordingly responsible for setting managed within the risk capital (payment capacity), and it sets the company’s overall risk management policies and plans, risk limits to comply with the guidelines so that profitability setting risk management related regulations, and setting risk can be improved over the risks. In addition, Kyobo Life sets an limits. It carries out Plan-See functions in risk management appropriate level of risk limit in order to avoid, accept, transand operates independently of the sales teams (including fer and mitigate risks to the company, and constantly monitors non-financial risk management). To carry out the DO function whether risks are being exceeded. When necessary, the comfor each type of risk, the individual risk management teams pany makes adjustments to the limit or establishes and operconsist of 6 sub-teams. ates a contingency plan. Risk Management Committee The Risk Management Committee is composed of one Internal Director and two Outside Directors who are appointed by the board of directors. The committee makes important decisions that affect the management of the company’s overall risks, such as risk management policies that align with the company’s business strategy, important business strategies that are based on risks and the company’s risk limits. Risk Management Council The Risk Management Council is a body that consults with the Risk Management Committee in advance about matters related to risk management and decisions made by the committee. For example, such matters might include decisions that must be made by the committee, the detailed action plans of issues that the committee has made decisions on, the limit allowances for each type of risk, and the causes of, and countermeasures to take, when a limit allowance is exceeded or is expected to be exceeded. Risk Management Organization Risk manageBoard of Directors ment decision making, and ultimate Risk Management Committee responsibility Risk and ALM Risk Management Council ALM Council Management Risk Management Team Actuarial Infrastructure Team Types of Risk Variable Life Insurance Market Risk Credit Risk Interest Risk Liquidity Risk Insurance Risk Non-financial Risk Guarantee Risk ALM ·Asset Portfolio ·Investment · Actuarial · Risk ·Insurance Risk ·Variable · Individual Management Initial Risk Management Management Analysis Team Infrastructure Management Management Hedge Part Department Team ·Personal Loan Team Team Team Marketing Team Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 50 2018 Five Key Issues of Kyobo Life MANAGEMENT APPROACH FOR GOVERNMENT AND COMMUNITIES Importance Key Performance Indicators The government and the community Social contribution ratio/ are both the fertile soil in which Kyobo Life amounts*(Unit : %/ KRW hundred million) can grow and develop, and key stakeholders who must play their role as members 4.2 2.4 of society. Kyobo Life focuses on social 1.9 contribution activities that are aligned 214 146 with the nature of the life insurance 103 business, and is continuing its activities from the standpoint of sustainability. The ‘Dasomi Save a Small Breath’ project is an excellent example of the company’s part2016 2017 2018 nership with a non-profit organization, and this type of activity is very important Social Responsibility to government and local communities. Investment(SRI)* (Unit : %) 8.8 9.1 Key Activities in 2018 8.5 ·Dasomi Save a Small Breath Program 75,199 ·Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup 66,793 Championship 64,786 ·Employee Global Volunteer Social Work Management Method 2016 2017 2018 The most important elements of the company’s activities for the government Energy Consumption*(Unit : TOE) and the community are consistent 18,319 principles, direction, and sustainability. Guided by the principle of helping 17,430 neighbors facing adversities due to poor 16,876 health and a lack of financial means or knowledge, Kyobo Life exploits its knowledge of the characteristics of the life insurance business to provide 2016 2017 2018 activities through specialized departments. No. of employees doing social Future Areas of Focus contribution work per year (Unit : persons) ·Leveraging the life insurance business to help individuals to overcome difficulties 10,098 caused by deficiencies in health, finance, 10,002 and knowledge 8,894 2016 2017 2018 *Social contribution ratio: Amount of social contribution / Net income *Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) ratio: SRI investment / General account assets) x 10 *TOE (Tonnage of Oil Equivalent) : Amount of energy produced by burning one ton of oil. Kyobo Life Stakeholder Management Customers 51 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities Social Contribution Activities that Reflect the Nature of the Insurance Business The Ideal World Dreamt by Kyobo Life : Helping People Overcome Health Adversity A Healthy Society, A World of Togetherness Dasomi Save a Small Breath Program Kyobo Life concentrates on social contribution activities where Kyobo Life was driven by the belief that the valuable ideals the company can leverage the characteristics of the life insurupheld by humans must be respected and realized when it ance business to deliver help to those who are facing adverdecided to start the ‘Dasomi: Save a Small Breath Program’ sities due to poor health and a lack of financial means and in 2004. For fifteen years until September 2018, Kyobo Life knowledge. Kyobo Life does not host one-off events, but rather employees and life planners banded together with members contributes to local communities by supporting people in of the public to aid ‘Ireundungi’ families facing emotional and building a nest where they can overcome their difficulties. economic difficulties. The aid encompassed initial hospitalization expenses, re-hospitalization expenses, rehabilitation treatment costs, and family camps for premature babies Principles of Social Contribution Activities The following principles are applied to all aspects of Kyobo The success of the Dasomi Save a Small Breath Program in Life’s social contribution programs, including the selection, popularizing the word ‘Ireundungi’, which refers to children implementation and evaluation of the programs. who will grow up to become the hope and joy of their parents after overcoming the pains of being born small, is a remarkable social achievement in itself. Since first lending support to an Ireundungi baby in 2004, Kyobo Life had sponsored the mediFocus on helping people cal expenses of 2,560 Ireundungi babies as of September 2018. to overcome life challenges *The word ‘Ireundungi’ specifically refers to babies who weigh less than 2.5kg at birth or babies who are born prematurely (in the 37th week of Kyobo Life concentrates on social contribution activities pregnancy or earlier). for the socially neglected class of people suffering from the *2,507 is the cumulative number of persons as of June, 2018. “three adversities” (i.e. the lack of good health, finance, and knowledge) in order to practice the vision of Kyobo Life. Forming long-term partnerships with non-profit organizations Kyobo Life focuses on building a sustainable support system (social safety net) by developing programs capable of resolving social problems from the long-term perspective through partnerships with various nonprofit organizations. Dasomi Save a Small Breath Program Improving the efficiency of social contribution programs Kyobo Life strives to improve the efficiency of its social contribution activities through a virtuous circle of social sharing by helping the beneficiaries to overcome adversities by themselves, i.e. supporting their efforts to develop their competences and preparing them for social jobs rather than simply providing benevolent help. Evaluating the programs Kyobo Life promotes the long-term development of each project by evaluating its social value, effectiveness, and efficiency. Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 52 Helping People Overcome Financial Adversity Olympic Games held in February 2018, fourteen were elementary students who had participated in the Kyobo Life Cup Youth Ties of Love Campaign Athletic Competition as elementary school students. Since 2003, Kyobo Life employees have been voluntarily particSince its inception, around 130,000 people have participated in ipating in activities to help children of low-income families in the competition as athletes. Among the famous Korean sportsfinancial straits so that they can grow up to be healthy adults. men and sportswomen who have taken part in the competiEmployees support the children by donating a part of their tion are Min-jeong Choi, Suk-hee Shin, Arang Kim, Hyo-joon monthly salaries and, in 2018, some 1,452 employees signed Lim, Seung-hoon Lee in ice-skating; Min-ho Choi and Jaeon to become 1:1 sponsors of ‘baby box’ children and children beom Kim in judo; Hak-sun Yang and Seo-jung Yang in gymnasof underprivileged families. tics; Tae-hwan Park in swimming; Seung-min Yu in table tennis; Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Group and Hyun Chung in tennis. Kyobo Life’s sponsoring of the athletics competition has contributed significantly to the growth This program trains female heads of low-income households of key sports in Korea, while its support for promising talents as professional caregivers if they wish to work in this domain, has earned the competition high praise as a stepping stone in provides them with opportunities for work, and helps them to the development of the nation’s sports. become financially independent, while offering free care services to patients from the low-income class and elderly people who have no family members to care for them. Since the program’s inception in 2004, 225,423 people have benefited from Category 2016 2017 2018 Kyobo Life’s free care services, for which 441 caregivers were No. of participating 3,253 3,424 3,688 working as of 2018. athletes (persons) Sponsorship amount 346 350 378 (KRW 1million) Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Annual Results of Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Group Category 2016 2017 2018 No. of nurses(persons) 373 482 441 No. of beneficiaries(persons) 8,244 6,597 3,104 Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship Since 1985, Kyobo Life has organized the Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship to help young people develop their physical strength and become talented individuals who can lead the future of the nation. The 2018 Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship was held for thirteen days from July 24 to August 5, 2018 in Gyeongsangnam-do Province. At the event, Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship 2018 around 4,000 elementary students vied for a medal in the seven sports categories of ice-skating, track & field, gymnastics, swimming, table tennis, judo, and tennis. Of the twenty-six athletes who won a medal at the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Kyobo Life Stakeholder Management Customers 53 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities Helping People Overcome Knowledge Adversity Kyobo Life Hope Dasom Scholarship Adolescents from orphanages and group homes and adolescent breadwinners suffer from limited educational opportunities due to financial hardships and social prejudices. Since 2003, Kyobo Life has been granting scholarships to such youths and has set up an online community where they can start dreaming about a better future. Hope Dasom Scholarship Category 2016 2017 2018 Employee Volunteer Social Work Activities No. of recipients (persons) 83 89 88 Amount (KRW 1 million) 300 357 343 Asia March for Undergraduate Students In 2002, Kyobo Life launched a program called the ‘Northeast Asia March for Undergraduate Students’ with the objective of teaching college students how to become global talents endowed with leadership skills. Now in its seventeenth year of operation, the ‘Northeast Asia March for Undergraduate Students’ has been renamed the ‘Asia March for Undergraduate Students’ and the traveling zone has been expanded to include the whole of the Asian region. In 2018, the selected students went on an 8-day tour of the Ho Chi Minh City area of Vietnam and the country’s major industrial zones. This year’s program was an opportunity for the college students to view the present and future of Vietnam and ruminate on the spirit of youth. In particular, the students had a very meaningful time carrying out volunteer work alongside Kyobo Life employees when A student being awarded the Hope Dasom scholarship they embarked on a trip to Ben Tre Province to build houses for the poor. In 2018, 78 students participated in the program, and in the future, Kyobo Life plans to continue providing a whole range of youth leadership programs to support the teaching of leadership skills to college students. Employee ‘One Company, One School’ Financial Education To live up to the founding principle of the company and to ensure future generations can grow up to become healthy members of society, Kyobo Life actively participates in the national “One Company, One School Financial Education” project. Under this project, FP Branches and FP Regional Support Unit are matched with 478 schools across the country to provide various types of financial education (including experience-oriented courses) to elementary, middle and high school students. One of the objectives of the program is to instill students with a proper attitude towards their personal finances at a young age. Kyobo Life’s Gyeongin FP Headquarters has created a finance experience program to increase students’ understanding of finance and insurance, and has also provided career counsel2018 Asia March for Undergraduate Students ing to students who are interested in working in the financial industry. For its contribution to popularizing financial education, the Gyeongin FP Division was presented with an award by the Financial Supervisory Service in February (2018). Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 54 Employee Volunteer Social Work Activities Eco-friendly Dasomi Family Volunteer Social Work Employee Volunteer Social Work Kyobo Life carries out and promotes various types of volunteer work in an effort to protect the environment. Every year, over Kyobo Life employees give their time to meaningful volunteerfifty families participate in such initiatives, and Kyobo Life is ing activities of their own volition in order to put into practice now expanding the significance and value of enjoyable volunthe company’s core objectives and to help the local commutary work and establishing an ideal weekend leisure culture for nity. However, their contributions are not limited to regular volfamilies through family volunteer work programs. In addition, unteer social work as they also engage in DIY volunteer social the care and assistance provided to people in need through work and other forms of sharing with others. these programs help families strengthen their bonds and contribute to creating a healthy family culture. Employee Volunteer Social Work Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total amount of social Hours 23,949 24,531 22,577 work performed by employees(cumulative) Total no. of employees who Persons 8,894 10,002 10,098 participated in volunteer social work (cumulative) Employee Volunteering Activities Green Dasomi Volunteer Work A volunteer social work team was created within the company to perform volunteer work, contribute to creating an exciting organizational culture, and address the problems of local communities and underprivileged segments of our society. Green Dasomi Volunteer Work Kyobo Life conducts many kinds of volunteer work aimed at protecting the environment. Green Dasomi Volunteer work is an environmental volunteer service, consisted of Kyobo Life Employees. In 2018, They Conducts many kinds of volunteer work. 2018 Green Dasomi Volunteer Work Healthy Urban Forest Management Seoul Forest Understanding the value of ecology, 4.7(Saturday) Seoul Forest Management Approach. Employee Mask & Scarf DIY Volunteer Work Disassembly of Toy Trash & Upcycle Product Donations Seoul Kyobo Life employees personally made and distributed 600 Providing education on resource recycling Innovation Center sets of masks and scarves to children of developing counand environmental problems, toy trash 5.26(Saturday) tries in Asia who are repeatedly exposed to dust for long disassembly, and recyclable art production periods of time and other health hazards. Bird Nest Installation in Urban Parks Understanding the importance of nest boxes World Cup Park in coaxing birds in urban parks to breed, 9.15(Saturday) monitoring nest boxes, and installing new bird nests. Appropriate Technology – Technology for Saving the Earth Seoul Energy Understanding energy and appropriate Dream Center technology, making LED stands for low11.3(Saturday) income families. Kyobo Life Stakeholder Management Customers 55 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Communities Employee Global Volunteer Social Work In July 2018, 24 Kyobo Life employees and 78 college students who were taking part in the Asia March for Undergraduate Students performed various types of volunteer work such as building houses and planting trees in Ben Tre Province, Vietnam. Ben Tre Province is an underdeveloped rural area situated 80 km southwest of Ho Chi Minh City, where 50% of residents live in thatched houses made of palm or wood, and are exposed to a harsh environment characterized by typhoons and flooding year in, year out. In addition, due to the lack of classes and schools, teachers have to work double shifts while children in villages with no schools have to walk 2~3 hours every day to go to school. For the past seven years, Kyobo Life has been helping poor local farmers to generate income through seedling business in Ben Tre Province, Vietnam. The company has also helped local residents to establish the basis for a stable life by supporting the construction of houses for eight poor families and delivering books and school supplies to Hoa Rai Elementary School, thereby providing educational opportunities to 632 children and bringing hope and exciting possibilities for the future. Since 2011, Kyobo Life has been performing volunteer social work in less developed regions so that children from those regions can continue with their studies. The year 2018 was very special as the company employees were joined by college students of the Asia March for Undergraduate Students program who lent their helping hands and their warm hearts to making sure children grow up healthy. In the future, Kyobo Life will work even harder for its local communities. Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 56 Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship The founder of Kyobo Life held the conviction that one can develop one’s character and intellect only by maintaining a healthy body from a young age. Based on this philosophy of training human talent, in 1985 the company launched the Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship. This competition is organized around seven sports categories: ice-skating, track & field, gymnastics, swimming, table tennis, judo, and tennis. The Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship, Q. You were first exposed to gymnastics as the only national youth athletics competition organized by the private sector, as a result of parental influence its aim of contributing to the development of sports in Korea by revitalizing basic My parents were a huge factor in my taking up gymsports and motivating youngsters dreaming of a career in sport. Kyobo Life internastics. My parents were gymnasts who competed at viewed gymnast Seo-jeong Yeo, the winner of Korea’s first gold medal in women’s the national level, so I was exposed to gymnastics in a vaulting in 32 years at the 2018 Jakarta-Palembang Asian Games. natural way. One day, I went to see a national selection contest where my parents were on the judging committee and I was completely smitten by the sport. This is how I arrived at the decision to become a gymnast. My parents were opposed because they knew how hard the life of a gymnast is, but I managed to persuade them in the end and that is how I began learning gymnastics at the age of nine. *Seo-jeong Yeo’s father is Hong-cheol Yeo, a former gymnast who played for the nation in international events. Q. What was the image of the Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship at that time? Not long after starting gymnastics, the first competition I entered was the Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship. It was a really fun time for me because, as a beginner, no high expectations were placed on my shoulders. I am still friends with a girl I competed with and we are still good friends who like to compete in good faith. So the Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship means a lot to me in many ways to this day. Special Section 4 Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship 57 Q. W  hat was the driving force that made you the best female vaulter in the world? I’d have to say that endless hours of training and personal efforts were my driving force. I also think my parents’ gymnast DNA and stress management played a huge role. Because my parents were both athletes they understood my feelings and encouraged me to take it Q. W  hat makes the Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championeasy whenever I felt the need. This is how I was able to ship different from other competitions? In abroad, gymnastics is a popular pastime enjoyed by the masses and free myself from the burden of expectation and focus receives wide public interest. But it’s unfortunate that in Korea gymnastics on my training. To be honest, the weight of being the still has a long way to go. Young gymnasts need opportunities to showcase daughter of Hong-cheol Yeo was considerable. The their talents and gain experience but there are simply not enough domestic self-imposed pressure to do well in competitions was competitions to service this purpose. at times really unbearable. At such times, I was able to relax because my parents told me I did not have to win In that sense, I think it is great that Kyobo Life has been providing a chance medals as long as I gave my best. to compete for the last thirty-four years without a break. If you can spend more time amongst your fellow gymnasts to challenge yourself and gain The support and encouragement of my family was a experience, you will naturally fall in love with gymnastics and learn a lot. huge confidence booster, but my medal at the Jakarta You are always tense in any competition, but the Kyobo Competition is the Asian Games was possible because I believed in myself. one competition where you can enjoy yourself because the event prioritizes experience and opportunity over scores. I would have to say that that is what sets it apart the most. Q. Please say a few words about your commitment to the Tokyo Olympics I am now training hard every day for the 2020 Summer Olympic Games in Tokyo. Lately my preoccupation with many thoughts has been quite stressful. However, I am trying my best to keep a positive frame of mind while practicing my posture correction exercises. I want to perform well at the Tokyo Olympics and make Seo-jeong Yeo a name that is recognized around the world. The confidence oozing from her plucky little body during our interview with Seo-jeong Yeo made her look very attractive and a person to look up to. Today Seo-jeong Yeo is a woman who is looking beyond Korea to become the best in the world. We hope she can attain her goal at the upcoming Tokyo Olympic Games. Witnessing how a young athlete who participated in the Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship became a world-class athlete has given us the conviction that Kyobo Life’s thirty-four year effort to support young athletes has not been in vain. This is something we should be thankful for. Kyobo Life will continue to provide experience-building opportunities to athletes in seven sporting categories. Reported by: Kim Min-seo, Kyobo Life Corporate Planning Team Status of Ethics Education Management-level 17 hours Non-management level Number of 16 hours companies receiving the DA-WIN Service 1,199 No. of persons receiving the Amount of DA-WIN Service energy consumed 71,714 persons 16,876 TOE Kyobo Life's Activities of Kyobo Life Governance 60 Ethics 62 Win-Win Cooperation 64 Environment 65 Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 60 Governance The establishment of a stable, efficient, and transparent governance structure is required to ensure the company’s sustainable growth while simultaneously promoting the rights and interests of various stakeholders in a balanced way. Kyobo Life’s core decision-making bodies are the general shareholders’ meeting and the board of directors, in which active participation by external directors ensures balance in our Management Approach. In addition, the company appoints compliance officers and operates an audit committee to strengthen internal control, thereby raising Kyobo Life’s corporate value. Corporate Governance Chart General Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors Directors Risk Management Remuneration Management Audit Committee Recommendation Committee Committee Committee Committee * Kyobo Life publishes its ‘Annual Report on Corporate Governance’ in accordance with the ‘Exemplary Norms on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies.’ The details of Kyobo Life’s corporate governance can be found at the corporate website (www.kyobo.co.kr). Ownership Structure The largest shareholder of Kyobo Life is CEO and Chairman Chang-Jae Shin, who holds a 33.78 percent share of the company. The majority shareholders have remained unchanged for the past three years. Shareholders(%) Chang-Jae Shin 33.78 Baring PE 5.23 GSC* 4.50 Life Investors of Korea 2.30 Corsair Capital 9.79 Others 0.36 Meiji Yasuda Life 1.00  mployee Stock E Ownership Union 1.00 Affinity 9.05 Goldman Sachs 1.07 AXA 2.24 OTPP* 7.62  he Export-Import T Standard Chartered PE 5.33 Bank of Korea 5.85  hree persons including T IMM PE 5.23 in-Jae Shin 5.65 *Ontario Teacher’s Pension Plan *Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Activities of Kyobo Life Governance 61 Ethics Win-Win Cooperation The Environment Board of Directors The board of directors sets and controls the company’s management goals and key strategies. It supervises how the company is run by the management, and supports the management at the same time. Composition According to the articles of incorporation, the BOD of Kyobo Life should be composed of four or more members. The current board is composed of seven directors in total—two inside directors and five outside directors. There are no female directors on the board at present. In particular, outside directors are nominated by the Directors Recommendation Committee from among outside experts with no interest or stake in the company, and undergo a strict and fair screening process in order to ensure transparency in the company’s management. Composition of Board of Directors (As of March 2019) Chang-Jae Shin (Born in 1953) Your-Hyun Yun (Born in 1958) Seok-ki Lee (Born in 1965) Directors Chairman&CEO, Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Board of Directors Jung-Hyo Lee (Born in 1946) Seong-Sik Hwang (Born in 1956) Outside Former chairman of the Daesan Former President of directors Agriculture Foundation/ Chairman of the Samchully Corp. Kyobo Foundation for Education Business Administration, Accounting Business Administration, Accounting Hari R. Rajan (Born in 1977) Sang-Hoon Lee (Born in 1973) Managing Director and Affinity Equity Partners (S) Pte., Ltd., Partner at Corsair Capital Korea Branch / Representative of Korea Finance Finance Committees within the Board of Directors Committee Main Roles Audit Committee To evaluate and improve management performance and the adequacy of the overall internal control systems Directors Recommendation To recommend CEO, outside director and auditor candidates equipped with the necessary expertise and Committee qualifications according to the company’s strategic targets Risk Management Committee To establish the basic policy and key policies on risk management, and approve the management strategy based on risk Remuneration Committee To design and implement a compensation system for executives in connection with risk Management Committee To make decisions on important issues such as longand short-term management policies and the establishment of management plans Evaluation & Remuneration of Executive Management The remuneration of the executive management is determined based on an evaluation of performance in each area, as reported to the board of directors at the end of each business year. The remuneration of directors is determined at a general shareholders’ meeting, and the details of outside directors’ remuneration are disclosed at our website (www.kyobo.co.kr >> Disclosures >> Governance Disclosures). Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 62 Ethics Kyobo Life is performing the role of a corporate citizen and weekly webtoon-style newsletters to help deepen their understriving to fulfill its social responsibilities by enhancing the standing of ethical management. Through consistent ethical transparency of corporate management through ethical maneducation, Kyobo Life has created a culture of ethics and comagement and by offering competitive insurance products and pliance and promoted ethical practices among its employees. services as a member of the community. In addition, Kyobo Life guarantees the labor rights of its employees and provides Education on Raising a range of company benefits designed to improve the employAwareness of Disability in the Workplace ees’ quality of life. Kyobo Life has developed and runs a variety of education programs as part of its effort to establish a more stable work environment for employees with disabilities, and to eliminate any Management Transparency through misunderstandings and prejudices among employees, by proEthical Management moting a proper understanding of disability. Through consisAs corporate influence on society grows ever stronger, public tent training and education, we have helped our employees expectations about corporate social responsibility and ethical to broaden their understanding of the definitions and types of management are rising. Furthermore, as a financial services disabilities and provided them with the information required company whose ethics are heavily scrutinized, Kyobo Life recto raise their awareness, including the rights of disabled ognizes the importance of securing corporate transparency to employees, the prevention of discrimination against peoearn the trust of its stakeholders. ple with disabilities, and the provision of proper access to the workplace for disabled employees. Kyobo Life Employees’ Code of Professional Ethics Kyobo Life has enacted the Kyobo Life Employees’ Code of Professional Ethics to clarify its intention to pursue ethical Education to raise social awareness about people management, and has established regulations on work ethics with disabilities along with specific instructions to establish guidelines on work ethics for all its employees. In addition, all employees includCategory Unit 2016 2017 2018 ing the CEO are required to attend ‘Kyobo’s Work Ethics ResEmployee participation rate % 100 100 100 olution’ event at the beginning of each fiscal year to reinforce the company’s ethical work culture. Transparent Trade with Partner Companies Kyobo Life operates a system designed to secure transparency in its trade with the external partner companies involved in its major businesses. Cyber Purchase System To guarantee transparent and fair purchasing, the entire purchase process is conducted through the company’s cyber purPhoto of the Work Ethics Resolution chase system. This enables partner companies to conduct purchases without the constraints of time and space, while allowing Kyobo Life to secure transparency in selecting partner Status of Work Ethics Education companies through competitive bidding without the need for face-to-face meetings. Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Managers (no. of persons) Hours 18.5 18 17 Non-managerial workers (no. of persons) Hours 14.5 16 16 Operation of Clean Contract System Kyobo Life has established the ‘Clean Contract System’ to promote mutual benefits with stakeholders based on a transaction Communication for Ethical Management culture in which collusion and unfair trade practices, such as Kyobo Life communicates with its employees to help them bribes and preferential treatment, are prohibited throughout better understand and approach ethical management. The the entire process of contractual fulfillment including product company has not only been conducting on and offline compurchase, services, and construction. pliance training regularly to help employees internalize ethics and compliance, but also communicating with them through Activities of Kyobo Life Governance 63 Ethics Win-Win Cooperation The Environment Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance Program (CP: Compliance Program) Kyobo Life has appointed a manager and an organization dedicated to ensuring fair trade and put in place systems designed to ensure compliance with fair trade regulations, while continuing to train and monitor employees with regard to compliance. Gift Return Center According to the ‘Kyobo Work Ethics Guidelines,’ Kyobo Life does not allow its employees to receive gifts from outside stakeholders. If any employees are placed in an unavoidable situation in which they are compelled to accept gifts, they are obliged to return them via the ‘Gift Return Center’. All gifts should be returned in a polite manner, but gifts that cannot be returned for one reason or antoher are donated to social groups. Operation of Internal Control System Kyobo Life complies with the relevant laws and regulations and practices its management soundly, and abides by the basics that it is required to follow in order to protect its shareholders, stakeholders and so forth. Kyobo Life also monitors compliance with internal control standards and designates compliance monitoring personnel to report the results of any investigations to the Audit Committee in an effort to oversee the entire internal control system. Report of Internal Control Assessment Results and Recommendations for Improvement Assessment Section Recommendations for Improvement Related Department Channel Marketing Support Team Control Improvement of the customer confirmation process related to the effort to GFP Department environment eliminate money laundering Underwriting Team and control culture Compliance Officer Reflection of amendments to the law related to service outsourcing of financial Corporate institutions in the company’s regulations. Planning Team Accounting, Establishment of an integrated information security management system to Information information and strengthen the existing information security management system. Security Team communication system Establishment of pre-control process for prevention of insurance fraud Insurance Risk Management Team Insurance sales Improvement of insurance product information materials from the perspectives of Product customers and legal compliance Support Team Retention of contract Establishment of a system to comply with the Depositor Protection Act at sales sites Channel Marketing and payout (including FP Branches) Support Team Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 64 Win-Win Cooperation Efforts toward Mutual Growth Efforts for Win-Win Cooperation Kyobo Life pursues coexistence with its transaction partners Kyobo Life implements various measures with the aim of realand the local communities where its company Management izing win-win cooperation with its partner companies, such as Approach are based. By promoting the advancement of Kyobo the partner company evaluation, the Kyobo electronic purLife along with the mutual growth of its partners and local socichase system, and the K-Marketplace. In addition, we make ety, Kyobo Life is able to successfully maintain a virtuous cycle concerted efforts to improve operation by managing the of mutual advancement. related data and gathering feedback. DA-WIN Service for Mutual Growth with Partners Kyobo Life operates the DA-WIN service program for mutual growth by sharing the accumulated know-how of its award-winning customer satisfaction service with its partners. The DA-WIN service is designed to enable Kyobo Life and its partners to grow together in a win-win relationship. In addition, DA-WIN is Kyobo Life’s own distinctive creating shared value (CSV) program by which it practices the management philosophy of sharing and favoring, while supporting customers’ success by providing CS education (consulting) for customer satisfaction, an organizational activation program, and compulsory education (covering the prevention of sexual harassment in the workplace, the protection of personal information, etc.). DA-WIN Service Status and Performance Category 2016 2017 2018 Service recipients(No. of companies) 1,050 1,030 1,199 Service recipients(No. of persons) 58,455 63,399 71,714 Activities of Kyobo Life Governance 65 Ethics Win-Win Cooperation The Environment The Environment Kyobo Life is a company that manages its life insurance busiPromoting Eco-friendly Transportation Methods ness, which covers diverse life and health threats, but recognizes Kyobo Life prohibits its employees from traveling to and from that the environment is a critical issue that has both direct and the training institute in Cheonan (Gyeseongwon) by private car, indirect effects on life insurance. This is because the environand instead pays its employees’ transportation costs based ment has a huge influence in terms of its effect on public health on KTX train fares so as to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and people’s lives. Also, consumer demand for eco-friendly during their commutes. In addition, Kyobo Life has established Management Approach is increasing, and Kyobo Life sees this as a nationwide satellite broadcasting system for all its sales and a new opportunity for, rather than a limitation of, its growth. service sites, so that employees can listen to major events without having to assemble in one place. Eco-friendly Management Approach Reducing Electricity Usage Kyobo Life minimizes the operation of employee elevators Electronic Subscription System other than during rush hours and lunch hours and mainfor Environmental Protection tains the building temperature above 26℃ during summer Kyobo Life uses paper in many of its main tasks, and most and below 20℃ during winter to reduce energy consumpparticularly in the insurance subscription process, which tion. Furthermore, since 2008, Kyobo Life has been conductinvolves contracts and many other essential documents. As ing the ‘three voluntary energy and resource saving campaign’ such, Kyobo Life operates an electronic subscription system whereby it encourages employees to turn off unnecessary designed to reduce costs and minimize environmental effects lighting and unused computers and to use office resources by reducing paper consumption. It is a one-stop system that economically. requires customers to directly access the insurance company website using their accredited certificates in order to subscribe to an insurance product, and provides an explanation of the product details for which acknowledgement of the explanations and the personal signature of the customer are required. Electronic Subscription Process ❶ Customer information registration/revision ❷ Customer consent ❸ Entering data on the subscribed product ❹ F  illing out the electronic subscription Reinforcement of Waste Management Kyobo Life entrusts the waste generated by its office spaces to an approved waste-processing company. Waste from the company’s major buildings, including the headquarters, is discharged and recycled separately, and the annual amount of waste discharge is recorded and managed accordingly. Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 66 Status of Environmental Management The following data have been compiled from forty company buildings managed by Kyobo Realco Inc.(out of a total of forty-one company buildings). However, the data for office paper and toner usage and waste discharge originate only from the Headquarters. Office Paper and Toner Usage Waste Emissions Category 2016 2017 2018 Category 2016 2017 2018 Office paper(Box) 4,413 4,723 4,730 Total emissions (TON) 340 329 283 Toner(Unit) 3,901 3,514 3,514 Recycled amount (TON) 331 319 274 Recycled ratio (%) 97 97 97 *‘Waste’ refers to regular office waste produced by the company buildings. Water Usage Carbon Dioxide Emissions Category 2016 2017 2018 Category 2016 2017 2018 Total usage (TON) 537,411 511,151 491,385 Direct (tCO2) 5,677 5,283 5,535 Recycled amount (TON) 7,508 6,088 5,865 Indirect (tCO2) 32,232 30,774 28,821 Recycled ratio (%) 1.4 1.2 1.2 Total (tCO2) 37,909 36,057 34,356 Energy Usage Category 2016 2017 2018 Gas 2,181 2,032 2,179 Direct energy(TOE) Oil 367 347 321 Subtotal 2,548 2,379 2,500 Electricity 15,737 15,020 14,333 Indirect energy(TOE) Regional heating 34 31 43 Subtotal 15,711 15,051 14,376 Grand total(TOE) 18,259 17,430 16,876 Compared to the previous year(TOE) -594 -829 -554 *TOE: Amount of energy produced when burning one ton of oil, standardized in calorie units. *The erroneous data for 2016/2017 have been corrected. Appendix UN Global Compact 68 Status of Implementation of the 69 Sustainability Development Goals Awards / Association and Membership 70 regarding Sustainability Management GRI Standards Index 71 Third Party Assurance 74 Financial Highlights 76 Declaration of Vision2020 77 Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 68 UN Global Compact Kyobo Life joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in September 2010 and declared its commitment to adhere to the principles of the UNGC. This Sustainability Management Report contains information on the Company’s observance of the ten core principles. Principles 내용 Key Report Contents Page 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of ㆍKyobo Life Employees’ Code of 62 internationally proclaimed human rights; and Professional Ethics Human Rights 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ㆍProtection of and respect for human rights 39 ㆍPromotion of customer protection activities 32~33 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the ㆍCulture of cooperative labormanagement 39 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; relations 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; ㆍPrevention of forced labor 39 Labour Standards 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and ㆍ Prevention of child labor 39 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment ㆍPrevention of discrimination in the workplace 39 and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to ㆍEco-friendly social contribution activities 54 environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental ㆍEnergy saving activities 65 responsibility; and Environment 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally ㆍExpansion of eco-friendly financial 47 friendly technologies. investment ㆍProgram of ethical education and practice ㆍPrograms of autonomous compliance with 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, fair trade 62 ~ 63 including extortion and bribery. ㆍClean contract system Anti-Corruption ㆍCyber purchase system Appendix UN Global Compact 69 Implementation Status of Sustainable Development Goals: The ‘Sustainable Development Goals’ are the United Nation’s ambitious global priorities to address the tremendous economic, societal, and environmental challenges we face by 2030. In an active effort to join in this drive, Kyobo Life linked its sustainability management system to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs) and examined the progress of the 17 items. Of these, Kyobo Life chose seven items that it can best promote and continues its efforts to achieve these goals. Kyobo Life’s Sustainable Management Framework’ and ‘Sustainable Development Goals’ Sustainability  orea’s Most Innovative Life insurer in Product and Distribution in K ㅡ Pursuit of Shared Growth with All Stakeholders Vision2020 ㅡ management philosophy Preparation for the Era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution Pledges for stakeholders Promises Principles KPI A company that pro1. We will listen to customers and manage the company from the customers’ perspective. Retention rate (13th month) vides good insurance 2. We will enhance service quality throughout the policy lifecycle, from underwriting to Customer satisfaction level Customers coverage to its cusretention, and payment. Market share rate tomers A company that suc3. We will respect and trust our Financial Planners as business partners. Financial Planner satisfaction level ceeds together with its 4. We will establish fair standards and help Financial Planners engage in their sales and Financial Planner settlement rate Financial Planners Financial Planners service activities with reassurance. (13th month) 5. We will support them to grow into insurance experts. A company that grows 6. We will continue on our corporate culture of joy, pride and trust. Training hours per employee Employees together with its 7. We will provide equal opportunities and reward according to fair evaluation. Costs for competence development employees 8. We will support our employees to grow and develop into experts. per employee A company that is 9. We will continue to produce exceptional profits through good growth. Total assets Investors attractive to Investors 10. We will increase the value of the company through preemptive risk management. Return on equity (ROE) Risk based capital (RBC) A company that grows 11. We will carry out corporate social responsibility activities aggressively and actively in Societal contribution ratio/amount Government together with the pursuit of shared growth. Proportions of socially responsible & Communities government and com12. We will implement environmental Management Approach by reflecting the nature of investment(SRI) munities our business. Energy consumption 13. We will grow together with our partners through fair competition. Kyobo Life’s Sustainability Development Goals Sustainable Development Goals (2016~2030) SDGs Content Goals. 1 Ties of Love activities to support children from marginalized groups. Kyobo Hope and Love Insurance, which is designed to provide insurance benefits to children from No poverty Zero hunger Good health and low-income families by utilizing dormant insurance payments. well-being Goals. 3 Provision of health insurance and healthcare services. Provision of health insurance discounts through the health coaching service. Provision of the health checkup service and health information for customers. Quality Gender Clean Goals. 4 Kyobo Foundation for Education: Systematic social contributions made through the Foundation. education equality water and Kyobo Hope Dasom Scholarships: Provision of educational opportunities through scholarships. sanitation Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship: Support for young athletes in seven basic sports disciplines. Northeast Asia March for Undergraduate Students: Fostering of students into global leaders. Competency Development Program: Support for employees to strengthen and improve their Affordable Decent work Industry, capabilities. Provision of opportunities for employees’ self-improvement and self-reinforcement. and clean and economic innovation, Offering of various educational insurance products. energy growth infrastructure Goals. 5 Recruitment based on ‘Kyobo Professional’ and fair performance evaluation. Anti-gender discrimination. KIWN/KING Mentoring: Employees are motivated through matching mentoring between female/male Reduced Sustainable Responsible managerial mentors and female/male staff members. inequalities cities and consumption, Female Leadership Conference: Female employees are encouraged to pursue their personal growth communities production and development and receive help in building their competences and establishing human resource networks. Goals. 8 Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Group: Contribution to job creation by nurturing females from low-income households Climate Life below Life on land as professional caregivers. action water Goals. 9 Construction of a library and a playground for an elementary school in an underdeveloped area of Vietnam. Goals. 13 Electronic Subscription System: Consistent efforts to reduce paper usage. Peace, justice Partnerships Promotion of various energy-usage-reduction activities. and strong for the goals institutions Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 70 Awards / Association and Membership regarding Sustainability Management Kyobo Life’s Awards for Sustainability Management Date Content Nov. 2018 Ranked No. 1 in the life insurance sector of the Korea Sustainability Index (KSI) for the ninth consecutive year. Nov. 2017 Wins the Top Prize in the service category at the Korean Readers’ Choice Awards (KRCA) for the fourth consecutive year. Feb. 2016 Wins the 12th Transparent Management Grand Prize jointly hosted by five economic organizations. Oct. 2015 Wins the Grand Prize at the 4th Financial Customer Protection Grand Awards (Financial Supervisory Service Director Award). Dec. 2014 Wins the Private Corporation Award in the process sector at the 1st Porter Prize for Excellence in CSV. Oct. 2014 Wins the 2nd ‘Most Loved Company’ Presidential Award. Nov. 2013 Awarded the Consumer Grand Prize by the Korean Society of Consumer Studies. Nov. 2013 Wins the UN Global Compact Best Practice Award. Wins the Grand Prize in the life insurance category at the Financial Consumer Protection Grand Awards hosted by the Korea Economic Daily Nov. 2012 (Financial Supervisory Service Director Award). Oct. 2012 Chairman Chang-Jae Shin named “Personality of the Year” by the International Reinsurance Conference (IRC). May 2012 Wins the Presidential Commendation for ‘Contribution to Children’s Welfare’ at the Children’s Day event hosted by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Wins the Minister’s Award from the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy at the 6th Sustainability Management Awards Nov. 2011 (Grand Prize in the ‘First Sustainability Management Report’ category). Feb. 2011 Wins the Minister’s Award from the Ministry of Health & Welfare in recognition of its efforts to promote welfare for the disabled. Wins the Grand Award in the ‘financial product and service innovation’ category at the 2010 Korea Financial Innovation Awards for (No dividend) Sep. 2010 ‘Kyobo Life 100 Year Life Variable Pension Insurance’. May 2010 Chairman Chang-Jae Shin wins the ‘2010 Korea CEO Award’ hosted by the Korea Management Association. May 2010 Chairman Chang-Jae Shin wins the ‘19th Mont Blanc Cultural Art Supporter Award’. Mar. 2010 Ranked No. 1 in the insurance industry as one of ‘50 Respected Korean Corporations’ by Fortune Korea. Association and Membership Regarding Sustainability Management Organization Key Activities Year joined Shares information designed to raise and promote awareness of health insurance by disseminating a sound insurance Life Insurance Association 1958 culture and supporting the formation of reasonable insurance policies. Korea Insurance Society Conducts research on insurance-related theories, laws, and practices. 1964 Institute of Actuaries Korea Introduces various insurance policies, holds seminars, and exchanges information with the international actuary community. 1978 Life Office Management (LOMA) Shares reliable insurance industry data and knowledge. 1978 Insurance Development Institute Suggests fair and rational insurance rates and conducts insurance-related studies. 1990 Financial Safety Forum Discusses information protection policy directions with other financial institutions and the Financial Supervisory Service. 2002 Ethical Management (Yunkyung) SM Forum Shares the ethical management practices of Korean companies and conducts joint research on sustainability management. 2005 Engages in various information protection activities, including inspection, prevention, and countermeasures against hacking Financial Safety Agency 2006 and cyber-attacks on financial institutions. Korea Fair Competition Federation Shares information aimed at raising awareness and understanding of fair-trade practices. 2006 Korea Risk Management Conducts research on risk recognition and loss as well as providing information through business exchanges. 2006 Life Insurance Marketing & Research Conducts research, consulting, and training on life insurance. 2007 Association (LIMRA) UN Global Compact Korea Exchanges information on the implementation of corporate social responsibility (CSR). 2010 Appendix Awards / Association and Membership regarding 71 Sustainability Management / GRI Standards Index GRI Standards Index Universal Standards Topic Disclosure Page Assurance GRI 102: General Disclosure 102-1 Name of the organization 10 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 12 102-3 Location of headquarters 10 102-4 Location of operations 10 102-5 Ownership and legal form 60 102-6 Markets served 11 Organizational Profile 102-7 Scale of the organization 10 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 10, 39 102-9 Organization’s supply chain 14~15 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No major changes 102-11 Precautionary approach or principle 48~49 102-12 External initiatives 68~69 102-13 Membership of associations 70 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2~3 Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 13~15 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 13, 20 Ethics and Integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 62~63 102-18 Governance structure 60~61 Governance 102-35 Remuneration policies 61 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 21 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 39 Stakeholder Engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 21 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 21~23 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 24~25 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 11 Reporting Practices 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 25 102-47 List of material topics 25 Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 72 GRI Standards Index Universal Standards Topic Disclosure Page Assurance GRI 102: General Disclosure 102-48 Restatements of information 28, 44, 66 102-49 Changes to major themes and subject areas 25 102-50 Reporting period About this report 102-51 Date of most recent report About this report Reporting Practices 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About this report 102-55 GRI Content Index 71~73 102-56 External assurance 74~75 Topic-specific Standards GRI 200: Economic Standards Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, management approach, Management Approach 103 28, 34, 38, 44, 50 and its components Economic Performance Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 14~15 GRI 300: Environmental Standards Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 66 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 100% water and sewage Water and Effluents 303-3 Water recycled and reused 66 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 66 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No violations GRI 400: Social Standards 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 39 Employment 401-3 Parental leave 39 Occupational Safety and Health 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 42 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 40 Training and Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 40 Diversity and Equal 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 39 Opportunity Appendix GRI Standards Index 73 GRI Standards Index Topic-specific Standards Topic Disclosure Page Assurance GRI 400: Social Standards Freedom of Association and Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective 407-1 39 Collective Bargaining bargaining may be at risk Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 39 Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 39 Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 39 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, Local Communities 413-1 51~55 and development programs 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 32 Marketing and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling 32 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of Customer Privacy 418-1 33 customer data Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area No violations Compliance Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 74 Third Party Assurance To the management and stakeholders of Kyobo Life Foreword The Korea Standards Association (hereinafter “the Assurers”) was commissioned to perform an independent audit on Kyobo Life’s Sustainability Report 2018 (hereinafter “the Report”). The Assurers have provided an independent opinion based on a review of the data contained in the Report prepared by Kyobo Life (‘the Company’), and all the statements and performance data included in the report are the responsibility of Kyobo Life. Independence The Assurers, as an independent assurance body, have no professional interest in Kyobo Life other than in providing this third-party assurance on the Report, and they are not related to the Company in any way that may undermine its independence or cause a conflict of interest. Assurance Standards The Assurers have verified the inclusiveness, compliance with the principles of materiality, responsiveness and Impact, and reliability of the data disclosed in the Report at the“moderate” level in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard with 2018 Addendum; and the GRI Standards have also been applied in the verification process. Type and Scope The Assurers conducted (the) Type 2 verification according to the AA1000 verification standards (AA1000AS), which means that the audit assessed the accuracy and reliability of the Company’s statements and performance data provided in the Report. The verification scope is from January 1, 2018, to December 31, 2018 and the assurance focused on systems and activities including policies and goals, businesses and programs, standards, and achievements of the Company’s sustainability management. In addition, the financial audit was conducted on environmental and societal data and economic performance in a broad sense. The Verification of stakeholder engagement was limited to a review of the Company’s materiality test process. Methodology The Assurers collected data, information, and evidence by using the following method. · Review and analyze media coverage on the Company’s sustainability management · Investigate issues of sustainability reporting selected by the Assurers in consultation with the Company · Review systems and processes that were used in improving the performance of sustainability management and preparing the Report · Crosscheck between the financial performance data in the Report and the data in the Assurers’ report on the Company’s financial statements and disclosures · Examine internal documents and basic data Results and Opinions [Principles & Process] The Assurers have reviewed the content of the draft report and offered our opinions, and the report has been revised accordingly. The Assurers have not found any material errors or inappropriate statements regarding the content of this report. The Assurers offers the following opinions on Kyobo Life’s Sustainability Report 2018: Inclusiveness Did the Company include stakeholders in the process of strategically responding to issues of sustainability management?The Assurers have verified that the Company is aware of the importance of stakeholder participation and is striving to establish a process that will increase their participation. The Company has identified its customers, financial planners, employees, investors and government/local communities as stakeholder groups. The Assurers have verified that the Company possesses communication channels for each stakeholder group and is collecting different opinions through those channels. Materiality Did the Company include material information that can assist stakeholders to make informed decisions? The Assurers find that the Company has neither omitted nor excluded any material information that stakeholders need to know. We have confirmed that the Company conducted a materiality test on the key issues that were identified in the analysis of the internal and external environment(s) and prepared the report based on the results of the analysis. Responsiveness Did the Company respond to the demands and interests of (the/its) stakeholders? The Assurers have verified that the Company is properly responding to the demands and interests of its stakeholders by reflecting the opinions collected from stakeholders (them) on the Report. The Assurers have found no evidence that the Company’s responses to material issues involving stakeholders were (have been) misrepresented or misstated in the Report. Impact Does the Company appropriately monitor its impact on the stakeholders? The Assurers have verified that the Company is monitoring and assessing its impact on the stakeholders by conducting an enhanced verification of its standard business activities. Furthermore, it has been verified that the Company appropriately publishes its findings in the Report. Appendix Third Party Assurance 75 GRI Standards Application The Assurers have verified that the Report was written in accordance with the Core Option of the GRI Standards. Based on the documents provided by the Company, the Assurers have verified that the Report complies with the requirements specified in the indices of the Universal Standards and the Topic-specific Standards. Universal Standards The Assurers have verified that the Report complied(s) with the requirements of the Universal Standards of Core Option, and (have) reviewed the following indices: 102-1 to 102-13 (Organization Profile), 102-14 to 102-15 (Strategy), 102-16 to 102-17 (Ethics and Integrity), 102-18 and 102-35 (Governance), 102-40 to 102-44 (Stakeholder Participation), 102-45 to 102-56 (Reporting Practice), 103 (Management Approach) Topic-specific Standards The Assurers have verified the detailed items on the material aspects identified through the process of determining the reporting items and reviewed the following indices Economy: 201-1 Environment: 302-1, 303-1, 303-3, 306-2 Society: 401-3, 403-3, 404-1, 405-2, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 412-2, 413-1, 417-1, 417-2, 418-1, 419-1 Opinions and Recommendations [Performance /Issues] The Assurers offer the following proposal to implement strategies in sustainability management in response to the issues with coherence at the organizational level. Economic performance A new international insurance accounting standard, IFRS17, is scheduled for adoption in 2021, along with the new Korea Insurance Capital Standard (K-ICS), which will replace the RBC (insurance claim payment capacity). The Company will respond early to the adoption of the new international accounting standard by strengthening its financial soundness through preemptive risk management and the acquisition of capital. Also, through sustainability management activities, the Company is pursuing people-centered management, the main purpose of which is to provide mutual benefits to all stakeholders. Therefore, the Company should strive for continuous growth and increase the transparency of its accounting. It can achieve these goals through performance-oriented responsibility management and transparent management of a very high level. Consequently, it is recommended that the Company should not seek a shortterm response, but rather that it should strive continuously to improve its comprehensive response on a long-term basis, primarily by continuously managing its financial and non-financial risk factors, and by coming up with improved preemptive responses to changes in the business environment. Environment High-efficiency energy technologies, new and renewable energies, and clean modes of transportation are being touted as promising solutions to the serious environmental crisis facing our world. In response, global financial institutions are becoming keenly aware of and actively carrying out environmental responsibility investments in such solutions. It is a positive sign that the Company is increasing its investments in renewable energy and the environment every year. In response to the rising impact of the financial industry on society and the environment, it is recommended that the Company set mid-to long-term quantity targets on clean energy and environmental investment and disclose the Company’s performances on the relevant indices in the Report. The Company should also establish a management/reporting system for environmental investment performance indices. In addition, it is recommended that the Company make the following improvements to its environmental management indices. 1.When calculating energy usage rates, it should apply an oil usage conversion factor for each type of oil. 2.It should include the greenhouse gas emission rate from mobile consumption, such as enterprise vehicles. 3.It should list the reasons for any increases in its greenhouse gas emissions and the related performance results. Social The Company presented its promises and principles for each group of stakeholders when it established its sustainability management system. By continuously managing its Key Performance Index (KPI) for ten years, the Company has demonstrated its commitment to work for the mutual growth of all its stakeholders. The Company’s stakeholder management could be showcased as a case study of excellence in the field of sustainability management. This Report includes the Company’s sustainability management activities and the performance results deriving from these activities, as well as its communication activities regarding each type of stakeholder, and clearly shows the Company’s efforts in this regard. The Company must actively address the rapid economic, social and environmental changes taking place in the world and generate mid-to long-term business values. In order to achieve this, we recommend that the Company further improve its sustainability management, for instance by searching for ways to tie it to its business strategy. April 2019 Sang-Jin Lee, KSA Chairman & CEO The Korean Standards Association (KSA), established as a special corporation in accordance with the Law for Industrial Standardization in 1962, serves as a knowledge service provider that distributes and disseminates such services as industrial standardization, quality management, sustainability management, KS certification and ISO certification. The KSA is committed to the sustainable development of Korean society as an ISO 26000 national secretary, certified GRI training partner, AA1000 assurance provider, KSI (Korea Sustainability Index) operator, and UN CDM DOE (development operational entity), and as an assurance provider of the Korean government’s greenhouse gas energy target management system. Sustainability Report 2018 Kyobo Life 76 Financial Highlights Summary of Statement of Financial Position (Unit : KRW Bn) 2018 2017 2016 Total Assets 108,819.9 104,564.7 96,684.3 Cash and Deposits 2,383.2 1,563.8 1,377.4 Securities 61,079.9 58,411.7 52,612.0 Loans 20,720.0 18,781.4 18,463.4 Investment in Associates 96.9 92.3 90.3 Investment Property 1,083.5 1,102.5 1,135.9 Property and Equipment 1,288.6 1,299.3 1,345.8 Intangible Assets 72.8 50.8 52.5 Other Assets 3,303.3 4,204.1 3,933.6 Separate Account Assets 18,791.7 19,058.7 17,673.5 Total Liabilities 98,234.1 94,711.6 88,821.8 Policy Reserve 69,458.4 66,713.3 63,667.5 Policyholder’s Equity Adjustment 894.8 736.8 463.7 Other Liabilities 8,625.3 7,784.3 6,562.0 Separate Account Liabilities 19,255.6 19,477.3 18,128.5 Total Shareholders’ Equity 10,585.7 9,853.0 7,862.5 Total Shareholders’ Equity attributable to Controlling Interests 10,172.4 9,455.8 7,498.3 *Based on Consolidated Statements Summary of Income Statement (Unit : KRW Bn) 2018 2017 2016 Operating Revenues 14,671.0 15,353.0 14,442.3 Operating Expenses 13,834.4 14,395.1 13,755.4 Operating Profit 836.6 957.9 686.9 Other Profit -23.4 -20.5 25.3 Profit before Income Tax Expense 813.2 937.4 712.2 Income Tax Expense 227.4 263.4 168.9 Net Income 585.8 674.0 543.3 Net Income attributable to Controlling Interests 549.4 640.0 514.5 *Based on Consolidated Statements Vision2020 Declaration Our mission is to help all our customers to confidently pursue their most cherished dreams throughout their lives by overcoming future adversity through mutual cooperation. To this end, we will always put our customers first in our thoughts and actions, be honest and sincere in every respect, and take up new challenges and try again even if we fail. When we achieve Vision2020, Kyobo Life will become the best company in the insurance industry, a company that does not falter in any environment and whose employees will be recognized as the best insurance experts. Through this process, Kyobo Life will grow together with its customers, Financial Planners, investors, communities, and all stakeholders, as well as contributing greatly to the national economy and enhancing public welfare. If we all come together with strong teamwork, we will definitely achieve our vision. Designed by ReddotBranding
