Page 1 of 7 Today Top Star Vocational Training Center United Nations Global Compact Communications on Progress (COP) From May 2018 to April 2019 2 May 2019 “ Right Man with Right Place” by TTSVTC Page 2 of 7 Contents 1. ISO Document Control Details………………………………………………3 2. Statement of continued support for the CEO…………………………………4 3. Human Right Principles…………………………………………………………5 3.1 Commitment 3.2 Implementation 3.3 Whistleblowing 4. Labor……………………………………………………………………………………..6 4.1 Commitment 5. Environmental……………………………………………………………………………7 5.1 Commitment 6. Corruption……………………………………………………………………………….7 6.1 Commitment Page 3 of 7 1 ISO Document Control Details The following tables are included as part of our ISO accreditation of the following standard; ︎ ISO 9001 : Quality Assurance Description Details Template name : UN Global Compact Template original creation date: 2018 05 01 Template last updated: 2019 04 01 Template original author: Su Yee Aung Template last update reviewer : Nilar Htwe The issue status is indicated by the Document Version number below when any part of this Document is amended, a record is made in the following Amendment Log; Issue Number Amendment Date Author Name 1 2018 06 01 Su Yee Aung 2 2019 04 18 Su Yee Aung Please note that this COP can be fully revised and re-issued at the discretion of the Management Team. Page 4 of 7 2. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE CEO I am pleased to confirm that TTS Vocational Center reaffirms for the sixth year and fully supports the ten principals of the Global Compact with the respects to human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. Regarding on this annual communication on progress (COP), we express our actions for continuous improvement by integration of the Global Compact and its ten principel’s into our business strategy, organization culture and day to day operations within our company and the employees. We ensure to engage by cooperating the projects that may advance the broader development goal of the UN Global Compact. TTSVC will make a statement of this commitment to our stakeholders. TTS Vocational Center is recognised for our professional expertise, large networks led approach to our services and proven track record internationally, as part of our service we provide Human Resources and HR solutions that enable our clients to manage and mitigate their business risks, with growing numbers of reputative clients we are closely monitored internally and externally by accredited auditors. As part of our procedures we monitor our company’s employees, supplier’s social performance, ethics, labour issues, human trafficking , forced labour and environmental practices as well as human rights concerns in our quest to ensure a holistic and engaging approach to client services. We are strongly promise to comply with UN Global Compact ten principles to make a safe migration for people in Myanmar to create better job opportunities with happy workplace to build a professional career for better life. Your Sincerely, WAH WAH SEIN CEO Page 5 of 7 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3.1 Commitment We have adopted all aspects of the principles in our business conduct, both with clients who are signatories and with other clients and entities who face similar challenges. 3.2 Implementation This year TTS changed the recruitment process as direct process recruitment between the workers , no more via subagents . Even though we expected high involvement of subagent’s participations for whole policies and procedures to approach of Human rights, throughout their operations , some are still brake the rules. Therefore, TTS change the recruitment process with direct dealing . It is more cost and more details jobs for TTS , however it is better for workers . We found that the workers can reduce the extra cost for paying subagents and they are happy to contact direct by building the trust . TTS always linked the UN Global compact’s principals and ISO 9001:2015 Quality Assurance Manual . At the same time , the service quality control keep monitoring the new policies and procedures implementation such as migrant regulations, human trafficking regulations by interviewing to the workers and taking their feedbacks and suggestions . As TTS employ all sort of genders and personality without any discrimination at workplace , all are equally treated and giving awareness to all employees for equality and dignity and respects at workplace. The company handbook are also updated according to the policy changes. Those all procedures are internally audited with schedule with report back to the management team and ISO external audit team . Additionally the international audit teams from concern clients’ are conducted annually to reconfirm yearly reports for their regular chain process are going well or not and the ISO accreditation team is yearly checking the process . All staffs are issued with an employment contract and company handbook with KPI, outlining of company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. Regarding on the training requirements purpose, annual appraisals are carried out every year along each one meetings in monthly to access the staff needs. 3.3 Whistleblowing Internal HR person access the personnel to report management team or an external HR consultant without fear of any bias, If any staff felt uncomfortable with internal HR person or if they feel their issue cannot reach the point through their line manager , the staff can contact directly to the external HR consultant and psychological consultant. According to Page 6 of 7 the ISO guidance , we recognize our collective accountability as a company for our actions and the consequences of our actions, the need for an effective investigations process for third party complaints. 4 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should abolish child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 4.1 Commitment The implementation of the effective management of equality , ethical code and code of conduct. TTSVTC throughout its ISO Accreditation has produced minimum expected standards for contractors, suppliers and all staff; this is monitored by the internal auditor and the external HR consultant. While TTSVTC prepare for the employment contract for the overseas employment such as Thailand , Malaysia and Japan , TTSVTC commits to comply with local and national legislations with regards to employment laws. TTSVTC strictly prohibited that condones forced and child labour issue and the clients who want TTS HR resource need to adhere all the legislation and if some of their own legislation does not meet our own standards, we will apply our own ethical standards. All of our clients must pass through the official process ways of concern embassies procedure and they must accept to reach the embassies’s regulations. We have a very strict process while we recruit new HR resources from villages for our clients , all those processes procedures are already trained to our recruitment departments and all concern departments. TTS recognizes the value of well trained and motivated employees, indeed this is paramount to a success factor and the result quality to satisfied our clients. TTS fully endorse appropriate internal and external training and motivation talks to develop the opportunities for all staff including part time , trainers to assist them achieving their full potential. TTS promote gender equality throughout any recruitment process, there will be no discrimination regarding on the race, age, religion, sex or disability making sure no unconscious bias is evident in the recruitment and decision process. Page 7 of 7 5 Environmental Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake intiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 5.1 Commitment TTS is a small company engaging with international corporation while our organizational footprint has a minimal impact on the environment. TTS recognizes its responsibility to do everything possible to make a positive contribution to the environment, and takes steps whatever it is small . TTS gives the environmental awareness to the employees and motivate with some gifts to engage with green practices , such as to switch off the electricity after used ,to use effectively on water consumption , to understand the recycle process and it’s great consequences, etc. Most of green practices are made aware of our environmental aspirations thourgh the above initiatives training, we actively encourage all staff to pursue . Current performance monitoring is carried out by the company’s internal auditor and reported back to the Management Team monthly. We do a good recycling programme for the office environment where every team contributes, TTS has recently monitor on usage of document papers and trying to re-use on error paper as internal office notebooks. 6 Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 6.1 Commitment code of conduct TTSVTC Equality and Dignity at Work policy and Corporate and Social Responsibility Policy addresses the issue of bribery and corruption. All employees are made aware of our ethical conduct and business integrity expectations, this is in order to safeguard our reputation and the interests of our clients. We also ensure all our clients are aware throught their contractual agreements of that commitment, and we encourage to cooperate in its implementation. All employees are reminded of their responsibilities and the company’s expectations regarding on ethical business conduct through the company’s orientation program for new and it’s annual performance appraisal management process. If anyone in centre engaged in any kind of corruption , we do serious actions with counselling and interviews .
