Sustainability Report 2018 Statement of our Management 2018 in Retrospect and Outlook for 2019 Our Sites Worldwide Report Structure Sustainable Management Product – Economic Development People – Social Responsibility Planet – Environmental Responsibility Partnering – Shared Responsibility Indexes Statement of our Management As a leading manufacturer of premium leather for the automotive industry, we are committed to a global presence, to responding flexibly to market fluctuations and to pursuing visionary innovations for our leather products. Statement of our Management Dear Readers, The consequences of the trade disputes, Brexit negotiations, and WLTP audits have As with previous economic downturns, we are committed to safeguarding jobs in also been felt at BADER since the second half of 2018, in the form of order reductions view of the temporary decline in production. We invest worldwide in education and in some markets. In addition, extreme floods, drought, and heat and as a result, water training and regularly conduct health checks and safety training. In South Africa, we shortages, forest fires, and crop failures remind us how important it is to work on the support, for example, HIV/AIDS prevention. We are also committed to social causes, sustainable alignment of the leather value chain. such as schooling for children with learning difficulties in Uruguay, as every year. In the future, we will strengthen our global presence with production sites in all major As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, we have committed ourselves to markets for finished leather, leather cuttings, and seat covers. In addition, we want its principles and sustainable development goals. Together with our regional partners to become even more innovative in the development of more sustainable leather at our locations around the world, we will make even a bigger difference. products and the utilization of co-products such as split leather or Kollamat®. With this second progress report for 2018, we are making our activities more All sites use our integrated management system to improve quality, environmental measurable and invite you to convince yourself of our commitment. and energy performance, health protection, occupational safety, and sustainability. At the individual sites there are also certified management systems. To strengthen health protection and occupational safety at work, we are now in the process of introducing ISO 45001. BADER China’s award from VOLVO‘s as Best Local Supplier in November, shows that our efforts are paying off. Yours sincerely, We have taken an important step forward in improving our environmental performance. We are proud that South Africa reached the gold level of the LWG environmental audit as well as the ECO2L certification for energy and CO2 assessment, in its first attempt in 2018. This means that all major leather-manufacturing sites are certified. Thomas Bader Lothar Bauhofer Bent Dreilich Jürgen Erb Marcus Röhling Bader Sustainability Report 2018 3 2018 in Retrospect and Outlook 2019 BADER, for about 145 years now, has been working with leather, a sophisticated The second half of the year was turbulent with regard to various developments natural material and one of the oldest and most versatile materials known to mankind. worldwide. On a positive note, the OSI Group has become more involved in the hide Over the course of five generations, our family business has been developing knowtrade through the integration of A+B, thus strengthening the transparency of the how and expertise in the production and processing of quality leather: from different supply chain. raw materials, with mineral, synthetic, and plant-based tanning processes, for various industries. We see the further development of our products and processes We laid the foundation stone for the construction of a new plant in China, which as a continuous learning process in which we reflect on and proactively adapt the underscores our strong growth there. VOLVO has named BADER China Best economic, social, and environmental aspects of our actions. Local Supplier for its reliable quality and delivery and values us as a strategic partner. Furthermore, we moved into a new building in Göppingen, which houses The first half of 2018 started with some interesting sustainability milestones. Thomas administration, development, laboratory, and a car park. Bader publicly expressed our commitment to the United Nations‘ Global Compact principles (UN Global Compact 2019) and xxSustainable Development Goals With the beginning of the second half of the year, the effects of the trade conflicts (UN 2018). We are particularly proud that BADER South Africa achieved the Gold worldwide, reduced car sales in China, the introduction of the Worldwide Harmonized certification of the Leather Working Group in its first attempt. ( Chapter Sustainable Light Vehicles Test Cycle (WLTP) and Brexit made their presence felt for BADER Corporate Management) in the form of fewer call-off orders. As of November, a reduction in production was unavoidable. Nevertheless, in 2018, we daily produced 80,000 m² of leather, Rinspeed presented the snap concept car (Rinspeed 2018) for which BADER 50,000 leather cut parts, and seat covers for 2,840 vehicles and increased our provided a particularly environmentally friendly leather. Together with our partner workforce to 12,000 employees. ( Chapter Product) xxDiedrich Pet (Diedrich Pet 2019), we also developed high-quality material reuse of chemically untreated splitting remnants into dog chewing articles and placed them In the first half of 2019, we also expect the environment to remain difficult, with on the market. ( x Chapter Product) car sales continuing to stagnate and negotiations on trade agreements continuing. Through our global presence, flexible orientation with production facilities in all For some years now, product category rules have been developed both by important markets, we will also overcome these hurdles. The merger of our logistics standardization and at EU level, for the most comparable environmental evaluation activities with the new logistics center at BADER Polska and the opening of a sewing of leather possible. The EN 16887: 2017 draft published by the German Institute plant in Bulgaria are important milestones in this process. for Standardization (German: Deutsches Institut für Normung, DIN) and the latest xxEU draft (De Rosa-Giglio et al 2018) published in April 2018 currently have differing views in some respects. Together with other tanners, we therefore deal with two developments. ( Chapter Planet) Bader Sustainability Report 2018 4 2018 in Retrospect and Outlook 2019 BADER South Africa receives LWG Gold 06 11 certification Move into a new building in Göppingen New mobility Rinspeed01 03 Dog chewing articles from splitting remnants come onto the US market 02 BADER South Africa – BAD105 Thomas Bader signed the United Nations 04 Global Compact Letter of Commitment Updated draft of EU product category rules 11 BADER China awarded Best Local Supplier by Volvo Bader Sustainability Report 2018 5 Our Sites Worldwide 1: Göppingen (headquarters), Germany 5: Dalian, China 2 1 3 5 1: Ichenhausen, Germany 6: Chennai, India 8 6 7 2: Boleslawiec, Poland 7: Rayong, Thailand 4 3: Horodok, Ukraine 8: Léon and Jalisco, Mexico 9 4: Ga-Rankuwa, South Africa 9: Ciudad Del Plata, Uruguay Bader Sustainability Report 2018 6 Report Structure BADER has signed the United Nations Global Compact principles (UN) (UN Global The material Sustainable Development Goals for BADER Compact 2019) and is committed to upholding its principles concerning human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption practices, as well as its Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (UN 2018). The UN principles act as a „compass“ to help navigate the course and the UN goals as a „lighthouse“ for orientation. Also companies need to bring their business activities into line with the global UN principles and goals and to act in a responsible and targeted manner within their own sphere of influence. On this basis, we are in the process of embedding the UN principles and goals into our strategy, culture, and ultimately our day-to-day business. To determine the essential topics that we can really get behind, BADER has assessed the 17 UN goals for influence and relevance. In so doing, we take into account the effects of production processes and end-products on society and the environment and our ability to influence change. The goals over which we have particular influence are shown in the figure on the right. They are sorted numerically and do not correspond to any evaluative ranking. In our annual Sustainability Report, we elaborate more specifically on the UN goals that we consider essential. Last year we published our first report for the year 2017. This second report covers the year 2018 (1st January to 31th December). Bader Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2018 7 Report Structure This sustainability report links BADER‘s activities to the UN principles and goals and We have supplemented these three dimensions with Partnering (cooperation), because assesses our contribution to the material topics. We have structured this report only together with our customers, suppliers and other interest groups can we achieve according to the 3P formula (Elkington 1994), that describes the three dimensions the UN goals holistically across the entire value chain. The structure underlying the of sustainability: Product (economy), People (society) and Planet (environment). sustainability report and the link to the UN goals are shown in the figure. Structure of the sustainability report and link to the UN goals Product People Planet Partnering Economic Social Environmental Shared Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Premium Leather Social Commitment Resources Interest Groups Sustainable Business Labor Standards Chemicals Supplier Management Sustainable Product Health and Occupational Safety Water Supplier Evaluation and Deand Process Development velopment Training and Career Management Energy Alternative Tanning Procedures Product Safety and Traceability Diversity and Equal Opportunity Emissions Animal Welfare Bader Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2018 8 Sustainable Management Sustainable management integrates social and environmental concerns into business operations. BADER has embedded its sustainable management in policy and code of conduct, strategy and goals and has put in place structures and management systems to enable continuous assessment and improvement. Competence Center Sustainability Values and Standards Legal Compliance Strategies and Goals Evaluation and Control Sustainable Management Competence Center Sustainability Values and Standards Sustainable management serves to secure the long-term survival of our company As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, BADER is committed to the UN principles and requires company commitment on all levels. Since 2010, a dedicated crossand to the sustainable development goals concerning human rights, labor standards, departmental and cross-plant team in the Competence Center Sustainability (CCS) environment, and anti-corruption. has been responsible for initiating and implementing our sustainability strategies and goals under the leadership of the executive board. In this way, BADER can To meet this responsibility, we have firmly anchored our fundamental values and proactively advance its own projects and more specifically coordinate sustainability principles of conduct, above and beyond the legal requirements, in our BADER activities such as ECO2L and LWG audits worldwide. Another important component Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility (BADER 2017a) and our xQuality, is sustainability reporting, which we have been introducing since 2017. Besides, we Environmental and Energy Policy (BADER 2016). In addition, the Code of Conduct are working on various topics together with those responsible at our sites around the (BADER 2017b) that applies to all contract and business partners lays down basic world and with various interested parties. principles of conduct for day-to-day practice and business policy. As part of the annual management review, we ensure that our goals are in line with our policies. These rules are understood to be the framework within which we as a company operate Our CCS team in society and can only be implemented through the commitment of all employees and business partners. We have conveyed our policies to all BADER employees and made them available on the internet and intranet. BADER’s Code of Conduct has been Board of management Executive board published on the internet. The documents are available in the particular language of our employees and business partners. Site managers Business units Human resources Purchasing Integrated management Bader Sustainability Report 2018 10 Sustainable Management Legal Compliance BADER is aware of its responsibility for legal compliance and continuously works on The implementation and monitoring of compliance is anchored in our integrated strategies to minimize risk. Important issues such as legality and anti-corruption in management system and is carried out by means of management reviews, regular all areas of the company are firmly anchored in our x BADER Policy on Corporate employee training and supplier meetings and audits. In line with our integrated Social Responsibility (BADER 2017a). We are currently revising our policy and training management system, we regularly review and revise requirements and clearly define program to make our managers and employees around the world more aware of what responsibilities in specifications and instructions. they can do in case of need and to whom they can turn to if necessary. Management at each plant monitors compliance with all respective national and local BADER is committed to legal and fair competitive conduct and to comply with legal laws and regulations in the context of all company operations and on all operational requirements at all its sites. There were and are no legal proceedings pending against levels. This includes getting agreements concerning company activities with the BADER. No penalties have been imposed, nor are any threatened or expected. relevant authorities and obtaining the necessary approvals that also cover such areas as construction, labor law, occupational safety, environmental protection, and food In dealing with business partners and government institutions, the interests of the law. company and private interests of employees on both sides, are kept strictly separate. Decisions taken are free from extraneous considerations and personal interests. If we become aware of violations of our corporate policy, we investigate them and take appropriate measures. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 11 Sustainable Management Strategies and Goals We derive our business strategy from the holistic assessment of economic, Cooperation with our customers and suppliers is also an important component of our environmental, and social opportunities and risks. In this context, our strategy has strategy. In addition to ensuring product safety, we pursue important goals such as four drivers: testing suitable methods for traceability back to the animal owner, LWG certification of our raw and semi-finished product suppliers and the definition of minimum animal With the aim of long-term preservation and expansion of our traditional company, we welfare standards. plan and invest across all sites and divisions in a sustainable as well as environmentally and socially responsible manner. We are committed to the observance of human rights, fair working conditions, and a culture of diversity, mutual respect, and equal opportunities. To promote lifelong learning, we invest in education and continuous professional development throughout an employee’s professional career. In order to ensure the best possible protection BADERs strategy drivers of health and safety at work, we are in the process of integrating ISO 45001 into our integrated management system and plan to have the first sites certified in accordance with this standard as of 2019. We act We set We research We address in a long-term minimum standards and develop goals together Taking customer-specific requirements into account, we invest intensively in and for health sustainably with customers researching and developing sustainable products, processes, and technologies with forward-thinking and well-being and holistically and suppliers even lower resource consumption and emissions, which are assessed on a holistic manner and life-cycle basis. We underline this commitment with the environmental and sustainable certifications ISO14001, ISO 50001, ECO2L, and LWG. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 12 Sustainable Management Evaluation and Control At least once a year, BADER uses various management reports and internal audits We also respect the protection of intellectual property rights. For instance, we had to review aspects of sustainable management and consequently derive measures ourselves audited in 2016, initiated by one of our largest customers, and implemented and goals for continuous improvement. In addition, as part of their usual supplier the resulting measures accordingly. With view to the basic EU data protection management, our customers have commissioned since 2017 sustainability audits at regulation that has been in force since May 2018, we have implemented the major some of our sites. innovations in the handling of personal data in our company practice and train all BADER employees who participate in digital data exchange annually. On the operational level, we support our company’s sustainable development by consistently making use of our integrated management systems. It clearly regulates requirements and responsibilities in specifications and instructions and is based on various international standards according to which we certify x our sites (BADER 2019) and have them regularly reviewed in external audits. ISO 9001/ IATF 16949 ISO 17025 ISO 14001 Meanwhile, all of BADER’s sites have a quality management certification according to ISO 9001 and/or IATF 16949 specifically for the automotive industry. Since 2001, 100% 10% 73% of the sites of the sites of the sites Mexico Léon has been accredited according to ISO 17025 for the sites with testing and calibration laboratories. This is planned for 2019 for our laboratories in Germany and China. All leather-manufacturing sites have the ISO 14001 certification for environmental management. In 1999, our Göppingen headquarters with its Ichenhausen plant was one of the first automotive leather producers in Germany to get the ISO 14001 ECO2L LWG certification. ISO 50001 71% of the 71% of the 18% leatherleatherSince 2015, two sites have also had an energy management system certified to ISO of the sites manufacturing manufacturing 50001. Between 2019 and 2021, we plan to introduce ISO 45001 certification for sites sites occupational health and safety management at four sites. The results of the findings benefit all of our subsidiaries. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 13 Sustainable Management Since 2012, BADER has also been working closely with the German Leather Federation Since 2015, BADER has regularly answered the sustainability questionnaires of the (German: Verband der Deutschen Lederindustrie, VDL) and the Leather Working Group established providers Ecovadis and NQC. At Ecovadis, we achieved in 2018 the silver (LWG). Both offer certifications to tanneries and leather manufacturers that define rating on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and are among the top 27% of the specific performance requirements in order to promote environmentally friendly and evaluated suppliers. At NQC, our 10 reportable sites achieve between 85% and 94% – sustainable production in the leather industry. on average 90% of the total score. The VDL has had developed the > Energy Controlled Leather (ECO2L) Certification It is our goal to continuously implement new requirements at our sites in the coming (VDL 2013), the world‘s first benchmark for tanneries on energy and carbon dioxide years. In so doing we will gradually expand our reporting. (CO2). This benchmark builds on the experience and energy analyses of around 20 leading tanneries worldwide. The LWG consists of brand companies, suppliers, distributors, industry experts, NGOs, and other organizations. Together, the group discusses the latest developments and requirements to be set in the globally valid x LWG audit protocol (LWG 2019a) for the assessment of the environmental performance of tanneries, some of which goes far beyond legal requirements. BADER has been actively involved in the development of both the ECO2L tool and the LWG protocol. Since 2012, we have been successively introducing both certifications at our leather-manufacturing sites. By the end of 2018, the five larger sites of a total of seven leather-manufacturing sites, had obtained ECO2L and LWG certifications. We are particularly pleased that three plants achieved LWG Gold certification and two plants LWG Silver certification in their first attempt. At our site in Ichenhausen, energy BADER Polska – BAD102 BADER Ichenhausen – BAD101 BADER Polska – 027 consumption is still at the LWG silver level (> Chapter Planet). Our plant in Mexico is BADER China – 033 BADER China – BAD103 BADER de Mexico – BAD104 still convincing its sub-contractors and producers of semi-finished products to have BADER South Africa – BAD105 BADER Ichenhausen – 036 their production sites audited by LWG (> Chapter Partnering). BADER de Mexico – 024 BADER South Africa – 037 Bader Sustainability Report 2018 14 Product – Economic Development Companies can effectively support the UN sustainability goals by also taking social and environmental concerns into consideration parallel to their economic development. As a family-owned company already in the fourth and fifth generation we plan for the long term, investing heavily in research and development of sustainable products, processes, and technologies and are committed to legal and fair competitive behavior at our sites. In Focus: New Mobility meets Interior Design Premium Leather for the Automotive Industry Sustainable Business at BADER Sustainable Product and Process Development Alternative Tanning Procedures Product – Economic Development New Mobility meets Interior Design Since 2018, BADER has been participating in the development of concept vehicles by the Swiss company Rinspeed in order to show the possibilities of a sustainable design of automotive interiors using leather, for a time when it will become increasingly unnecessary to intervene in traffic. In a highly creative think tank of about 30 partner companies, innovations, creations, and emotions merge into visionary mobility concepts such as electric mobility and autonomous driving. In 2018, the think tank presented its 24th concept car > snap (Rinspeed 2018). As a renewable natural material, leather is like no other material providing high quality, durability, versatility, and comfort. Together with one of our partners for tanning and finishing systems, we have developed a particularly sustainable leather for Rinspeed snap. We further highlight the natural leather properties and deliberately use natural features such as grooves, wrinkles, and irregularities. Tanning is carried out with natural, renewable raw materials from plant components. The finishing is reduced to a minimum thickness and contains components based on renewable raw materials such as rapeseed oil, too. Like all our leathers, this leather meets the high demands of automotive leather and is dirt-repellent and easy to clean. Compared to the standard production process, the energy and water consumption of the entire production In Focus process has once again been significantly reduced. The Rinspeed concept vehicles are being presented at major industrial trade fairs such as the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, the Geneva Motor Show or the Shanghai Motor Show and are attracting great attention in the industry. Rinspeed snap was also presented to the professional world at the Hanover Fair and the Milano Design Week. Due to the positive response, BADER will also participate in the concept car microSnap in 2019. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 16 Product – Economic Development Premium Leather for the Automotive Industry BADER is one of the leading international manufacturers of premium leather for the Sustainable economic thinking has a long family tradition at BADER that is currently automotive industry. BADER‘s exclusive leathers shape mobile living spaces – as seat being continued by the fourth and fifth generations of entrepreneurs. For example, with covers, armrests, steering wheels, door panels, instrument panels, gear knobs or gear the conviction that we invest sustainably in the long term as well as environmentally gaiters. We create automotive solutions for every area of application and every type and socially responsibly. of vehicle – from surface leather and customized cutting to the finished upholstery. The latest production technology and constant monitoring during the manufacturing We have had a global presence for decades and supply all major automotive markets process ensure consistent high quality. The premium quality that distinguishes BADER from our decentralized production sites. We operate an international supplier and automotive leather worldwide. logistics network to meet our high customer requirements worldwide. In accordance with our customers‘ requirements, we plan global requirements as holistically Today we manufacture leather in particular for the automotive industry with an as possible with the aim of optimum capacity utilization as well as job and supply estimated global market share of 20-25%. In 2018, we produced 80,000 m² of leather security. (+11% compared to the previous year), 50,000 m² of leather cuttings (+14%) and seat covers for 2,840 vehicles (+5%) worldwide, despite the downturn in the global economy in the second half of the year. leather production cut parts 2018 2018 per day 2018 per day seat covers for 2,840 m2 m2 80,000 50,000 2017 per day 2017 2017 2,700 worldwide 72,000 44,000 cars worldwide worldwide Bader Sustainability Report 2018 17 Product – Economic Development Sustainable Business at BADER Leather is one of the oldest and most versatile materials known to mankind. At BADER For us, a passion for leather also means handling this material responsibly. For almost we have been working with this sophisticated material for over 145 years. As > co100 years, we have been looking for new possibilities for the most comprehensive products of milk and meat production (UNIDO 2012), raw hides are renewable natural and high-quality material use of existing resources and residual materials possible materials that can substitute products made from non-renewable raw materials such and are now refining numerous co-products (> Chapter Planet). as petroleum-based plastic sheets and textiles. Moreover, numerous high-quality coproducts can also be recycled in connection with leather production. The raw hides are considerably thicker than the desired finished leather thickness and are therefore split horizontally. The split is cut into croupon core, necks and flanks. BADER consistently implements improvement measures and state-of-the-art Skin layers, necks, and flanks are further processed into high-quality collagen and technologies at its sites worldwide to significantly reduce energy and water used in food, dietary supplements as well as cosmetic and pharmaceutical products. consumption as well as emissions (> Chapter Planet). Leather has many facets. We manufacture leather in various colors, sheen, and texture. Our leathers are adaptable Together with our partners, we refine the croupons into split leather, which largely to the requirements of tensile strength, elasticity, and softness. On the one hand, corresponds to the properties of grain leather and is therefore suitable for certain leather is durable, robust, hard-wearing, and non-flammable, while also being dirtareas of application. Like leather, it meets the highest requirements and is used, for repellent, easy to clean, and, depending on the finish, breathable. example, as > steering wheel leather (Lecapell 2019) in the automotive industry. Chemically untreated splitting remnants can also be used sustainably as x dog The special features of leather chewing articles (Diedrich Pet 2019). Cleaning and drying are carried out free of chemicals and the splitting remnants can be traced back from raw material Renewable natural material with versatile properties procurement to product dispatch. In addition, it meets the food safety standard BRC of the Global Food Safety Initiative. Rawhides = co-products of the meat industry High quality co-products of leather production Bader Sustainability Report 2018 18 Product – Economic Development The idea of developing new products from remnants is not new to us. Since the 1930s, We have developed BADER LEATHER CARE to ensure that our leathers retain their BADER has been processing vegetable tanned cutting waste and shavings into a leather uniqueness for as long as possible. The leather care product is a water-soluble emulsion fiber (LEFA). Today, we hand over cutting waste and shavings to LEFA processing of nourishing waxes in combination with a dispersion that protects leather from soiling companies. Typical LEFA applications were and are shoe parts, book bindings, bag and gives stressed surfaces their natural silky shine again. It also ensures suppleness inner linings and suitcase parts or belts for example. and reduces the typical creaking noises that occur, for example, when seat covers are subjected to everyday strain. Today, we develop Kollamat®, a high-quality compound from leather fibers (shavings, finished leather), polymers, and additives. It enables products with a unique appearance Optimising material cycles and a variety of individually adaptable properties for a wide range of applications. Kollamat® combines the haptic and moisture-regulating properties of leather with the Raw material input Product output (amongst others) possibilities of synthetic materials and offers optimum heat and sound insulation as well as high variability in strength and density. It is produced with a comparatively low energy input, substitutes 30-65% of plastics and can be produced partly or completely Cut parts from biological resources. In injection molding, Kollamat® is an ideal material for haptic handle applications as a single or multi-component process, but is also convincing for Raw hide Finished leather Seat covers components with higher strengths. Floor coverings or surfaces, for example, can be produced by extrusion. Pelleted leather Kollamat® remnants Leather is a material, which provides us with the inspiration for a whole world of innovative ideas apart from creating new collections for automobiles. The BADER Split leather LEATHER GOODS department produces handmade leather products in a timeless design. Accessories, small leather goods, bags, and collections for people who love the Input for gelatin perfect symbiosis of material, feel, and stylish fashion. Unique quality, exclusive shapes, and collagen and colors that create experiences out of leather. Fashion objects with automotive Input for accents, handmade couture with character. BADER LEATHER GOODS creates customLEFA material made individual pieces, small series, special editions, or collections for clients from all sectors. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 19 Product – Economic Development Sustainable Product and Process Development In addition, we invest heavily in research and development of sustainable products, In terms of process development, about one third of our R&D projects are concerned processes, and technologies. We work closely with our customers, suppliers, and with testing more sustainable alternatives for our machines. Projects are underway other stakeholders to meet their needs on the one hand, while on the other hand, for example, to reduce the use of dyes and the time required for dye adjustment and already taking into account the sustainability aspects in the development stage. This to save energy and reduce surface shrinkage during drying. means being able to develop holistic solutions over the entire life cycle of our leather products. We are gradually implementing the positive experiences gained from our The ideas from our employees also help us to innovate and become better at what R&D projects at our sites around the world. we do. Through our globally established company suggestion scheme, employees contribute a wide range of suggestions that go beyond financial, technical, and In 2018, 45% of our R&D projects were based not only on technical and economic qualitative improvements. In Mexico and Uruguay, for example, digital screens are aspects, but also on environmental and/or social aspects. Half of our raw hide R&D now replacing paper stencils in the stamping shop, which had previously used plotters projects deal with sustainable issues. In addition to the processing of split leather, it that were expensive to produce and were regularly used on a large scale. Further is also about the preparation of the split co-products for upgrading in a wide variety sustainable suggestions by our employees relate e.g. to improve occupational safety of areas. Apart from that, the assurance is on the traceability of the raw material and on machines, to reduce energy consumption, or to recycle residual materials. the assurance of animal protection and animal welfare. All Kollamat® projects are sustainably oriented towards the development of new and high-quality co-products Sustainable R&D projects for existing residual materials such as shavings and finished leather. The possible areas of application are diverse and range, for example, from handle applications and components to floor coverings and surfaces. 16.0% Raw material About half of our R&D projects from production through to crust are sustainable. 10.7% Finishing These include, for example, various tests for the extraction of tanning agents, the 6.7% Production to crust reduced use of tanning agents and water, as well as tests on vegetable tanned leather. Approximately one third of the finishing R&D projects are sustainably motivated, e.g. 6.7% Kollamat with the development of a trend-setting finish for the Rinspeed concept vehicle or 5.3% Machines trials on finishing-based on renewable raw materials and the reutilization of colorless finishing mixtures. 54.6% technical-economic R&D projects 45.4% sustainable R&D projects Bader Sustainability Report 2018 20 Product – Economic Development Alternative Tanning Procedures BADER continuously researches and develops its products and processes in order to Characteristics of alternative tanning procedures (as of 2018) optimize the use of chemicals in line with wastewater treatment. The different tanning processes involve specific leather properties and, over the product life cycle, different Criteria Mineral Synthetic Vegetable environmental impacts. The tanning agents bind differently to the collagen and thus tanning tanning tanning require different amounts. The quantity of solid co-products is largely independent (chromium III) (glutardialdehyde) of the tanning agent, but there are qualitative differences, which are reflected in the suitability for different recycling methods. Leather Property-stable Better Under properties and permanent shrinkage development Mineral tanning with chromium is still the most established procedure that enables the efficient and cost-effective production of leather in large quantities. The starting products for chromium tanning materials are co-products of the metal industry. Compared to synthetically tanned leathers, chromium tanned leathers have slightly Tanning agents Lower Lower to Higher more stable and durable properties such as softness and color fastness and are less required amount medium amount amount sensitive to moisture and heat. This tanning agent is almost completely recoverable. There are x proven techniques and regulations (CADS 2018) for the production of a safe and chromium-VI-free leather – which BADER strictly applies. Compared to the other tanning processes, the waste water from chromium tanning has a lower Health No risk of chromiumVery low and Very low and chemical oxygen demand (COD) and safe treatment processes are available. and safety VI-formation under manageable risk manageable risk strict application of of hazardous of hazardous CADS 2018 substances substances Wastewater Lower effort Higher effort Higher effort and and easier and more difficult and more difficult sludge treatment to handle to handle to handle Bader Sustainability Report 2018 21 Product – Economic Development Compared to mineral tanning, synthetic tanning with glutardialdehyde provides a significantly better surface stability and shrinkage behavior to a change of climate. Here, too, there are proven and tested procedures for handling the hazardous substance glutardialdehyde – which BADER also strictly applies. However, synthetic tanned leathers are more sensitive to moisture and heat and cause a higher wastewater load than chromium tanning. Vegetable tanning processes from renewable raw materials are not yet predestined for the production of soft automotive leather. All in all, vegetable tanning agents require a higher application quantity in order to achieve sufficient stabilization of the collagen matrix, which usually implies higher chemical costs. In recent times, increasingly vegetable remnants are used as tanning agents. Nevertheless, the production of some vegetable tanning agents is associated with plantation management in partly tropical areas. Vegetable tanning agents also involve a more difficult wastewater treatment, since they consist chemically of stable phenolic cyclic compounds, for example, which are difficult to remove from wastewater and thus cause a higher COD. Against this background, we are pursuing various R&D projects on alternative tanning procedures that are both suitable for industrial use and do not endanger health and the environment. Thereby, we neither exclude synthetic nor vegetable tanning agents. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 22 People – Social Responsibility 2018 marked the seventieth anniversary of the proclamation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the UN – a universal system of values and principles of human coexistence. Combating poverty, ensuring health, fair opportunities and living conditions, and reducing disparities are the major challenges facing sustainable development today. BADER globally supports charitable activities and initiatives and is committed to the observance of human rights, fair working conditions and life-long education and training, as well as a culture characterized by diversity, mutual respect and equal opportunity. In Focus: BADER Clinic in South Africa Social Engagement Labor Standards Health and Occupational Safety Training and Career Management Diversity and Equal Opportunity People – Social Responsibility BADER Clinic in South Africa South Africa is one of the regions worldwide hardest hit by HIV/AIDS – with 7.5 million HIV positive people 13% of the general population are affected. To improve the situation, the country has the largest antiretroviral therapy program in the world. BADER is aware of the serious mortality and resulting economic and social consequences not only for the individuals affected and their families but also for the community and the whole country. With our on-site clinic, we aim to reduce the spread of the HIV and tuberculosis and enhance the health and well-being of our employees. The medical consultation covers: Pre-test counselling to build knowledge and awareness on different health issues, including how certain diseases are transmitted and how this can be prevented, Health check-ups, including monitoring of weight, temperature, and clinical signs as well as HIV/AIDS testing and tuberculosis screening, Post-test counselling, which covers what to do if a test is either positive or negative, including transmission prevention, treatment, and special care for women of child-bearing age with a positive test result, In Focus Regular follow-up on the progress made, initially in a quarterly program, later bi-annually to annually. Over the years we have experienced how significant the follow-up is, though it is quite cost-intensive. In future, we will run campaigns, which will focus on high-risk target groups to increase awareness. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 24 People – Social Responsibility Social Engagement At its sites worldwide, BADER joins the fight against poverty and provides the local We are also committed to caring for young and older people. In Germany, we population with access to essential resources and services. To this end, we dedicate promote a learning initiatives, kindergartens, and sports. In Mexico, we support local a substantial part of our turnover to social activities and in 2006 – after the socially schools with our „Adopta una escuela“ program. In addition, we organize activities committed Hans Bader died – the Bader family established the charitable „Hans in children‘s and senior citizen’s institutions. In Poland, we support a children‘s home Bader Foundation“. Our global commitment extends beyond our support of research, in Bolesławiec and organize an annual environmental competition with employees‘ employment as well as health and safety to the care of young and older people. children. In South Africa, we sponsor school equipment and food for the first graders of our employees. In the Ukraine and Uruguay, we are helping to empower young We promote global education and employment initiatives to improve employment people by supporting social, educational, and sports facilities. In Uruguay, we are prospects. In Germany, for example, we support the promotion of employment and also supporting an educational support program designed to help approximately educational opportunities for difficult-to-place unemployed, long-term unemployed, 50 children with learning disabilities to improve their school performance and and persons threatened by exclusion from the labor market. In South Africa, we have succeed in the school year. These are children from BADER employees as well as been offering one-year leather qualification training for now almost 100 unemployed others. school leavers, since 2007. In the Ukraine and Uruguay, we cooperate together with other companies with the local chambers of industry and commerce to advance Our social engagement projects in the dual vocational training system. We are committed to health, safety, and palliative initiatives, including sports. In Germany and Mexico, we support, for example, hospitals, nursing facilities, and Global education and employment initiatives hospices and organize joint breakfasts and other meetings. In Poland, we carried out a blood donation campaign and collected goods for the needy. In South Africa, we offer our employees medical care, donate to charitable organizations that support HIV/AIDS orphans, and support BADER’s Sports Club and local sporting events. In Health, safety, and palliative initiatives the Ukraine, we promote the local clubs that support people with special needs, and fund the purchase of medical equipment. In Uruguay, we organize informative talks on topics such as addiction, violence, or palliative care. Caring for young and older people Bader Sustainability Report 2018 25 People – Social Responsibility Labor Standards Our fundamental values and principles of conduct are firmly anchored in the The working hours allow a sufficient balance between work and relaxation and xxCorporate Social Responsibility Policy (BADER 2017a) beyond legal requirements correspond to at least the statutory requirements – concerning both weekly and ( Chapter Sustainable Management). annual working hours. Working on Sundays and holidays only happens in exceptional situations. Every employee is entitled to sufficient leave, some of which exceeds BADER respects and protects human dignity and observes human and labor rights. We statutory requirements. At individual locations, our salaried employees and some of respect the rights of our employees to freedom of assembly, freedom of association the wage earners can use flextime to flexibly organize their work assignments, taking and collective bargaining within the framework of the applicable legal regulations. into account operational requirements. In general, the cultural differences and legal At individual sites there are regular discussions and good co-operation between regulations typical of each country are taken into account. The wage level at our sites company and personnel management and the employee representatives. Collective is based on the regional average in each case – not on the lower limit – and as far agreements typically address a variety of issues such as the protection of health and as they are defined, minimum standards are met or exceeded. Depending on local occupational safety, working conditions, employee development or equal treatment. conditions, we pay additional and atypical working hours. BADER rejects violations such as forced labor, human trafficking and child labor, The policy is available in various languages on the internet, intranet and on information unreservedly. All employees work at BADER voluntarily. Trainees are at least 15 years boards and we strengthen our employees‘ awareness of our values and principles old and get age-appropriate tasks within the scope of their professional preparation in regular training sessions. BADER pursues a zero tolerance policy and does not and training. Like all of our employees, we train them in terms of health and safety tolerate violations of their values and principles of conduct by employees. Employees at work and do not employ them for work that could endanger their health or safety. who identify violations as well as risks and weaknesses that could lead to violations, report these to the complaints office, their superiors, or employee representatives. We investigate the concerns raised, take appropriate action and provide feedback if we know of the person making the report. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 26 People – Social Responsibility Health and Occupational Safety Life-long preservation of health and well-being requires both BADER and every We actively integrate aspects of health protection and occupational safety into our employee to take preventative measures. With the aim of raising awareness, we integrated management system and check compliance worldwide in regular audits regularly conduct training on occupational safety risks and best working practices ( Chapter Sustainable Management). At our sites, there are experts and committees for all employees, including new and semi-skilled employees, trainees, and temporary for occupational safety and emergency plans, which are also certified by the LWG at workers. We also offer driver safety training in Germany and Poland. We inform the sites concerned. In the case of serious accidents, there are mandatory reporting external visitors, such as suppliers, about our safety and conduct rules before they procedures that ensure they are reported to our headquarters – where they are enter our premises. analyzed in order to avoid further incidents. At the individual sites, we support various health services. In Poland, our employees We analyze and anticipate health and safety risks by means of work, process, and receive health insurance with many additional services. In Thailand, we offer annual operating instructions for the individual production areas as well as safety data sheets health checks for all employees. At our German sites, we regularly hold health days and hazard assessments, which are available at the sites in the local language. We with preventive checks and various health and safety campaigns, which we conduct have specific procedures for chemicals management, handling, and safety ( Chapter together with employee representatives and social institutions. In some cases, we Environment). We continuously modernize machines and plants at our sites. Our provide financial support for preventive measures, such as AIDS prevention at our experts analyze and adapt workflows, processes, and safety equipment. Employees South-African site ( In Focus) and the promotion of sports activities at our Polish submit suggestions for improving occupational safety with regard to ergonomics, site. effort, accident prevention, etc. With all these measures, we were able to reduce the number of accidents and the severity of accidents in the last few decades. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 27 People – Social Responsibility Training and Career Management The international orientation, close cooperation with renowned manufacturers, and In order to secure skilled workers, we offer a broad company training and further the advantages of a global company with a family-run corporate structure offer a education portfolio in cooperation with chambers of industry and commerce, wide range of interesting career opportunities. Together we create not only quality at research institutes, and universities and are constantly expanding it to meet demand. an international level but value, and promote the talent and skills of each individual We offer young professionals opportunities for a wide variety of career paths in the employee. areas of technical tradesmanship and commerce as well as in design, research and development, production, and management. In Germany, we had trained 26 young In the past year, the number of employees at our 11 sites worldwide has increased people in various dual vocational training programs and practice-oriented higher by 6% to just under 12,000. At the individual sites, we invest in cooperation with education study programs by the end of 2018, accounting for 5.2% of the workforce. personnel agencies in order to recruit employees. We are interested in keeping We are always interested in taking over trainees. At our German sites, we offer all employees and taking over external workers. Concerning employment protection and trainees, as part of their training, the opportunity to participate in a project week promotion we – as far as legally possible – include i.a. short-time work. with voluntary work in social care institutions, in order to promote teamwork, a sense of community, and tolerance. They also attend seminars and training courses on topics such as stress management, the risk of addiction, healthy cooking, telephone training, office management, and business etiquette. In addition to getting to know the production processes on site, we also offer the opportunity in many training programs to work abroad during training and thereby develop foreign language and intercultural skills. employees Training rate % 2018 12,000 2018 5.2 2017 2017 6.7 11,300 worldwide in Germany Bader Sustainability Report 2018 28 People – Social Responsibility BADER is targeting talent management, offering a variety of internal and external The internal training programs include on-the-job training and various training training opportunities – in the spirit of lifelong learning – to improve employment programs for new employees and current employees for regular refresher courses. opportunities for our employees. In order to consciously promote careers, we define The topics covered are various aspects of our CSR principles and principles of individual training requirements worldwide at least once a year. These are determined conduct, health protection and occupational safety, quality, environmental and energy through voluntary employee appraisals or alternatively, determined by superiors and management, as well as sustainable procurement. Our raw material purchasers are regularly monitored and implemented through binding training and development trained at least annually in sustainable procurement and environmental and social plans. In 2018, the further training rate worldwide was 18 h per employee. aspects in the supply chain. Furthermore, we offer extra-occupational vocational education and further training, in addition to foreign-language and intercultural training, also for technical training courses. They offer the possibility of learning or working temporarily or permanently at one of BADER’s international sites later on. BADER has worked together with the German leather industry to introduce new qualification opportunities recognized by the Chamber of Industry and Commerce. Further training rate 2018 18 h/employee worldwide Bader Sustainability Report 2018 29 People – Social Responsibility Diversity and Equal Opportunity As embedded in our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (BADER 2017a) we In view of a balanced and stable workforce, we support our employees regardless fully reject any discrimination no matter what the reasons might be. Instead, BADER of age, educational level, nationality, etc. We promote language training as well as promotes diversity and equal opportunities for its employees. People with different vocational education and further training. At our German sites, for example, we backgrounds and experience work at our sites: support the compatibility of work and family life. Where required, we also assist our employees in the search for carers for family members. For employees with disabilities, The average age worldwide is 36 years (2017: 37 years) – in Mexico, for example, we pay attention to appropriate work environments and provide the necessary 33 years, in Germany 41 years – which ultimately reflects the demographic trend infrastructure. Employees, who want to continue working after their retirement age, in these countries are offered appropriate working hours. The proportion of women and men in the world average is almost the same – 34% of those in leadership positions are filled by women Our process for hiring and promoting is based on clear criteria and recruitment The proportion of foreign employees worldwide is 2% (2017: 2%) and fluctuates conditions. As of April 2017, temporary workers in Germany have a statutory equal due to different regional labor market situations between 0% in China and Mexico pay right after nine months of uninterrupted work at a company. BADER supports this and 32% in Germany, where we also employ recognized refugees right and is always interested in a stable cooperation – and where possible – in taking The share of the severely disabled in our workforce at our German sites is 2% over temporary employees. In addition, we paid voluntary bonuses also before 2017 (2017: 2%) and verified that that these were paid out to our temporary workers. In the event of discriminatory statements or actions, those affected at our sites can contact the complaints office, their superiors, or employee representatives. BADER checks complaints from a neutral standpoint and initiates the appropriate measures that are transparent for all involved. years Female share % Average age 2018 55 36 2018 worldwide worldwide thereof 34% in leading positions Bader Sustainability Report 2018 30 Planet – Environmental Responsibility The economy and society cannot exist without functioning ecosystems and natural resources. This is why it is more important than ever that we preserve and conserve them for the present and future generations. BADER is aware of this environmental responsibility and is committed to a holistic resource management at all levels of the company and at all sites. We proactively assess the impact of our production processes and products on the environment and include them in our investment and every day decisions, in order to avoid or minimize environmental impacts. In Focus: LWG and ECO2L Introduction at BADER China Resources Chemicals Water Energy Emissions Planet – Environmental Responsibility LWG and ECO2L Introduction at BADER China The introduction of LWG and ECO2L auditing and certification is of great significance to the long-term development of BADER China. Both help us to continuously improve environmental performance, health and safety, and management and processes as well as identify hotspots in leather manufacturing more accurately i.a. by: Water use monitoring: installation of meters on each water-using equipment Energy use and emission management: energy-efficient and low-emission direct natural gas burners for drying since start of manufacturing in 2005 Waste management: Recycling and reuse of most of the waste; new legal, regulatory, and standardizations developments allow now for some waste, which so far categorized as hazardous waste had to be incinerated or landfilled, can now be managed and disposed of as general waste Wastewater management: modern sewage treatment system, which fully meets the national and industry-related discharge control standards; after internal treatment follows further municipal treatment Emergency response, workshop management, and finishing process control are of further high importance In Focus The next steps of the continuous improvement process include the control of volatile organic compounds, on-line monitoring for pollutant emissions, waste reduction, and recycling. We also keep in mind the new LWG chemical management module. The LWG and ECO2L certifications thereby push forward measures to be taken and further help to meet the increasingly stringent environmental protection and fire safety laws, regulations, and standards in China as well as the requirements of customers and other relevant stakeholders. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 32 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Resources BADER accepted the challenge of an environmentally progressive use of resources In addition to the supply of meat and dairy products, livestock farming supplies at an early stage. For decades, we have been continuously optimizing product numerous co-product such as raw hides, the availability of which is dependent on the development and production processes and using innovative technologies to reduce, development of meat consumption. The weight of the raw material depends, among reuse, recycle, and treat waste and cleanly dispose of residual materials. other things, on the species, origin, and conservation type. At our tannery on the Ichenhausen site we have been using between 7-8 kg raw material per m² leather We consider material cycles over the life cycle and are constantly looking for new ways (finished and split leather) for years now. to utilize the hide components as optimally as possible. This holistic approach enables an improved economic and environmental balance by closing cycles in agriculture. In addition to finished and split leather, numerous co-products are producible from this Protein and fat degradation products from wastewater are reusable as fertilizers, for natural material. We process more than 80% of the material input (dry substance of the example. Another example for an optimal utilization of the hide components is the raw hide) into finished leather, other products, and energy. In addition, hide sections/ release of flesh split parts into the food industry (collagen and gelatin). lime trimmings, necks, and flanks (together 25-30% by weight) are processable to high-quality collagen or gelatin. The possibilities for material reuse in food, food supplements as well as cosmetic and pharmaceutical products are wide-ranging. The shavings, which arise from shaving the leather to the final thickness required by the customer (4-5% by weight), can be processed into LEFA and Kollamat® as substitutes Circular economy in agriculture for petroleum-based materials as well as collagen and fertilizer. ( Chapter Product) Soilage Material input at the tannery site in Ichenhausen (dry substance of the raw hide) Sewage sludge Meat for meat as fertilizer and dairy production Material Protein and fat degradation input Skin as a co-product products are released destined of slaughter 80% from the skin (fully recovered) for wastewater 18% sewage sludge (fully materially recovered) 02% waste (properly disposed of) Bader Sustainability Report 2018 33 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Parallel to these co-products from the raw hide, the sewage sludge also represents At our sites around the world, we are currently carrying out projects with various local a non-negligible mass percentage of 15-18%. Thanks to the separate wastewater partners to ensure that residual materials are no longer disposed of, but recovered. treatment, the chromium-containing sewage sludge can be used as a replacement We investigate, for example, the further use of leather residues in shoes in India, and material for landfills (a recycling process recognized by the German Federal of residual materials in brick production in South Africa and Uruguay. Environment Agency) and the chromium-free sewage sludge can be materially recycled in line with the spirit of circular economy in agriculture. The non-usable The focus is also on the recyclability at the end of the useful life of leather, e.g. waste of the dry substance of the skin amounts to less than 2%. in seat covers, but this remains a challenge for the time being due to the existing requirements for tanning and finishing processes. We are working intensively on In relation to the total amount of waste at the Ichenhausen site, these material solutions. recovery paths account for between 60 and 70% of the total recovery and disposal balance. Thermal recycling constitutes further 30 to 40%, especially resulting from lime fleshings for biogas and technical gelatin. Less than 2% of solid materials such as coatings and paint sludge, oil contaminated materials, or used chemicals, are not recyclable and are worldwide professionally disposed of. Despite a long-term recovery rate of more than 98%, we continue to search for ways of improving resource efficiency securing existing recovery paths. Recovery and disposal balance at the tannery site in Ichenhausen Raw hide weight in Ichenhausen 7-8 kg/m2 Recovery and disposal leather 60-70% 30-40% material use thermal use 0max. 10% disposal Bader Sustainability Report 2018 34 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Chemicals Important focal points of our product and process development are chemicals The chemicals demand depends on the quality of the processed raw hides, the management, handling, and safety. We meet legal requirements such as REACH (EU) required product properties, and the resulting tanning process required ( Chapter and customer requirements such as the Global Automotive Declarable Substance List Product). Due to strict specifications from our customers in the automotive industry, (GADSL). In addition, with our BADER Black List and security agreements, we make we replace substances, which are potentially harmful to the environment or human further demands on our suppliers. ( Chapter Partnering) health, mostly earlier than legally required ( Chapter Partnering). With its chemicals management module (LWG 2019b), available since 2018, the In this context, we have also significantly extended the testing of chemicals prior LWG promotes traceability and transparency of the substances used and the to their experimental use, in order to avoid the use of problematic substances with management of potentially sensitive chemicals in the leather supply chain. It is still regard to leather contents, occupational safety, wastewater treatment, and food optional, but will be included in the next revision of the main protocol as a mandatory safety. Most of our chemicals suppliers are located in Europe and guarantee high component by the end of 2019. BADER supports these efforts and is already preparing transparency, traceability, and legal certainty. We are in constant exchange, in order for its implementation. to promote the development of less sensitive substances. In accordance with these requirements, our integrated management system defines We have been able to significantly optimize the use and safety of chemicals over the worldwide procedures and work instructions for the labeling, storage, handling, and past 30 years through various process conversions (BADER 2015a). With a chemical transport of chemicals and especially hazardous materials. By means of regularly input of 200 to 300 kg chemicals per t raw material, e.g. in Ichenhausen, we are updated legal registers, we check and document compliance with the relevant well below the EU standard for the best available technology (BAT) (EU 2013) with regulations worldwide. In order to minimize risks to health and the environment and 425 kg per t raw material. to be able to make corrections immediately, we continuously monitor our chemicals. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 35 Planet – Environmental Responsibility For decades, we have been recovering at our tannery site in Ichenhausen all (III)Chemical use at the tannery site in Ichenhausen 2010-2018 valent chromium tanning agents contained in the tanning wastewater via a recycling plant, thereby reducing the purchase of tanning agents by 25-30%. By optimizing the post-tanning formulation, our sites in South Africa (2016) and Mexico (2018) were also kg/t raw material able to reduce the use of tanning agents. We work worldwide with identical finishing formulations and systems per article and 500 use since 1987 exclusively aqueous coating techniques for the finishing of the leather meanwhile based on 70-85% roller application techniques (syncro process, reverse process). We were thus able to reduce the use of the originally chemical-intensive spraying technology (overspray) to 30-15%, for which we use the latest high volume, EU-BAT 400 low pressure (HVLP) spraying technology and volume control, as well as extremely low atomizing compressed air and a two-component dosing technology. In this way, we have significantly reduced chemical consumption. We are working on further savings in the use of chemicals worldwide. Our suppliers in South Africa, 300 for example, reorganized their chemicals handling and storage in order to meet the requirements for LWG certification. BADER Ichenhausen 200 100 0 Bader Sustainability Report 2018 36 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Water Water is one of the tanner‘s most important auxiliary materials, as it serves as a Examples for optimizing water use and wastewater treatment in our leather transport medium and solvent for chemicals into the hide and for decomposition factories worldwide products coming out of the hide. Therefore, the economic use of water and the careful purification of the resulting wastewater are two of our most important and at All sites Since 2008: implementation of water and energy saving drums in the same time, quite complex environmental tasks. Depending on the raw hides and retanning tanning processes used, the wastewater from tanneries contains different organic and inorganic substances. Synthetic and vegetable tanning agents place a higher China 2016: Use of recycled water in exhaust air cleaning of spray booths load on wastewater as well as higher demands on biological wastewater treatment Germany 1997-2000: Development, testing, and large-scale technical implethan chromium tanning. mentation of fully biological cleaning technology with extensive denitrification In Ichenhausen, we have been significantly reducing the volume of water and in combination with salt-free, complete de-sulfidation; currently wastewater since the 1990s. We use technology that is by global standards highly best available technology; since 2001 listed in the EU-BAT reference water-saving and treat the wastewater in our own wastewater treatment plant documents (EU 2013) as model plant (BADER 2011) so that we can discharge it back into a biologically intact body of water. 2006: Conversion of water supply to river surface water It is not expedient to further reduce the water use, which would probably imply too high concentrations of substances and as result problems in the wastewater Mexico 2016: Installation of water meters in the finishing process to monitor treatment. Our sites in China, Mexico, Poland, South Africa, and Thailand pre-treat the consumption more precisely watewater before it is finally treated in municipal wastewater treatment plants. Our site in Uruguay has a final purification process for the wastewater. By means of our Poland 2017/18: Semi-technical tests for the biological pre-treatment of waste water centrally-managed development, we ensure that newly developed technologies such as the water-saving retanning technologies are regularly transferred to all BADER South Africa 2017: Conversion to weekly drainage of the spray booth plants. The table on the right shows further exemplary measures. 2017: Wet Blue suppliers install new water pipes with semi-automatic dosing, modernize wastewater treatment, and seal previously unpaved surfaces and their connection to wastewater treatment Thailand Since 2016: Monitoring of wastewater Uruguay 2017: Installation of water meters in the finishing process to monitor consumption more precisely 2018: Use of rain water for cleaning purposes 2017+18: Optimization of wastewater treatment (leading also to reduced energy use and maintenance costs) Bader Sustainability Report 2018 37 Planet – Environmental Responsibility We carry out in particular the retanning processes worldwide in similarly optimized Water use of our leather-manufacturing sites 2016-2018 processes. We improve new formulas after completion of the leather technology development regarding running times, water use, and chemical use. Our goal is to l/m2 finished leather use easily biodegradable chemicals and maximize their emaciation. The chromium recycling described in the section on chemicals not only reduces the consumption of chemicals but also significantly reduces the amount of chromium in wastewater. Through these measures, we were able to significantly reduce our water use worldwide. At our leather-manufacturing sites, the aggregated water consumption between 300 2016 and 2018 for all production stages was less than 135 l per m² of finished leather. EU-BAT We are thus below the strictest x LWG Gold requirements (LWG 2019a) of 165 l per m² and well below the x EU-BAT standard (EU 2013) of 285 l per m². 250 We are pleased that our Wet Blue suppliers in South Africa have been able to qualify for LWG Gold partly in their first attempt in 2018, through good cooperation and 200 extensive measures including optimization of water use and wastewater treatment. LWG Gold 150 BADER-Group 100 50 0 Bader Sustainability Report 2018 38 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Energy The global energy sector is currently marked by upheavals in oil and coal production Examples for optimizing the energy consumption of our leather factories worldwide and the steady expansion of renewable energies. In leather manufacturing, energy consumption is an important factor, especially due to the drying processes. Where China Since start of production in 2005: Drying by means of direct gas heating this has not yet been done, we are currently switching to generating heating energy 2016: Installation of an air-based heat pump for employee showers directly at the point of use, thereby avoiding heat transfer and transport losses. 2016: Installation of modular combined boilers with significantly higher heating efficiency We conduct regular internal and external (partly certified) energy efficiency audits at Germany Since 2010: Conversion to LED lighting, highly efficient compressed air our sites worldwide. Five of our seven leather-manufacturing sites (71%) are regularly generation as well as installation of additional heat exchangers for hot audited and certified as part of ECO2L and LWG. At the other sites local authorities carry water generation and heat recovery from compressor exhaust air out energy efficiency audits. Our German sites have also been certified according to 2017: Chimney replacement to further reduce flue gas temperature and ISO 50001 (energy management) since 2015. installation of a gas connection as the basis for direct gas heating 2017-18: Tests with new drying technologies Since 2007, we have been analyzing our energy consumption in more detail and 2018: Conversion of 2 drying channels to gas direct heating consistently deriving short and medium term measures. The table on the right shows further exemplary measures taken in recent years. Mexico 2017-18: Modernization of 6 dry channels (more efficient gas use) 2018: Implementation of a simultaneous maintenance of the dryer line in the retanning process Poland 2017-18: Installation of a heat recovery system to reduce gas consumption, e.g. for heating South Africa 2011+2015: New control system for coal boilers 2017: More efficient monitoring of the coal-fired boilers to reduce the coal use Thailand Since 2016: Monthly energy report to the government and inspection for emission control of steam boilers Uruguay 2017: Conversion of compressed air generation to frequency control 2017: Constant monitoring of energy use and emissions Bader Sustainability Report 2018 39 Planet – Environmental Responsibility In this context, the x ECO2L (LWG 2019a) and x LWG audit systems (VDL 2013) At our site in Ichenhausen, energy performance is still at the LWG silver level. Since with their benchmarks, also play an important role in improving our environmental 2010, we have significantly reduced our energy use through various technical performance, including energy efficiency ( Chapter Sustainable Management). measures. By converting our lighting to light-emitting diodes (LEDs), we were able The energy used at our ECO2L certified sites was well below the energy benchmark to reduce the energy demand for workplace lighting by 73,000 kWh or 55% annually, Best Energy Efficiency for Tanning (BEET), which reflects our success in the holistic compared to conventional fluorescent tubes. In the meantime, LED technology has optimization of energy use. BEET is based on the x Best available techniques for developed further and is now also suitable for high ceiling lighting. We are in the tanning hides and skins (Umweltbundesamt 2003, VDL 2013) specified by the EU, in process of retrofitting our hall background lighting, where we will need 247,000 kWh connection with worldwide data from advanced tanneries and enables a comparison or 80% less energy annually, compared to high-pressure mercury lamps. of the energy efficiency of production processes and equipment in tanneries. Since 2018, we have been converting our drying plants and the boiler plant to direct With regard to energy use, our plants in China, Mexico, and Poland already meet the gas firing in order to be able to achieve LWG Gold level for energy use at Ichenhausen LWG Gold requirements. At these sites, the conversion of the dry channels to the as well. The implemented and still planned measures will lead to further significant generation of heating energy directly on site is already well advanced. Since we want savings, but are not yet reflected due to a temporary reduction in production and the to maintain the LWG Gold level also in the face of increasing future requirements, we relatively cool winter in the second half of 2018. are continuing to invest in expedient measures. Reduced energy use workplace lighting 55 % in Ichenhausen 2010-2018 Bader Sustainability Report 2018 40 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Emissions The most relevant emissions (e.g. theSauerReport 2018) into the atmosphere of a Hydrogen sulphide (H2S) is a highly toxic gas that can form in process vessels and conventional tannery are odor, hydrogen sulphide, ammonia, volatile organic wastewater treatment plants if process safety measures are not complied with. compounds, and greenhouse gases. BADER takes various preventive safety measures to prevent its formation. In risk areas, for example, we measure the presence of hydrogen sulphide. Employees who BADER pursues consistent chemical and environmental management in order to regularly visit tanneries and wastewater treatment plants are equipped with mobile prevent or minimize the output of these emissions. For decades, we have been measuring devices and complete the online course of the Leather Panel of the United investing in technological developments and other measures at our sites worldwide Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). We keep sulphur-containing to this effect. The protocols ECO2L (VDL 2013) and LWG (LWG 2019a) are chemicals and other chemicals as well as liming and deliming fleets strictly separate. important, science-based instruments for improving industry standards worldwide. ECO2L focuses on greenhouse gas emissions, while LWG also monitors emissions e.g. Ammonia (NH3) is an air pollutant that can damage land and water ecosystems through from water workshops, boilers, and spraying machines. acidification and eutrophication. Ammonia has not been used for coloring for years. Ammonium salts are only used to the extent necessary for deliming. Ammonia is We are actively involved in further developing the ECO2L tool to provide a complete also produced during the decomposition of proteins in the raw hide, which however, overview of energy use and CO2 emissions throughout the entire leather manufacturing cannot be easily influenced. Therefore, the focus of our reduction efforts is on other process (from raw hide to finished leather). We are continuing to detail our data types of emissions. and record it from all plants. Currently, reliable data are available in particular for production, procurement shipments as well as for wastewater, exhaust air, and waste management. A further itemization, such as for chemical manufacturing, is in progress. Odor emissions come from protein and fat decomposition products from the tanning 2-3 preparation processes that we specifically produce, e.g. by liming. They mainly occur in the wastewater discharge and treatment of untreated wastewater, in particular from CO2-emissions kg CO2e/m2 the tanning preparation processes, the latter being the main part. For this reason, measures amounting to EUR 337,000 were already taken in Ichenhausen between 1996 and 2001, including the housing of buffer tanks and the installation of biofilters. finished leather of the BADER-group Bader Sustainability Report 2018 41 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) typically stem from solvents used in the finishing VOC emissions of our 5 major leather manufacturing sites 2016-2018 process. The measures already described in the section on chemicals to eliminate the use of solvents, have significantly reduced VOC emissions over the past 30 years. g/m2 finished leather The switch from solvent-based colors and coatings to aqueous systems (according to EU-BAT (non-IED installation with >10-25t solvent per year) the definition of the Federal Environment Agency <5% organic solvents) implemented 80 before 1987, has reduced solvent emissions by 94% since then. Between 2016 and 2018, the annual mean values of VOC emissions at our five major leather-manufacturing sites were between 8 and 21 g of carbon per m² of finished leather, mostly well below 70 the limits specified in the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) 2010/75/EU (EU 2013, 2010). We are working on a further reduction. 60 Greenhouse gases (CO2e) result primarily from the energy required for drying and the machines in manufacturing as well as the procurement transports of the input 50 materials. In recent years, we have achieved a reduction in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by reducing drying processes and temperatures, using state-of-the-art 40 drying techniques, and many measures described in the section on energy. The xxcarbon footprint (BADER 2015b) of all processes at the BADER Group amounts to 2-3 kg CO2e/m² leather. For a better interpretation, it should be noted that these CO2 30 values correspond to less than 1% of emissions for the production of an average midEU-BAT (IED installation with >10t solvent per year) range car and less than 0.2% of its entire service life. 20 10 0 Bader Sustainability Report 2018 42 Partnering – Shared Responsibility A more sustainable, long-term leather value creation is only possible if we work together with our customers, suppliers, and various organizations. In this context, issues such as product safety, traceability, animal welfare, as well as environmental aspects are becoming increasingly important in our daily decisions. In Focus: Traceability in the Supply Chain Interest Groups Basis of our Supplier Management Evaluation and Development of our Suppliers Product Safety and Traceability Animal Welfare Partnering – Shared Responsibility Traceability in the Supply Chain In addition to economic and social aspects, the traceability of raw materials is becoming increasingly important in the daily purchasing decisions. For product safety, certification, compliance, and supply chain communication, it is essential to document the origin and whereabouts of raw materials, semi-finished products, and finished leather. Traceability indirectly and directly influences animal welfare and husbandry, ethically correct and transparent sources, and ecology. In the BADER Group, only hides from domestic cattle are processed. Through traceability projects, BADER expects to achieve closer communication with customers and suppliers, greater transparency, and more sustainable production. Our customers benefit from more detailed information on the delivered semi-finished products and finished leathers, as well as new marketing opportunities. For BADER, traceability means more than just marking the hides. It begins with the birth of the animal and up to the beef processing plant and of course through the tanning process to the finished leather, the stamped parts and the finished vehicle cover. However, difficult and often networked trade relations in the international livestock In Focus and hide trade, make traceability very complicated. Through strategically directed trade relations and long-term connections, as well as good communication with suppliers, the BADER Group is able to trace over 90% of the raw material up to the beef processing plant. By expanding business directly with the beef processing companies, this proportion will increase in the coming years. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 44 Partnering – Shared Responsibility Interest Groups We are convinced that we can often better develop solutions to global challenges by Our interested parties cooperating with various interest groups. Through close and continuous exchange, we identify challenges and develop forward-looking solutions and standards for a Direct and indirect more sustainable leather industry. These include our internal and external interest suppliers External groups. service providers Investors For example, we are in constant dialogue with our suppliers and customers in order to Public ensure the constantly high demands on product properties and to address challenges Customers NGOs and consumers such as product safety, animal welfare, traceability, and environmental aspects throughout the entire supply chain. We participate in national and international R&D Owners Media projects to make leather production more sustainable, for example in terms of the use Competitors of chemicals, occupational safety, and emissions. Neighbors We actively cooperate with educational institutions and associations at our sites in Certification Board of State, authorities, Subsidiaries the design and implementation of vocational education and further training. To this companies management politics, parties end, we work closely with chambers of industry and commerce, research institutes, and universities and, for example, in Germany we are promoting new qualification programs recognized by the chamber of industry and commerce and in the Ukraine Insurances Legislation and and Uruguay, dual vocational training projects ( Chapter People). Employees and jurisdiction their representatives Trade unions We are in close contact with authorities, associations, federations, and certification bodies. Here, for example, we actively contribute our knowledge to the development Associations External emergency of guidelines for international standards, technical documents, or instructions in and unions service, fire department order to improve safety, environmental, and animal welfare standards for the global Educational institutions leather industry. (universities, institutes) Bader Sustainability Report 2018 45 Partnering – Shared Responsibility Basis of our Supplier Management Out of responsibility towards people, society, and the environment, BADER is also Since 2017, 85% of our suppliers of raw hides and semi-finished products have already committed to more sustainable production along the supply chain. In line with our signed the Code of Conduct. In the future, we will also refer to the validity of the Code integrated management system ( Chapter Sustainable Management), we clearly of Conduct in our Terms and Conditions of Purchase, and will urge our suppliers to regulate requirements and responsibilities in specifications and instructions for ensure that their subcontractors adhere to the same principles of conduct. supplier selection, evaluation, and development. Our purchasing and supplier management teams are responsible for the management of our suppliers for the raw We receive the raw materials and semi-finished products globally from more than 60 and semi-finished products and all other materials required as well as investments and suppliers consisting of raw hide dealers, beef processing plants, and semi-finished spare parts for the entire BADER Group. Our sites worldwide are closely interlinked product manufacturers. Purchasing of raw materials is one of the most important and purchasing for all sites is centrally controlled. areas of our production chain, as the raw hide accounts for more than half of the selling price of our finished leather. In addition, BADER works with around 100 We have firmly anchored our requirements for the sustainable procurement of raw chemicals suppliers, 130 suppliers of purchased parts and 1,570 suppliers of all other materials in our BADER Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility (BADER 2017a), non-product materials such as machines for our leather, cutting, and sewing plants. which goes beyond legal requirements. We communicate our supply chain strategy These are predominantly located in Europe with a global network of sites that enable and basic principles of conduct in day-to-day practice and business policy to our us to adapt quickly, effectively, and efficiently to our market. We procure 99% of business partners via our Code of Conduct (BADER 2017b), our Terms and services locally. Global investments are managed centrally and enable synergies in Conditions of Purchase (BADER 2012), contracts, as well as chemical, quality, and procurement, logistics, and technology. environmental security agreements with our material suppliers as well as in meetings, audits, and training sessions. Our suppliers worldwide Code of Conduct signed by 2018 85 % Supplier base 60 100 for raw hides and semi-finished products for chemicals 2017 80 130 for purchased parts 1,570 for non-product materials the suppliers of raw hides and semi-finished products Bader Sustainability Report 2018 46 Partnering – Shared Responsibility Evaluation and Development of our Suppliers Due to the global growth of the BADER Group and the resulting complex supply Since 2017, we have also been analyzing and assessing risks along the supply chain chains, regular evaluation and development of our suppliers is more important than for raw materials and semi-finished products as part of supplier quality assurance, ever. based on economic, environmental, and social criteria. In exchange with the top management level, we develop risk mitigation strategies from the results. Our purchasing and supplier management teams oversee and maintain the complex supply relationships to meet the demands of the world‘s increasing globalization and the associated complex supply relationships. They provide a solid basis to initiate Supplier evaluation at BADER targeted improvements, make logistics and production more efficient, and make the entire planning process safer and more stable. In this way, BADER has at its disposal Raw materials Chemicals Purchased-parts Machine a very detailed analysis of the internal plant-to-plant relationships and the complete and semi-finished suppliers suppliers suppliers flow of goods, including purchases from suppliers, which enables to monitor and products suppliers build up suppliers in a more targeted manner or terminate cooperation. min. min. min. min. In addition to purchasing and logistics criteria, requirements such as quality and 80% TOP 10 80% TOP 5 environmental certifications, the signing of security agreements, and cooperation in of total volume suppliers total sales suppliers the processing of concepts, also flow into our annual supplier evaluation. We select suppliers to be evaluated according to the supplier category on the basis of the 80/20 rule related to total volumes, total turnover, or top 5/10 rule. In addition, we evaluate suppliers who have to fulfill a special status or where irregularities have occurred. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 47 Partnering – Shared Responsibility As a result of the supplier evaluation, we demand improvement measures depending We are also committed to raising sustainability and management system standards in on the status and conduct feedback talks or hold audits, for further development. We our supply chain, particularly with regard to quality and environmental management see our suppliers as partners and vice versa and rely on cooperation based on trust systems. In addition, we encourage our contract tanneries and semi-finished product and dialogue when drawing up action plans. suppliers to have their production sites audited and certified by the LWG ( Chapter Sustainable Management). Between 2012 and 2018, more than 65% of our suppliers Since 2017, we have been auditing our suppliers of raw materials and semi-finished have already implemented this. products at least once every two years as part of our supplier quality assurance program. In addition, regular visits take place and BADER employees are regularly on Through all these activities, we are able to address risks and advance important issues site at all major raw material suppliers to monitor compliance with our requirements. in our industry. On the following pages, we will give some examples of product safety, traceability, and animal welfare. We strengthen supply relationships through feedback on deliveries. Wherever possible, we support suppliers in order, for example, to better safeguard processes. A close exchange with suppliers is necessary in order to gain precise knowledge of the properties, characteristics, and origin of the materials used, not to miss market movements, and to be able to react to current developments in the supply chain. LWG certified 2018 65% 2017 50% of the contract tanners and suppliers of semi-finished products Bader Sustainability Report 2018 48 Partnering – Shared Responsibility Product Safety and Traceability Our activities to ensure product safety and traceability are also an integral part of In our list of prohibited and declarable substances called BADER Black List our supply chain strategy. Together with our customers and suppliers, BADER is substances, materials, and material groups are listed which must not be contained intensively dedicated to product safety and traceability of the materials used to in the products and articles delivered to us. This list is based on legal regulations, prevent and avoid health risks for employees, customers, and consumers as well as customer requirements, and further requirements we have defined for our suppliers. environmental pollution. In order to ensure this, we strive to conclude chemical, quality and environmental security agreements with each of our suppliers of chemicals and purchased parts. In We develop innovative alternatives to replace harmful ingredients with alternative addition, we carry out incoming goods inspections at the sites to ensure the quality substances. Our product safety officers (PSO) at our sites worldwide ensure that risks of the goods delivered. in product development are identified, avoided or minimized and controlled through process development. In this way, safety-relevant features such as low flammability or By means of markings on each semi-finished and finished product, we are able to trace emissions are ensured for us and our suppliers. In this context, we have been naming the entire production process chain in our plants back to the raw material. Further our PSOs and their deputies since 2015 and also request them from our suppliers. We traceability of hides is also becoming increasingly important as it influences animal now have this information for all key chemicals suppliers and for all suppliers of side welfare and husbandry, ethically correct and transparent sources, and ecology. By a airbag materials requiring documentation and the majority of PSO-relevant suppliers. complete documentation and marking of the hides, we can assign individual hides to the supplier at any time in the production process and trace the origin of the hides. We use the International Material Data System (IMDS) of the automotive industry to We are constantly developing our traceability system through strategically controlled provide our customers with information on the materials used in the semi-finished trade relations and intensive partnerships with suppliers. products and parts in order to enable a holistic picture of the end product. This is accompanied by extensive random and periodic inspections of leather ingredients and emissions. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 49 Partnering – Shared Responsibility Animal Welfare The BADER Group, only processes hides from domestic cattle. Due to detailed As a logical consequence of our responsibility towards society and the environment, demands on the properties of raw hides, we can rule out that hides from wild animals respecting animal welfare throughout the supply chain back to the raw hide suppliers listed in the Washington Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species is an important prerequisite for mutual and sustainable action. We deliberately refuse of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES 1983) are processed. The size of the raw hides varies raw materials from countries with insufficient controls and traceability as well as a according to breed, weight, and sex. On average, we process hides with a finished high risk of non-compliance with animal welfare. leather surface of 4.2 m2 that come exclusively from weaned, fully grown cattle. By focusing on the main procurement markets of Australia, Europe, North America, Long-term, sustainable economic growth is only possible if animal welfare is taken and South Africa, we ensure that cattle are bred, kept, transported, and slaughtered into account. Today‘s EU animal welfare policy is based on the concept of the „Five under the best possible conditions. In Australia, Europe and North America, animal Freedoms“ of the Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC) (FAWC 2012) illustrated welfare and animal protection are comprehensively regulated in laws, regulations, below, which originated in Great Britain and is also used by BADER. and official controls. South Africa has identified gaps in its animal welfare legislation and is in the process of updating it to meet international competition. Our South African suppliers recognized this trend years ago and have long been producing according to European and US standards. Five Freedoms (FAWC 2012) To evaluate animal welfare and animal protection, our raw material purchasing staff regularly visit beef processing plants and agricultural operations, keep internal Freedom from hunger and thirst checklists, and document the animal welfare standards, activities, and developments Freedom from discomfort of our suppliers. Animal welfare aspects are taken into account in the selection of our suppliers and will play an increasingly important role in the evaluation process of Freedom from pain, injury and disease raw hide sources in the future. The implementation of these into our local purchasing Freedom to express normal behaviors conditions and sustainability strategy is in progress. In addition, we participate in the LWG‘s Animal Welfare Group and discuss and promote activities to improve animal Freedom from fear and stress welfare and animal protection on a global level. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 50 Indexes Index of UN Principles and Goals References Abbreviations Index of UN Principles and Goals UN Principles UN Goals Basis / Goals Activities and Results Principle 1: Social commitment The BADER group and the „Hans-Bader-Stiftung“ support research, employment, health, Support and respect human rights safety, and welfare of young and older people worldwide. Principle 2: Ensure fair working conditions BADER’s company and personnel management work proactively with the employee No complicity in human rights abuses representatives – including on collective agreements. Principle 3: Promote and maintain BADER is keen to keep employees and take on external workers. Uphold freedom of association and employment recognition of collective bargaining rights Promote health and safety BADER offers regular safety training and health programs and analyzes processes and safety equipment. Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and At all sites there are first responders and professionals for occupational safety who are compulsory labour trained regularly. Principle 5: For serious occupational accidents, there is a mandatory reporting procedure. Abolition of child labour Between 2019 and 2021, we plan to introduce ISO 45001 certification for occupational Principle 6: health and safety management at four sites. The results of the findings benefit all of our Elimination of discrimination in respect subsidiaries. of employment and occupation Promote education and training BADER has a portfolio that offers a wide range of in-company education and advanced training – 2018 the training ratio in Germany was 5.2% and the further training rate worldwide was 18 h per employee. Promote diversity and equality BADER promotes its employees equally, regardless of their age, level of education, of opportunity nationality, etc. – in 2018, the worldwide average age of employees was 36 years, the proportion of female employees worldwide was 55%, the proportion of foreign employees in Germany was 32% and the percentage of disabled employees in Germany was 2%. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 52 Index of UN Principles and Goals UN Principles UN Goals Basis / Goals Activities and Results Principle 7: Holistic optimization of the use of BADER researches and develops its products and processes continuously, in order Support a precautionary approach to raw materials, chemicals, energy, to optimize the use of resources and the resulting emissions for water, soil and air – environmental challenges water, wastewater, solid waste, between 2010 and 2017 at our Ichenhausen tannery site and air emissions We used 7-8 kg raw material per m² leather We used 200-300 kg of chemicals per t of raw materials used (EU BAT: 425 kg) We used 135 l water per m2 finished leather (LWG: 165 l/m2, EU BAT: 285 l/m2) We recovered more than 98% of the resources used materially or thermally The carbon footprint of the BADER group amounts to 2-3 kg CO2e per m² leather, the VOC emissions of the five major leather-manufacturing sites amount to 8-21 g carbon per m² leather (EU BAT 22 g for IED installations, 85 g for non-IED installations. Integrated management system We are in the process of gradually introducing certification – at the end of 2018 we had with certifications based on 73% of our sites certified according to ISO 14001 different international standards 18% of our sites certified according to ISO 50001 that include ecology 71% of the leather manufacturing sites certified according to ECO2L that also have better values than those specified in the BEET energy benchmark 71% of the leather manufacturing sites certified according to LWG, including 3x LWG Gold and 2x LWG Silver For 2019, we are planning further site certifications according to ISO 45001, ECO2L, and LWG. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 53 Index of UN Principles and Goals UN Principles Basis / Goals Activities and Results Principle 8: Establishing a more sustainable BADER promotes sustainability in its business worldwide with more than 60 suppliers Undertake initiatives to promote supply chain of raw materials and semi-finished products, 100 chemicals suppliers, 130 suppliers of greater environmental responsibility purchased parts, and 1,570 suppliers of non-product materials by: Defining basic principles of conduct in our Code of Conduct for our Business Partners Defining our supply chain strategy as part of the Terms and Conditions of Purchase, contracts, and agreements Assessing risks in the supply chain and developing strategies for risk mitigation Conducting regular supplier evaluations and on-site visits Between 2012 and 2018, more than 65% of our raw material and semi-finished product suppliers introduced the LWG certification. Animal welfare BADER deliberately refuses raw materials from countries with insufficient controls and traceability, as well as a high risk of non-compliance with animal welfare laws. BADER employees responsible for procuring our raw materials regularly visit abattoirs and livestock farms where they keep internal check lists and document the animal welfare standards, supplier activities, and developments. We incorporate animal welfare aspects when selecting our raw hide suppliers. In future, this will become increasingly important in the evaluation process of raw hide sources. Product safety and traceability BADER is dedicated to product safety and traceability through: of materials used Notifications about the product safety officers of our sites to our customers and inquiries to our suppliers Use of the „BADER – Black List”, a list of banned substances Entering the materials employed in the IMDS Tracking of the semi-finished and finished products back to their raw materials – R&D projects are currently underway to further traceability back to the livestock owner Bader Sustainability Report 2018 54 Index of UN Principles and Goals UN Principles UN Goals Basis / Goals Activities and Results Principle 9: R&D initiatives and technology BADER is always looking for new ways to achieve a high-value material use of raw Develop and diffuse environmentally transfer hides and now markets many co-products such as split leather, dog chewing articles, friendly technologies Kollamat®, gelatin, collagen, LEFA, and fertilizer. BADER develops more sustainable products and processes at individual sites and, after Principle 10: successful testing, gradually implements them worldwide – at the end of 2018, 45% Work against corruption of our projects were motivated by sustainability aspects beyond technical-economic aspects. Integrated Management System Supporting with certifications based on 100% of our sites are certified according to ISO 9001 / ISO/TS 16949 different international standards 10% of our sites are certified according to ISO 17025, the accreditation of 2 further that include products sites is planned for 2019 Commit to legal and fair Implementation and control through our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, competitive behavior integrated management system, management reviews, training, supplier meetings, and audits. There were and are no legal proceedings pending against BADER. No penalties were imposed, nor have any been threatened or are to be expected. Dealing with complaints Any party affected can contact our complaints office, supervisors, or employee representatives. Bader Sustainability Report 2018 55 References BADER (2019) Certificates. http://bader-leather.com/zertifikate EU (2013) Commission Implementing Decision of 11 February 2013 establishing BADER (2017a) Corporate Social Responsibility. the best available techniques (BAT) conclusions under Directive 2010/75/EU http://bader-leather.com/files/bader_csr_policy_en.pdf of the European Parliament and of the Council on industrial emissions for the BADER (2017b) Code of Conduct for BADER Group’s Business Partners. http://badertanning of hides and skins. 2013/84/EU. http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/ leather.com/files/bader_code_of_conduct_for_business_partners_en_1.pdf EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2013.045.01.0013.01.ENG BADER (2016) The Quality, Environmental and Energy Policy of Bader Group. http:// FAWC (2012) Five Freedoms. http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/ bader-leather.com/files/qm-em-energy-policy-2016-en.pdf 20121010012427/http://www.fawc.org.uk/freedoms.htm BADER (2015a) CCS Statement – Environment – History-Highlights. Lecapell (2019) pellskin Automotive. https://www.lecapell.com/de/produkte/pellskin_ http://bader-leather.com/files/history_highlights_environment_2015.pdf automotive.html BADER (2015b) CCS Statement – Sustainability in leather production, life cycle LWG (2019a) Main Protocol. Issue 6.6.1. https://www. leatherworkinggroup.com/howassessment methods, certifications and labeling. we-work/audit-protocols/main-protocol http://bader-leather.com/files/statement-sustainability_2013_2015.pdf LWG (2019b) Chemical Management Module. https://www.leatherworking-group. BADER (2012) GTCs. http://bader-leather.com/en/gtcs com/how-we-work/audit-protocols/chemical-management-module BADER (2011) Biologische Stickstoff-Elimination – bei gleichzeitiger biologischer Rinspeed (2018) 2018 Rinspeed Snap. https://www.rinspeed.eu/de/Snap_48_ Sulfidoxidation: ein Bericht nach etwa 13 Jahren Betriebserfahrung. concept-car.html http://bader-leather.com/files/2011_10_biologische_stickstoff_elimination.pdf theSauerReport (2018) Automotive leather a modern and sustainable industry. CADS (2018) The Guide for Leather Manufacturers – Recommendations for the https://thesauerreportsubscribe.com/subscribe/automotive-leather-a-modernavoidance of chromium (VI) formation. https://www.cads-shoes.com/en/shop and-sustainable-industry CITES (1983) Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Umweltbundesamt (2003) Integrierte Vermeidung und Verminderung der UmweltFauna and Flora. https://www.cites.org/eng/disc/text.php verschmutzung (IVU) Referenzdokument über die Besten Verfügbaren Techniken De Rosa-Giglio P et al (2018) Product Environmental Footprint Category Rules. für die Lederindustrie. https://www.umweltbundesamt.de/sites/ default/files/ Leather. Final version. 25 April 2018. http://ec.europa.eu/environment/eussd/ medien/2503/dokumente/bvt_lederindustrie_vv.pdf smgp/pdf/PEFCR_leather.pdf UN (2018) Transforming Our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Diedrich Pet (2019) Quality Beef Hide Dog Bones. https://diedrichpet.com/ https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/documents/ 21252030%20 DIN (2017) Leather – Environmental footprint – Product Category Rules (PCR) – Agenda%20for%20Sustainable%20Development%20web.pdf Carbon footprints; English version EN 16887:2017, English translation of DIN EN UN Global Compact (2019) Homepage UN Global Compact. . https://www. 16887:2017-06. https://www.beuth.de/de/norm/din-en-16887/257429630 unglobalcompact.org/ Elkington J (1994) Towards the Sustainable Corporation: Win–Win–Win Business UNIDO (2012) Life Cycle Assessment, Carbon Footprint in Leather Processing. Strategies for Sustainable Development. California Management Review 36 (2): https://leatherpanel.org/sites/default/files/publications-attachments/lca_ 90 100. https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.2307/41165746 carbonfootprint_lpm2012.pdf EU (2010) Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 VDL (2013) Handbook. http://www.eco2l-leather.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/01/ November 2010 on industrial emissions. https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/ ECO2L-Leitfaden. Handbook-complete-1-2013_GB1.pdf EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32010L0075&from=DE Bader Sustainability Report 2018 56 Abbreviations BAT Best Available Technique HIV/AIDS Human ImmunoDeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome BEET Best Energy Efficiency for Tanning HVLP High Volume Low Pressure CCS Competence Center Sustainability IED Industrial Emissions Directive CITES Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of IMDS International Material Data System Wild Fauna and Flora LED Light Emitting Diode CO2 Carbon Dioxide LEFA Leather Fiber (German: Lederfaser) CO2e Greenhouse gases in CO2 equivalents LWG Leather Working Group COD Chemical Oxygen Demand NH3 Ammonia CSR Corporate Social Responsibility PSO Product Safety Officer DIN German Institute for Standardisation (German: Deutsches Institut für Normung) SDG Sustainable Development Goals ECO2L Energy Controlled Leather UN United Nations FAWC Farm Animal Welfare Council UNIDO United Nations Industrial Development Organization GADSL Global Automotive Declarable Substance List VDL German Leather Federation (German: Verband der Deutschen Lederindustrie) H2S Hydrogen Sulphide VOC Volatile Organic Compounds WLTP Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicles Test Cycle Bader Sustainability Report 2018 57 Legal Notice and Contact Published by: Contact: Photo credits: BADER GmbH & Co. KG (BADER Goup) Head of Sustainability Management photo p. 44: bit.it / photocase.de Metzgerstrasse 32-34 Dr. Ramona Rieckhof D-73033 Göppingen CCS-100@bader-leather.com Additional information on BADER and its commitment to sustainability is Phone: +49 7161-6728-0 Phone: +49 7161-6728-427 available here: www.bader-leather.com
