Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Contents Statement from the CEO...................................................... 3 About Kamstrup............................................5 Striving for sustainable development .............................. 6 Responsible solutions............................................................7 Policies..................................................................................... 8 Anti-corruption and bribery................................................. 8 Substainable development goal no. 6............................... 9 Supply management.................................. 11 Setting clear directions.......................................................12 Modern Slavery Act...............................................................12 Supplier responsibilities and due diligence .....................12 CSR audits..............................................................................14 What did we do in 2018?..................................................... 14 What do we expect in 2019?.............................................. 14 Climate and environment..........................15 Striving for a sound climate and environment...............16 Kamstrup impacts and processes.................................... 17 Certification and due diligence ......................................... 17 Greenhouse gas emissions ..............................................19 What did we do in 2018?.................................................... 20 What do we expect in 2019? ............................................ 20 Substainable development goal no. 7...............................21 Working conditions ................................... 23 We value our employees..................................................... 24 Certification and due diligence......................................... 24 Safety..................................................................................... 25 Employee development...................................................... 26 What did we do in 2018?.................................................... 27 What do we expect in 2019?............................................. 27 2 CEO statement Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is embedded in Kamstrup’s DNA. We exist to provide better ways to manage water and energy distribution all around the globe. As an organisation, we share the serious concerns regarding the way the earth’s scarce resources are managed and strive to make a meaningful contribution to the promotion of greater environmental responsibility. At Kamstrup, our intelligent metering solutions are helping organisations to run smarter, more efficient businesses. At the same time, we are helping them to make a significant impact on the conservation of natural resources by reducing water and energy loss and usage. The key to which is data intelligence. Data has the potential to revolutionise distribution and supply networks and make a quantifiable contribution to some of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), especially goal no. 6 and 7. Kamstrup strongly advocates the SDGs and is dedicated to improving energy efficiency, reducing waste and increasing water-use efficiency particularly in areas where water scarcity is an issue. We believe that today’s technology can create a better tomorrow and we are excited about the ways our intelligent data-driven solutions can help our customers and their communities to tackle the challenges they are facing now and those they will be met with in the future. Our philosophy at Kamstrup is to hold ourselves, and all of our stakeholders, to high standards. That means we advocate ethical behavior and take a zero-tolerance approach regarding any kind of corruption. Protecting human rights is paramount and we have stringent procedures and policies in place to make sure these are always upheld. We place great importance on our employees’ wellbeing and do our utmost to ensure our team members have everything at their disposal to be healthy, happy and productive. While we are proud of who we are as an organisation and what we help our customers to achieve, we are inspired to do better, constantly striving to find ways to drive ourselves forward and identifying ways we can improve. This CSR report, and the reporting associated with the UN Global Compact, is a way for us to hold ourselves accountable – highlighting what we’re doing well and pinpointing what we could be doing better. I look forward to sharing our 2018 CSR Report with you and thank you for your interest in our organisation. Kim Lehmann, CEO About the report This is Kamstrup A/S’s corporate social responsibility In connection to the UN Global compact, we want to be report for 2018. It is a report of the management’s transparent in our communication about our corporate account of the company’s actions and goals within social responsibility. Thus, the purpose of Kamstrup’s sustainability for 2018. It has been written in accordance CSR Report 2018 is to provide stakeholders with a clear with the Danish Financial Statements Act §99a and impression of our processes concerning suppliers, covers both Kamstrup’s headquarters in Denmark, climate and environmental impacts, work environment, subsidiaries, reprecentative offices and branches. It human rights and anti-corruption. Additionally, we has been confirmed by an independent auditor that the assess the initiatives we take to counteract these reporting complies with the UN Global Compact and The impacts. Danish Financial Statements Act. 4 About Kamstrup About Kamstrup Striving for sustainable development We focus on advancing our performance within sustainable Data is value development and it serves as our inspiration to create Kamstrup values data privacy, and therefore we handle innovative solutions, which can contribute to moving our customer and employee data in a secure way. It is of customers’ businesses forward. great importance that Kamstrup complies with the legal requirements and sets a high standard when handling data As we continue to work towards our mission of creating and developing new products. In that regard, we see it as progress for others, our solutions are helping people all over our responsibility to develop secure solutions that ensure the world to optimise their water and energy efficiency, our customers comply with legislation and the General Data identify new opportunities for growth and promote social Protection Regulation. responsibility. Continuously improving ourselves The global sustainability agenda Sustainable development and environmental responsibilities We want to contribute to the global agenda of preserving are not new for us, but we want to improve ourselves the scarce resources of water and optimisation of energy constantly. We already have processes and product consumption. The UN Sustainable Development Goals solutions that accommodate standards drawn by the UN number 6 and 7 are of great importance in that relation and in their Sustainable Developments Goals. We continuously every day we work to ensure that our intelligent solutions work to integrate sustainability in our products. create as much value as possible for the benefit of the environment and the societies around the world. We do this with solutions that can collect and analyse metering data, monitor the distribution network and detect leakages and waste in the network. We want to contribute to the global agenda of preserving the scarce resources of water and optimisation of energy consumption. Kamstrup offices 6 About Kamstrup Kamstrups responsible solutions Components Dealer End-user Human rights, quality, Anti-corruption, working Saving energy and water. working conditions, conditions and safety, Meters have long life time. anti-corruption, RoHS, energy, environment, Consumption insights. confict minerals. human rights. Production Transportation Disposal Human rights, working Fuel use and CO2 reduction, Return systems at conditions, equality, product safety, anti-corruption. Kamstrup, recycling quality, waste, reduction of of waste. energy, reduction of dangerous substances, reduction of waste water, packaging, reduction of waste. Kamstrup’s responsible solutions i In each of the steps in Kamstrup’s model for responsible solutions, we focus on ensuring sustainable solutions. Responsible solutions In each of the steps in Kamstrup’s model for responsible However, we cannot keep track of our environmental impact solutions, we focus on ensuring sustainable solutions. without considering the entire supply chain. In that regard, Naturally, we are aware that our activities in the value chain we have included a number of environmental as well as have an environmental impact. ethical requirements that we expect all our suppliers to live up to. Determined to reduce our impacts However, we strive and aim to reduce these impacts caused Conditions that benefit our employees by our production, transport, use and end-of-life treatment In addition, we pride ourselves in complying with relevant of our products and services. At Kamstrup, we also actively occupational health and safety legislation and we are work to reduce our environmental impact by reducing dedicated to having a high level of health, safety and wellthe use of energy and water. It is important to us that our being among our employees. impact on the environment is as low as possible, which is why we aim to continuously increase our ability to recycle our waste. 7 About Kamstrup Policies CSR Policy development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, technologies for our products. Finally, we are opposed all Kamstrup has formulated a CSR policy. All new employees forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. are presented with the policy to ensure they are aware of it and adhere to it. In accordance with the UN Global Compact, we support and respect the protection of human rights and we take every All these principles mentioned above are the foundation of available action to prevent being involved in human rights Kamstrup’s corporate social responsibility. Our CSR policy exploitations. is implemented in the organisation i.e. from our handling of suppliers to sales, production and disposal of our products. All forms of forced and compulsory labour as well as child labour are completely unacceptable and must be eliminated if it occurs. In addition, we want to uphold the freedom of association and recognise the right to create collectives. Environmental, energy and occupational health In respect of our current and future employees, we do not and safety policy discriminate in terms of age, sex, race, sexual orientation, Apart from our CSR policy, we have formulated a policy national origin, physical or mental ability, marital status, covering environmental, energy, health and safety issues. financial or social status. Furthermore, we take pride It describes that while we consider business objectives, we in taking a precautionary approach to environmental aim at affecting the surrounding environment as little as challenges and undertake initiatives that promote greater possible. We also aim at being a company with a high level environmental responsibility. We also encourage the of health, safety and well-being among employees. Anti-corruption and bribery At Kamstrup, we are dedicated to operating without any bribery or corruption. Any association with either bribery or What did we do in 2018? corruption is immoral, illegal and punishable. • In 2018, Kamstrup participated in the world´s largest International Anti-corruption Conference in Copenhagen in order to show that we do not CSR associated risks accept corruption. We do acknowledge the possibility of corruption and bribery taking place, in particular when doing business related to • Furthermore, we informed all employees not to suppliers and in sales negotiations. Also, there is a risk of accept large gifts at Christmas. employees being offered large gifts to promote business. • We have not identified any cases of corruption or To mitigate these risks, we emphasize our way of bribery in our business in 2018. conducting business to our employees. Due diligence Our main due diligence processes include general 2019 and in the years ahead information to all employees about our way of running a company without corruption and bribery. Employees • We will continue our work with resisting corruption working in Sales and Sourcing are informed of how to handle and bribery in the coming years, and will make these situations during their introduction to Kamstrup. necessary adjustments to detect criminal aspects. Kamstrup also has a whistleblower scheme that employees can use to notify cases of misconduct. As an example, misconducts can include criminal actions and can be reported to one’s manager, the Executive Board or the Chairman. At Kamstrup, we have not identified any corruption in our business in 2018. 8 Smart metering beats water loss Smart metering is an important tool in the fight to beat water loss. Our intelligent solutions light up the distribution network and is a constant source of information about what goes on. Having the right knowledge at the right time makes it much more efficient and much easier to reduce non-revenue water for the benefit of the environment, the consumers and the utility’s bottom line. Supply management Supply management Setting clear directions Working with different suppliers all around the world raises what we stand for at Kamstrup. Therefore, we have drawn various challenges regarding compliance with relevant up standards, which are obligatory for our suppliers to regulations. It is important that we do not compromise our comply with. In this section, you can read more about our policy, and for that reason, we set clear directions about supply management. Modern Slavery Act In accordance with the UK Modern Slavery Act, we impose On our website, you will find our Slavery and Human strict standards and demands against compulsory labour Trafficking Statement, where you can read more about and human trafficking on our suppliers. how we are taking action against modern slavery. Supplier responsibilities and due diligence Kamstrup prioritises its CSR efforts and has systematised They also confirm that they comply with our Code of these efforts within CSR and supplier management with Conduct as defined in the CSR Policy. Additionally, the particular focus on the purchase of materials, semi-finished company must confirm that it only delivers products in products, subcontracted activities and deliverables included compliance with current legislation. in Kamstrup’s product range. Supplier obligations CSR supplier statement Kamstrup requires suppliers to consider the environmental We continuously work on reducing our impact on the aspects of their activities and have an environmental environment caused by our products and services. In order improvement programme. The suppliers must demonstrate to do that, we need to look at the entire supply chain, which environmentally sound manufacturing processes and means that we need to be attentive to our suppliers and comply with current legislation. our partners. Therefore, we demand that our suppliers The material content and method of disposal must be exceedingly fulfill the requirements and standards we have provided upon request. Likewise, the supplier is expected formulated. to reduce the environmental impact of transport wherever The suppliers must sign a statement covering the themes: possible. Environment, anti-corruption, human rights, labour issues, We oblige our suppliers to comply with health and safety REACH and conflict minerals. requirements in accordance with the UN Global Compact principles 1-6 about human rights and working conditions. CSR supplier statements • make sure the company is not complicit in human • make sure the company only delivers products in rights abuses compliance with the RoHS II directive and is aware of • make sure the company does not use any form of the legal requirement that possibly prohibited mateforced or compulsory labour rials and materials subject to declaration must, without prior request, be communicated to Kamstrup • make sure the company does not use child labour • make sure the company only delivers products not • make sure the company does not discriminate in containing substances listed in the REACH Candirespect of employment and occupation date List of Substances of Very High Concern for • make sure the company complies with all relevant Authorisation – ECHA, as published on the echa. environmental and occupational health and safety europa.eu website and conflict minerals as defined in laws Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform • make sure the company works against corruption in and Consumer Protection Act. Also, this statement all its forms, including extortion and bribery urges a company’s sub-suppliers to observe the above principles 12 Supply management CSR risk-based approach Region CSR Risk Working with suppliers, Kamstrup mainly faces risks related to human rights, labour, corruption and compliance Europe 2 obligations. To mitigate these risks, we have implemented a North America 2 supplier programme as described. South America 3 Moreover, we take a risk-based approach to our supply Africa 5 management. Our suppliers are categorised according to their business importance and to CSR risk. CSR risk refers Southwest Asia 4 to the regions, which have been marked with CSR risk by Central Asia 4 the Danish Ministry of Business and Economic Affairs. The scale measures from 1-5 where five is the highest CSR risk. North Asia 4 Business importance refers to the availability of supplies East Asia 4 to Kamstrup on a scale from 1-4 with four being the most South Asia 4 important suppliers. See table and figure. Southeast Asia 4 Oceania 2 Our suppliers are categorised according to their business importance and to CSR risk. CSR risk in various regions (Danish Ministry of CSR risk refers to the regions, which have Business and Economic Affairs) been marked with CSR risk by the Danish Ministry of Business and Economic Affairs. CSR Supplier Information document Kamstrup’s suppliers with a low CSR risk of 1-2 as well as a If the self-assessment report is considered satisfactory, the low Business Importance of 1-2 can be approved by signing supplier will be approved. However, if the self-assessment the CSR Supplier Information document and by confirming report is deemed unsatisfactory, a CSR audit will be compliance with our Code of Conduct described in our CSR carried out. Finally, if both the CSR risk and the Business Policy. Importance scores are high, a CSR audit will also be conducted. In addition to the CSR documentation described above, suppliers within the olive coloured areas in the supplier categorization scheme must fill out a Kamstrup selfassessment report containing various questions within human rights, environment, health and safety. CSR Risk 5 Supplier information Supplier information HIGH Code of conduct Code of conduct Self Assessment CSR Audit 4 3 Supplier information Code of conduct Supplier information Self Assessment 2 Code of conduct LOW 1 Business importance 1 2 34 LOWHIGH Supplier categorisation scheme 13 Supply management CSR audits All results from CSR audits are handled and evaluated the In addition, a Kamstrup employee will act as an observing same way as our quality audits and our Segregation of party and coordinator between participating parties before, Duties (SoD), which ensures that no purchaser is able to during and after the audit. implement a new supplier single-handedly. If an audit results in a workplace assessment, it is a To obtain a professional and objective evaluation according requirement to formulate action plans and perform onto local law and practice, we have formed a partnership with going evaluation of the action plans. This will ensure an external company to perform audits of suppliers. The that all Kamstrup’s partners will provide a safe working purchase department at our headquarters coordinates all environment for all employees. audits performed by the external auditing company. What did we do in 2018? What do we expect in 2019? • Make sure our suppliers compled with our CSR • Continue handling suppliers’ CSR conditions reguirements: including CSR self-assessments and audits • Handled CSR self-assessments and CSR • Implement an updated CSR procedure audit results • Next level in conflict minerals strategy • Updated our CSR procedure To obtain a professional and objective evaluation according to local law and practice, we have formed a partnership with an local consultant to perform audits of suppliers. We use these in our supplier follow-ups. 14 Climate and environment Climate and environment Striving for a sound climate and environment In accordance with our policy regarding energy and Our environmental impact environment, it is our ambition to find ways of minimizing The major environmental impacts from the production our negative impact on the climate and environment. facilities at our headquarters in Denmark and the USA are shown in the table below. The table also shows the impact We take sustainable measures proactively to reduce our from service activities in Poland and France as well as from impact. Read more about our achievements from 2018 and our sales offices. We have implemented procedures and our goals for 2019 in this section. instructions where needed in order to manage our impacts – those that are both expected and unexpected. Type of impact Stilling, DK Atlanta, US PL and FR Sales offices as (incl. production) (incl. new (incl. SE, NO, FI, DE, CH, upcoming service) NL, ES, RU, CZ, AT production) and other offices Electricity High Medium Low Low Heating Medium Low Low Low Water High Low Low Low Waste water High Low Low Low Waste High Medium Medium Low Materials High Low Low Low Emissions to air Medium Low None None Visual, noise and vibration Low Low None None Environmental impact at Kamstrup’s locations. CSR associated risk Our main CSR risks are climate and environmental impact from consumption of water, electricity and heat, materials used for products, transport, pollution of waste water and Emissions production of waste. to Air Noise To mitigate these risks, we monitor our consumption and make improvements where possible through our energy group. The materials for our products are selected according Materials to the functionality and the material consumption; the Energy Products Water selection of materials and chemicals also reflect that we generally have a low content of metals in our waste water. Regarding handling of our waste, we continuously optimize by sorting and recycling. Finally, apart from co-driving, we have no activities on reducing impact from transportation. Waste and Waste to Waste recycling water Since 1997, Kamstrup’s headquarters has been ISO 14001 certified, and since then, our locations in Norway, Sweden, Germany, Finland, the Netherlands and Switzerland have been certified as well. Kamstrup’s main environmental impact process. 16 Climate and environment Kamstrup impacts and processes Materials and technology During our development and production of products, we balance the selection of materials with the required functionality of our products. We focus on: • Using a small number of different materials and components and as far as possible use recyclable materials. • Type of material being printed on the plastic material itself to secure correct and available information needed at disposal and according to legislation. • New generation of meters being developed with reduction of electricity/battery usage. • Where possible, meters being designed for recycling so that components are easy to take apart. • Packaging material having a printed code referring to Processes the type of material to ensure correct disposal after We aim to minimize our environmental impact, and we installation. continuously optimize our processes. • No installation guide on paper – instead a UR code with In addition, we monitor and evaluate environmental a link to an installation guide is printed on the packaging performance enabling us to take action if irregularities material to limit use of resources. occur. In 2018, Kamstrup’s emergency plans were used for • Products being designed with a lifetime up to 20 years alerting authorities due to fire alarm and tests in connection and in addition, our heat meters have a self-monitoring with emergency spill and evacuation drills. There was no function so the meter can be used for the time it impact on Kamstrup’s facility or surrounded area and no measures legally correctly. need to update the emergency plans. • Using the crossed-out bin symbol on our products to ensure reuse of materials and according to legislation. We offer to take back used meters. In addition, our water meters are designed in compliance with strict regulation related to drinking water. Instructions on disposal of worn out products can be found in either the technical manual or in the catalogue sheet for the product. Certification and due diligence Since 1997, Kamstrup’s headquarters has been ISO 14001 Compliance obligations certified, and since then, our locations in Norway, We follow relevant legislation and contracted agreements Sweden, Germany, Finland, the Netherlands and with stakeholders. We constantly work towards compliance. Switzerland have been certified as well. We also make Our headquarters in Denmark is regulated by two waste annual energy mappings and reviews complying with water permits and works in close collaboration with requirements in ISO 50001, section 4.4.3. Skanderborg municipality to ensure low impact on the local surroundings from our production. Being ISO 14001 certified, we work according to the model Plan-Do-Check-Act. We make goals and action plans, Likewise, our subsidiaries review local compliance implement, check and follow up. Our main due diligence obligations yearly. processes include goal setting, action plans, audits and an annual management review. In particular, we work with due diligence processes related to compliance with legislation, registration of accidents, handling of waste and measurement of metals in waste water. 17 Climate and environment Energy In 2017, a new council was formed called the Energy Group. Our total heat consumption per product for 2018 is similar to This group is working on proactive ways to coordinate and that in 2017. In 2018, our heat was primarily used for cooling. initiate activities reducing use of energy and water waste in Our production in the USA uses less energy totally in terms Stilling. of gas and electricity per manufactured meter. This can We use electricity for both production, administration be explained by a smaller facility associated with only and in the canteens. In 2018, our total electricity usage assembling production. per product for Kamstrup’s headquarters had increased This is illustrated below. compared to the usage from 2017. This is primarily due to our new facility with water meter production, new equipment in our print production and more staff. Electricity (kWh) per meter Consumption of energy per produced meter Heating 18 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 1998 2001 2004 2007 2010 2013 2016 2019 Water Kamstrup’s main water consumption in Stilling comes from Our production site in the USA uses water for sanitary testing our products, humidification in the production and purposes only. Testing of meters with water takes place in for sanitary use. Denmark. In 2018, the consumption of water per employee had This is illustrated below. increased due to our highly increased production, new humidification equipment and employment of more people. (m3) Water consumption per employee (m3) 18 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 1998 2001 2004 2007 2010 2013 2016 2019 18 Climate and environment Waste water Waste Our waste water mainly comes from test benches used in We optimize our waste disposal by sorting waste in more our production of meters and sanitary usage. Our waste than 70 categories. We co-operate closely with a waste water contains small amounts of remains from our meters handler to find new ways to sort and recycle our waste. tested with water. In 2018, more than half of our waste originated from one We analyse our waste water yearly to monitor and act customer with whom we have agreed to take back used on the results. The authorities agree that we keep an meters. This has resulted in an enormous increase in the acceptable level of contamination in the water. amount of total waste and in more waste for deposit. Our site in the USA produces waste related to transportation only. See table below. Waste 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Recycling (%) 36 49 52 61 50 74 69 72 64 Incineration (%) 63 50 47 38 49 25 31 27 32 Deposit (%) 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 4 Total ton 197 256 289 336 296 541 568 532 649* * In addition, in 2018 we handled 812 tons of returned meters from one big customer. Waste from production facilities at Kamstrup headquarters and returned meters Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions from our facilities in Denmark Greenhouse gas emissions from our production facilities in and the USA Denmark and the USA. Source: www.klimakompasset.dk. Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated by converting The table above illustrates the numbers of individual greenhouse gasses to metric tons expressed in CO2 sources of energy contributing to the global carbon equivalents as CO2e. Kamstrup makes standard climate footprint. Electricity and district heating from scope 2 calculations based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol that account for more than 95% of Kamstrup‘s total emissions. includes scope 1 and scope 2. Scope 1 includes direct emissions derived from the consumption of fuel from Greenhouse gasses related to scope 3 deriving from waste, company cars and trucks and gas used for heating at our materials, employee transportation, shipping and actual office in the USA. Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from use of product during lifetime are not included above. We purchased electricity and heating. calculate greenhouse gas emissions based on the product itself. This we state as carbon footprint of the product. Scope 1 Total CO2e 2018 Greenhouse gas emissions from Kamstrup‘s non-production Gas, heating, US 35 units are not included due to a small impact totally, Gas, truck 1 primarily from heat and electricity usage in smaller office Petrol 2 units. Diesel 22 Greenhouse gas emissions from our products Total scope 1 60 We calculate the carbon footprint of Kamstrup’s products Scope 2 by using the internationally recognized program SimaPro. Electricity 1257 Electricity Heat and Water District heating, DK 334 meters cooling meters meters Total scope 2 1591 Carbon footprint Total CO2 from Kamstrup’s 1691 production units in DK and US Ton CO2eq per 0,04-0,14 0,025-0,08 0,02-0,054 product Carbon footprint of our selection of products based on the raw materials, phase to end-of-life and disposal phase, packaging material, 12 years of operation and 500 km. 19 Climate and environment What did we do in 2018? What do we expect in 2019? Our environmental goals include energy reduction In 2019, we will continue to measure and map our through activities at our headquarters in Denmark. energy usage across our facilities with the aim of identifying further areas where reductions can be We have saved energy and reduced our made. environmental impact by: • Having produced more than 2 million meters to help people around the world saving energy and water. We are planning to: • Reducing electricity usage for production of pres• Install LED lighting in our electricity and heat mesured air. ter production unit. • Installing automatic power-off solutions at work• Continue energy mapping and implementing initiastations in our production facilities. tives to reduce consumption. • Installing LED lighting in part of our electricity • Doing a field trip to get inspiration for new ways of production unit. saving energy. • Increasing awareness about energy usage through a campaign focusing on suggestions from employees for energy reduction. We use our experience and knowledge of energy optimization from the Danish production facilities in establishing • Installing new ventilation equipment in our elecproduction facilities in the USA. tricity meter production unit. Other environmental initiatives included: • Establishing a retentive basin to take preventive measures against flooding of our facilities. • Detailed mapping of consumption at our headquarters in order to be able to reduce usage at relevant processes. • Using reusable plastic as new packaging material for water meters. • Vegetarian menus served in the canteen to inspire meat-free dishes in Denmark. • Donating excess food delivered to Kamstrup at a running event to different shelters serving more than 500 people. 20 Advanced data analytics reduce waste of resourses By using the data available from intelligent meters in a fully automated meter reading system it has now become possible to look beyond consumption in an individual building and help optimizing the distribution network between the utility and the consumer. This newfound transparency is now helping utilities to become more energy efficient, reducing the energy loss in the network and improve asset management. Working conditions Working conditions We value our employees In accordance with our Occupational, Health and Safety CSR associated risk Policy, we aim to be a company with a high level of health, Our main CSR risks include ergonomic impact, working in safety and well-being for all employees. We work hard to noisy environments, poor indoor climate, retention and accomplish that by preventing damages, work-related attraction of new employees, stress and safe driving. illness and accidents related to any of our activities. To mitigate these risks, we take action where improvements Globally, Kamstrup employs people with different sex, age, are needed in the design of work places, HR arranges ethnicity and religion. We also employ people with special activities to attract and maintain employees, and likewise, needs. All employees aged 60 and older are offered a talk courses in stress management have been held. There are no with their manager in order to get an individual plan going extra on-going efforts for safe driving. forward until retirement. Former colleagues can be part of an active senior club with a variety of activities and have access to training facilities free of charge. In this section, you can read about our accomplishments from 2018, our goals for 2019 and more details about our efforts to accommodate UN Global Compact principles on working conditions. Providing a healthy and safe environment We strive to ensure that our employees are provided with a healthy and safe working environment through a certified occupational health management system. Furthermore, our policy is to contribute to creating working conditions that comply with relevant legislation and observe applicable legislation and regulations. All employees shall be given the opportunity to develop skills required to handle their tasks and for future career options. Certification and due diligence We acquired the recertification of OHSAS 18001 in November 2016. Being OHSAS certified ensures approval from the Danish Work Environment Council. Being OHSAS 18001 certified at our headquarters means that we work according to the model Plan–Do-Check-Act. We make goals and action plans as well as implement, check and follow up on these. Our main due diligence processes include goal setting, action plans, audits and a yearly management review. In particular, we work with due diligence processes related to well-being, education and development of employees, registration of near misses and accidents. In 2019, we expect the OHSAS 18001 standard to be replaced with ISO 45001, but we continue to work with the above model. 24 Working conditions Safety We have based our production processes on precautionary We have continued to focus on recording accidents measures to ensure that there is no special risk of harm and near misses and in the table below you can see the from unforeseen incidents. collected totals from when we started collecting data more frequently. In 2015, we changed focus from finding near misses to focusing on preventing accidents. Safety at Kamstrup Towards the end of 2016, we started to increase our focus on recording near miss incidents at the headquarters. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Accidents per 1,000,000 5 8 3 3 12 6 6 5 4 5 working hours Near miss incidents 5 6 1 1 6 7 22 50 47 45 Collected totals. The purpose of conducting safety assessments is to prevent unsuitable indoor climate, noise and stress. Safety assessments are carried out regularly, and help us to significantly reduce heavy lifting, pushing and pulling. 25 Working conditions Employee development In 2018, we employeed 157 new full time employees (FTE) Educating and motivating our employees resulting in a significant net increase from 2017. We now It is essential to have a skilled and well-educated workforce. have 1,390 employees whereof 1,118 of them are located at Therefore, all new employees go through an introduction our headquarters in Denmark. program when they join Kamstrup. In addition, there is an opportunity for all Kamstrup employees to attend courses and to educate themselves further. In 2018, all employees Employee satisfaction survey in the production in Denmark have been offered to test their The employee satisfaction survey has been conducted basic skills in reading, writing and IT. This resulted in an since 2010. Countries participating are Denmark, Sweden, education plan for improving their basic skills. Norway, Germany, Austria, Switzerland and the USA. The results for 2018 are showing a high level of overall satisfaction from the organisation and there has been some Job rotation improvement in certain areas compared to 2017. However, At Kamstrup, we welcome job rotation and think of it as there are always practices that can be improved, and in a part of our corporate identity. We believe that applying 2019 we will be focusing on management communication for a job elsewhere within Kamstrup is a token of loyalty and presence. between the company and employee. Job rotation gives the opportunity of learning and keeps us innovative and agile. Health and well-being Every manager at Kamstrup must support job rotation It is of the utmost importance to have a healthy working across the company, and all jobs are advertised on the environment. Good health equals happier and more intranet. A good manager is one who contributes to the productive employees, which in the end leads to a better development of the employees – making them capable of working environment. Therefore, we want to encourage valuable contributions in other departments as well as in our employees to take advantage of the activities we offer the current department. at Kamstrup’s own premises such as dentist, fitness and health clinic. As part of our well-being initiative, we offer all employees at our headquarters the opportunity to get a free health check, We want to be a dynamic company with a wide range free use of health clinic and free use of fitness centre. We of opportunities for career development. Thus, job believe that both our employees and Kamstrup benefit from rotation gives the opportunity to learn new skills and gain a good health. Subsidiaries and branches choose relevant experiences in new positions. It is important for us to be benefits to suit their needs. open to this kind of development because we want to keep our skilled employees when they search for new challenges. We should also consider the benefits as rewarding outside working hours – a good health also benefits the employees outside work. It is of the utmost importance to have a healthy work environment. Good health equals happier and more productive employees, which in the end leads to a better work environment. 26 Working conditions What did we do in 2018? What do we expect in 2019? Our overall goal for 2018 was to continuously develop It is always our ambition to make sure we provide our employees and our organisation according to a healthy and safe working environment for all of Kamstrup’s growth and needs. our employees. We want to continue expanding our company in terms of acquiring talented people that can develop and push Kamstrup forward. Listed below, you will find the accomplishments from 2018: Our 2019 goals are: • Generally, a better result of psychological working environment surveys compared to 2017. • Working environment council to be involved in relevant projects in Kamstrup • Safety walkways have been completed in all production areas together with working environment • Attract top candidates to our company counsellors – some areas need focus. within natural science e.g. IT, technology and development to support Kamstrup in future • Campaign informing of how working environment business counsellors can improve working conditions. • Offer more tailor-made courses to support our • We had 47 interns during 2018 divided across the brilliant employees to be fit for future challenges divisions at Kamstrup headquarters. We had 84 open positions for interns but were only successful • Continue planning social and cross-functional in finding 47. Following the completion of the events promoting teamwork, health and social internships, two thirds of the interns continued respect working for Kamstrup. • Kamstrup Academy held 70 courses for employees designed to improve required competences. The Working Environment Committee and the HR department will follow up on the goals and reassemble for • We entered various sponsorships supporting health on-going evaluation of the seven goals. and sports activities in local communities. • We sponsored and supported a team of cyclists that biked from Kamstrup headquarters to Paris (+1,250 We want to continue expanding our company km) to strengthen network across the organisation. in terms of acquiring talented people who • We participated in the initiative “Girls’ Day in can develop and push Kamstrup forward. Science”, which aims at motivating women to become engineers and software developers, to promote job possibilities at Kamstrup. • We received and handled 8,135 job applications with respect for applicants. • We handled all applications in compliance with GDPR. • Participation in running and walking event focusing on health and socializing across departments and sponsored homeless shelters with excess food. • Social events for employees and their families. • Action was taken in two instances of harassment where our zero tolerance policy was not followed. • The goal of zero non-conformances at work stations was not fully reached but actions are ongoing. 27 Think forward Kamstrup A/S Industrivej 28, Stilling DK-8660 Skanderborg T: +45 89 93 10 00 F: +45 89 93 10 01 info@kamstrup.dk kamstrup.com
