EDITA Communication on Progress Report May 2019 Contents • 03 EDITA At a Glance • 04 Commitment Letter from Chairman • 05 EDITA Implementing the Ten Global Compact Principles • 06 Human Rights Principles • 10 Labor Principles • 19 Environmental Principles • 21 Anti – Corruption Principles • 24 SDGs’ Reporting 2 EDITA at a Glance Edita is a leader in the fast-growing, packaged snack food industry in Egypt, continuing to stand out for its high-quality, innovative, and extensive range of branded snack products including cakes, croissants, rusks, wafers and candy products Since its inception in 1996, Edita Food Industries has established itself as a market leader in the Egyptian and regional snack food industry with over 6,000 employees and 127 SKUs at year-end 2018. During the year, Edita built on its recognized reputation for high quality and innovation and successfully held its leading market share in the croissant, cake and candy segments while continuing to capture market share in the rusks and wafers segments. 2018 also marked the beginning of operations of Edita’s joint venture (JV) with Morocco’s Dislog Group, further expanding the company’s regional presence across 17 markets and paving the ground for Edita’s first overseas manufacturing facility in the near future. Through its 29 production lines spread across five state-of-the-art production facilities and a strong nationwide distribution network, Edita continues to serve its 57 thousand direct wholesales and retail customers, successfully meeting the growing consumer demand. Today, Edita’s brand portfolio encompasses a diverse selection of high-quality products, including household names such as Molto, TODO, Bake Rolz, Bake Stix, Mimix, HoHo’s, Twinkies, Tiger Tail and Freska. 3 Commitment Letter from Our Chairman Dear Shareholders, In 2019 Edita continued to grow in results. This year for our company was a successful one on many levels, from business growth, human capital enhancement, compliance culture affirmation and commitment to the society, Edita also worked on diversifying and expanding its portfolio to cater to its customers’ needs across all territories in which it operates. A lot of these achievements are fruits of Edita Employees’ passionate drive for results and commitment to the code of Conduct, our customers’ loyalty & our Values. I am proud that this is Edita’s second Communication on progress to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), as Edita has been a signatory to the Ten principles of the UNGC since 2017. For this our business and non-business acts are mapped against these 10 principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, and Environment and Anti-Corruption to help us move towards a more sustainable entity. In conclusion, we hereby reconfirm our commitment to the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and we also commit to share all the available information with our stakeholders using all our primary channels of communication. Thank you Hani Berzi Chairman and Managing Director 4 EDITA IMPLEMENTING THE TEN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses LABOR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 :Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 5 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 6 HUMAN RIGHTS EDITA recognizes that human rights are an integral part of the business. Edita is committed to conducting its business in a manner that respects the rights and dignity of all its stakeholders (customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders). We focus on Human Rights Principles adherence for our staff and our community. Edita’s skilled and dedicated employees are the driving force behind the company’s success. Edita goes the extra mile to ensure that its people retain and develop the skills that enable them to continue creating value, while working to create an environment that fosters both fulfilling experiences and a culture of inclusiveness. Our Staff: (Policies and Guiding principles) EDITA HR Policies which are composed of a number of policies that outline the Company’s aims in areas such as diversity, working environment, stress ,health and employee training and environmental sustainability. The Code of Conduct which contains rules and policy statements that help employees in their daily decision making regarding issues such as conflicts of interest, internal and confidential information, anti-corruption and bribery. And which govern the relationship of the company with others such as suppliers, stakeholders, employees ,…etc. The Whistler Blowing Policy This year, Edita is aiming to implement a whistler blowing policy which encourages all employees to speak out if they have legitimate concerns about malpractice or wrongdoing within the company.. 7 Our people EDITA skilled and dedicated employees are the driving force behind the company’s success. EDITA goes the extra mile to ensure that its people retain and develop the skills that enable them to continue creating value, while working to create an environment that fosters both fulfilling experiences and a culture of inclusiveness. Learning & Development EDITA offers its employees a wide range of rigorous training and development programs, challenging them to refine their skills and boost their profile in the job market. Investments in our people are commitments that have proven selfDiversity and Inclusion remunerating, enabling team members to fulfill their roles with greater effectiveness. EDITA is committed to cultivating a diverse workforce and creating an environment in which employees’ unique Edita Sales & Manufacturing Academies experiences and perspectives are celebrated. We strategically recruit employees with a wide range of backgrounds from The Edita Sales Academy (ESA) and the Edita Manufacturing Academy (EMA) across the country, and we consider a variety of perspectives welcome hundreds of employees each year, imparting job-specific skills, when making strategic decisions. Edita maintains a strict zerogeneral principles, as well as soft skills, focusing on people management skills, tolerance policy regarding discrimination, and we hold regular operational efficiency framework and help develop them into coaches for their awareness sessions and sensitivity trainings to ensure that direct reports. Meanwhile, the EMA delivered the 7 Habits of Highly Effective employees understand the company’s commitment to inclusion. People Industrial Version workshop. The first workshop was for Edita’s E07 facility with 785 attendees over two days for a total of 1,570 training days. Skill Bites Training The Skill Bites Training program is a classroom intervention Edita Quality Academy ranging from two to three hours (bite) and targeting a specific skill. Topics covered are chosen based on employee needs and Participants at our Quality Academy International Certificate Program receive the training goals of the company, including creative thinking, best-in-class training covering areas of quality and productivity improvement multiplier leadership, time management and emotional skills. at Edita’s manufacturing lines. In 2018, the academy delivered the second Edita delivered 39 sessions to 719 attendees under the program module of the Quality Improvement using Six Sigma Methodology. The in 2018. program targeted the quality and production team, where they presented their projects and ideas for improvements at the plants. 8 CLIMATE SURVEY 2018 In 2018, the HR department conducted a Climate Survey to gauge employees’ perception of the organization and better understand how Edita can improve their experience at the company and build a culture of inclusiveness. The survey focused on seven main dimensions, namely loyalty & commitment; communication & collaboration; performance & compensation; leadership; work/life balance; learning & career progression and strategic orientation. The results showed a high sense of employee belonging as well as wide acceptance of the diversity and inclusion concept. Edita’s employees also felt they worked in a safe and healthy working environment and saw at their disposal the tools necessary to achieve their goals and objectives. 412 The number of employees that completed the survey 75% Overall Satisfaction 9 LABOR PRINCIPLES 10 EDITA supporting Staff  EDITA is governed by rules and regulation that govern the labor. These rules are related to wages, leaves, duties of each employee and termination. The Egyptian labor law supports this through its articles in terms of wages , leaves, duties, investigation in case of violation, working hours and breaks in addition to articles related to social and health services.  EDITA does not use forced, compulsory or child labor. Our people want to work for an organization that encourages and respects individuals, and this is one of our Core Values. Our target is to create a culture of diversity.  EDITA is aware of the challenge of balancing professional achievement and personal wellbeing. We care about helping our employees succeed, and are focused on providing resources to improve their health and that of their families, creating a culture that appreciates differences, and offering more opportunities to grow both professionally and personally at work and in the communities where they live. 11 THE 7 HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE  In cooperation with Franklin Covey Egypt, we have been the first company in Egypt to deliver The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People – Industrial Version to the workers in the plants so as to create a new culture that is based on the 7 habits of highly effective people  The start was at E07, where the following were done in the period from March to December 2018: • # No. of attendees: 785 workers • # No. of workshop/2 days each: 37 /2 days • # No of training days: 1570 training days 12 EDITA implements100 Million Health Initiative  According to the Ministry of Health, 100 Million Health Initiative that targets the elimination of VIRUS C, EDITA has cooperated with the ministry officials to hold the campaigns in all of its premises to ensure the following:  Employees are tested  Provide the right medical treatment to employees who were diagnosed with the virus  Ensure Edita Staff are insured with the appropriate medical insurance courage  The safety and health of edita staff is guaranteed Total Total Participants Percentage 3283 85.4% 13 EDITA TEAM BONDING ACTIVITY EDITA organized the Walk A Mile In My Shoes and the Sail My Ship activities as two team bonding initiatives aimed at facilitating and improving communication and team collaboration between the different departments. The programs also work to manage conflicts and promote a unified vision for the company’s future path. Over the course of 1 day each, the total number of employees training for Walk a Mile In My Shoes and Sail My Ship were 70 and 60. 14 EDITA Employee Employee engagement is at the core of the Edita’s human resources function, with the company continuously working to maintain open channels of communication across all Engagement organizational levels. Initiatives 15 SHE IS POWERFUL ‫هي قويه‬ MOTHERS DAY 2018 At the HQ, Our Ladies came to work to find a package of cosmetics from Yves Rocher. Then they were invited to the celebration that had “She is powerful” Decorations and an “Open Buffet”. In the plants , We shared Mothers day in each plant Separately. We spent our time having lunch , We also distributed an electric Grill as a thank you to all our female workers 16 LABORS DAY 2018 ‫قوتنا في وحدتنا‬ We celebrated Labors day on Three different days to be able to spend a full day in each Plant. Promoting Team Collaboration Our Message for the today, We are Strong Together Our gift to our employees was a T-shirt with the Slogan printed on it ‫قوتنا في وحدتنا‬ 17 We kicked off the football tournament with a celebration for our employees who participated in the 2018 tournament As follows: We started with distributing certificates for all participants of Ramadan football tournament (2 teams).  Then we had a small welcoming speech to thank our teams for their efforts and dedication.  Finally we had lunch together and took some photos. 18 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES 19 Environmental Sustainability We have integrated a commitment to sustainability into our business strategy because we believe that Edita’s success as a business is measured not only by our profitability but also by our positive impact on Egyptian society A key way we honor our commitment to our communities is by limiting our impact on the environment in which our customers, employees and other key stakeholders live. To that end, we have located all of our production facilities within industrial zones and far from residential areas. Our SHE policies ensure that Edita is in full compliance with national regulations and international standards for environmental protection, and we are proud to have attained the ISO 14001 certification for environmental management across all factories. Our Edita Risk and Environmental Management System (eREMS) also provides a comprehensive framework for evaluating and eliminating environmental risks created by our operations. The company is engaged in continuous efforts to reduce our waste production as well as our consumption of energy and other resources. Recent efforts in these areas include the following:  Certifying plant E08 (new plant) in Edita’s ISO 14001 certification  Full operation of E06 Waste Water Treatment Plant with an on spec outlet effluent matching the legal thresholds.  Issuing a new procedure for monitoring the social & environmental performance of Edita’s suppliers and contractors.  Edita plants have managed to decrease the electricity consumption per production ton by 4 % in 2018 vs 2017, and the waste disposal per production ton by almost 19.5 %.  Issuing environmental registers for 15 distribution centers.  In addition to all previous initiatives and within Edita’s laid out environment management plan and the resources conservation program, a detailed monitoring plan is now being set, including the installation of separate electric meters and water flow meters for the production lines. 20 ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 21 Anti-Corruption Edita complies with all laws and regulations in the Egyptian market; our Internal Auditing Department uses a systematic approach to regularly evaluate and improve our system of internal controls. Employees are held to high standards of ethical behavior, and they are acquainted with our Code of Conduct, zero-tolerance policies related to bribery and corruption, and anonymous channels to report whistleblowing when they begin work. The Compliance and Corporate Governance Department regularly holds sessions to inform employees about laws that affect Edita’s business. Compliance EDITA adopts a comprehensive corporate compliance program with the purpose of: • Preventing violations from occurring and eliminating the company’s exposure to the severe sanctions imposed by the relevant laws. • Educate the company’s employees on the laws affecting our business, which include securities, antitrust, environmental and other laws. Information Security In May and June 2018, one of the most reputable security companies in Egypt, “Security Meter,” conducted an information security assessment upon a request from a member from the audit committee. The audit scope included Edita’s network assessment, physical security assessment for Datacenters, information security assessment, and some operations/processes assessments. A summary for the assessment report had been presented to the audit committee along with planned dates for important projects like the IPS (Intrusion Prevention System), The report actions are followed up by the Information Security team in addition to keeping an eye on agreed planned projects. During 2018, we continued the DLP (Data Loss Prevention) ongoing endeavor for protecting Edita’s information assets. We configured the system (purchased and implemented in 2017) with different policies in order to block unauthorized operations and tighten our security controls The DLP system reports are monitored by the Information Security team on a daily basis for detecting any violations, reducing false positives, along with analyzing and investigating security breaches. 22 Anti-Corruption Audit Committee In accordance with EGX listing rules, the Board of Directors has established an Audit Committee, made up of four competent and experienced Non-Executive Directors, three of whom are independent. Primary functions delegated by the Board to the Audit Committee include assisting the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in connection with: • The inspection and review of internal audit procedures. • The inspection and review of accounting standards and any changes resulting from the application of new accounting standards. • The inspection and review of internal audit procedures, plans and results. • The inspection and review of the periodic administrative information presented to the different levels of management and the methods of such preparation and timing of submission. • Ensuring the implementation of appropriate supervisory procedures in order to protect our assets. • Ensuring adherence to auditor and EFSA recommendations. • The inspection of the procedures carried out in preparing and reviewing I. the financial statements, II. offerings relating to securities, and III. estimated budgets, cash flow and income statements. • Advising on the appointment of auditors to perform services other than the preparation of financial statements. • The inspection and review of the auditor’s report regarding the financial statements and discussing the comments. • Ensuring the preparation by an independent financial advisor of a report concerning any related party transactions before being ratified • Ensuring the application of the necessary supervisory methods to maintain our assets, conduct periodic evaluation of administrative procedures and prepare reports to the Board. 23 EDITA CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOCIETY “Reporting on the SDGs’” 24 EDITA CSR BULIDING PIONEERS Our Center of Excellence In accordance with the world SDG’s , Edita has cultivated the roots of change starting with “Ta3awon” school in Beni Suef and plans to sustain and scale it across thousands of students for years to come. We have chosen name of building pioneers to announce our vision in building pioneers on every levels; among children, mothers, employees, educators. Through those pioneers, our message can be delivered far beyond we seek. We centered our objective around development of children; as being : • Are our main customer. • A Target to impact & easier to change Adding to, mothers were targeted being the care takers of the children. We worked with Educate Me foundation in delivering 3-day camp for children, that aims at providing and equipping children with 21st century skills and enhancing our values system including inclusiveness and respect. Our employees were highly engaged and were a great adding value in such camps. The impact has been awesome on both qualitative and quantitative levels :  Total number of students :785 students  Total Number of Camps: 6 camps / 3 days each  Total number of training days: 2,355  Total number of Mothers: 450 mothers.  Total number of employees: 14 employees 25 EDITA CSR BULIDING PIONEERS Our Center of Excellence  Scope: To develop a responsible, self motivated student through nurturing 21st century skills. 785 Students 3-day Beni-Sueif Camp Partnership governorate Showcase  Mothers: Educate Mothers on how to raise healthy children in poor areas by teaching them the following:  The food pyramid and all aspects to proper nutrition?  How to raise children properly with limited budget ?(with existing and readily available food)  Understanding the importance of raising a healthy child and how that affects the community. 450 1 day Mothers workshop 26 EDITA CSR BULIDING PIONEERS CAMPS PHOTOS 27 28
