Sida 1 av 3 Dokumentnamn Version COP_2019.docx Godkänd: Fastställd av: Magnus Alm Ersätter tidigare version daterad: EXECUTIVE STATEMENT 2019 Idnet is an IT company that creates efficient logistics for retail stores and warehouses. Our goal is to provide clients with modern and future-proof logistics solutions using improved work practices, with increased profitability and better ergonomics as a result. We deliver WMS solutions and/or integration with existing warehouse / business/ and store data systems that allow the customer to maximize system utilization to significantly increase the efficiency and quality. Customers consist largely of the leading Swedish chain stores as well as e-commerce, 3pl and production companies. Idnet currently has 56 employees, with headquarters in Gothenburg, Sweden and a local office in Stockholm During the year, we have focused on our own processes from a workplace and health perspective. This has resulted in several activities during the year, some of the more extensive are: • Our premises was rebuilt to strengthen collaboration and communication. • A leadership program has been started focusing corporate culture, work environment and collaboration. • We have conducted risk analysis of our processes from a workplace and health perspective • We have conducted external audits according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 We have also continued our sponsorship of various CSR projects. New for 2019 is our partnership with the organization “Ung Företagsamhet” which educates high school students in entrepreneurship. The partnerships also enables our own employees to grow through mentoring the students. For the sixth year in a row, we sponsor Team Rynkeby (The Swedish childhood cancer fund). We also sponsor Jontefonden, (a foundation for children and young people who are waiting for, or has performed, an organ transplant) WWF, Red Cross, Hand-in-hand, SOS Barnbyar as well as local football and ice hockey teams. This report describes the steps Idnet has taken in 2019 in our efforts to integrate the principles of the UN Global Compact into corporate strategy, corporate culture and business operations. Gothenburg, October 7, 2019 Magnus Alm CEO, Idnet AB Sida 2 av 3 Dokumentnamn Version COP_2019.docx Godkänd: Fastställd av: Magnus Alm Ersätter tidigare version daterad: 1. Human rights • We have participated in the Fair Trade Challenge in order to increase employees' knowledge of Fairtrade and Idnet's own commitment to these issues. In connection to his, all employees participated in a workshop aiming to improve our impact on this matter. • Our customer project process now includes a work shop regarding the customer´s sustainability polices/code of conduct, which gives us further ability to reflect and ensure human rights in daily processes. • The leadership program includes work shops regarding the 10 principles according to UN GC and sustainability in general. 2. Labor & Work Environment We have improved and documented many work processes for the convenience of the employees and a work environment committee had been formed. Our premises was rebuilt to strengthen collaboration and communication and risk assessments of employees' physical and mental health as well the workplace in general were conducted through questionnaires. Idnet supports its employees with financial compensation related to physical training. In addition, there are serveral health-related offers for the employees, such as the national health competition challenge called “Arbetsplatsklassikern”. 25% of the staff are active in Arbetsplatsklassikern. Another offers is to participate in Göteborgs Varvet 2020, running for the benefit of Jontefonden. 25%* of the staff accepted, which not only means that the company makes addtional contributions to the fund and helps raise the issue of organ donation, the initiative also strengthen the ties between coworkers as well has a positive impact on own health. (* not exactly the same 25% active in Arbetsplatsklassikern) 3. Environment New environmental objectives have been determined aiming to reduce our own transports. During the year, additional company cars were replaced with hybrids. Today 67% of the company cars are environmentally classified passenger cars/hybrids, last year the number were 33%. As a result, the Co2 emissions decreased 35%. Additional charging stations for electric cars has been set up at the parking area which encourage staff to switch private diesel/gasoline cars to electrical cars. Sida 3 av 3 Dokumentnamn Version COP_2019.docx Godkänd: Fastställd av: Magnus Alm Ersätter tidigare version daterad: The activities done for eliminating paper invoices were successful and the proportion of e-invoices is now up to 93%. 4. Anti-Corruption We have conducted background checks on additional suppliers. The leadership program includes work shop regarding anti corruption.
