SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 STRAX S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SUSTAINABILITY REPORT April 18, 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that STRAX AB reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Gudmundur Palmason CEO 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T STRAX “THE SUM OF OUR ACTIONS IS WHAT MAKES STRAX A VIBRANT COMPANY IN WHICH CHANGE IS PERCEIVED AS AN OPPORTUNITY AND EVERYONE IS COMMITTED TO A CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT PROCESS.” GUDMUNDUR PALMASON, CEO 3 STRAX S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In the role as a global supplier of mobile accessories, STRAX is committed to protect and improve the environment, health and wellbeing of employees, customers, suppliers and the communities where we operate. STRAX´s ambition is to conduct business in process that has helped us evolve our sustaia sustainable manner in all areas possible. nability work further by setting clear targets Sustainability is considered in profitabiliand measuring progress. We are proud of ty and risk analyses, business and product what we have achieved so far, while realidevelopment, investment decisions and in zing we still have a long way to go. One of our communication with stakeholders. Doing the highlights of 2018 has been the progress so will enable us to offer innovative products made in designing and developing greener more competitively, while taking responsipackaging. bility for the impact our business has on the world around us. Not only do we work to enSTRAX´s Sustainability Report offers an sure high standards of corporate responsibilioverview of what we are trying to achieve ty internally, but we also engage our external with our sustainable business strategy, and partners to collaboratively manage social and the progress to date. The focus is on what environmental risks and opportunities. A clear matters the most, therefore, the content vision and shared values form the basis for reflects the sustainability aspects where our our behavior and actions at STRAX. They are business has the most impact on people and the expression of our corporate culture, which the environment. As a signatory to the UN align with sustainable business principles. Global Compact, STRAX is aligned with its ten principles concerning human rights, labor 4 A year has passed since we published our first issues, environment and anti-corruption. This Sustainability Report. It’s been an educative report is our Communication on Progress. Our Values Honesty Respect Frugality Teamwork We aim always to We always show the We use resources We realize and show respect by utmost respect for our wisely; effective understand that as a adhering to facts, by co-workers, the planning and team we’re stronger fulfilling promises and company, our communication than as individuals, so admitting failures. We competitors, our together with we work together to nurture honest customers and our optimized processes achieve our common communication partners. minimize costs across goals. throughout the all areas of the company. business. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T STRAX BUSINESS MODEL AND SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT STRAX is a market-leading global company STRAX does not own any factories and all specializing in mobile accessories. We have production is sourced from third party suppbuilt a House of Brands to complement our liers. 99 per cent of the production is based value-added customer-specific solutions and South East Asia. The concentration of producservices. These include tailored professional tion in one geographic area when sales are marketing support, a product intelligence global results in environmental challenges tool, customizable E-Com solutions and logistic due to transportation. The development solutions. STRAX´s brand portfolio includes and production of proprietary products proprietary brands: XQISIT, Urbanista and add further requirements on the control of THOR and licensed brands: adidas and bugatti. materials used in the products and on third In addition, we represents over 40 major party factories’ adherence to sound business mobile accessory brands. We sell into all key practices. channels ranging from telecom operators, mass merchants and consumer electronics At STRAX, we strive to optimize the business to lifestyle retailers and direct to consumers model and value chain by developing and online. promoting sustainable products and services. Sustainability aspects are considered througSTRAX was founded in Miami and Hong Kong hout the value chain which covers everything in 1995 and has since grown across the world. from product development and procurement Today, Today, STRAX has over 190 employees to production, logistics and professional in 13 countries with its operational HQ and marketing support at the point of sales. logistics center based in Germany. Our sustainability work is focused on the most significant economic, environmental and STRAX proprietary brands develop, produce, social aspects across our value chain in order package and sell mobile accessories. 61 per to reduce the negative impact on people and cent of sales come from proprietary brands, the environment. 14 per cent from licensed brands and 25 per cent from partner brands. 5 Material sustainability aspects in STRAX´s value chain Product Procurement Production Logistics Value-added development solutions and services Product safety, The procurement Throughout the The logistics It is important that product quality, process entails production proinclude challenges STRAX’s value-addurability, use of challenges related cess, the environrelated to carbon ded solutions and chemicals and to corruption and mental impact of emissions from services align with materials, packabriberies. the production transportation of the company’s ging solutions and techniques such as products as well core values and recyclability are use of chemicals, as waste from the contribute to the important sustaicarbon emispackaging used in overall quality nability aspects in sions and waste, the logistics proassurance. STRAX’s product product quality cess and energy development. assurance as well usage in warehouas human rights, ses. fair labor practices and health and safety issues are important aspects to consider. STRAX S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE provided by the UN Global Compact as well At STRAX we are committed to ensure that as the other international conventions STRAX everything we do, and all decisions that we complies with. make, are governed by the principles of ethics, integrity and respect for people and care for The STRAX Code of Conduct obliges all the environment. In doing so we hope to earn employees to uphold high ethical standards the trust and respect of our customers and in their conduct towards each other and society in the process. Our vision, values, and when representing the company. It also aims Code of Conduct reflect our entrepreneurial, to ensure a safe working environment, an social and environmental responsibility. equal and fair treatment of all employees, a They are the company’s binding guidelines, strict quality management and focus on the providing specific instructions on forming relaend-user in product development, as well as tionships with customers, colleagues, suppliers to prevent, minimize and remedy the business and other partners. adverse environmental impacts. The Code of Conduct is complemented by STRAX´s Principles and practices Anti-Bribery Policy, Code of Conduct for STRAX´s framework for sustainability respectSuppliers, rules of corporate governance and fully complies with widely recognized internaother relevant policies. tional standards including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO International Labor Business ethics Standards, the Rio Declaration on Environment For STRAX, business ethics means more than and Development, the UN’s Convention Against complying with regulations. As a value-driCorruption and OECD Guidelines for Multiven organization we believe that adopting national Enterprises. Since 2017, STRAX is a a wider ethical approach into our company signatory to the UN Global Compact, aligned culture is crucially important. It helps us earn with its ten principles concerning human rights, the trust of everyone affected by our operalabor issues, environment and anti-corruption. tions, enhance our reputation and succeed in STRAX is also in full compliance with the business. Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)’s Code of Conduct which includes a set of social, environmental and ethical standards for the electronics industry. STRAX´s quality management system and supplier partnership mechanism ensure adhe6 rence to our strict standards throughout the supply chain. The entire business, including the STRAX´s logistics center, is ISO-9001 certified. Sustainability management policies are regularly revised, as well as internal standards and processes, to ensure their conformance with international standards and customer requirements. The Code of Conduct leads the way STRAX´s Code of Conduct is the Group´s overarching sustainability policy document and declares what is expected from every person working for and with the organization. It also underlines our responsibilities to customers, colleagues, suppliers and other partners. The STRAX Code of Conduct is based on the company’s core values and the ten principals S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T STRAX Regulatory compliance and shall be empowered to act as a line of STRAX is committed to comply with the defense in the identification of any corrupt laws and regulations in each country in which practices. STRAX’s guidelines on gifts and we operate. The products are designed and hospitality serves as a support structure for tested to meet the appropriate standards for employees to handle such corrupt activities. product safety, electromagnetic and wireless connectivity, ergonomics and other regulatory STRAX has set as a target that all employees compulsory requirements, when used for their should be educated on the topics of bribery intended purpose. and corruption by 2020. 100 per cent (100) of all employees in Vendor-facing positions had Whether in areas of corporate governance, completed their education on the topic of brifiduciary duty, employee responsibilities, bery and corruption at year-end 2018, which consumer protection, partnership managecorresponds to 24 per cent (18) of the Group´s ment, or environmental standards, we take our employees. responsibilities seriously; in most cases, legal compliances act as a starting point only, our Reporting concerns own policies tend to be more strict than legal Employees and partners are encouraged and compliance requirements. expected to report incidents of non-compliance with the STRAX Code of Conduct. Reported information will only be processed Group-wide sustainability policy to the extent reasonably necessary for the documents investigation. There will be no retaliation or • STRAX Code of Conduct other negative consequences for individual • STRAX Supplier Code of Conduct reporting on such incidents. The STRAX Code • STRAX Anti-Bribery Policy of Conduct have instructions for employees • STRAX Cobalt and Conflict Minerals on how to raise their concerns within the Declaration organization. • STRAX Travel Policy Organization Sustainability and ethics are emphasized Anti-corruption and bribery throughout STRAX’s corporate governance, STRAX’s procurement process mainly takes starting with the Board of Directors, the CEO place in South East Asia, a market that offers and the Group Management Team. good business opportunities, but that is also The Group Management Team has the ultimaexposed to material risks relating to areas te responsibility for the implementation and 7 such as corruption, bribery and fraud. monitoring of STRAX’s sustainability work, as well as its subdivisions’ compliance with STRAX has a zero-tolerance policy on corrupthe STRAX Code of Conduct. Management tion. STRAX’s Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribeis also responsible for maintaining adequate ry Policy describe our commitment to maintain documentation to demonstrate compliance a high standard of ethics when we do business by partners. and our expectations on each employee and partner. We fully support the requirements of In 2017 STRAX established a number of the UK Bribery Act as well as similar legislation sustainability targets as well as Sustainability in all regions in which we do business. Performance Indicators (SPIs) for monitoring We have implemented policies and proceduand develop the sustainability work. In 2018, res to ensure we are prepared, to the extent the focus has been on finalizing this process possible, to prevent and deter corrupt practiand measure progress on selected SPIs. ces across our business relationships. This also We have come a long way but recognize that includes monitoring and preventing potential there is still a lot to be done. We continuouscorruption and bribery and to deal with such ly work to develop our business in a more practices appropriately if they are discovered. sustainable way and minimize our negative social, environmental and economic impact. All staff shall be aware of their responsibiliThe targets will be updated in pace with the ties in respect to anti-corruption and bribery continuing work. STRAX S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER NETWORKS Some of the most significant risks and opporMonitoring compliance tunities within STRAX’s value chain can be STRAX expects all suppliers to continually found among the upstream suppliers. monitor their compliance with the standards With over 150 suppliers globally, continual imset in the STRAX Supplier Code of Conduct provements together with our manufacturing and to promptly rectify any failures to do so. partners on sustainability issues are not only Should any breach of the regulations be decrucial to ensure the rights and conditions tected, the supplier must immediately notify of the workers that make our products, but STRAX, so that we can ensure that effective also to minimize the adverse environmental and timely corrective actions are taken. impacts of the production. At STRAX, we believe in a self-assessment At STRAX we expect our suppliers to operate system, that over time corrects behavior and ethically correct and in accordance with intercreates a sound culture of improvement, for nationally recognized standards on human the factories. Initial audits are conducted rights, labor rights, environment and antiat all new major suppliers. The self-assesscorruption, adhere to the STRAX Code of ment system is then monitored through our Conduct and to uphold the ethical standards regular presence in the factories and checked that are integral to our Code of Conduct. through audits. We also implement third party validation of strategic suppliers’ CSR-perSustainability management formance to cross reference our internal in the supply chain findings. As a global business with an extensive supplier base, developing a full understanding of the In 2018 a total of nine audits were conducted. suppliers´ sustainability performance is a chalMajor suppliers are defined by accounting for lenge, even with strict supply chain processes +90 per cent of Group purchasing. in place. Improving performance and building STRAX has adopted the Responsible Business capability Alliance (RBA)’s Code of Conduct as a guiSTRAX’s intention is to support safe and fair deline for standardizing the approach with working conditions and responsible manasuppliers regarding social, environmental and gement of environmental and social issues in ethical responsibility. every part of the supply chain. In order to do so, we support the establishment of a Corpo8 STRAX has also implemented STRAX Code of rate Social Responsibility (CSR) management Conduct for Suppliers to ensure that all suppstructure and incorporate CSR-performance liers know what we expect of them. Alongside as a part of our supplier evaluation criteria to the Supplier Code of Conduct, STRAX has an further incentivize their participation in these Anti-Bribery Contract with factories and other activities. contractors in Asia with heavy penalties for any bribery or inappropriate influence on STRAX Engaging directly with suppliers is one of the employees or representatives. STRAX has amenmost effective ways to improve performance ded employee contracts for all Asian employees, in the supply chain. Ways to do this include giving STRAX the right to terminate employusing our monitoring processes, follow-up ment immediately, and without notice period, discussions and briefings with suppliers’ should any briberies have been accepted. managers and executives. If any evidence of non-compliance is identified, STRAX STRAX aim for all suppliers to comply with work with the supplier to develop corrective the requirements regarding anti-corruption actions and improve the process the supplier and bribery with no serious deviations. In uses to manage key risks. 2018, 100 per cent (98) of suppliers complied with the requirements without serious STRAX has developed a program that endeviations. courages the suppliers’ incremental improveS U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T STRAX ment through the provision of best practice te. At year-end 2018, 100 per cent (98) of all CSR-improvement recommendations. We aim suppliers in high-risk areas had participated for all suppliers in areas with high CSR-related in the supplier development program. risks, currently South East Asia, to participaPRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY STRAX is dedicated to providing customers We also cross-check final results with our with safe products that exceed their expectainternal testing facilities; additionally, we have tions regarding quality and safety as well as a protocol for product recalls should the need the environmental impact caused by produarise. cing and using them. All STRAX products meet their respective regional and safety Materials and substances requirements. STRAX strive to conserve resources and reduce environmental footprint caused by our proQuality management system ducts through the use of recyclable plastics and STRAX develops products in strict complipackaging materials, as well as ensuring the ance with internationally recognized safety recyclability of the products where reasonably and legal requirements. Regulations setting possible. mandatory safety and reliability standards for certain products are defined during the In 2018 STRAX invested in developing more product development stages for the purpose sustainable and consumer friendly packaging. of preventing or reducing the risk of injury or By changing plastics used in the packaging harm to the consumer. These include, but are construction to biodegradable plastics or panot limited to, CE, FCC and other recognized per and create designs that require less plasregulatory bodies. tics, the packaging becomes more sustainable and has less impact on the environment. STRAX has assembled a Product Safety and Compliance Team which continually monitors In order to ensure that none of STRAX’s proproduct safety issues within the supply chain ducts contain any harmful, restricted or unneand reports directly to the Management Team. cessary chemicals, we adhere to strict legal Together they have developed robust procecompliance across a range of legislative endures to deter, detect, and prevent non-comvironments around the world, including the EU pliant products from shipping to customers. RoHS (guidelines to restrict the use of harmful substances in electric/electronic products) 9 The foundation of these procedures is based and the EU REACH (European Regulation on upon a quality management system and supplier Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and partnership mechanism that ensures adherenRestriction of Chemicals), and have a multice to strict standards throughout the supply layered approach to ensure that our suppliers chain. Procedures have been established for do as well. product design and performance as well as raw material selection and regulatory requireAt STRAX, continuous progress is a crucial ments. STRAX ensures the traceability along part of the product development process. We all instances leading up to the Design Approval continuously work on providing information Process, which enables us to track products that helps buyers and customers make sustaiand components to individual suppliers, ensunable product choices. ring supplier accountability. This system also enables us to trace non-standard components Conflict minerals management that may have safety implications back to their STRAX supports the efforts of human rights source and thereafter implement root cause organizations to end violence and atrocities in analysis and respective solutions. Central Africa. It has been widely reported that the major driver of this violence is the natural For product safety certifications, STRAX abundance of the minerals tin, tungsten, tanengage external experts to identify continual ta-lum and gold, now referred to as conflict improvement areas and corrective actions. minerals. In 2016, Amnesty International also STRAX S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T shed light on human rights abuses, including as informed by the Conflict Free Sourcing Initichild labor, linked to cobalt mining in the ative. Suppliers shall exercise due diligence on Democratic Republic of Congo. the source and chain of custody of conflict minerals and make their due diligence measures The issues of conflict minerals are important to available to STRAX upon request. Since 2017 STRAX. We undertake due diligence to ensure STRAX includes cobalt in the requirements. that conflict minerals are not used in our proA policy has been implemented to ensure that ducts. STRAX requires that all new suppliers all suppliers, both upstream and downstream, confirm that materials we purchase do not recognize and align their supply chain policies contain conflict minerals and the suppliers are with the Responsible Cobalt Initiative (RCI). notified periodically to update this assurance. At year-end 2018, 100 per cent (97) of all In addition, we require of our existing suppliers suppliers had completed a self-assessment, that use any of the four metals listed above to ensuring any sourcing, purchasing or use of ensure that they are using approved smelters, Cobalt adheres to the RCI. OUR PEOPLE STRAX strives to provide a workplace where of their personal responsibility to ensure that employees can fulfill their potential in an open they act according to it. and inspirational working environment. The ability to attract, develop and retain competent Health and safety management and committed employees at all levels is key to STRAX is committed to high standards of continued successful growth. health and safety management which is a fundamental part of the sustainability agenda. Living our values Ensuring safety awareness, positive attitudes STRAX maintains a strong commitment to high and continual improvement in safety perforstandards in order to deliver a fair, diverse, resmance requires the commitment and active inpectful and safe workplace for all employees. volvement of all partners, managers, employees and regular contractors at all levels. At the heart of our behavior and actions are four core values: Honesty, Respect, Frugality STRAX works actively and preemptively to and Teamwork. We want our people to always improve the company’s employee attendance show respect by adhering to facts, fulfilling through initiatives such as preventive healthpromises and admitting to failures. We also care, which STRAX strives to offer to all the 10 want them to show the outmost respect for Group’s employees. co-workers, the company, competitors, customers and partners. Resources shall be used In order to make analyzes and plans of action wisely across all areas of the business, with STRAX is measuring employee satisfaction effective planning, communication and opthrough an employee survey. The target is to timized processes that reduce costs. We are have an Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) stronger as a team than as individuals, so we score of at least 85 per cent by 2020. shall all work together to achieve our common The latest survey on employee satisfaction was goals. conducted in 2017. The survey was addressed in Asia with an overall ESI score of 78 per cent. STRAX’s Code of Conduct outlines the behaDue to the organizational changes brought viors expected from every single person worabout by the optimization phase STRAX is king for and with STRAX. The principles outlicurrently in, no survey was conducted in 2018. ned in the Code of Conduct are the foundation STRAX is planning to survey employee satisof how we do business and set the values we faction for the entire Group in 2019. want everyone who works for or with us to respect. Together, these elements ensure that Diversity and equality we protect our reputation, our people and At STRAX we are committed to ensure the fair our assets. All employees are educated in the and equal treatment of everyone across all our company’s Code of Conduct and informed business. Workplace diversity contributes to S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T STRAX the divergence and exchange of ideas, which people must be acknowledged and reasonably is critical to STRAX’s innovation process and accommodated, employment practices must contributes to a healthy management environensure that differences do not lead to discriment. STRAX has a zero-tolerance policy for mination in the workplace. The gender division all forms of discrimination and harassment. in the Group is 45 per cent (42) women and We are committed to provide an inclusive and 55 per cent (58) men. 34 per cent (29) of mawelcoming environment for all members of our nagers were women during the year. STRAX employees, clients, volunteers, subcontractors, aim to continuously improve the proportion of vendors, and clients. women in management positions. The target is that both men and women will represent at STRAX regard gender equality as an essential least 40 per cent of management positions by part of human resource management. While year 2020. recognizing that differences between ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental management is an important • Optimize transport emissions by shifting part of the culture at STRAX. We work systefrom air to ocean transport modes as matically to prevent, minimize and remedy admuch as possible verse environmental impacts of our business • Avoid travel emissions by prioritizing 11 activities through a proactive approach and alternative technology options such as responsible management of its environmental video conferencing and virtual office use aspects. As part of STRAX’s continuous im• Supplier engagement to reduce manu provement process for environmental manafacturing energy usage and CO2-emissions gement, we are further analyzing our environ• Reduce the environmental impacts of our mental impact to better understand how we products at the research and design stage can play a larger and more constructive role in • Use less carbon-intensive materials, such as contributing to a healthier global environment. recycled materials, in the packaging Reducing our CO2-footprint We are in the process of measuring our There is clear evidence that global temperabaseline carbon footprint and setting short tures are rising quickly. There is also a very and long-term reduction targets. strong consensus among scientists and policymakers that carbon dioxide emissions from Engaging our suppliers fossil fuels together with other greenhouse In order to reduce the CO2-emissions througgases have a direct impact on the climate. hout our value chain, engaging our suppliers At STRAX, we recognize the impacts of global and to work collaboratively, is crucial. warming and work to be part of the solution. Carbon management is relatively new at STRAX seeks to reduce manufacturing energy STRAX. We have five initiatives that we are usage by requiring that supplier use energy currently focusing on: efficient devices which comply with extended STRAX S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T internationally efficiency standards. Furtherand virtual office use. In 2018 STRAX implemore, suppliers are obliged to provide STRAX mented a new stricter travel policy in order to with important information about energy further reduce the impact of business travel. consumption, production technology and logistics in order for STRAX to be able to Circular economy determine and measure the CO2-costs. In the context of rapidly reducing global resources, STRAX strives to understand and For information involving energy consumpoptimize our role in contributing to a circular tion, the measures taken by suppliers must economy. be based on the ETSI-TS standard, while for CO2-effects they must be based on internatioA circular economy aims to mirror the natunally recognized standards, in particular the ral world’s regenerative system by ensuring standard of the GHG Protocol and recommenresources can be continually recycled and dations of the ITU-T SG5. Regarding assembly, environmental impacts are minimized. For suppliers shall provide STRAX with all necesSTRAX, this means making high quality sary information about the materials from products that last longer, are made of enwhich the items delivered are assembled, as vironmentally friendly materials, and can be well as about the packaging. easily recycled. In this way, we hope to not only benefit the environment, but also achieve Optimize transport emissions cost benefits for us at STRAX and to offer our Transports are STRAX’s largest source of customers an environmentally friendly product greenhouse gas emissions. An efficient and design and better end-of-life management. CO2-minimizing flow of goods is one of the most important factors to reduce our negative STRAX are continually investigating how we impact on the environment. can better use the principles of circular economy to deliver value to our customers. Our To ensure efficient transports, STRAX has a current approach includes the use of biodescreening process with requirements regargradable plastics in products, as well as the ding transportation optimization and effiuse of recycled material in packaging and to ciency when choosing what carriers to use. ensure recyclability in line with WEEE regulaBy optimizing the transports, and prioritizing tions. Globally, only nine per cent of all plastics transports by sea or train over those by air, are recycled. In the contrary to non-sustaiwe are working to lessen the company’s imnable plastics, oxo-biodegradable plastics pact on the environment. allow the plastics that are not being recycled to degrade in natural environments without 12 Starting in 2019, STRAX will operate a bonded harming the natural habitats of wildness such warehouse in Asia, which will enable improved as plants and animals. STRAX most recent co-ordination of transportations as well as proinvestment revolves around packaging. vide cost-effective solutions. By designing packaging that requires less plastics and replacing plastics with bioThe target is that transportation by air should degradable plastics or paper, the packaging not exceed 70 per cent by year 2020. At yearbecomes more sustainable and has less end 2018, 99 per cent of transports were by negative impact on the environment. air, which is an increase from previous year with 15 percentage points. The increase is related to growth in sales for protection brands. We recognize that we are up for a challenge and that we still have a long way to go, but at the same time, we are confident that our ongoing efforts to reduce our CO2-footprint will pay off in the future. STRAX is also committed to reduce emissions from business travel by prioritizing alternative technology options such as video conference S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T STRAX SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES As a global business it is essential to understand the social challenges in our surroundings and the crucial role businesses play in society. AT STRAX, we are dedicated to taking responsibility towards a sustainable social development in the communities in which we operate. In 2018, we supported two non-profit organizations in Asia and one in Kenya to contribute towards children’s and young adults’ right to education, development and an independent life. From One to Another STRAX supports the non-profit organization STRAX donation during 2018 has enabled 25 From One to Another who works to provide girls to go to high school for one year. Twice a financial support and support for education year STRAX gets a personal update letter from for girls in Kenya. The organization's strategy the girls they are sponsoring. is to contribute to sustainable communities 13 around these girls by creating centers that will provide support, advice and education to the girls' mothers. Captivating International STRAX supports the Annual Captivating Charity Auction – an event run in partnership with the Shenzhen Charity Federation. The Shenzhen Charity Federation; SHAMTSE; and LOVEQTRA (The Seng Girls Home), funds raised from this year’s event will be used to impact the lives of up to 1,000 girls and many of their families in remote locations of Western China. With a focus on solutions such as greenhouses, animal husbandry, health education, vocational school scholarships, and programs helping girls get into their first genuine and safe job. STRAX S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Sunshine Academy STRAX partners with a Chinese non-profit Through one of STRAX core manufacturing organization, Sunshine Academy, on a number partners we support a vocational initiative to of vocational programs. Sunshine Academy help Sunshine Academy students build life is dedicated to love and educate Chinese skills in the work place allowing them to becoorphans instilling dignity and life skills to enme as self-sufficient as possible and give them 14 able an independent life. Sunshine Academy opportunities to have a meaningful life. students have a variety of special needs which means they will need support throughout their growing up years as well as their adult life. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T STRAX SUSTAINABILITY RISKS Stakeholders have ever increasing demands on companies’ accountability. The active work with issues concerning the environment, social conditions, human rights and corruption is an integrated part of STRAX’s operations. Should our efforts in these areas prove insufficient, sales and market shares could be negatively affected. Risk Risk management Risks in the supply chain Some of the more significant sustainability risks and STRAX expect all suppliers to operate ethically correct and opportunities are found in STRAX’s supply chain. The risks in accordance with internationally recognized standards on include, but are not limited to, corruption and briberies, human rights, labor rights, environment, anti-corruption and human rights and fair labor practices, health and safety, and bribery. Principles and values are communicated through environmental damage. Should STRAX’s suppliers break STRAX’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which applies to all international rules and legislation, or if they should deviate STRAX’s suppliers and subcontractors. STRAX support from established standards, STRAX’s would risk facing ecothe establishment of a CSR management structure and nomic damages, negative publicity and legal ramifications. incorporate CSR performance as a part of the supplier evaluation criteria to further incentivize their participation in CSR activities. Product-related risks STRAX’s ability to offer products that meet stakeholders’ STRAX complies with the EU directives; RoHS, REACH expectations regarding quality, safety, use of materials and and WEEE, and strive to reduce the products’ environmechemicals, as well as comply with all regional and counntal footprint through the use of recyclable plastics and try-level statutory standards is crucial to maintain customer packaging materials as well as ensuring the recyclability trust. of the products when reasonably possible. Product safety issues within the supply chain are continually monitored and STRAX has developed robust procedures to deter, detect, and prevent non-compliant products from shipping to customers. STRAX also undertake due diligence to ensure that conflict minerals & cobalt materials are not used in our products. Risks related to business ethics With employees in 13 countries and over 150 suppliers STRAX has a zero-tolerance policy on corruption. All 15 around the world, STRAX is, to a varying degree, exposed to STRAX’s employees are educated in the company’s Code of the risk of corruption. Unethical behavior would entail legal Conduct and made aware of their responsibilities in respect ramifications and harm the company’s reputation. to anti-corruption and bribery. STRAX’s guidelines on gifts and hospitality serves as a support structure. Risks related to social conditions Skilled and engaged employees are instrumental to the STRAX maintains a strong commitment to high standards in company’s ability to develop according to the long-term order to deliver a fair, diverse, respectful and safe workplace strategic plan and to reach the established targets. If STRAX for all employees. STRAX’s Code of Conduct establishes the were to fail in providing an attractive working environment organization’s stance on these topics. All STRAX’s employit would have a direct negative impact on the company’s ees are educated in the company’s Code of Conduct and ability to attract and retain skilled employees. informed of their personal responsibility to ensure that they act according to it. Environmental risks in the transportation of goods With a global network of suppliers and distributors, a signiBy optimizing the transports, and prioritizing transports by ficant part of STRAX’s value chain’s negative impact on the sea or train over those by air, STRAX is working to lessen the environment stems from the transportation of goods in the company’s impact on the environment. form of carbon emissions. STRAX S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS In 2017 STRAX established a number of sustainability targets as well as Sustainability Performance Indicators (SPIs) for monitoring the areas of product compliance, responsible suppliers, carbon management, employees and social conditions. In 2018, the focus has been on finalizing this process and measure progress on selected SPIs. Sustainability target Results of 2018 Supply chain 100 % of suppliers are to comply with 100 % (98) of suppliers complied with the requirements of STRAX’s Supplier the requirements without serious Code of Conduct regarding anti-cordeviations in 2018. ruption and bribery with no serious deviations. All suppliers in high-risk areas (curAt year-end 2018, 100 % (89) of rently South East Asia) are to particiall suppliers in high-risk areas had pate in STRAX’s supplier development participated in STRAX´s supplier program. development program. Business Ethics 100 % of all employees should be 24 % (18) of all employees had been educated on the topics of bribery and educated on the topic of bribery and corruption by year 2020. corruption at year-end 2018, with 100 % (100) of employees in Vendor-facing positions. Social Conditions The target is that both men and At year-end 2018, the gender division women will represent at least 40 % of in the Group was 45 % (42) women management positions by year 2020. and 55 % (58) men. 34 % (29) of managers were women during 2018. The Group’s employee satisfaction STRAX conducted a survey on score (ESI) should be at least 85 % by employee satisfaction in Asia during year 2020. 2017 with an overall ESI score of 78 per cent. Due to the organizational changes brought about by the optimization phase STRAX is in, no survey 16 was conducted during 2018. STRAX is planning to survey employee satisfaction for the entire Group in 2019. Carbon Management Transportation by air should not 99 % (84) of transports were by air in exceed 70 % by year 2020. 2018. The increase is related to growth in sales for protection brands. Reduce emissions from business travel In 2018 STRAX implemented a new by prioritizing alternative technology stricter travel policy in order to further options (video conference, virtual reduce the impact of business travel. office use). Product responsibility All suppliers shall recognize and align At year-end 2018, 100 % (97) of all their supply chain policies in line suppliers had completed a self-aswith the Responsible Cobalt Initiative sessment ensuring any sourcing, (RCI). purchasing or use of Cobalt adheres to the RCI. All products shall meet internationally In 2018 100 % (100) of STRAX recognized safety and legal requireproducts complied with all local ments for the markets they are sold in. and international regulatory safety standards. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T STRAX AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To the general meeting of the shareholders with International Standards on Auditing in STRAX AB, corporate identity number and generally accepted auditing standards 555539-7709 in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our Engagement and responsibility opinion. It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the Opinions year 2018 on pages 47–57 and that it has A statutory sustainability report has been been prepared in accordance with the Annual prepared. Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Stockholm, 18 April, 2019 Our examination has been conducted in acPricewaterhouseCoopers AB cordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statNiklas Renström utory sustainability report. This means that Authorized Public Accountant our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance 17 STRAX AB (PUBL) CORP.ID NO: 556539-7709 MÄSTER SAMUELSGATAN 10 TEL: +46 (0) 8-545 01 750 111 44 STOCKHOLM EMAIL: IR@STRAX.COM SWEDEN WWW.STRAX.COM
