Towards the Realization of a Resource-Recycling Society CSR REPORT 2018 This report uses forest certified paper and vegetable oil ink that is environmentally friendly. DO W A CSR 1 CSR REPORT 2018 2 Corporate Philosophy DOWA helps to create an aﬄuent, recycling-oriented society through its business activities worldwide. Based on this corporate philosophy, we work on solving various social issues through our business activities, together with seriously meeting the expectations of all our stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, investors, suppliers, local communities and employees. Table of contents Corporate Philosophy & Editorial Policy ……… 1 Message from the Company President ………… 3 Special Feature 1 Sustainable Mine Development ……………… ５ Special Feature 2 Development of Human Resources and The Organization …………………………………… 7 About the DOWA Group ………………………… 9 Editorial Policy （１） Areas covered in this report ■Target Period If mistakes are found after publication of the CSR report, they will be CSR Policy and Plan ……………………………… 17 ■Target Organizations We mainly report on the activities of FY 2017 (April 2017 to March reported on our website with errata notes. DOWA Holdings and subsidiaries (both in Japan and other 2018), but in order to convey more accurate information, we also Initiatives by CSR Sector countries) that are included in our consolidated accounting are report about some of our previous initiatives or most recent （３） Basic Information selected in these reports.Data on some of our eﬀorts are only activities. ■Publication date: October 2018 Corporate Governance ………………………… 19 associated to DOWA Holdings and other major companies of the ■Reference Guidelines ■Next scheduled publication date: October 2019 group.From FY 2017, the Toyota factory of DOWA Thermotech The UN Global Compact ■Department that prepared the report: Environment & Safety Safety ……………………………………………… 25 Co., Ltd. is excluded, and DOWA Techno Research Co., Ltd. is ISO 26000 Department, DOWA Holdings newly added. Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018 version) by Japan’s ■Website URL Environment ……………………………………… 29 ■Target Areas of the Report Ministry of the Environment http://www.dowa.co.jp (Japanese) The report consists of four areas of DOWA’s CSR policies: http://www.dowa.co.jp/index_e.html (English) Society ……………………………………………… 37 Governance, Safety, Environment, and Society. It covers each of （２） Publishing of the Website Version ■Inquiries these policies, current implementation status of its major issues This report highlights and reports CSR activities of the DOWA Environment & Safety Department, DOWA Holdings Opinion of a Third Party ………………………… 47 and the activities by the above-mentioned organizations. group, focusing on some important points, to provide an overview 22F, Akihabara UDX., 4-14-1 Sotokanda, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 101-0021 ■Target Audience of those activities in an easy-to-understand way. For more details, Japan This report is intended for our customers, stockholders, investors, visit our website (to be posted in November 2018).Check our TEL: 03-6847-1104 FAX: 03-6847-1277 Target Organizations of the Report …………… 48 clients, local communities, researchers, students, employees, website for detailed information about the topics with below mark. Email: info_dowa@dowa.co.jp rating & evaluation agencies, governmental agencies, NGO’s, NPO’s and all stakeholders of the DOWA group’s business WEB activities. Me ss age f r om t he Com pany Pr es ident 3 CSR REPORT 2018 4 Message from the Company President We will continue to stably supply high-quality materials, and will contribute to the solving of social issues. The DOWA Group was founded in 1884 at the Kosaka soil. In addition, suﬃcient consideration is required for the We signed the UN Global Compact in 2009, and we have Mine in Akita Prefecture.Presently, we are developing human rights and safety of workers. One by one, we are worked on corporate activities that comply with the 10 recycling-oriented business from the production of metals to steadily implementing these initiatives together with partner principles in the four ﬁelds of human rights, labor, the manufacturing of high value-added products, waste companies. environment and anti-corruption.As the leader of the DOWA treatment and recycling. With regards to securing human resources and Group I again declare that we will continue to support the In the company’ s smelting and recycling complex, we strengthening their training, it is no exception for us at our UN Global Compact in the future. In order to contribute to recover metals with high eﬃciency from by-products or business base in Japan when it comes to the declining trend the sustainable development of society, the DOWA Group auxiliary materials, and supply it to the market. Not limited of the working population due to the drop in the birthrate will implement these 10 principles through all our business to metal resources, our products and services broadly and the aging population.It is very important to develop an activities. contribute to the creation of a resource-recycling and environment that allows employees with certain restrictions In addition, the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) low-carbon society as component materials indispensable for on their jobs, such as childcare and nursing care, to started in January 2016. They require companies around the the utilization of natural energy, as elements of high demonstrate their abilities, and get them to play an active world to fulﬁll the practical role of problem solving in the eﬃciency for electric utilization, and as processing services role with various ways of working. We must consider not main course of their businesses. Of course, we also intend to that enhance the durability of automotive parts. only increasing the options for working styles, but also such play a part. Because our company has a wide area of initiatives as educational support to improve workplace business, for the SDGs goals that we can contribute to, we It goes without saying that stably supplying products and abilities, and more eﬃciency by expanding the IT think that several apply. However, for our company that has services is the social mission of our company. In order to infrastructure.Furthermore, by continuing to be a company put into practice over many years the formation of a continue supplying, we recognize that securing raw materials that has a sense of trust and security from society through r e c y c l i n g o r i e n t e d s o c i e t y, t h e a r e a w h e r e w e c a n and securing & training human resources are the two points the promotion of CSR, we think that it will lead to a boost in demonstrate the most leadership and make a big that are important issues for our company. the pride, self-conﬁdence and motivation of our employees, contribution through our business is goal number 12 of the With regards to securing raw materials, not only are we which will lead to an improvement in organizational SDGs, “sustainable consumption and production” .Merely focused on recycling auxiliary materials, but also on strength. implementing the goals for our operations is not the end. acquiring mines overseas.As the competition to secure Companies need to change in response to the There are further business opportunities in the surrounding resources intensiﬁes due to oligopolization by major diversiﬁcation of values among workers and changes in issues, and while taking one step after another, we will resource companies and so-called resource nationalism, we communication styles.In the Midterm Plan 2020 that started accelerate our eﬀorts to solve common global problems and are not relying on procurement that just buys the necessary from FY 2018, we aim not only to strengthen the develop our business. amount of resources at the necessary time, and we are trying organizational foundation that supports our business, but to stabilize procurement over the long term by increasing also to build a long-term growth foundation in the areas of We will continue to steadily implement policies aimed at our own mining.However, such mine development cannot be human resources and organization. We are also proactively sustainable growth in the future, and we will do our utmost d o n e o ve r n i g h t . I t t a k e s m o r e t h a n t e n y e a r s f r o m investing in educational opportunities. to meet the expectations of our stakeholders. exploration to operation, as well as consideration to the local We aim for human resource training that keeps what is We appreciate your continued guidance and support. residents, ecosystems and cultural heritage, and preventing good, incorporates what is new and becomes a driver of the environmental pollution of such things as air, water and change. DOWA HOLDINGS Co., Ltd. President and Representative Director Akira Sekiguchi Special Feature 1 Sustainable Mine Development 5 CSR REPORT 2018 6 Special Sustainable Mine Development Through mine development that takes the environment and society into consideration, the Feature 1 DOWA Group stably provides non-ferrous metal resources, including zinc, to support a prosperous society. To realize a prosperous society through the supply of metals Metals are indispensable for manufacturing products in Japan such as automobiles and electronic products, but By stably supplying metals, we believe that the DOWA Group can contribute to the realization of a prosperous now there are few metal mines in operation in the country, and many products depend on imports.In order to ensure society through products and services that use metals. The strength of our smelting department is in its smelting the quality and quantity of metallic materials required by society, we are smelting from two raw materials the and recycling complex structure through Akita Zinc Co., Ltd., Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning Co., Ltd. and an alliance mineral concentrate produced from mines, and recyclable raw materials.Recycling is indispensable for the with Nippon PGM Co., Ltd. that recovers platinum group metals from automobile waste catalyst.Through the sustainable use of metals that are exhaustible resources.On the other hand, the usage period for metal products is coordination of intermediate interactions at multiple smelting sites, and by utilizing the unique technology at each long and they cannot be recovered immediately.Also, as there is no social system to stably collect a large quantity site, we are able to eﬃciently recover about 20 kinds of elements that cannot be recovered independently. of recyclable raw materials with uniform quality, recycling alone cannot cover the world's growing demand.The DOWA Group collects recyclable raw materials both in Japan and overseas, and is actively working on mine development overseas. Mine Development Recyclable Raw Materials (collected in Japan and overseas) Zinc Scrap, used Used To secure long-term stability for metallic raw material Project in progress Steel dust circuit board, automobile Tizapa Mine concentrate Los Gatos etc. catalyst Mine development takes a long time from discovery of the deposit until the actual production. Normally, Palmer surveying the reserves takes more than 10 years, and two to three years are needed until the construction of the Zinc smelting necessary equipment to dig the ore and produce the metallic raw materials.In addition to requiring a large amount residue Smelting & Recycling Kosaka of development expenses during this period, there is also the risk that the external environment, such as metal prices Akita Zinc Smelting Nippon PGM Complex & Reﬁning and foreign exchange rates, will change signiﬁcantly.In order to alleviate such risks as much as possible, we Zinc-containing residue Platinum group metals-containing residue conduct preliminary ore processing tests on projects where initial exploration has been completed. We proceed with the project only after our smelting complex has conﬁrmed whether the quality of the mineral concentrate Zn Cd Cu Au Ag Pb Pt Pd Technology to to be produced in future is appropriate raw material. In Ge Bi Se Te Ga Rh Re Recover Over 20 Elements S Fe Ni Sn Sb Ru ●Development of multiple mines to secure long-term stability Criteria for project selection ●Select countries or regions with low political and economic risks ●Raw materials suitable for the mine, smelting and recycling complex ●An internal rate of return (IRR) that meets our company’s standard Topic Los Gatos Project ＶＯＩＣＥ Zinc is used in a wide range of applications, such as Outline of the project Sustainable mine development in harmony with the region Together with completing a feasibility anti-corrosive metal plating for automobiles, household appliances study in January 2017, the Los Gatos The Los Gatos Project is a mine scheduled to start operation in Because mines can have a major impact on the natural environment, such as and building materials, and corrosion-resistant parts for ships and Project submitted to the relevant July 2019.In 2020, we will move to full-scale operation and will be ecosystems and water, and the community, it is the duty of the business operator to conduct development that considers the environment and local community. Upon the government agencies a“prevention bridges.Against the background of global expansion for metal able to produce zinc raw material throughout the year.Our implementation of this project, after surveying the environmental and social impact that report” based on various demand that accompanies economic development, our company company’s interest is 30%, but we have the right to purchase all of accompanies the overall development activities, we obtained approval for development environmental and social impact is working on mine development in order to secure a long-term the zinc raw material. About 50,000 tons of zinc raw material activities by submitting to government agencies a prevention report that formulates an studies.In October of the same year, stable supply of zinc, which is a resource that is essential to living. (around 57% zinc, 500 g/t silver) is expected to be supplied every operation management and implementation plan to avoid or reduce the impact. In we got the approval for mine year for 12 years.As a result, together with the interest that we addition, we regularly conduct various monitoring surveys related to the environment, development, and started construction DOWA Metals & Mining Co., Ltd., in cooperation with Sunshine hold in the Tizapa Zinc Mine, also in Mexico, the 20% ratio for our such as plants, animals, water and the atmosphere, and are making eﬀorts to preserve work.Including contractors, up to Silver Mining & Reﬁning Corp. (SSMRC) of the U.S., is proceeding the environment.Not only the natural environment, but with regards to laborers working own mining (which is the ratio of raw materials procured from 1,000 laborers are working at each with a project to mine silver, zinc and lead at the Los Gatos Mine at the mine, we implement safety education and training according to the work mines that we have invested in) is expected to almost double. This construction site, and safety education environment, and we conﬁrm that in Mexico. will contribute greatly to and training are being carried out to consideration is being given to the stable supply of zinc Mine working conditions based on protect the safety and health of the State of Chihuahua in Mexico raw material.Furthermore, Location international standards (IFC workers.In addition we continue to since the zinc raw Production performance standards, work to gain the cooperation and Method Pit mining etc.)Sustainable management that is understanding of the community material of Los Gatos Capital rooted in the community is essential about the mine operation through contains silver at a high Structure DOWA 30%, SSMRC 70% for mines that have a long-term exchange activities at nearby villages. level, it will be possible to connection with the community. 9.8 million tons recover by utilizing the Minable Silver content 247g/ton Full-scale operation of the Los Gatos Reserves technology we gained Zinc content 4.8%, lead content 2.3% Mine will happen in the future, but at Los Gatos Mine the Tizapa Mine, which has been in through our smelting and Mineral Zinc concentrate DOWA METALS & operation since 1994, we are recycling complex. Concentrate about 50,000 tons / year MINING CO., LTD. Production continuing our eﬀorts to contribute to Mouth of the Los Gatos Mine Lead concentrate Volume about 30,000 tons / year the local community, with Resource and environmental conservation activities raw material director Operating About 12 years from Period such as tree planting, and the Hideo Kudo July 2019 Water quality monitoring Tree planting at the Tizapa Mine establishment of things like hospitals and gyms. Special Feature 2 Development of Human Resources and the Organization 7 CSR REPORT 2018 8 Special Development of Human At the DOWA Group, from FY 2018 we will further strengthen human resource Feature 2 Resources and the Organization development measures based on the recognition that our employees are an important management resource for the company, and the belief that their growth is essential for our sustainable growth. Aiming for people who support the business and sustainable growth of the organization Recent considerable changes in the external environment are expected to add to an acceleration of the labor In the Midterm Plan 2020 that started in April 2018, not only are we strengthening the organizational foundation shortage, with big changes in the ways that employees work. In order to continue sustainable growth together with that supports the business, but looking 10 years ahead, we are confronting head on the challenges that may occur the society, we will secure limited human resources, we will aim to develop a reliable and substantial workforce in the future in order for the group to have sound sustainable growth. In the Midterm Plan 2020, we are positioning through human resource development, and we will establish a foundation for more eﬃcient and eﬀective as the most important task the building of a long-term foundation for growth in the areas of human resources and organization management. organizations, and we are actively investing in opportunities for education. Change in the relationship 《Investment in educational opportunities: Change in education hours and the number of students》 Develop measures that conform Initiatives for future human between the company *Only covers Oﬀ-JT training sponsored by the personnel and human resources development department Decline in with the business strategy resource organizational issues and its employees 50 2,000 the working Strengthen business competitiveness Fostering a climate for training 1,637 population 40 1,440 1,600 FY 2017 Expansion of business overseas Improve organizational abilities by utilizing Increase in Initiatives for new and growing ﬁelds organizational knowledge 1,171 Towards 2020, we Degree of satisfaction Change in 1,081 with the training dual-income Securing a labor force Creating a company with pride and peace of mind 30 1,200 will work to communication 4.1 households increase investment and the burden Strengthening of the organizational Building a foundation for growth styles 20 800 foundation in educational of nursing care 28 29 33 due to an 23 opportunities and 10 400 aging society Respect a sound and free corporate culture, and create human resources and improve training From a questionnaire organizations that continue to provide new value to society by building a satisfaction! of the students long-term growth foundation 0 0 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 2020 Plan （人） The Midterm Plan 2020 vision of the personnel and （hours / people） human resources development department Education hours per person (hours / people) No. of students (people) Topic Midterm Plan 2020 Development of Human Resources and the Organization The educational system of DOWA consists of OJT and Oﬀ-JT*.While there is training that has continued for nearly 20 years, from time to time we do a brush-up based on needs and changes in the environment.Here we will 3 Training center renewal Building a foundation for growth A learning space to assemble the future of DOWA expand three topics based on the Midterm Plan. By positioning the training center as the most important site of human resource development for the DOWA Group, transform it into a symbolic *OJT (On-the-job training) is giving opportunities to acquire skills and knowledge directly related to work through daily work and real experiences. Policy facility that combines not only the best quality of training, but also a space that promotes employee interaction Oﬀ-JT (oﬀ-the-job training) is giving opportunities to learn specialized skills and knowledge away from daily work and the workplace, such as collective training, seminars and correspondence education. 1 Strengthening Strengthen business × Creating a company that has × Fostering a climate workplace skills competitiveness pride and peace of mind for training While sharing organizational strengthening activities mainly developed at each site as the knowledge of the Policy whole group, and with each employee having a desire for growth and demonstrating autonomous behavior, it fosters a climate in which actions for growth naturally continue to be executed. Initiative Presentation on activities to strengthen workplace skills ●Holding meetings of those responsible for human resource development…The people responsible for training at each company gather together and develop management strategies for human resource development ●Actively hold presentations on activities to strengthen workplace skills…Introduce the human resource development activities at each company, develop examples among peer groups, and connect with mutual study ●Expansion of autonomous growth opportunities…Select their own learning content, utilize learning opportunities and lead to self-improvement ★The re-education of middle managers…Managers who are key to the organizational culture will re-learn about management in Training venue supporting The lounge that connects DOWA's Café de DOWA a place where line with the current times active learning past and present day employees can interact Meeting of those responsible for Besides theses, we also actively develop education for each level, systemic education, basic education on 2 Promoting diversity Expansion of business overseas × Initiatives for new and growing ﬁelds × Creating a company that has pride and peace of mind human resource development harassment, and education on safety, environment and governance. Human resources with diverse nationalities, genders and values demonstrating each of their strengths to the Policy maximum. By arranging an environment where people accept each other, creating a vibrant organization. ＶＯＩＣＥ Initiative Under the current uncertain and hard-to-predict social environment, it is essential to develop human ●Hold training for female oﬃce workers…Utilizing their individuality, aim for an organization where each person can resources and strengthen organizations in order for companies to grow and survive. In response to this continue to be active with pride Training for female oﬃce workers challenge, in the Medium-Term Plan of our department, we are implementing various measures that ● Implementation of global human resources training…Aim for early development of local human resources in and out of Japan through practical training in the workplace outside Japan champion “training autonomous human resources who can learn, think and act independently” and ★Hold meetings to strengthen global sites…Managers from oﬃces overseas gather together and promote DOWA HOLDINGS Co., Ltd. “strengthening organizational abilities through the promotion of cross-functional (cross-departmental problem-solving in various areas Personnel and ●Conduct training to enhance diversity management…Strengthen management abilities to accept and utilize diversity collaboration) and knowledge management (organizational knowledge)” .We will open the door to the human resources （★A new initiative from FY 2018） future of DOWA by promoting these initiatives frankly and strongly. development department Atsushi Katagiri Global human resources training About the DOWA Group 9 CSR REPORT 2018 10 Social Issues and Our Business DOWA’ s business and SDGs The goal of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is“to contribute to sustainable development”, but on the other hand, current society faces various problems and issues along the way to sustainable development. Social issues vary widely, with things like the environment, water, food and poverty, but we recognize that the eﬀective use of In 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted at the United Nations Sustainable resources is a particularly important social issue for the DOWA Group's business, which consists of using metal Development Summit .The SDGs clearly state 17 goals and 169 targets to be solved on a global scale by 2030.In order to reach these Sustainable Development Goals, every sector in the world is required to act, including companies. resources.We are making eﬀorts to contribute to sustainable development through eﬀective use of resources. For our business, which consists of using metal resources, goal number 12 of the SDGs,“securing sustainable patterns of consumption and production”is the most inﬂuential. We think that by contributing in this area, we can demonstrate our great abilities. As shown in our corporate philosophy, we will strive to achieve goal number 12 by Multifaceted approach towards the creation of a resource recycling society working on the creation of a recycling-oriented society through our technology and resources. Other goals that we can contribute to through our resource recycling initiatives are listed below. Ore, which is a natural resource, will be depleted if we continue to consume it.While recycling is an important solution, in addition to technologies to eﬃciently recover metals, technologies and infrastructure to safely process Social issues Depletion of Increase in the price Waste problems Environmental burden from mine hazardous material and non-useful substances generated during that recovery process are also important.In concerning resources of ore development and smelting addition, recycling also includes technical, economic and social issues that should be resolved, such as the eﬀective use Uneven distribution Increase in global Responsible mineral Energy consumption associated construction of a social system that eﬃciently collects recyclable raw materials, and the time, trouble and cost it of resources of resources demand procurement with smelting takes to process a wide variety of raw materials. The DOWA Group is developing a wide range of recycling businesses, such as for precious metals, electrical appliances, automobiles and used small household appliances both in Japan and overseas, but instead of just Initiatives of the Promotion of recycling International resource recycling Reducing the environmental burden recycling, the DOWA Group is utilizing its own waste intermediate treatment facilities, laboratories and DOWA Group Electrical appliance recycling Recycling at the Asian sites of DOWA Appropriate processing of heavy metals and transportation department. We are promoting eﬀorts to solve problems for eﬀective utilization of resources from Automobile recycling When it is diﬃcult to recover with Freon gas contained in recyclable raw materials various aspects. Metal recycling technology and facilities overseas, it is Recycling of small used household Reduction of waste by promoting resource properly recycled at a DOWA site in Japan recycling appliances Recycling smelters Zinc smelters Biodiesel recycling of waste edible oil Securing rare metals Reducing the environmental Recovery of platinum group metals burden of mines from automobile waste catalyst Mine development that considers the natural and social environments Recyclable materials, Improvement of technology Stably securing recyclable ＤＯＷＡ waste raw materials Consideration for biodiversity at Group Technology to Recover Over 20 Kinds of Elements Recovering automobile waste catalyst the time of exploration and mining Promotion of from sites in Europe and North America resource Supporting a large variety of small Landﬁll facilities recycling quantities for recyclable raw materials Improvement of energy consumption Initiatives for future issues Used Highly eﬃcient recovery of micro elements Improvement of the electric power Building solar panel recycling systems Metal recycling Rare metal plants plants Society Improve the metal recovery eﬃciency consumption rate in the smelting process Building recycling systems for for mines Utilization of renewable energy Creating a (hydroelectric power generation) fuel cell waste Plants for recyclable recycling-oriented raw materials society Contribution to Other goals that we can contribute to through resource recycling initiatives Laboratories Sales & Reusing Use the SDGs through distribution our initiatives Making the foundation for industrial and Goal 9 Incineration plants Improvement of recycling technological innovation Aiming to develop resilient infrastructure, Analysis Environmental The responsibility technology of making promote inclusive and sustainable centers consulting and the Promoting recycling at Asian sites responsibility of industrialization and expand innovation using Speciﬁc measures for Goal 13 Utilizing renewable energy climate change Sale Take emergency measures to counter Shredder-dust Appropriate processing of climate change and its impact processing plants Electrical appliance Freon gas Automobile recycling plants recycling plants Goal 12 Goal 16 Process Peace and justice for everyone manufacturing Securing sustainable Promoting a peaceful and inclusive society patterns of towards sustainable development, providing Controlling for conﬂict minerals consumption and access to justice for all people, and building production eﬀective, responsible and inclusive systems Metal products at all levels The DOWA Group will continue to contribute to the use of sustainable metal resources through its business while facing the various challenges surrounding metal resources. About the DOWA Group 11 CSR REPORT 2018 12 FY 2017 Business Topics About the DOWA Group The DOWA Group has developed a global recycling business consisting of ﬁve core businesses.In“Nonferrous Promoting low carbonization of waste treatment metals business”, we extract useful metals from various recyclable raw materials in addition to natural resources.The extracted metals go through various processes and are given enhanced functionality in “Electronics materials Technochem Environmental Complex (hereinafter referred to as TEC), business”,“Metal processing business”and“Heat treatment business”, after which they are included in ﬁnal products which provides waste management services in Singapore, has earned the such as automobiles and electronic devices.“Environmental management and recycling business“detoxiﬁes waste and trust of local companies as a processing factory which has processing separates and recovers metals from used products. The recovered metal is used again as raw material for smelting. licenses for almost all items of hazardous waste.Currently, as a major chemical industry hub in Asia with government support, Singapore is seeing Through the development of such a recycling business, in addition to providing high-quality products and services, we an expansion in factories and research facilities for chemical and are working to resolve social issues such as environmental conservation and resource problems. pharmaceutical manufacturers. In the future, hazardous waste discharged by Our business situation in FY 2017 was as follows. this bio industry will increase, and it is expected that the need for waste treatment where high safety and reliability are required will rise. FY 2017 Financial Highlights Initiatives to create a low-carbon society TEC In the FY 2017 ﬁnancial results, while sales increased due to higher metal prices, operating proﬁt declined due to an In November 2017, Tec started operating a new incinerator that mainly increase in depreciation costs, a deterioration in purchasing conditions for smelting raw materials, and a decrease in waste treats solid hazardous waste. The new vertical type stoker furnace uses treatment volume.Consolidated sales rose 11% year on year to 454.7 billion yen, consolidated operating proﬁt fell 9% to combustion improver only from the ignition point to the temperature rising 30.9 billion yen, ordinary proﬁt was unchanged at 36.3 billion yen, and consolidated current net proﬁt attributable to point, and then the combustion proceeds using the amount of heat of the parent company shareholders fell 6% to 24.6 billion yen. waste itself, therefore no additional fuel is necessary during operation, With regards to the business environment for the corporate group, demand for automobile-related products remained meaning that this waste treatment facility is low-carbon type. From our comparatively steady both in Japan and overseas, while demand for electronic components and new energy-related estimate, upon treatment of the same amount of waste in a conventional products grew mainly in East Asia.With regards to the market environment, metal prices rose for such things as precious furnace, over 1,000 tons of fuel is needed annually, so a signiﬁcant reduction metals and zinc. Deep ultraviolet LED Water sterilization module of CO2 emission is expected. （100 million yen） The incineration capacity of the new furnace is 36 tons per day, and Operating results 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 together with the existing one, about twice as much treatment is possible as Sales 4,439 4,642 4,065 4,105 4,547 before. By expanding the acceptance of solid hazardous waste, such as the refractory waste related to pharmaceuticals and chemicals, we will be able Operating proﬁt 317 390 350 339 309 to quickly handle the appropriate processing of increasing hazardous waste. 350 420 350 365 363 Ordinary proﬁt Taking advantage of the experience that the DOWA Group has acquired in Attributable to parent company shareholders Current net proﬁt 233 265 218 261 246 Japan and overseas, we will contribute to the safe treatment of hazardous waste and the reduction of CO2, and we will work for responsible waste Each year listed shows the ﬁscal period from April 1st to March 31st. treatment. Situation in FY 2017 Development of deep ultraviolet LED with global top-class output Deep ultraviolet LED, which emits deep UV rays having short wavelength within the UV range, has sterilization action Other departments and it is being adopted in a wide range of applications, including puriﬁcation of water and air, resin curing, and 12.2 billion yen Demand for automobile-related products sterilization of medical instruments. DOWA Electronics Materials has been building a mass production system for deep Heat treatment Environmental remained steady both in Japan and overseas ultraviolet LED chips in a wide wavelength range of 265 to 340nm (nanometers) by combining aluminum nitride template department 28.2 billion yen management & with our unique crystal growth technology. recycling department Demand for electronic components and 99.3 billion yen Metal processing new energy-related products grew mainly in East Asia Energy savings, long life and mercury free department 90.6 billion yen Sales In FY 2017, based on the technology fostered by LED development until now, and using a sapphire circuit board to With regards to the market environment, 454.7 metal prices rose for such things as zinc and which the nano-level microfabrication technology, which belongs to Oji Holdings Corp, has been applied to increase copper luminous eﬃciency, we achieved global top-class output of 90mW in the 310nm wavelength range. Electronics materials billion yen The LED we developed is suitable for applications such as the curing of resin for coating and skin treatment. By department Nonferrous metals With regards to the foreign exchange 77.7 billion yen department market, one dollar remained mostly around replacing mercury lamps or excimer lamps that have been used as the main light source until now, we have made things 217.9 billion yen the 110 yen level until the third quarter, and mercury free, since mercury is strongly toxic and is highly regulated internationally. Moreover, since it has various beneﬁts after that the yen appreciated such as miniaturization, energy savings and long life, in addition to its application to existing products, it is expected that The sales of each department include the 71.3 billion yen eliminated due to consolidation adjustments applications will further expand in the future. DOWA Electronics Materials will continue to advance LED technology development and will contribute to creating a safe and sustainable society. About the DOWA Group 13 CSR REPORT 2018 14 2020 Business Numbers Towards the Realization of Our Vision Ordinary proﬁt 50.billion yen Cash ﬂow from operating 120 billion yen activities (3 year total) We have formulated the Midterm Plan 2020 which is our medium-term business plan for the three years from FY 2018 to FY 2020. In the Midterm Plan 2020, we will continue to strengthen our business foundation and actively introduce management Investment and lending Operating proﬁt 45.0 billion yen (3 year total) 110.0 billion yen resources toward further growth to reform ourselves into a company that has both steadiness and growth potential. ROE 12% or more Research and development 20 billion yen (3 year total) About the Midterm Plan 2020 Prerequisites ROA 10% or more Basic Policy Forex: 115 ￥/$; Zinc: 2,700 $/ton; Copper: 5,500 $/ton Expand businesses in growth markets Aggressively invest management resources in markets for“automobiles,” “information and communication,” “environment and energy”and“healthcare.” Increase the competitiveness in existing businesses Enhance the earning power of existing businesses by increasing competitiveness in the mature domestic markets and Continued Continued growth growth improving the functions in the recycling and smelting complex. ●Increase competitiveness of existing businesses to establish a position as No. 1 in Asia and accelerate increase in market share and launch Active investment Active investment in in management management resources resources Environmental management & new businesses in each ﬁeld and region. Growth Growth sectors sectors & & growth regions, and growth regions, needs for and needs for aa recycling department ●Build the foundation of new businesses that will be the next mainstay global global era era businesses in light of global trends in environmental management. Nonferrous metals department ●Strengthen the business by improving the functions in the recycling and Strong Strong and business base ﬂexible business and ﬂexible base smelting complex. A A business business portfolio that is portfolio that is strong strong against against changes changes in the in the external environment, and external environment, and aa solid solid ﬁnancial ﬁnancial base base ●Launch new businesses, develop new niche/top products, and make them Business Electronics materials major sources of earnings. strategy department ●Expand business domains further to growth markets such as automobiles Main investment and lending and healthcare. Environmental management Construction of a new landﬁll site in Indonesia, & recycling department and the strengthening of waste melting and recycling ●Expand businesses by focusing eﬀorts on the automobiles and IoT-related ﬁelds Nonferrous metals Construction of a zinc mine in Mexico, and the strengthening Metal processing department of our ability to handle impurities in zinc smelting department ●Increase earning potential further by establishing the business base that is resistant to changes in the business environment. Electronics materials department Equipment for mass production of new products Metal processing Increase production capacity for copper alloy Heat treatment department ●Increase revenues further by taking advantage of the strengths of the current business model. department Heat treatment Construction of a heat treatment plant in India ●Pursue initiatives in new business domains department About the DOWA Group 15 CSR REPORT 2018 16 Corporate proﬁle, oﬃces and group of companies Company name DOWA HOLDINGS CO., LTD. Date of establishment 1937/3/11 Head oﬃce location 〒101-0021 22F, Akihabara UDX., 4-14-1 Sotokanda, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Chairman and Representative Director Masao Yamada Representatives President and Representative Director Akira Sekiguchi Capital 36.437 billion yen No. of employees About 6,100 （consolidated, end of March 2018） Domestic Overseas ❶❷❸❹ ❺❻❼❽ ❾ ❾ ❶18 11 13 ❽ 12 ❸❹ ❷ 18 ❺❻❼ DOWA ECO-SYSTEM CO., LTD. AKITA RECYCLE & FINEPACK CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. AKITA ZINC CO., LTD. Hamamatsu plant ❶ GREEN FILL KOSAKA CO., LTD AKITA ZINC SOLUTIONS CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. ❷ ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD. AKITA RARE METALS CO., LTD. Hamamatsu-kita plant Northern Japan plant AKITA ZINC RECYCLING CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. ❸ ECO-SYSTEM KOSAKA CO., LTD. Acids Co. Ltd. Chukyo Handa plant DOWA ECO-SYSTEM CO., LTD. DOWA METALTECH CO., LTD. ❹ AUTO RECYCLE AKITA CO., LTD. ZINC EXCEL CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. ❶ DOWA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CO., LTD. (China) 18DOWA ADVANCED MATERIALS (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. （China） ❺ Environmental Technology R & D Center Shiga plant ❷ PT. PRASADHA PAMUNAH LIMBAH INDUSTRI 19DOWA NEW MATERIALS (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. （China） ❻ ECO-SYSTEM AKITA CO., LTD. DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS CO., LTD. CEMM CO., LTD. （Indonesia） 20DOWA METALTECH (THAILAND) CO., LTD. （Thailand） ❼ ECO-SYSTEM HANAOKA CO., LTD. TONETSU KOHSAN CO., LTD. ❸ TECHNOCHEM ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX PTE. LTD. Dowa Precision (Thailand) Co., Ltd. （Thailand） ❽ ECO-RECYCLE CO., LTD. Semiconductor Materials Laboratory （Singapore） Singapore branch ❾ DOWA TSUUN CO., LTD. DOWA SEMICONDUCTOR AKITA CO., LTD. Headquarters and others ❹ DOWA ECO-SYSTEM SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. DOWALI PRECISION CO., LTD. （Taiwan） 10MELTEC IWAKI CO., LTD. Electronics Materials Laboratory （Singapore） DOWA METALTECH MEXICO, S.A. de C.V. （Mexico） 11MELTEC ltd. DOWA F-tec CO., LTD. DOWA TECHNO RESEARCH CO., LTD. ❺ WASTE MANAGEMENT SIAM LTD. （Thailand） 12ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD. Advanced Fine Materials Laboratory UNEKURA MINING CO., LTD. ❻ BANGPOO ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX LTD. （Thailand） DOWA THERMOTECH CO., LTD. East Japan plant DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS OKAYAMA CO., LTD. AKITA ENGINEERING CO., LTD. ❼ EASTERN SEABOARD ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX 13ECO-SYSTEM JAPAN CO., LTD. DOWA IP CREATION CO., LTD. DOWA TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. DOWA THT AMERICA, INC. （America） CO., LTD. （Thailand） 14GEOTECHNOS CO., LTD. Kanto Techno center KUNSHAN DOWA THERMO FURNACE CO., LTD. （China） ❽ GOLDEN DOWA ECO-SYSTEM MYANMAR COMPANY 15E&E Solutions Inc. Headquarter DOWA Thermotech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. （Thailand） DOWA METALTECH CO., LTD. LIMITED（Myanmar） 16ECO-SYSTEM CHIBA CO., LTD. DOWA Group Nagoya Branch HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. （India） 17ECO-SYSTEM SANYO CO., LTD. NEW NIPPON BRASS CO., LTD. DOWA Group Osaka Branch PT. DOWA THERMOTECH INDONESIA （Indonesia） 18OKAYAMA KOYU CO., LTD. HOEI SHOJI CO., LTD. DOWA METALS & MINING CO., LTD. PT. DOWA THERMOTECH FURNACES （Indonesia） DOWA TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. 19ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD. DOWA HIGHTECH CO., LTD. Seibu Techno center ❾ Vancouver Oﬃce （Canada） DOWA THERMOTECH MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V. （Mexico） West Japan plant DOWA POWER DEVICE CO., LTD. DOWA TECHNO ENGINEERING CO., LTD. 10Cariboo Copper Corporation （Canada） DOWA THERMOTECH NORTH CAROLINA, INC. 20ECO-SYSTEM OKAYAMA CO., LTD. Technology center YOWA ENGINEERING CO., LTD. 11NIPPON PGM AMERICA, INC. （America） BIODIESEL OKAYAMA CO., LTD. DOWA METAL CO., LTD. DOWA KOHSAN CO., LTD. 12Mexico oﬃce KOWA SEIKO CO., LTD. DOWA METANIX CO., LTD. Headquarters and others DOWA Group Kyushu Branch 13MINERA TIZAPA, S.A. DE C.V. （Mexico） Act-B Recycling Co., Ltd. TOKUYAMA-DOWA POWER MATERIALS CO., LTD. Nippon PGM Europe s.r.o. （Czech Republic） DOWA INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION （America） DOWA METALS & MINING (THAILAND) CO., LTD. （Thailand） DOWA INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION San Jose branch DOWA METALS & MINING CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOTECH CO., LTD. 16KEY METAL REFINING, LLC（America） （America） 17DOWA METALS & MINING AMERICA INC. （America） DOWA HOLDINGS (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD (China) Metallurgical Laboratory DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. DOWA HOLDINGS (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. Shenzhen branch（China） KOSAKA SMELTING & REFINING CO., LTD. Mooka plant DOWA HD Europe GmbH （Germany） NIPPON PGM CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. DOWA HOLDINGS (THAILAND) CO., LTD. （Thailand） Ohta plant As of the current CSR Report issued in 2018 CSR Policy and Plan 17 CSR REPORT 2018 18 CSR Policy and Plan The DOWA Group is proceeding based on the CSR plan targeting the year 2020. Corporate governance The CSR plan and the approach for the goals “Vision for 2020” In the four priority areas of governance, safety, environment and society for our CSR policy, we have set the DOWA Safety Society “Vision for 2020”as our medium-term goal. While seeing this vision as a goal that can be feasibly achieved, as At each of the DOWA Group companies,“S+ESG” CSR Policy management based on the CSR policy has become established, priority measures for issues that should be treated preferentially, we have set up an action plan to realize this with and through minimizing management risk at the same time as single year initiatives and goals, and are promoting repeated action, evaluation and measures. improving corporate value, we are contributing to solving global social issues For details about the results of the initiatives by area for FY2017, please see the report by area from page 19. Environment Medium-Term Goals Activity Plan for FY2018 FY 2020 Areas CSR Policy “Vision for 2020” Focus Measures Indicator Goals Initiative Goal ●Promoting sound business management by ensuring suﬃcient Strengthening of internal control and No. of important Zero Supporting internal control activities at functions, appropriate information disclosure and transparency deﬁciencies that Prepare an executive handbook for internal control systems governance should be disclosed incidences companies in Japan and overseas ●We will aim to be an open and transparent company ●By each employee carrying out appropriate activities based on Implementation rate the “DOWA Group’s Values and Code of Conduct”, promoting Strengthening of compliance and risk Conducting brieﬁng sessions about harassment Corporate ●Taking into consideration international initiatives, we business management that does not give rise to any kind of management of internal education 100％ 3 times and brieﬁngs governance will work on anti-corruption including bribery fraud or corruption Coverage rate for Implement a revision based on Governance ●We will take CSR into consideration in our procurement ●Promoting CSR throughout the whole supply chain by building supplier survey 80% on a Revise the promotion system and methods exchanges with other types of industries partnerships with suppliers CSR procurement promotion transaction *Excluding construction amount basis CSR targeting those responsible Results ➡P.19 Promote in-house education for procurement contractors Implement procurement education ●All employees will independently take part in activities Frequency rate 0.7 or less Frequency rate 0.9 or less to improve the level of health and safety based on our Raising the company-wide safety level Strengthen cross-initiatives by region Safety basic philosophy of “safety takes the priority over ●Appropriately manage and minimize occupational safety risks Severity rate 0.01 or less Severity rate 0.02 or less everything” in the workplace, and make a comfortable and safe working No. of times education Safety environment a reality Strengthening of safety education in is implemented Total 20 times Strengthen maintenance education Cut in half the incidence of accidents at the time of ●We will prevent accidents at work and will support the subsidiaries outside Japan Results ➡P.25 health of our employees No. of persons educated 200 people total repairs ●Be responsible for the essentials of the international resource Strengthening of the recycling business: Collection volume of Increase from Strengthening of collection of materials for Increase from the preceding ●We will provide customers (clients and regions) with Collection volume, recycling volume and the preceding recycling network in Asia and the Paciﬁc rim area recyclable raw materials recycling outside Japan ﬁscal year products and services that contribute to building a an increase in the number of elements, etc. ﬁscal year recycling-oriented society Improve the utilization ratio of renewable Reduction of greenhouse gas ●Realize eﬀective reduction of CO2 emissions per unit by energy Compared to energy Emission amount of Promote renewal of energy-saving equipment emissions per unit at large-scale ● We will reduce environmental burdens and risks in FY 1990 Environment our business activities. saving measures and actively utilizing renewable energy Strengthen energy saving initiatives CO2 emissions per unit 15% reduction and energy conversion emission sites by 1% compared with the previous FY Minimize the risk of environmental accidents Raising the level through seminar courses and Environment ●From managers to employees, we will be uniﬁed in ●Properly manage the environmental risks of the workplace, and and strengthen the ability to respond No. of environmental Zero mutual inspections of environment 8 regions minimize the risk of environmental accidents happening *Environmental accidents: In cases where there is impact outside accident occurrences incidences management systems working on environmental conservation activities of the company and it is reported to the relevant agency ●We will promote business activities that consider Understand the biodiversity risk of suppliers ●Promote biodiversity conservation activities in collaboration Survey rate for Conﬁrm the biodiversity consideration status Over 80% on a transaction biodiversity 100％ Results ➡P.29 with the upstream and downstream of the supply chain Conﬁrm consideration for the suppliers and mines for mine-related suppliers amount basis biodiversity situation at mines Employment rate of Employment for physically challenged 2.2% people with disabilities 2.0％ Implement female employee training and management training Attendance rate 90% Promoting diversity Attendance rate for Expansion of a global human resources Implement a global education about Strengthen human resources and organizations at oﬃces overseas challenge program promoting the success 100％ ●While diverse human resources mutually respect each other, Implement training to strengthen recruitment of women Hold at all the major sites employees themselves select the diverse ways of working that abilities at each company are in line with their respective life stages and styles, and the Thorough knowledge within the company of Updating and publicizing company and teams support each other the various systems handbooks to explain the system ●We will aim to create a workplace where diversity and Annual paid leave the human rights of employees are respected, and Promoting work-life balance 70% Encouragement of annual leave Acquisition rate 60% acquisition rate Society each person can demonstrate their maximum abilities Promotion of measures to reduce working hours Thorough and strict observance of group with satisfaction and pride management standards for working hours Social Implement training of evaluators and those Employee degree being evaluated 300 participants Training of both evaluators and ●Establish a culture that fosters fair evaluation & treatment, with those being evaluated of satisfaction 90％ Done by 1,100 people Implement an institutional survey (100% answer rate) employees experiencing growth, results and satisfaction. -Business Strengthen in-house human resources planning system Employees themselves create an organization where they Evaluation system education for new employees Attendance rate 100% education compete with each other and support each other. Support for career development done -Educational system 70％ Introduce career planning seminars Attendance rate 30% on the initiative of the employee and details Promote regional contribution activities that Results ➡P.37 ●In unity with the local community, we will promote social 5 times ●Deploy inside and outside of Japan social contributions together capture regional needs contributions that reﬂect the unique characteristics of Promoting social contribution ̶ ̶ with each region Support by sharing and providing information on Collect examples of initiatives the local community social contribution activities and provide information Initiatives by CSR Sector Corporate Governance 19 CSR REPORT 2018 20 Governance Focus Strengthening of Governance Measures “Environmental business and human rights in Myanmar” In the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, where economic with the rapid increase in waste, the need is rising to promote liberalization policies are advancing, the number of companies recycling and appropriate processing. Based on the experience entering from overseas has increased, and resource development, and technology acquired from our environmental management Corporate To continue to be a company that is trusted by society, the DOWA Group has positioned the strengthening of corporate governance as a key management issue, and is working on it basic infrastructure development (such as transportation and electric power), and construction of industrial parks and and recycling businesses in Japan, Southeast Asia and China, since 2016 the DOWA Group has been implementing a comprehensive governance based on the DOWA Group's Values and Code of Conduct . commercial facilities are happening rapidly. With such rapid waste management business in Myanmar. industrialization and urbanization, there is concern that the burden on the environment will increase. In the midst of this, CSR Policy About GOLDEN DOWA ECO-SYSTEM MYANMAR ●We will aim to be an open and transparent company ●Taking into consideration international initiatives, we will work on anti-corruption As Myanmar's ﬁrst private waste treatment facility, GOLDEN DOWA ECO-SYSTEM MYANMAR (hereinafter referred to as GEM), including bribery which is located in the Tirawa Economic Zone in the suburbs of Yangon, provides comprehensive waste management solutions such ●We will take CSR into consideration in our procurement as transportation of waste, sorting, intermediate treatment, recycling and landﬁll. Progress of Activities Human rights initiatives Following is the status of activities for FY2017 and the plan for FY2018 in the ﬁeld of corporate governance. FY 2017 Results Regardless of the country or region where business is done, fulﬁlling our responsibility to respect human rights is important, but there are many ethnic minorities in Myanmar, a Corporate Governance multiethnic country, and consideration for human rights is strongly required. Based on the Focus Measures Tasks Indicator Evaluation Main Results UN Global Compact that the DOWA Group is a participant of, GEM is advancing various initiatives in the local community. The basis for carrying out these activities is building More than 140 participants mutual trust by understanding the situation of local residents and working to disclose Strengthening of internal Conducting brieﬁng in briefing sessions for 160 attended information on the company's corporate activities.In addition to consideration for local control and governance sessions for internal control senior executives and managers residents, we are also working on human rights education for our employees. Since December 2016, on Human Rights Day, we have continued human rights education and Supporting internal control have explained the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, for learning about the Monthly meeting with community leaders Strengthening of compliance 10 companies domestic Implemented by activities of domestic and importance of respecting human rights. and risk management and overseas more than 10 companies overseas companies Involvement with the local community Human rights initiatives Preparation of easy-to-answer Revised the format and questionnaire Review of question items ●Meeting once a month with community ●Active recruitment of relocated residents company information registration CSR procurement leaders in the area ●Human rights education for employees ●Collect and transport waste in the promotion Development of important Development of facility neighboring area Expansion of research scope suppliers in industries other ●Regular water quality analysis of the equipment manufacturers than manufacturing domestic water that residents use Information disclosure ●Post on our website environmental reports, business activities and a point of contact to FY 2018 support such things as complaints Initiatives and Goals ●Providing information about our daily work through Facebook ●Holding business site tours for local residents, students and NGOs Human rights education for employees Strengthening of internal Supporting internal control Environmental initiatives activities at companies Prepare an executive handbook control and governance in Japan and overseas Improper treatment of waste can worsen the living environment and threaten basic human rights by damaging the health of vulnerable people like children and the elderly Strengthening of compliance Conducting brieﬁng 3 times through water and soil contamination. Instead of dealing with environmental pollution and risk management sessions about harassment after it has occurred, environmental management is important to prevent it in advance. The two waste landﬁll sites owned by GEM are facilities that are compliant with the ﬁrst Revise the promotion Implement a revision based on exchanges international standard in Myanmar (the standard of the Environmental Protection Agency in system and methods with other types of industries the U.S.) by installing leachate collection drain pipes with multiple water interception CSR procurement promotion structures and gas vents, etc. The waste water treatment plant takes into consideration the Promote in-house education Implement CSR procurement education targeting impact on the surrounding environment, and it conforms to international standards based those responsible for procurement on wastewater standards in Japan and other Asian countries. In addition, it has an analysis facility for waste and water quality, and an intermediate treatment facility for recycling. As infrastructure is essential for economic development, it contributes to environmental conservation and improvement of public health in Myanmar. In line with the CSR policy of the DOWA Group, GEM is working on CSR activities for all four areas of corporate governance, safety, the environment and society. We aim not only to contribute to society through our business, but also to gain the trust of society through CSR activities, and to grow together. Initiatives by CSR Sector Corporate Governance 21 CSR REPORT 2018 22 Corporate Governance Board of Directors and Directors The company's board of directors consists of eight directors, decisions for business execution and the supervisory function of The DOWA Group positions the strengthening of corporate governance as one of the highest management tasks, including two outside directors, with four corporate auditors, the board of directors, we evaluate the eﬀectiveness of the board and we are working on group-wide eﬀorts to develop and operate a system that is eﬀective and eﬃcient in including three outside auditors, attending. With regards to their of directors every year with the aim of continuous improvement. contributing to society and for internal control. WEB For details, please refer to the report on our corporate governance. http://www.dowa.co.jp/jp/about_dowa/governance.html Evaluation results on the eﬀectiveness of the board of directors Corporate Governance System At the DOWA Group, in order to operate the organization subsidiaries. In addition, by establishing the board of corporate •Implementation details: Self evaluation done through a questionnaire soundly and eﬃciently, and at the same time to speed up auditors, and by appointing outside directors, we are trying to [Evaluation subject] decision making and to boost management eﬃciency, in addition ensure the soundness of management. Board of director meetings held from April 2017 to March 2018 (total of 15 times) to adopting an executive oﬃcer system, we have adopted a holding company system and have separated our business divisions into [Evaluators] All directors and auditors •Evaluation results It was conﬁrmed that the board of directors has become a venue for free and vigorous discussion, and that its eﬀectiveness has been suﬃciently secured, including its composition, operation and agenda items. In addition, with General Meeting of Shareholders regards to securing further time for reviewing documents submitted to the board of directors, which was cited as Elect, dismiss Elect, dismiss Elect, dismiss an issue last year, it was evaluated that this has improved. •Future initiatives to improve eﬀectiveness Board of directors Audit & supervisory boad Based on the opinion that further improvement is needed both for consideration of methods to evaluate 8 directors 4 auditors Independent auditors company-wide risk, and the analysis and review of measures implemented for the medium-term business plan, （including 2 outside directors） Audit (including 3 outside auditors) Chairperson: Chairman we will keep working to further improve the eﬀectiveness of the board of directors. Supervise Audit Audit Business Execution Holding Company DOWA Holdings Co., Ltd. Remuneration Advice President Committee of the Board Lawyers Compliance committee Advice 6 directors Inquiry (including 2 Within the DOWA Group, we have positioned“legal compliance”as the foundation for corporate management, Committee of the Operating Officers outside directors & and based on the DOWA Group’ s Values and Code of Conduct , we are working on measures to strengthen 2 outside advisors) Notice Strategic planning & public relations, human resources development, internal control and education as core areas. In addition, each company in the DOWA Group aims to improve the general affairs & legal,accounting & finance, environment & safety, DOWA technology, and information systems Consultation Desk awareness of compliance as they deal with the annual internal audit. (outside lawyers) Management Report Instruction, Supervision Report Internal Control Activities Operating Companies Operating Group Support Companies In order to strengthen corporate governance in the DOWA reported to the directors, auditors and the relevant departments. Companies* Group, the holding company and each group company share the In FY 2017, as part of strengthening internal control, we conducted DOWA ECO-SYSTEM Co., Ltd. DOWA TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. basic policy and basic system for internal control, and by internal audits at 10 domestic companies, and overseas we DOWA METALS & MINING Co., Ltd. Technical support DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS Co., Ltd utilizing the uniqueness of each company for speciﬁc activities, conducted internal audits at 13 companies in Southeast Asia and DOWA METALTECH Co., Ltd. we are aiming for an eﬀective and eﬃcient internal control China. Support DOWA MANEGEMENT SERVICES CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOTECH Co., Ltd. according to the holding company system. Business support Instruction, Supervision Report Please refer to our annual report on the basic policy and *Presidents of each operating company serves Internal Audit WEB operation status with regards to the internal control system. Operating Subsidiaries concurrently as an oﬃcer of http://www.dowa.co.jp/jp/ir/library/annual.html DOWA HOLDINGS CO., LTD. The internal audit based on the internal audit rules prescribed by the DOWA Group involves all corporate activities, such as As of the current CSR Report issued in 2018 the accounting audit, legal audit and safety & environmental audit. It is implemented with the cooperation of each relevant department and each group company. The audit results are Initiatives by CSR Sector Corporate Governance 23 CSR REPORT 2018 24 Risk Management Participation in international organizations and consortium The DOWA Group works on risk management with the goal of properly controlling risks that may hinder the Since 2009, the DOWA Group has participated in the Global Compact (UNGC), which are voluntary action realization of our business philosophy and achievement of our business plans, and to fulﬁll our social principles for companies advocated by the United Nations. Toward the sustainable development of society, we responsibilities, and to contribute to the improvement of our sustainable corporate value. Among the risks respect the 10 principles in the four ﬁelds of“human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption”of the Global surrounding the group, the board of directors is responsible for“business risks”and the environmental and safety Compact, and are working to ensure that they are practiced. department is responsible for“CSR risks”in cooperation with other departments. The 10 principles of the Global Compact Human rights Business Continuity Plan (BCP) DOWA Consultation Desk 1.Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Initiatives 2.make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. In addition to large-scale earthquakes, by regions and oﬃces In order to encourage early detection of risks associated with Labor the DOWA Group has formulated business continuity plans corporate activities, and aiming for employees to feel more 3.Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of (BCP) for natural disasters such as typhoons and ﬂoods caused secure and comfortable in the workplace environment, we the right to collective bargaining; by torrential rain that have been increasing in recent years. We have set up a DOWA Consultation Desk that allows direct 4.the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; are working to avoid risks in order to continue business activities consultation with external lawyers. Conﬁdentiality concerning the report, and that the person reporting is not subject to 5.the eﬀective abolition of child labour; in emergency situations. We revise the BCP on a regular basis, and in FY 2017, 17 operating subsidiaries revised their BCP disadvantageous treatment, are both guaranteed, and it 6.the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. assumptions, response procedures and recovery schedules. In becomes commonly known through the intranet, posters and Environment addition, measures are being promoted that incorporate group reports. 7.Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; practical activities such as revision of disaster-related manuals Moreover, in order to build a healthier partnership with 8.undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. and the addition of stored items. suppliers and cooperating companies, we have also set up a 9.encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. point of contact at the DOWA Consultation Desk for these external stakeholders, and have also made it possible for Anti-corruption Survey of BCP Formulation in Supply Chain employees of suppliers and cooperating companies to use it. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and At this point of contact, conﬁdentiality is kept for the bribery. The DOWA Group mainly deals with B to B business, and consultations made and opinions given, and we respond since a disruption of the supply chain has a big impact on the promptly and appropriately. production and sales of customers that we deliver to, through WEB Global Compact Network Japan http://www.ungcjn.org/index.html CSR procurement, we are checking with major suppliers about their status for formulating BCP with regards to rapid business restoration and continuation in the event of a disaster. For We reﬂect the principles of the Global Compact, such as Global Compact Network Japan, which consists of UNGC suppliers who have not yet formulated such plans, we explain respect for human rights and elimination of child labor, in the participating companies. At the same time as sharing the latest the importance of the initiative and request strengthening of formulation of our CSR procurement policies and guidelines. The CSR trends and speciﬁc examples of each company, we are their BCP measures. Also, when natural disasters such as heavy Dowa Group participates in the Supply Chain Subcommittee of working to address the issues. snowfall or typhoons occur, the procurement department at the head oﬃce promptly conﬁrms the impact on production and shipment based on the list of supplier production sites by region. Initiatives for human rights and anti-corruption Implementing company-wide disaster drills Based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, the to cut oﬀ the source of funding for armed groups, companies DOWA Group prohibits unfair discrimination, child labor and that are listed on the US stock market are obliged to disclose forced labor due to nationality, race, ethnicity, religion, gender, information on the usage of four kinds of minerals, such as gold We carry out company-wide disaster drills once a year. We set age or disability, and works to prevent corruption. Regarding and tin that originates in the conﬂict area of the Democratic up emergency headquarters at each level of the holding human rights, we conduct a questionnaire annually of our Republic of Congo (DRC) and its neighboring countries. company, operating companies and business divisions, and we operating subsidiaries, including oﬃces overseas, and work to At the DOWA Group, in order to support responsible mineral aim to maintain and improve initial response capabilities such as understand the current situation. procurement, the two companies Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning conﬁrming the safety of our employees and reporting the and Eco-System Recycling obtained certiﬁcation that their damage situation between each emergency headquarters.Also, smelting sites are free of conﬂict minerals. We provide gold and in FY 2017 we began introducing safety conﬁrmation calls using Towards responsible mineral procurement tin which a third party has certiﬁed is not derived from conﬂict smartphones for employees and their families. minerals. In recent years it has been pointed out that ore mined in conﬂict areas around the world has been used to fund armed groups and to prolong such things as civil wars, causing great human right violations for workers and local residents.In the U.S. ﬁnancial regulatory reform bill enacted in 2010 and which aims Initiatives by CSR Sector Safety 25 CSR REPORT 2018 26 Safety Occupational safety and health is one of the most important Focus themes in the development of DOWA’ s business. Based on the Measures Towards the elimination of accidents at work basic idea that“safety takes the priority over everything”, we have established organizations such as safety and health committees at all business sites in Japan & overseas, and we are Safe Environment Personnel Council Safety developing various safety activities based on an annual plan. As a safety initiative of the DOWA Group, those responsible to the cause, discuss whether concrete emergency and in the environmental and safety department, operating permanent measures are suﬃcient, and give feedback. companies and technical support companies gather and hold a In addition, we share disaster cases, and promote initiatives Safety Environment Personnel Council at the head oﬃce for prevention at each business site. For the details discussed at every month. With regards to understanding the situation for the Safety Environment Personnel Council and the decisions CSR Policy the most recent accidents and disasters that occurred, made about measures and such, the people who are identifying the cause of the occurrence at the site where the responsible disseminate it to each operating subsidiary through ●All employees will independently take part in activities to improve the level of accident or disaster occurred and measures to prevent the oﬃce organizations, and aim to share information. health and safety based on our basic philosophy of“safety takes the priority over recurrence, we conﬁrm the facts, analyze and view what led up everything” ●We will prevent accidents at work and will support the health of our employees Function of the Safety Environment Personnel Council ●Development of company-wide safety policies, and notiﬁcation and communication about decisions Progress of Activities Following is the status of activities in the area of occupational safety in FY 2017, and the plan for FY 2018. ●Conﬁrmation and analysis of facts in accident disaster reports, conﬁrmation of measures, feedback and applying to similar things ●Promotion and discussion of company-wide activities FY 2017 Results ●Sharing and mutual support for the activities of each company Key safety measures Tasks Indicator Evaluation Main Results Local check visits Strengthen cross-initiatives Frequency rate 0.9 or less 0.91 Raising the company-wide safety level by region Severity rate 0.02 or less 0.64 In the event of accidents or disasters, those responsible in the Major activities involving local visits in FY 2017 environmental and safety department, operating companies and Strengthening of safety Conﬁrm continuous implementation 8 times technical support companies visit the business site, and conﬁrm education in subsidiaries and follow-up through visits to 7 times (4 visits to Japan for education, and ●Safety audits Japan for education and on-site the cause and facts and measures to prevent recurrence at the site outside Japan education 4 on-site education sessions) where it occurred. In addition, they revisit business sites where ●Local interviews and checks accidents and disasters had occurred in the past, and check the ●Cross patrol eﬀectiveness of measures to prevent recurrence. For incidents ●Safety education where good examples were announced at risk assessment or ●Safety conferences FY 2018 safety conferences, and Safety Awards, they also check the actual Initiatives and Goals site. ●Response to accidents Following FY 2016, in FY 2017 we conducted safety audits at 43 business sites in Japan and overseas, especially conﬁrming the ●Evaluator training for OHS law observance safety management system, procedure manual, related ●Compliance seminars Frequency rate 0.9 or less equipment, and relevant emergency response, and giving Raising the company-wide Strengthen cross-initiatives ●District safety conferences corrective guidance to sites that were insuﬃcient. safety level by region Severity rate 0.02 or less ●Safety inspection tours Strengthening of * OHS (Occupational health and safety) Cut in half the incidence of safety education in Strengthen maintenance education accidents at the time of repairs subsidiaries outside Japan Checking the accident occurrence status Checking a good example (lockout & tagout) Local patrol at a compliance seminar at a Thai subsidiary Initiatives by CSR Sector Safety 27 CSR REPORT 2018 28 Occupational Safety Initiatives China Safety Conference For the DOWA Group, based on the health and safety policy that“all employees will independently take part in For the“China Safety Conference”that started in 2011, we (Suzhou City, Jiangsu Province) and March (Kunshan City, hold it about two or three times a year, with managers and those Jiangsu Province).A safety cross patrol was done and there was activities to improve the level of health and safety”, based on our basic philosophy of“safety takes the priority over responsible for safety from the management company and an objective exchange of views by those responsible from everything”, we have established organizations such as safety and health committees at all business sites, and we are oﬃces in China attending, and managers and those responsible diﬀerent oﬃces and departments in discussing accident and developing various safety activities based on an annual safety and health plan. for safety from the environmental and safety department in disaster cases. We are working to raise the safety level of all our Japan attending. In FY 2017 it was held twice in September oﬃces in China. Occurrence status for accidents at work While the number of labor disasters at the DOWA Group as a severity rate it is 0.64 against 0.08, showing that the severity rate whole is on a downward trend in the long term, in ﬁscal 2017, a is higher than the labor disaster statistics.Based on past serious serious accident at work occurred in June. For this reason, disasters, a thorough examination of all items has been speciﬁed compared with ﬁgures at business establishments of the same as mandatory in the safety and health plans of each business scale in the disaster statistics of the Ministry of Health, Labor site, and we are strengthening our eﬀorts. and Welfare, the frequency rate is 0.91 against 1.02, but for the ■ Change in the accidents at work frequency rate ■ Change in the accidents at work severity rate Same-sized business establishment average DOWA group Same-sized business establishment average DOWA group （People） （Days） 2.0 2.0 Frequency Severity rate rate A cross patrol at the China Safety Conference DOWA Group risk assessment presentation 1.5 1.3 1.5 1.35 1.21 1.21 1.15 1.0 1.06 1.06 1.08 1.02 1.0 Promotion of Health Management 1 0.98 At the DOWA Group, through the health insurance association, we are developing various initiatives for 0.94 0.91 0.58 0.64 promoting the health management of employees and their families, such as promoting physical check-ups and 0.5 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.09 0.06 0.07 0.08 mental health measures, and supporting sports events. 0.05 0.06 0.03 0.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Health Check Up To increase each person's awareness of health and to maintain and their dependents who are over 40 years old, we have provided *In comparison with the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare Labor Accident Trend Survey Manufacturing Industry Total (business sites with 100 or more people) mental and physical health, besides working on a department and information through such things as group newsletters, and the business site basis so that everyone reliably gets a regular medical examination rate is gradually increasing. Frequency Indicator showing the frequency of disasters by the number of dead and injured due check-up every year, we have also enhanced the system for various Further, provide a subsidy system for sporting events for employees rate to accidents at work per 1.0 million total working hours subsidies, such as for complete physical examinations, gynecological through sports and exercise so that they continue to maintain and Severity Indicator showing the degree of labor disasters by the number of working days lost examinations and inﬂuenza vaccinations. In addition, in order to raise promote a healthy body. rate due to accidents at work per 1,000 total working hours the examination rate for speciﬁc medical check-ups for insured persons Mental Health Initiatives Promotion of safety education At the DOWA Group, we operate a mental health counseling own stress, and to improve the workplace environment that is the system for the mental health management of employees, and have cause of stress, we have introduced a stress check tool so that DOWA Group risk assessment presentations established a dedicated telephone number for telephone people can self-diagnose their mental health, and we are working to consultations with specialized counselors (Clinical Psychologists). prevent employees from having mental health problems. For the sharing of the excellent initiatives of each group judging, DOWA Thermotech Thailand, which achieved excellent We have established a strictly private point of contact outside of the company, and to form a human network of those in charge, we results at the overseas safety conference, also announced their company that anyone can contact with peace of mind. Moreover, hold a DOWA Group risk assessment presentation every June with safety initiatives. About 60 people from Japan and abroad gathered from FY 2013, in order to encourage people to be aware of their the purpose of improving the level of safety initiatives at each at the venue, and active opinions were exchanged about each company. For the seventh one this time, in addition to presenting the company's initiatives. After the presentations were over, they had a social gathering, and they were able to further exchange Initiatives to prevent overtime work initiatives of the six domestic companies selected through advance information and deepen friendships. At the DOWA Group, in order to improve long hours work, we working on preventing health problems from work with such are promoting management of working hours with logging in and things as interviews with their supervisors and guidance from DOWA Eco-System global management training logging out on personal computers. In addition, for employees doctors. who have more than 80 hours of overtime in a month, we are At DOWA Eco-System, they have put eﬀorts into safety change at the stage it is deployed in the operating companies and education, and as part of that they are implementing a program operating subsidiaries. In addition, they learn about the importance where the managers from their Southeast Asian oﬃces visit Japan for of senior management, such as executives, managers and leaders, training. In a meeting room of the DOWA head oﬃce, the trainees taking the initiative to put “Safety First” into practice, and the again conﬁrm that the policy of DOWA Holdings is“safety takes the importance of fostering a safety culture. priority over everything”. They also conﬁrm that the policy does not Initiatives by CSR Sector Environment 29 CSR REPORT 2018 30 Environment The DOWA Group recognizes the impact of business activities on the Focus Measures Landﬁll sites are essential for society Environment environment, and we are working on it throughout the entire group with initiatives for the environment and society through our core business, and by positioning a reduction in the environmental burden of our business as an Currently, the creation of a recycling-oriented society is according to its characteristics. Also, since waste is generated important issue for management. advancing throughout the world. It can be said that it is even in the process of proper recycling, it is crucial to properly essential for sustainable development to revise the structure of process it so it does not impact human beings and the the economy and society that produces large amounts of environment. For this reason, we believe that it is important for CSR Policy waste, and to promote resource recycling with little burden on the DOWA Group to work as a whole in promoting recycling ●We will provide customers (clients and regions) with products and services that the environment by using ﬁnite resources eﬃciently. and the appropriate processing of waste . However, as humanity conducts their activities, waste contribute to building a recycling-oriented society always occurs, and it is necessary to manage harmful waste ●We will reduce environmental burdens and risks in our business activities. ●From managers to employees, we will be uniﬁed in working on environmental conservation activities Management technology for landfill sites ●We will promote business activities that consider biodiversity The Dowa Group has developed its landﬁll business for waste with ﬁve sites in total, Progress of Activities two in Japan and three overseas. Green Fill Kosaka, which has a landﬁll capacity of 2.7 million cubic meters and is the Following is the status of activities in the area of the environment in FY 2017, and the plan for FY 2018. largest in Japan’ s private sector, is located in Kosaka, Akita Prefecture where we have many recycling facilities. It is a managed landﬁll site that has introduced state-of-the-art FY 2017 Results technology such as an electric water leakage detection system. In addition to a dual water interception structure, it has a strong structure against damage by the laying of Key environmental protective mats. We are working to reduce the environmental burden of such things as measures Tasks Indicator Evaluation Main Results discharge by doing the treatment of the leachate from the landﬁll site at the attached Expansion of automobile waste catalyst leachate treatment facility according to the wastewater standards. This technology, collection by utilizing European and North which was developed in Japan, is contributing to the building up of developing American sites Promotion of Strengthening of collection Increase from countries by supporting social infrastructure. of materials for Promotion of new reclamation of scrap raw resource recycling the preceding fiscal year materials in Southeast Asia and Europe PT. Prasadha Pamunah Limbah Industri in Indonesia (hereinafter referred to as PPLi) recycling outside Japan Recyclable raw materials collection amount owns a landﬁll site that was built to conform to the standards of the U.S. EPA down 6% from the previous FY for precious metal (Environmental Protection Agency). As the only ﬁnal disposal site for hazardous waste and copper smelting in Indonesia, it collects, transports and accepts waste from the whole country. In Domestic: Advancing technological eﬀorts such as addition to conducting regular monitoring of groundwater, surface water, leachate and Total greenhouse Promotion of improvement of waste heat utilization eﬃciency, ﬁnal discharge water, they have promised to manage it over the 30 years after the gas emissions Environmental energy-saving equipment with a 2% reduction from the previous FY reduced by 1% landﬁll is completed. In addition, from government agencies, educational institutions, impact & risks renewal at large-scale Overseas: Due to an expansion in the hazardous compared to the community and customers there are many requests concerning consultation and emission sites material risk reduction business, up 58% from the the previous FY previous FY education about the PPLi processing technology and know-how. Environmental Hosting a seminar for conservation environmental conservation 3 times 9 times activities for outside partners Strengthening of disaster prevention measures against Including strengthening of disaster prevention measures Formulation of Biodiversity abnormal weather and natural against abnormal weather and natural disasters, disasters at pit wastewater countermeasure plan a three-year plan was formulated Promoting the appropriate processing of waste treatment facilities For many years we have worked on improving recycling technology and are working on building a recycling-oriented society FY 2018 through the recycling of metals. However, in reality, there is waste that cannot be reused or recycled.Waste incineration facilities and Initiatives and Goals landﬁll sites tend to be kept at a distance, but if they cannot be built, there is no place for the waste to go, and public health could not be guaranteed. We believe that our waste treatment business, which develops technically safe facilities, performs appropriate Promotion of Strengthening of collection of maintenance and suﬃciently communicates with residents, plays an important role for society. Increase from the preceding ﬁscal year resource recycling materials for recycling outside Japan The landﬁll site is a facility that supports the foundation of resource recycling. The DOWA Group will continue to develop landﬁll sites that are necessary for society by enhancing waste treatment technology and reliably ensuring their safety and security. Promote renewal of Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions per unit at Environmental large-scale emission sites energy-saving equipment and impact & risks by 1% compared with the previous FY energy conversion Environmental Raising the level through conservation seminar courses and mutual inspections 8 regions activities of environment management systems Conﬁrm the biodiversity Biodiversity consideration status for Over 80% on a transaction amount basis mine-related suppliers Initiatives by CSR Sector Environment 31 CSR REPORT 2018 INPUT 32 Versus Versus Raw material usage1,053thousand tons previous FY Total energy input 19.7PJ previous FY +6％ -1％ Fossil fuel consumption 148,000 KL Raw materials 814 thousand tons Auxiliary materials 156 thousand tons Purchased electric power 1,396 GWh Thermal power generation 2.4 GWh Heat treatment consignment items 81 thousand tons Hydro-electric generation 49.0 GWh Solar power generation 343 MWh Packaging materials 1.7 thousand tons The Environment of DOWA Purchased steam ﬂow 363 GJ Versus Amount of waste received previous FY The Dowa Group positions environmental conservation initiatives as an important issue for management, and we Versus 1,568thousand tons -4％ Usage & promote environmental management. Water resources115million m previous FY Waste 1,542 thousand tons disposal +40％ 3 Seawater 102 million ㎥ Contaminated soil 26 thousand tons End user Basic Policy Environment Management System Other than seawater 13 million ㎥ Fluorocarbon throughput 465 tons We have formulated our basic environmental policy with the The DOWA Group's environmental management activities are following basic concepts:“DOWA's business activities coordinated by the environment & safety department and the Process themselves are to improve the environment, and we are planning oﬃces of each operating company that conducts discharge working with the aim that the next generation can inherit a environmental conservation activities. Together with adjusting good global environment”and“in our daily business activities and coordinating things between each of the operating companies, Manufacturing DOWA Group business activities & sales we consider good things for the global environment and DOWA Holdings conducts environmental management and regions, and by taking actions that are esteemed by the local compliance management for the entire DOWA Group. In addition, Manufacturing business Environmental Research & people, we establish fairness and integrity as our corporate we have acquired ISO 14001 certiﬁcation at major domestic Nonferrous Heat management & development culture in the actions and awareness of Dowa Group production sites and overseas oﬃces, and for the proper metals treatment recycling employees”. implementation of environmental management, we do regular business business department Procuring raw materials Clients internal and external audits, and we are working to support the WEB Environmental basic policy http://www.dowa-csr.jp/about/csr_policy.html training of internal auditors through auditor training courses. Electronics Metal materials processing business business Logistics DOWA HOLDINGS Co., Ltd. Within business areas Waste heat power 79 GWh previous Waste heat utilization 497 TJ Versus Versus generation FY previous FY -5％ ＋6％ Committee of President the Operating Officers In-house Director in charge Committee of the Board OUTPUT processing recycling Versus （CO2 conversion） Chemical substance 2,203 tons Operating Companies Versus previous FY Environment & Adjustment Total greenhouse gas emissions previous FY emissions -24％ safety department and coordination Safe Environment Personnel Council 1,858 thousand tons +3％ Electric power source 793 thousand tons (CO conversion) Versus 2 previous FY Fossil fuel source 409 thousand tons Drainage discharge 129.5 million ㎥ (CO2 conversion) +38％ Waste source 655 thousand tons Coordination between operating companies (CO conversion) 2 Versus Amount of waste 392 thousand tons previous FY 6％ Versus Each Safety Amount of electric 1.5 GWh Planning office previous FY energy sold -14％ operating environment Versus (safety environment personnel) Recycled amount 562 thousand tons previous FY company council -11％ Versus Thermal recycling 313 thousand tons Product quantity 954 thousand tons previous FY Material recycling 249 thousand tons +3％ Each Safety Safety subsidiary of Acquisition status for ISO 14001 certiﬁcation environment environment operating With regards to CO2 emissions, in principle we seek to multiply the electric power system purchase amount, the fossil fuel Sites that have acquired 43 sites personnel council companies consumption and the amount of waste received, by the emission factor in the Law Concerning the Promotion of Measures to Cope No. of internal auditors 767 people with Global Warming. With regards to CO2 emissions derived from waste received, because the calculation terms are set for preparing this report, it may not necessarily match with the number reported to government agencies. In addition, due to diﬀerences in the classiﬁcation of waste in Japan and overseas, and the diﬃculty in setting an appropriate emission factor for waste received at overseas business sites, for CO2 emissions originating from waste, only the portion for Japan business sites is shown. Along with the review of the aggregate, some of the ﬁgures reported in the 2017 CSR Report have also been revised. Initiatives by CSR Sector Environment 33 CSR REPORT 2018 34 About the Current Situation of the Environment Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming Conservation of water resources At the DOWA Group, based on the Action Plan to Implement a Low Carbon Society by the Keidanren (Japan Every year the DOWA Group conﬁrms the status for water intake sources and drainage destinations in addition to Business Federation) and the Japan Mining Industry Association (announced in January 2013), we have set a goal water usage at production sites in Japan and overseas, We are working to reduce the amount of water used of“a 15% reduction in our CO2 emission rate by FY 2020, compared to FY 1990”. throughout the entire group by promoting eﬃcient use within business sites to reduce the quantity of water intake. Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Use of water resources In FY 2017, the greenhouse gas emissions by the DOWA plants, energy consumption was reduced due to switching to In FY 2017, the water resource input amount was 114.6 Amount of water resources used Group as a whole were about 1,858 thousand tons CO2 (1,649 energy-eﬃcient equipment and appropriate operation management. On million m3, an increase of about 40% from the previous FY. This thousand tons in Japan and 208 thousand tons overseas). the other hand, overseas it increased by 58% compared with the was due to an increase in the amount of seawater used as Compared to the previous FY, it increased by 3%. previous FY due to expanded waste logistics in Indonesia and cooling water for smelting. After using the cooling water in the Domestic emissions decreased by about 2%. Despite an Thailand, and increased use of fossil fuels in line with business process, we conﬁrm the water quality, and it is all returned to the increase in target facilities and the full-scale operation of new expansion in India. original sea area except for the evaporated portion. Meanwhile, Ground water Industrial water the amount of freshwater used was 12.7 million m3, a decrease 35.2％ 23.9％ Tap water Electric power source Fossil fuel source of about 4% from the previous FY. In FY 2017, we worked on reducing the amount of water usage Seawater 89％ 114.6 Freshwater 11％ 12.7 million ㎥ 3.2％ Sales output level Sales output level million ㎥ CO2 emissions(1,000t) (100t / 100 million yen) CO2 emissions(1,000t) (100t / 100 million yen) by installing water-saving type equipment and recycling usage 800 4.0 400 4.0 within processes. River water Other 37.7％ 0.0％ 700 3.5 350 3.5 600 3.0 300 3.0 Drainage water GL※ 250 GL※ 500 2.5 2.5 In FY 2017, the total amount of drainage water was 130 million ES ES 200 m3, an increase of about 38% from the previous FY. At each business 400 1.9 1.9 2.0 MM 2.0 MM Seawater Freshwater Industrial water 1.8 1.7 EL EL site, we are working to preserve water quality, not only observing 1.6 150 1.5 River water Tap water Ground water Other 300 1.5 MT MT drainage water regulations through sound drainage water 200 1.0 TH 100 1.0 1.0 TH management, but also strict voluntary standards. 0.8 0.8 0.9 HD HD 50 0.6 100 0.5 CO2 0.5 CO2 emisson emisson intensity 0 intensity 0 0.0 0.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) ※GL: Sites overseas 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) ※GL: Sites overseas • Facility remodeling & process improvement……7 sites •Miniaturization of equipment, and reduction of the number of units……3 sites Conservation of biodiversity Major initiatives •Switch to high eﬃciency type lighting equipment……12 sites •Reduction of equipment standby time, and planned shutdowns……5 sites for FY 2017 Based on the basic policy of biodiversity, the DOWA Group is working to minimize the impact that our business •Waste heat utilization, and waste power generation……8 sites activities have on biodiversity, and we are promoting the conservation of biodiversity through social action programs. Initiatives for Renewable Energy We are working on global warming measures through Initiatives through business utilization of in-house power generation by renewable energy, Basic policy of biodiversity and the dissemination of renewable energy through our DOWA Hightech is one of the world's largest manufacturers to The DOWA Group recognizes that our business activities get beneﬁts from a biodiverse nature, and business. produce silver powder which is used in the electrode sections the conservation of biodiversity is important to keep enjoying these beneﬁts. As a member of society, of solar battery cells (crystal silicon type solar batteries). The we will voluntarily and continuously work on the conservation of biodiversity and sustainable usage. Utilizing renewable energy silver powder for electrodes is required to have such properties as low resistance and high deﬁnition wiring, and it is positioned WEB http://www.dowa-csr.jp/about/biodiversity.html At Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning (Akita Prefecture), in 1897 we as an important material that greatly impacts product performance. began operating a hydroelectric power plant for the use of mine By developing and providing optimal silver powder for the needs of domestic and overseas manufacturers, and supplying it stably, Consideration for biodiversity in procurement development, only the second such plant in Japan. Since then, as we expanded our business, we continued to expand and we are greatly contributing to the improvement of solar battery Supplying paper, a forest resource, is one of the important the environmental nature of the paper itself, based on the CSR improve our facilities, and now we have six hydroelectric power performance. ecosystem services, and it is also related to climate change and procurement policy, we conﬁrmed that suppliers are considering plants in Akita Prefecture. In FY 2017, we generated 49.0 GWh, E&E Solutions is an environmental consulting company that waste. Because the DOWA Group's manufacturing business is biodiversity through responsible paper procurement . which is an important power source to cover the energy of carries out numerous support activities for introducing renewable mainly in the area of non-ferrous metals, we do not use Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning. In addition, we are introducing energy such as solar power, wind power and biomass biological resources for our main raw materials, excluding water, Conﬁrmation items for photovoltaic power generation systems at the Ohta Plant of generation. They are working on the spread of renewable energy but we use paper at all our business sites both in Japan and responsible paper procurement Thermoengineering (Gunma Prefecture), DOWA Hightech through such things as predicting mega solar power generation, overseas, and our whole group purchases a lot of paper every ●Establishment of a procurement policy for wood feedstock (Saitama Prefecture), Eco-System Sanyo (Okayama Prefecture) technical veriﬁcation and risk assessment of power generation year. For this reason, we use paper that is a mixture of old paper ●Establishment and operation of a management system and Act-B Recycling (Kumamoto Prefecture). In FY 2017, the equipment, and environmental assessments of oﬀshore wind and forest certiﬁed wood pulp for copy paper and pamphlets, that conﬁrms the legality of the wood feedstock total power generation of the four companies was 343Wh, and power generation. and we are working to use sustainable biological resources. When selecting suppliers of paper for FY 2017, in addition to ●Can provide information about the supplier of raw material pulp it is used for part of our electric power needs in our business activities. Initiatives by CSR Sector ‒ Environment 35 CSR REPORT 2018 36 Resource Recycling Initiatives INPUT At the DOWA Group, among the SDGs goals,“12. Securing sustainable patterns of consumption and production”is ●Raw materials The responsibility of making the area in which we are most closely involved, and we believe that we can show a great contribution towards the and the The amount of raw material used in FY 2017 was 1,053 thousand tons, down about 1% from the previous ﬁscal year, so responsibility of using achievement of the goal. By working on resource recycling through our technology and resources, we aim to achieve about the same level. Most of the raw material we use is ore for metal smelting, and it was around 60% of the total in goal No. 12. FY 2017, followed by recyclable raw material such as scrap metal at about 17%. In the resource recycling of the DOWA Group there are three main loops. First, is in-house generation and usage, for waste generated in the manufacturing business , such as our smelting and ● Waste received metal processing, it is recycled in the environmental business and smelting business Besides selling it as metallic material, we re-use The amount of waste received in FY 2017 was 1,568 thousand tons, a decrease of approximately 4% from the it as raw material for our company. previous FY. This is due to a decrease in the amount of contaminated soil received because of soil cleanup. Second, is accepting and recycling scrap metal generated from the processes of manufacturing plants at other companies. In case it is from client factories that supply our materials or parts, such things as reusing the accepted waste as raw material leads to a reduction of new resource inputs. Third, is the recycling of used end products. Through electrical appliance recycling, automobile recycling and the recycling of small OUTPUT household appliances, used products widely recovered from society will be returned to society as metallic material again. ●Products In addition, with regards to paper, iron and aluminum, etc., that we cannot recycle, we strive to appropriately recycle through the The product shipment volume in FY 2017 was 954 thousand tons, an increase of about 3% from the previous FY. This recycling processes of other companies. was mainly due to an increase in the shipment of zinc products and an increase in the number of heat treatment furnaces manufactured. ●Recycling The amount of thermal recycling in FY 2017 was 313 thousand tons, a decrease of approximately 15% from the DOWA group previous FY. Of this, 311 thousand tons was recycled within the DOWA Group, and 2,000 tons was recycled outside of the company. The amount of material recycling in FY 2017 was 249 thousand tons, a decrease of approximately 5% Things that from the previous FY. Of this, 122 thousand tons was recycled within the DOWA Group, and 126 thousand tons was we cannot recycle recycled outside of the company. ●Discharged waste The amount of waste treatment in FY 2017 was 392 thousand tons, a decrease of approximately 6% from the previous FY. This was due to the recycling of some paper which until now had been waste. Environmental Smelting Manufacturing department department department Paper, iron and aluminum, etc. TOPICS Metal recovery of incinerated ash and recycling 1 3 In December 2017, at Meltec Iwaki in Iwaki, Fukushima Prefecture, we started operation of incinerated ash melting 2 treatment and artiﬁcial manufacturing aggregate facilities, the second domestic site following Meltec in Tochigi Prefecture. For incinerated ash generated from municipal waste treatment facilities, much of it is landﬁlled at landﬁll sites, but for the purpose of improving the Other Other recycling rate and securing capacity at the ﬁnal disposal sites, companies companies Consumers municipalities that choose recycling such as melting treatment are on the Manufacturing Recycling plants rise. Since 1999, at Meltec, through a unique treatment process that melts plants the incinerated ash in a reduced state and cools it over time, molten slag used as artiﬁcial aggregate, and molten metal containing gold, silver, copper and other valuable metals, have been manufactured. With the new operation at Meltec Iwaki, we are introducing the same treatment process as Meltec, which has an operational track record of about 20 years, and are accepting incinerated ash from municipalities, including the city of Iwaki As shown above, at the DOWA Group we are working on eﬀective utilization of limited resources through the three loops, from the where Meltec Iwaki is located. By organizing melting treatment at two Plant facilities production stage of our own company to the waste generated by society. At the same time, as a social responsibility in resource facilities, our ash melting and recycling capacity has doubled to about recycling, together with striving to minimize the environmental burden at every stage of recycling, such as appropriate water 90,000 tons per year, and we are responding to the needs of customers who want to make treatment, detoxifying waste and reliable landﬁll, we are aiming for sustainable resource recycling that considers environmental eﬀective use of incinerated ash as a resource. conservation and energy savings, such as using heat generated in the treatment process as steam or electric power. Molten slag has a strength that is equivalent to natural stone, and because hazardous heavy metals are separated out and it is environmentally safe, the artiﬁcial aggregate that is used as roadbed material for streets is highly valued. In addition, for molten metal containing valuable metals, Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning of the DOWA Group recycles gold, silver, copper and other metals as smelting raw materials. Molten slag At the DOWA Group, we will contribute to achieving the SDGs by promoting recycling and the appropriate processing of waste, such as expanding the incinerated ash melting treatment and artiﬁcial manufacturing aggregate businesses. Initiatives by CSR Sector Society 37 CSR REPORT 2018 38 Social The DOWA Group aims to be a company trusted by all stakeholders for sustainable development and is taking initiatives to enhance the relationship with the society through Development activities for children Focus its CSR activities. Measures who will be responsible for next generation Society Support of local children by ESBEC in Thailand CSR Policy In January 2018, the Eastern Seaboard Environmental used for teaching and writing materials. For the children who ●We will aim to create a workplace where diversity and the human rights of Complex (hereinafter referred to as ESBEC) of the DOWA received the scholarships, priority was placed on their economic employees are respected, and each person can demonstrate their maximum abilities Group awarded scholarships at the Ban Khao Hin Elementary situation with the purpose of giving them opportunities to learn, School in Thailand. ESBEC, located in Si Racha, Chonburi and they were chosen by the principals of each school. with satisfaction and pride In addition to the scholarships, ESBEC holds mangrove tree Province, is a business that does recycling and landﬁll of waste ●In unity with the local community, we will promote social contributions that oil, waste liquid treatment and waste. planting events and organizes excursions to natural parks. To reﬂect the unique characteristics of the local community The ceremony was held in a pleasant atmosphere, with promote recycling at the schools, they donate bins to separate many guests in attendance, including the mayor of Si Racha garbage, and hold factory tours. They also support the teacher and the head of the district. Scholarships were awarded to 60 training fund, among other things. Every year, they continue to Progress of Activities children attending six schools in the area, and the money was support the local schools in various ways. Following is the status of activities in the area of society in FY 2017, and the plan for FY 2018. FY 2017 Results We interviewed the principal of the Ban Khao Hin Elementary School to get their opinions Key social measures Tasks Indicator Evaluation Main Results interview and requests about the current situation of the school and the support they have received until now. Expansion of a global human resources ̶ Implement a global challenge program Strengthening and training of employees ̶ Implemented training in Japan for employees hired locally overseas hired overseas and locally Promoting diversity What are the issues at the school? Please tell us about your goals and the activities that you are putting eﬀort into. Aggressive development of career and employment 20 people 20 people employed Implementation of training for female Implemented female employee career training and Twice The ﬁrst thing is the poverty of the We are pursuing various initiatives aimed at becoming an eco-school. We are doing employees and managers training for management children’s families. Since Si Racha is pesticide-free agriculture such as vegetables, bananas and lemons, and making Thorough knowledge within the Updating and publicizing Handbooks to explain the system partially updated an industrial park, it is an area where compost with fallen leaves that we have gathered. We also have the children company of the various systems handbooks to explain the system (progress rate 40%) there are many migrant workers. themselves grow mushrooms and cultivate prawns. We use the things that we Promoting Encouragement of annual leave Acquisition rate 60% Acquisition rate 66% Many of the children's parents are produce in school meals. In addition, the children learned how to make traditional work-life balance Formulating and executing ・Formulated all group company working hour immigrants from the north and south houses, and painted the walls of red clay. Such activities will help children improve Promotion of measures to all group company management policies and held brieﬁngs at all companies reduce working hours working hour management ・Formulated group management standards for of Thailand, and the burden of living their basic living skills. In environmental classes, we also plant trees. The children policies and standards working hours and started operation expenses such as house rent is heavy, select their favorite trees and we teach them how to care for them. By teaching Implement training of evaluators so there are only a few children who elementary school students on separating garbage, I think that recycling will become 300 participants 290 participants Human resource and those being evaluated can go to university. more of a reality in Thailand in the future. Eventually, we expect our school to become development, Conducting system surveys Done by 1,100 people Done by 800 people In addition, while the number of a regional model and develop initiatives for neighboring elementary schools. evaluation & treatment teachers is determined according to Education for new people 140 students 142 students (until 3 years after joining the company) the number of children, in fact, it is a problem that the number of teachers Development activities for children who What is your thinking about relationships with companies and about our Promoting social will be responsible for next generation 3 times 5 times is small at every school. In addition to the subjects of study, I have to take company? contribution Awareness activities aiming at community 3 times 6 times charge of classes for such special Currently schools need to seek support and cooperation not only from the contribution subjects as physical education and government, but also from local communities and companies, including economic FY 2018 music, and I have hardly any time to support. Of the two, the support from companies is very helpful. There is a community Initiatives and Goals prepare for the classes. I think it is representative at ESBEC, and they respond quickly. I think that they are doing an also important to increase the appropriate business in waste treatment in Thailand. I would like you to keep Employment for physically challenged 2.2% number of teachers. developing together with the region in the future. Implement female employee training and management training Attendance rate 90% Expansion of global human resources Promoting diversity Strengthen human resources and organizations at Implement a global challenge program oﬃces overseas Implement training to strengthen recruitment Hold at all the major sites abilities at each company Thorough knowledge within the company of the various systems Updating and publicizing handbooks to explain the system Promoting work-life Encouragement of annual leave Acquisition rate 60% balance Promotion of measures to reduce working hours Thorough and strict observance of group management standards for working hours Implement training of evaluators and those being Human resource evaluated 300 participants development, Implement an institutional survey Done by 1,100 people (100% answer rate) ESBEC actively participates in the community in various ways and strives to provide support themselves that is suitable for the evaluation & treatment Evaluation system education for new employees Attendance rate 100% characteristics and demands of the area. For that reason, from day to day the community representative visits nearby districts and Introduce career planning seminars Attendance rate 30% schools, so that they have many opportunities for dialogue. Through such activities, it feels like the understanding towards ESBEC in Promote regional contribution activities that capture the region is deepening. We will continue to develop with local communities in the future through good communication. Promoting social regional needs 5 times contribution Support by sharing and providing information on social Collect examples of initiatives and provide information contribution activities Initiatives by CSR Sector Society 39 CSR REPORT 2018 40 Relationship with Major Stakeholders Communication with Shareholders and Investors At the DOWA Group, we recognize as an important issue for corporate governance the explanation of corporate At the DOWA Group, at each oﬃce and department, we communicate with our major stakeholders through various and management information to shareholders, investors and other stakeholders, and we are striving to disclose methods of communication, including customers, shareholders, investors, suppliers, local communities and employees. timely and appropriate information. Relationship with Major Stakeholders Providing IR information Dialogue with institutional investors We hold brieﬁng sessions by management for our quarterly Besides the quarterly ﬁnancial statement brieﬁngs by the ﬁnancial result announcements. In addition, we also arrange company president and management, we holds such things as opportunities to explain management information directly to business brieﬁngs. In addition, IR representatives visit investors in Japan and overseas. As a tool to report the management institutional investors in Japan and overseas, and also give policies and situation of the DOWA Group, we also publish the individual interviews, working so that they can understand our All customers who use products annual report and other reports in Japanese, English and Chinese, business and business plans. We regularly report to management and services provided by our Shareholders of our group, and we work to disclose information. the opinions that we receive during these dialogues, which are group including individual and that is appropriate and highly transparent useful to improve management. institutional investors In order to help shareholders and Stably supply products & services Maximize our corporate value investors understand the DOWA The main opinions we received in FY 2017 Responwith regards to CSR Responsibility Ensure quality & safety Group's management situation and Dividends Provide environmentally friendly products sibility Information disclosure & dialogue business strategy, we also provide IR Seek customer satisfaction (CS) information on our website. In addition ●In the CSR Report, the ordinary things that we do also need to General Meeting of Shareholders Appropriately manage customer to the ﬁnancial statement summary and be listed. If it is not written about, it might look like nothing Financial result brieﬁngs & brieﬁngs for Opportunities information Shareholders securities report, we post materials like has been done. Customers investors & investors the annual report and shareholder ●It is better to make more of an appeal about the main Tours Opportunities Various seminars, exhibitions & tours communications. We will keep working business, such as resource recycling or the environmental Various environmental PR Publishing the annual report and business reports to disclose information in a timely and business. Disclose information on our website Disclose information on our website easy-to-understand manner. ●By the company growing, it leads to resolution of the SDGs. A Joint research & development stance of working on one goal in the medium to long-term WEB IR information website: http://www.dowa.co.jp/jp/ir/index.html can be valued. DOWA ●Once we set the SDGs goals, a viewpoint to link them with group Partners who cooperate the core business seems important so that the process itself is updated each year. Employees with us in providing the General Meeting of Shareholders (employees & Suppliers products and services Employees who their families) Every June, we hold an ordinary general meeting of work at our group of our group and their families shareholders at the Hotel Chinzan-so in Tokyo. After the general meeting of shareholders, we hold a social gathering aimed at Tour for investors Select suppliers based on Responsibility fair & impartial standards promoting communication with shareholders. There we set up a The Dowa Group conducts factory tours for institutional Suitable evaluation & treatment Support CSR in the forum for dialogue with executives and a product exhibition investors and securities analysts as an opportunity for them to Responsibility Secure diverse human resources & Local human resource development supply chain and section for each business. In addition, we set up a separate deepen their understanding about our business. In FY 2017, we held communities environmental activities Ensure occupational safety and health presentation room at the venue where the executives can one at the Hamamatsu Kita plant of DOWA Thermoengineering Various brieﬁngs for suppliers Respect for human rights about CSR procurement, etc. explain the topics of the DOWA Group. (Shizuoka Prefecture). We did a tour of industrial furnaces and Promoting work-life balance For FY 2017, we introduced products for hybrid cars and Opportunities manufacturing processes, and we explained the strengths of Quality & CSR audits Management conferences electric cars that DOWA Metaltech is developing in its business. DOWA Thermotech which is engaged in both manufacturing & Corporate ethics point of Labor & management interviews Everyone in the community who contact We held an active question and answer session, with questions sales and processing services for heat treatment facilities. we are involved with through each from shareholders about such things as the product shipment Opportunities Human resource education, Various seminars, exhibitions environmental education & of our group oﬃces and our main & tours status. in-house events business DOWA Consultation Desk Group newsletters & the portal site DOWA Consultation Desk Environmental conservation Opportunities Responsibility Plant tours for the employees of activities & educational activities families, etc. Contribution to regional promotion through activities such as culture and sports Information disclosure & dialogue Plant tours for members of the community Participating in community organizations Sponsor, participate in & support community events Risk communication Ordinary general meeting of shareholders Social gathering for shareholders Tour for investors Initiatives by CSR Sector Society 41 CSR REPORT 2018 42 Together with Our Customers and Business Partners Together With the Regional Society The DOWA Group strives to build long-term relationships of trust with its business partners and suppliers in order to With initiatives in the social ﬁeld, the DOWA Group is working on regional contributions as a priority measure. In improve customer satisfaction through providing better products and services. In addition, we are promoting CSR each of our domestic and overseas bases, we are actively developing community-based CSR activities such as initiatives through the supply chain, including environmental conservation and improvement in the working factory tours, accepting interns, hosting sports events and communicating with local communities in order to environment. progress and develop together with the region. Supply Chain Management Quality Control Social contribution activities The DOWA Group promotes CSR throughout the whole At the DOWA Group, we position“quality”as an important supply chain by distributing to business partners and suppliers management standard for manufacturing. Major manufacturing the “DOWA Group CSR Procurement Guidelines” that pull plants have obtained international standard ISO 9001 certiﬁcation [Tokyo] Holding a tour of our headquarters together our CSR procurement policies and code of conduct, and for our quality control systems. We strive to improve the quality by seeking understanding about our company’ s approach to of products and services by continuously operating these quality In May 2017, as part of a school trip, 48 ninth-grade students from the Kosaka CSR. These guidelines are translated into English, Chinese and control systems based on PDCA. Municipal Junior High School, the area of our company’ s birthplace, visited the Thai and distributed to DOWA oﬃces overseas. In addition, as an initiative to strengthen quality control, we headquarters of DOWA in the Akihabara area of Tokyo. While this was the ﬁfth In FY 2017, in order to conﬁrm the status of CSR eﬀorts, we put eﬀort into conﬁrming the quality of procured items. In time that students from this school have done such a tour, after they tour our distributed a self-check questionnaire to about 100 major cooperation with suppliers, we aim to ensure the quality of oﬃces and we explain our business, every year the students come up with business partners and suppliers, and collected about 95% of procured items from the aspect of quality and technology by ingenious presentations, such as song or dance. In FY 2017, presentaion entitled them. While the average point rose overall compared to the implementing supplier surveys and inspections at appropriate “The Love Kosaka Presentation”, they introduced their home town of Kosaka. previous FY, looking at it by sector, we found that initiatives for intervals. social contribution were weak. From ﬁscal 2018, we will begin auditing our internal quality For those business partners and suppliers who we received control systems, including at overseas oﬃces. answers from, we sent them a feedback report, telling them about the status of the current evaluation. Results of the FY 2017 self-check questionnaire Response to Comments and [Akita Prefecture] The DOWA Cup Junior (average value for answers) Opinions Cross-Country Ski Tournament at Lake Towada Compliance with laws and regulations With regards to opinions and inquiries that we have received 77.6% In February 2018, the DOWA Cup was held on the shore of Lake Towada in 100% from customers, we strive to supply satisfactory products by Akita Prefecture. This was the 28th time that this historic junior cross-country ski 80% aiming to promptly make appropriate improvements. We aim to Sustainability tournament was held, and it is certiﬁed as an oﬃcial event of the Ski Association Information 60% improve the information sharing and management system, and （human rights of Akita. protection 40% 81.7% & labor） we classify, analyze and evaluate the information gathered at It is one of the qualifying races for participation in the Junior Olympics. From 20% 82.2% each business site, which leads to development and improvement elementary and junior high schools in the three prefectures of the Tohoku region, 0% of our products and services. 218 children participated in high-level races. About 130 staﬀ are involved in its Sustainability operation, including DOWA Group employees and people from neighborhood （social & councils and local ski clubs. Starting with the cleaning of the venue in May of the Sustainability community contributions） （health & safety） previous year, they cooperate on various tasks, such as taking over a month to 83.7% develop the course, setting up the venue and the ﬁnal tidying up. For over a 67.1% quarter of a century, this ski tournament has been an indispensable event for the Sustainability DOWA Group to deepen ties with the local community. （environmental conservation） 77.8% [Myanmar] Event for children CSR procurement audits In Myanmar, every February 13th is“Children’ s Day”when families celebrate With regards to important suppliers, we will actually visit them, and together with explaining our thinking about CSR and wish for the growth of their cherished children. To celebrate Children’ s Day, procurement, we also check their conformity with the CSR GOLDEN DOWA ECO-SYSTEM MYANMAR, which operates a waste treatment procurement guidelines. We mainly interview them about the business in Myanmar, invites children from the neighboring area to a weekend questionnaire results, check documents, and conﬁrm site safety event that they hold. Compared to the city of Yangon, the Tirawa area where the and environmental initiatives. In FY 2017, we expanded the plant is located is still developing and there are children who do not attend scope from raw material and auxiliary material manufacturers, school. At the event, the 216 children who participated were given original and visited suppliers of equipment and manufacturing parts that T-shirts and sweets, etc. In the future, we would like to continue our initiatives so are important to our manufacturing business. that the children in the area can lead bright and healthy lives. Regarding the importance of CSR in the supply chain, we will keep working to further improve CSR while strengthening the partnership with suppliers by getting their understanding. Initiatives by CSR Sector Society 43 CSR REPORT 2018 44 Together with Employees Human resource development and evaluation The DOWA Group sets forth in its Code of Conduct that human resources are the basis of all business activities, As a vision for human resources and our organization, the DOWA as a group-wide initiative. By setting up opportunities for ongoing and employees should be evaluated for their ability to do their jobs, regardless of diﬀerences in their educational Group aims to“respect a sound and free corporate culture, and by training, we strive for appropriate evaluation, treatment and building a foundation for long-term growth, continue to provide training. As a training opportunity, we plan to cover all employees background, seniority and gender. We have taken various initiatives so that employees can exercise their full new value to society by creating human resources and the of the group over three years. In addition to getting understanding potential. of the system for three years from FY 2018, we plan to conduct organization”. We are developing various human resource “interview training” aimed at promoting communication with development and utilization measures for all employees. Employment status Europe0.15％ North America1.4％ Latin America subordinates. We also conduct a survey every year in order to evaluate the operational status of the system. From last year, the issues extracted from this were added as new improvement At the end of FY 2017 (March 31st, 2018), the number of employees in Japan was 0.04％ Fair evaluation & treatment items in the brieﬁng for evaluators and the training for those 6,094, up 22 people the year before. Of the regular employees in Japan, there were At the DOWA Group, based on the principle of“evaluating being evaluated. We are striving to promote understanding of 3,851 men (92%) and 337 women (8%). With globalization, the proportion of employees for their ability to do their jobs” in the Code of the system for employees, and for its appropriate operation. employees at oﬃces overseas is increasing, and the number of employees overseas FY 2017 Asia Japan Conduct, under the following polices, we are working for fair in FY 2017 was about 35% of the total. In addition, the total number of new （besides Japan） Employee 65％ evaluation and treatment. graduate and mid-career hires in the group as a whole was 209 men and 19 33％ numbers by region Training for evaluators and those being evaluated is positioned women, an increase of about 20% from the year before. While the retention rate is a little higher for male employees, it is roughly around 90% overall. ●For evaluators and those being evaluated, deepen understanding of the standards and structure of the system, and utilize appropriate evaluations and training. [ Employment related data ] ●While sharing organizational goals, and getting understanding of the abilities and behaviors required of their job grade, try to improve job performance abilities. No. of employees by region Employment situation in Japan (DOWA Group) (including non-consolidated) Type of FY FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 Education and training system employee Region FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 Classiﬁcation Men Women Men Women Men Women Regular Executive oﬃcers 132 1 128 1 125 1 Japan 5,878 6,072 6,094 From new employees to managers, we have established stratiﬁed education employees Management employees 725 9 758 9 778 10 according to job classiﬁcation, and have set up an education system of Asia FY 2017 in Japan (besides Japan) 2,897 2,899 3,092 selective education in order to nurture the next generation of leaders at each General employees 2,845 302 2,901 311 2,948 326 No. of training level. We also conduct training and meetings to implement shared awareness FY 2017 Non-regular Dispatched employees 493 633 709 Europe 22 23 14 students employees and ediﬁcation. In FY 2017, within the selective education we started training Training hours in Japan Part-time 1,053 318 1,050 281 897 300 North America 96 96 131 to strengthen skills for leading subordinates. In the selective education, we 1,440 per employee Latin America Total 5,248 630 5,470 602 5,457 637 1 1 4 also provide opportunities for self development, with such things as 29 hours per year Grand total 5,878 6,072 6,094 Total 8,894 9,091 9,335 correspondence education and e-learning, which are easy to use with few restrictions on time and place, and external interactive education. Employee retention rate (DOWA Group) FY 2015 (as of the end of FY 2017) [ Examples of stratiﬁed & selective education in FY 2017 ] （Targeting DOWA Holdings and the operating companies） Year they joined the company Men Women Target employees New & young people & classiﬁcation Mid-level & leaders Managers Top executives Avg. retention rate after 3 years in the company 95% 83% 1st year 2nd & 3rd years Avg. retention rate 93% [Follow-up I training] [5th rank training for [Follow-up IV training] [Coaching training] [Top management training] Improve job newly appointed] Career & motivation Training subordinates Administration performance abilities. Leadership All [New employee [Follow-up III training] [Newly appointed employees Membership & manager training] Stratiﬁed education] introspection Management TOPICS Akita Zinc received the Innovation Award for the 2017 education [Follow-up II training] “Good Career Company Awards” Poster session [Training to [Training to Akita Zinc, which smelts zinc in the city of Akita, was selected as the only company from Akita Technology [Training to strengthen strengthen strengthen engineering abilities I] engineering engineering Prefecture to be awarded the “Innovation Award” (human resource development supervisor abilities II] abilities III] commendation) for the 2017 “Good Career Company Awards” by the Ministry of Health, Labor and [Business leader training] Next-generation Welfare. manager training Akita Zinc, where about 200 employees work, introduced a career consulting and mentoring system [Problem solving & thinking ability Business training program] that makes the setting and achievement of individual goals a reality by tailoring to each individual's Selective [Training to strengthen skills values, while utilizing existing mechanisms such as improvement proposals and small group activities. education for leading subordinates] For six years in a row, they have achieved a turnover rate of zero for employees who have been with [Global challenge the company three years or less since graduating from high school. The point that this award program] recognized was “realizing young employee retention through career support to enhance a feeling of Global self‐eﬃcacy”. [Training before taking up s new post] Initiatives by CSR Sector Society 45 CSR REPORT 2018 46 Promoting diversity Re-employment of retired workers Work-Life Balance Optimization of working hours At the DOWA Group, amid global development and the With the aim of harmonizing work and life, we are enhancing Utilizing their technical skills and knowledge, for employees We are working to curb long working hours and promote the expansion of business areas, we believe that diversiﬁed human the system to support work-life balance, and are developing a who wish to continue working at the DOWA Group even after taking of annual paid vacation so that employees can work with resources with various values and points of view who can fully workplace environment where it is easy to work, so that it is their retirement, we are striving to improve the environment so health and vigor in both mind and body. With the attendance demonstrate their individuality and abilities will lead to the possible for employees to maximize their abilities according to that they can work with more motivation. In addition, for the system managed by the head oﬃce, we are managing time their lifestyle. growth of the company. purpose of providing information about a second career after through the computer logs, and when a certain level of working retirement, we hold a life planning seminar for employees who hours are exceeded, an improvement plan must be submitted to Training of global human resources have reached a certain age. Supporting various working styles the manager. There is also an interview with an industrial We have also established an investigative committee on the physician depending on the number of overtime hours. The As part of promoting diversity, the Dowa Group is working on employment of the elderly, and are discussing ways to utilize this average overtime hours in FY 2017 were 19.7 hours a month. To human resource in the future. At the DOWA Group, we introduced a ﬂex-time system without optimize working hours, we will continue to strive to manage creating a mechanism from the recruitment stage based on the core time so that employees can work according to the ﬂuctuations working hours with both hard and soft measures. idea of working globally regardless of nationality. In recruiting and characteristics of the job. In addition, besides community service With regards to annual paid vacation in FY 2017, with 20 days new graduates for regular positions, we are actively recruiting leave and a relaxation leave system where employees get days oﬀ on average granted, employees took about 65% of their vacation foreigners and Japanese exchange students who have graduated for a certain number of years of service, we have prepared support days. We promote the planning of yearly paid vacation from foreign universities, and foreign exchange students from FY 2017 measures beyond what is stipulated by the law, such as paid time oﬀ according to the business situation at each business site, and overseas, and are boosting our hiring results year by year. Along with the expansion in employing human resources in various No. re-employed for nursing sick children (up to ﬁve days), limitations on transfers through changing the awareness of employees with such things that involve moving for the reason of childcare, partial subsidies for as further feedback on the number of days taken during the year, countries and regions, at the time of hiring, we provide education childcare expenses and a leave system due to life events. the number of vacation days taken improves year by year. to convey our principles and policies, as well as consideration for Men Women The number of people using these systems has increased every 44 3 human rights. In addition, we provide training to employees who year. In FY 2017, the number of people who took childcare leave are assigned to overseas oﬃces prior to taking up their new （Days） （％） people people was 34, and 27 men and 26 women took time oﬀ to nurse sick posts, and also conduct diversity acceptance education such as children. 25 75 cross-cultural understanding. In future, we will continue to work on expanding our global talent base. Those who took childcare leave 20 20 20 20 70 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 Promoting Participation by Women Employment for physically challenged FY 65.6％ Men Women Men Women Men Women 15 13 65 13 At our company there is no distinction according to gender in 12 No. who took the In FY 2017, the DOWA Group as a whole was unable to reach 1 15 0 28 2 32 63.0％ how people work, and regardless of whether in Japan or overseas, leave (people) 10 60 the statutory employment rate. On the other hand, the scope of 60.5％ female employees are also active in such ﬁelds as manufacturing, work that those with disabilities can do is increasing every year, research and development, production management, sales and In-house Questionnaire 5 55 accounting. For hiring, promotion and advancement as well, and the trend is for an increase in the number hired. In order to evaluation is done according to the abilities of the person. For the promote the employment of people with disabilities, we will We conduct a questionnaire on work-life balance for new 0 0 hiring of women for regular positions, it is about 10% to 20% of continue to provide opportunities for workplace experiences, employees every year. In FY 2017, including men, those who FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 people hired overall, and the number of female managers is and to create a workplace environment that accepts them and wished to get childcare and nursing care leave was over 80%. around 1%. The number is certainly not high, but it is gradually where it is easy for them to work. Against the background of the improvement in the utilization increasing along with changes in the business and workplace rate of the current system, in addition to promoting the Avg. days granted（Days） Rate of days taken（Days） environments. In addition, in order to support participation by （People） （%） improvement of the workplace environment so that it easy to use Avg. no. of days taken（％） women, we conduct diversity management training for managers. the system, the impact of the change in awareness by such 80 2.0 In FY 2017, we newly launched a diversity career program for employees is also considered to be signiﬁcant. female employees and training for female oﬃce workers. 69 70 Also, in addition to ﬂex-time and shorter working hours to At our company, despite arranging a workplace environment 70 balance work and family life, many were of the opinion that they where it is easy for women who are raising children to work, 60 wanted a telecommuting system. We will keep working on such as a ﬂex-time system without core time and assistance for 60 work-life balance initiatives with these opinions in mind. child-rearing costs, it is a problem that the proportion of 1.5 continued employment is lower than that of male employees. In 50 the future, we will actively work on improving the system to 1.4％ 1.4％ balance work and family life and to change awareness, with a 1.3％ 40 TOPICS numerical target of 80% or more for the continued employment Meltec Certiﬁed as a work-life balance promoter in Oyama of women hired 10 years ago, so it is about the same as men. 30 1.0 Percentage of female workers by level At Meltec, which processes waste in Tochigi Prefecture, there has been understanding and a 0 0.0 desire to promote a gender‐equal society. In June 2017, as a company that actively worked on Level FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 creating a working environment where it was easy to work for men and women who were Executive oﬃcers 0.8％ 0.8％ 0.8％ balancing work and family life, They were certiﬁed as a work-life balance promoter in the city of Management employees 1.2% 1.2% 1.3% No. hired（People） Employment rate（％） Oyama.In the certiﬁcation, Meltec was recognized for actively working on promoting community contribution activities in three areas: (1) Harmony between work and home life; (2) Promoting General employees 9.6% 9.7% 10.0% female workers to demonstrate their abilities; and (3) Activities in the community with regards to parenting and for people to connect with each other. Opinion of a Third Party & Target Organizations of the Report 47 CSR REPORT 2018 48 Opinion of a Third Party This is the seventh year that I am responsible for giving the third-party opinion of the DOWA Group’ s CSR Report. While I look forward to the progress of this report every year, what ﬁrst caught my attention in this ﬁscal year's report was the special feature on the development of human resources and the organization. In the area DOWA CSR Report 2018 Target Organizations of the Report of human resources, they analyze both apparent and future issues, and it clearly shows that they are making a systemic medium-term plan for human resources. They About the details of the report Company Region Company Region have also renewed the training center, and it communicates the enthusiasm of the ES ECO-SYSTEM AKITA CO., LTD. Akita Prefecture MT DOWA POWER DEVICE CO., LTD. Nagano Prefecture DOWA Group to prize talent. ES ECO-SYSTEM CHIBA CO., LTD. Chiba Prefecture TH DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Ohta plant Gunma Prefecture Towards further improvement ES ECO-SYSTEM SANYO CO., LTD. Okayama Prefecture TH DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Mooka plant Tochigi Prefecture The need for companies to establish materiality (important issues) is becoming E-Square Inc. ES MELTEC LTD. Tochigi Prefecture TH DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Hamamatsu plant Shizuoka Prefecture essential. There is the importance of the company’ s point of view and its impact on President and Representative Director ES ECO-SYSTEM JAPAN CO., LTD. Tokyo other TH DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Hamamatsu-kita plant Shizuoka Prefecture Hiro Motoki the business, and the importance of the external point of view via the expectations and requests of stakeholders. Evaluating from these two focal points, specifying ES ECO-SYSTEM HANAOKA CO., LTD. Akita Prefecture TH DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Chukyo Handa plant Aichi Prefecture Domestic materiality for the DOWA Group also leads to an integration of corporate management ES GREEN FILL KOSAKA CO., LTD. Akita Prefecture TH DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Shiga plant Shiga Prefecture and sustainability from a management perspective. When institutional investors evaluate companies from the viewpoint of ESG (environmental, social and ES GEOTECHNOS CO., LTD. Tokyo TH CEMM CO., LTD. Aichi Prefecture governance), they place emphasis on materiality, and it is important for group employees in Japan and overseas to recognize the company’ s materiality. I ES E&E Solutions Inc. Tokyo HD DOWA TECHNOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Okayama Prefecture recommend that this be considered for the next ﬁscal year. ES ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD. East Japan plant Saitama Prefecture HD UNEKURA MINING CO., LTD. Northern oﬃce Akita Prefecture In the special feature on“Sustainable Mine Development”, you can understand well ES ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD. West Japan plant Okayama Prefecture HD UNEKURA MINING CO., LTD. Western oﬃce Okayama Prefecture the recognition by the DOWA Group of their social role in supplying the metals that ES ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD. Northern Japan plant Akita Prefecture HD DOWA HOLDINGS Co., Ltd. Tokyo headquarters Tokyo are essential to Japanese manufacturing. In order to process the metallic materials required by society, they explain that they are smelting from two raw materials the ES ECO-SYSTEM KOSAKA CO., LTD. Akita Prefecture HD DOWA TECHNO RESEARCH CO., LTD. Akita Prefecture mineral concentrate newly produced from mines, and recyclable metal raw ES ECO-SYSTEM OKAYAMA CO., LTD. Okayama Prefecture ES PT. PRASADHA PAMUNAH LIMBAH INDUSTRI Indonesia materials that they collect in Japan and overseas. However, they mention that recycling alone cannot cover the global demand that keeps growing, and as readers ES ECO-RECYCLE CO., LTD. Akita Prefecture ES BANGPOO ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX LTD. Thailand of the CSR report we should be worried about the problem of metal resource ES Act-B Recycling Co., Ltd. Kumamoto Prefecture ES EASTERN SEABOARD ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX CO., LTD. Thailand depletion. If mining continues at the current pace, there are reports that some Domestic metals will run out within 20 years. From the viewpoint of business management, I ES AUTO RECYCLE AKITA CO., LTD. Akita Prefecture ES TECHNOCHEM ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX PTE. LTD. Singapore think that it would good to explain what kind of perspective they have about the ES DOWA TSUUN CO., LTD. Iwate Prefecture ES DOWA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CO.,LTD.(Suzuhou, China) China resource depletion problem, and how they are responding to it. This will lead to speciﬁc business strategies for target 12.2 of the SDGs “By 2030 achieve MM KOSAKA SMELTING & REFINING CO., LTD. Akita Prefecture ES DOWA ECO-SYSTEM SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. Singapore sustainable management and eﬃcient use of natural resources”. MM NIPPON PGM CO., LTD. Akita Prefecture MM NIPPON PGM AMERICA, INC. America In supply chain management, they explain their promotion of CSR to the whole MM AKITA ZINC CO., LTD. From 1992, he worked on information Akita Prefecture MM DOWA METALS & MINING（THAILAND）CO., LTD. Thailand supply chain. Currently, companies are being questioned more about not just their system construction, strategic planning MM AKITA RARE METALS CO., LTD. in-house initiatives, but also their responsibility for initiatives through the entire Akita Prefecture MT DOWA ADVANCED MATERIALS (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. China Overseas and environmental management at the supply chain. In the midst of this, the DOWA Group is distributing self-check Deloitte Tohmatsu Group. From April MM AKITA ZINC SOLUTIONS CO., LTD. Akita Prefecture MT DOWA METALTECH（THAILAND）CO., LTD. Thailand questionnaires to key suppliers, and by further sending the suppliers a feedback 2001, as the person responsible for the report, it shows that DOWA is making a serious eﬀort at two-way communication. MM AKITA ZINC RECYCLING CO., LTD. Akita Prefecture TH DOWA THT AMERICA, INC. America consulting business at E-Square, he It is a concern that the DOWA Group CSR procurement guidelines have not been provided support in areas such as CSR, EL DOWA SEMICONDUCTOR AKITA CO., LTD. Akita Prefecture TH KUNSHAN DOWA THERMO FURNACE CO., LTD. China disclosed. I think it would be good to show what are the speciﬁc policies, including environmental and CSV strategies, the environmental and social aspects, and clarify how they are trying to raise the EL DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS OKAYAMA CO., LTD. Okayama Prefecture TH Dowa Thermotech(Thailand) Co., Ltd. Thailand communications and in-house standard for the supply chain as a whole. dissemination mainly for major EL DOWA IP CREATION CO., LTD. Okayama Prefecture TH PT.DOWA THERMOTECH INDONESIA Indonesia companies in a wide range of industries. Expectations for future initiatives In October 2011, he became the EL DOWA F-TEC CO., LTD. Okayama Prefecture TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Bangalore Plant India president and representative director of MT DOWA METAL CO., LTD. TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Nelamangara Plant Currently, interest in the circular economy is rapidly rising in various countries Shizuoka Prefecture India E-Square. He often gives talks about CSR, around the world. In the EU, the circular economy policy package was launched in MT ESG and environmental-related issues. DOWA METANIX CO., LTD. Shizuoka Prefecture TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Gurgaon Plant India 2015, and attempts have begun to convert society as whole into a sustainable direction while increasing the competitiveness of the economy. Even in Japan, while MT HOEI SHOJI CO., LTD. Chiba Prefecture TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Chennai Plant India we have been putting eﬀort into the formation of a policy-based recycling-oriented MT NEW NIPPON BRASS CO., LTD. Chiba Prefecture TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Pune Plant India society from before, in the concept of the circular economy which is currently drawing attention, there is a strong sense of constructing a new business model with MT DOWA HIGHTECH CO., LTD. Saitama Prefecture innovation. I think that this might be an area where the DOWA Group can demonstrate the strengths that they have fostered in their main business. I hope that DOWA can play a leading role in promoting a global circular economy that centers ES DOWA ECO-SYSTEM CO., LTD. MM DOWA METALS & MINING CO., LTD. EL DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS CO., LTD. on collaboration with others, such as companies, international organizations, MT DOWA METALTECH CO., LTD. TH DOWA THERMOTECH CO., LTD. HD DOWA HOLDINGS CO., LTD. government agencies and research institutes.
