FINLAY (INTERNATIONAL) LIMITED Country: Bangladesh Time Period:1/2018-1/2019 Self assessment  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labor  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcome. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer January 11, 2019 United Nations Global Compact United Nations Executive Office of the Secretary General N.Y. 10017 Dear Sirs, Communication on Progress Statement of Continued Support We do hereby express our firm commitment in the ten Principles of Global Compact for advancing collective goal of international cooperation, peace and development. As a responsible partner we endeavor to uphold the ten principles of Global Compact in conducting our business. In this annual communication of Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of Global Compact and its principles in our business strategies and operation. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders. We have been actively supporting the Global Compact objectives by participating in important events UN Global Compact. Yours truly, A.Q.I.Chowdhury, OBE Managing Director and CEO Finlay House (1st Floor), 11 Agrabad Commercial Area, Chittagong4100, Bangladesh Phone: 880-31-716321-5, Fax: 880-31-710006, e-mail: ceo@jfbdltd.com FINLAY (INTERNATIONAL) LIMITED Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Finlay (International) limited support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any country or organization where flagrant human rights abuses are known. Finlay (International) Limited has a policy to treat all employees fairly and with respect. We give equal opportunity to both men and women and have a policy to pay them equally. We also provide free accommodation, medication and pure drinking water to our tea garden workers and their dependents. We work with our partners who share the same values and encourage others to do so. Implementation Finlay (International) Limited has a Grievance procedure in place and involves staff when there are major changes. We pay according to the industry standard and even more. We also look after the welfare of our employees. Measurement of Outcome In the past year Finlay (International) Limited did not experience any allegation of Human Rights violation. Labor Assessment, policy and goals Finlay (International) Limited supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation who uses forced or child labour. All Finlay employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. They are aware of their entitlements. The workers are free to become members of Trade Union and elect Collective Bargaining Agent as provided by law of the country. The salary and wages of workers are fixed through negotiation between CBA and the management. The company follows the country’s law regarding employment, benefit, disciplinary procedures, etc. Implementation The company has HR policies which support best practice in terms of employment, benefits, appraisal, etc. Members of staff are selected for training to develop their skills. The workers are provided with following facilities: Finlay House (1st Floor), 11 Agrabad Commercial Area, Chittagong4100, Bangladesh Phone: 880-31-716321-5, Fax: 880-31-710006, e-mail: ceo@jfbdltd.com FINLAY (INTERNATIONAL) LIMITED 01. Wages: Labor wages increased 7.37% for daily rated and 40% for monthly rated in the month of August 2018 for the period 2017-18. All arrear payment already made according to the agreement. 02. Housing: All workers are given free houses which are maintained by the company. The company has a policy to improve the standard of the labor houses by phase wise replacement of thatched roof with CI Sheet. In 2018, total 190 numbers of houses were renovated. 03. Healthcare: We have 8 hospitals and 22 dispensaries under the supervision of 9 qualified doctors with good facilities. Free medical treatment is given within the tea estates and outside of the estates, if needed. Sanitation facilities are improved every year by constructing latrines. We upgrade Public Health for better health service to our employees by engaging more doctors. Adoption of modern and better medical facilities has enabled the company to provide improved medical services to its employees. Total of 25 workers have been treated under malaria eradication program under global fund prescribed by World Health Organization; 9,071 workers treated for Dysentery, 528 workers for gastro-enteritis, 169 for tuberculosis, 3 for leprosy, and 10,951 children were immunized in 2018. As part of our program to deliver better health services to our plantation workers the following actions were taken during the period under review:  Mass awareness program was done in labor lines.  Anti malarial spraying was done twice in the year. Mosquito nets were distributed to the workers to protect against malaria.  In each tea garden 3 workers were deployed to clean all the drains to keep the labor lines clean and hygienic.  Motivation programs by Midwives, Paramedics & Estate Medical Officers are in place. Contraceptives, contraceptive injection, IUD were provided; Tubectomy and Vasectomy methods were also carried out to reduce the population growth. 04. Food: We provide food-grain (ration) every week to the workers and their 3 dependents at a highly subsidized rate. This ensures non-existence of poverty and hunger in our company 05. Water: Every labor house is provided with source for pure water. In the past year, 4 Deep Tube-wells and 12 shallow Tube Wells were installed for supplying pure water to more workers. Water of “pucca” well was purified by giving medicine twice a month. Water is tasted at BTRI (Bangladesh Tea Research Institute) quarterly to check the presence of any Bacteria. 06. Education: To promote education among the dependents of the employees the company pays salary to the school teachers of the tea estates and maintains the schools. Finlay House (1st Floor), 11 Agrabad Commercial Area, Chittagong4100, Bangladesh Phone: 880-31-716321-5, Fax: 880-31-710006, e-mail: ceo@jfbdltd.com FINLAY (INTERNATIONAL) LIMITED 07. On the job training of workers is an ongoing process to improve their skills in maintenance of machinery, etc. as well as plantation works. 08. Seminar/MeetingIn each tea estate 3 workers participated in various seminars organized three times every year by Tea Estate labor Union. Similarly each staff member participates thrice a year in various seminar organized by Tea Estates Staff Association. Company bears the expenses for their attending such seminars or meetings. 09. Energy: Company is working to develop solar energy in the tea estate for sustainable energy. 10. Production: The quality of the company tea production has further improved due to investment made by installing new machinery and irrigation equipment during the year and better management. Measurement of Outcome The company has an equal opportunity policy regarding employment. Their wages and other benefits are enhanced periodically through negotiation with CBA. A performance appraisal system is in place for the staff and training needs are assessed and necessary action taken to improve skill. Due to better healthcare facilities the cases of diseases have decreased. The company was not under any investigation or involved in legal cases relating to Labor matters. A congenial relationship exists between the workers and the management. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Finlay (International) Limited has long been a believer in sustainable development. Apart from undertaking the normal cultural practices to sustain its tea gardens on a long term basis it is fully aware that environment must be preserved and improved to combat the increasing threat of climate change. With the repeated incidence of drought in the recent years it has become all the more important to take crash programs to grow Environment Improvement Trees and build water reservoirs for meeting increased irrigation requirements for survival of the tea and rubber plants. Implementation As a part of program to improve, the environment Finlay International has planted 100,630 Shade trees (Environment Improvement Trees); 31,690 Timber; 1,993 Bamboo; 420 Black Pepper in 2018. 252 hectares of new tea plantation was done in 2018. Finlay House (1st Floor), 11 Agrabad Commercial Area, Chittagong4100, Bangladesh Phone: 880-31-716321-5, Fax: 880-31-710006, e-mail: ceo@jfbdltd.com FINLAY (INTERNATIONAL) LIMITED Black pepper and bamboo generated extra income for the company. Apart from forestation and conservation of environment, Timber plantation is useful for construction and repair of labor houses provided by the company. Irrigation: Company has 8 Permanent and 55 overhead (mobile) irrigation sets which could irrigate 2,933.91 hectares of land per cycle (15 days cycle) for irrigating tea areas and other plantations in the dry season. Three more mobile irrigation sets were imported which can irrigate further 252 hectares in 15 days cycle/ Company has 7 excavators for making dams, drains, and water reservoirs. This help in irrigation work and prevent water logging in tea plantation. In keeping with the Government requirement, Finlay International has adopted a policy of not felling trees for trivial reasons and discourages others from doing so. Permissions are taken from Government authorities if it is necessary to cut down old and diseased trees. Any unauthorized felling of trees is an offence leading to disciplinary action. Measurement of Outcome In pursuance of its policy to improve the Environment, Finlay International has successfully planted more trees in 2018, which inter alia, help reduce the day temperature within the desirable level during the summer. This is conducive to the survival and growth of tea plants. Due to plantation of shade trees and adoption of better irrigation facilities there was less mortality of tea plants in the fields and the nurseries during the year. There have been no environmental incidents within last year and the company was not subjected to any statutory notices or prosecution. Anti-corruption Assessment, policy and goals Finlay (International) Limited has a policy of zero tolerance against corruption. The management as well as staff and workers are aware of this and under strict instruction not to participate in any corruption, bribery or misappropriation. Such offense is punishable leading to dismissal from service. We also endeavor not to do business with any organization that is suspected to be involved in corruption. Implementation Special care is taken at the time of recruitment to ensure integrity of staff, who is also briefed suitably not to get involved in corruption of any kind. They are made to understand the ramifications and consequences. Each departmental head is ultimately responsible for anticorruption within his jurisdiction. Finlay House (1st Floor), 11 Agrabad Commercial Area, Chittagong4100, Bangladesh Phone: 880-31-716321-5, Fax: 880-31-710006, e-mail: ceo@jfbdltd.com FINLAY (INTERNATIONAL) LIMITED Regular audit is being conducted within the company as a safeguard against corruption. Measurement of Outcome Finlay International has not been involved in legal cases or rulings related to corruption and bribery. The audit reports of internal as well as external auditors are used to identify any payments which could be related to corruption. Finlay House (1st Floor), 11 Agrabad Commercial Area, Chittagong4100, Bangladesh Phone: 880-31-716321-5, Fax: 880-31-710006, e-mail: ceo@jfbdltd.com
