SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Strauss Group at a Glance 04 06 Improving People's Lives by our Chairperson 08 Listening in Practice 14 Our Sustainability Framework 26 Balanced Nutrition 34 Responding to Consumer Needs 07 Aiming to be Trustworthy by our Chief Executive Officer 38 Promoting Sustainable Agriculture 42 FoodTech Innovation 48 Respecting Employees 54 Culture of Inclusion 72 58 Investing in our Communities 64 Being a Responsible Business About this Report STRAUSS around the world. Strauss Group is traded GROUP AT A on the Tel Aviv 35 Index, which includes Israel's largest public companies, and earns an IlAA+/STABLE credit rating from Ma'alot, a Standard and Poor's affiliate. Our brands include market leaders in several countries and categories and reach millions of consumers each day. At Strauss Group, we have always placed great value in partnerships, believing them to be a sustainable platform for expanding our offering for the benefit of our consumers around the world. We enjoy long term partnerships with respected, leading-edge multinational corporations such as Danone, PepsiCo, Strauss Group is a global food and beverage company, dedicated to improving Haier, Virgin and, with local leading lives through our fresh, delicious, nutritious, and innovative products. We are players such as Sao Miguel in Brazil, headquartered in Israel and we manufacture, market and sell our products in and Yotvata and Yad Mordechai in Israel. around 22 countries. In 2018, Strauss Group generated $2.4 billion in consolidated These partners help us deliver the right sales. We employ more than 14,600 direct employees, and indirectly provide quality, innovative products which employment and economic opportunity for contracted employees, franchisees, contribute to healthy lifestyles for our independent distributors and thousands of business partners and suppliers consumers. Strauss Group Comprises Four Companies: Strauss Strauss Strauss Sabra Israel Coffee Water and Obela the largest food & beverage one of the top ten coffee specializes in purified drinking water PepsiCo-Strauss fresh dips and spreads company in Israel, active in companies in the world, solutions with heating and cooling joint venture a partnership between milk and milk products, operating in 10 countries waterbars for in-home and business Strauss and PepsiCo in the fresh dips fresh dips & spreads, salty with over 16 brands use. Strauss Water leads the Israeli & spreads category with two growing snacks and confectionery, leading the Israeli and market and operates in China through companies: Sabra in North America, and coffee, water, olive oil, the Brazilian markets. a partnership with Haier and in UK Obela in Mexico, Australia ,New Zealand, honey and more. through a partnership with Virgin. the Netherlands and Germany. 4| OUR VISION CREATING WONDERS OUT OF BASICS OUR VALUES Caring & Passion & Team Daring Responsibility OUR MISSION To improve people’s lives through a movement of improvement 53.3% 31.7% STRAUSS 14.9% GROUP SALES BY REGION, [$1,273 MILLION] [$757 MILLION] [$356 MILLION] 2018 ISRAEL AMERICAS REST OF WORLD |5 Improving People’s Lives by our Chairperson When I think about how to prepare my community of changemakers, collaborating to food, its source, the way it’s produced, the way opening message for the annual Strauss achieve breakthroughs that improve people’s it’s consumed, and the transparent, inclusive Group Sustainability Report, I am always faced lives. For me, attending this year’s FoodTech practices of food companies are changing how with a dilemma. This is our eleventh report conference, hosted by Strauss Alpha and our we think about the role we play. Strauss has taken and the task gets no easier. On the one hand, FoodTech hub, the Kitchen, was truly eyesteps to address these challenges, improving the I want to refer to the many positive facets of opening. It gathered 1,200 delegates from nutritional profiles of our products and offering Strauss Group and talk about how we behave more than 60 countries in a spirit of listening, foods to meet new health considerations, such responsibly, ethically and in ways that create learning, sharing and partnering. The 20 years as the 500 gluten-free products we offer our a movement of improvement that improves of our Strauss Institute and its shared platform consumers in Israel. We have come a long way, people’s lives. On the other hand, I’d also like of development in collaboration with the food but there is a long way ahead. to say that we are on a journey, and we have and nutrition community, health professionals much more to do. As proud as I am of what and scientists, also shows how change can be Improving people’s lives is the journey we we have achieved, I know we must do more. driven through collaboration and sharing. These are on, together with all our partners. It’s a Striking the balance between pride and humility are examples of realizing the vision of how a journey that is defined by the expectations is a delicate endeavor. We aim to be authentic. large food company can use its scale, influence of all those we serve, and we must continue and resources for good. We have come a long to listen carefully, proactively, constantly The values we have always embraced, from way, but the journey is not over. reevaluating how we deliver our promise and our family beginnings, include collaboration earn their trust. We have come a long way, but and sharing. We have always known that a The journey continues, not only because there is that’s history. We can be proud for a moment, movement of improvement needs partnership, more we can do to address today’s known global but we continue the journey. shared commitments to deliver transformative food challenges, but also because the challenges change, working together in a way that cuts of tomorrow are emerging. Increasingly, for Thank you for your interest. across traditional boundaries. For example, example, as a food company, we are expected the Alpha Strauss FoodTech Community, that to take a position on public health, not simply we started several years ago, brings together manufacture food products. Once, it was good scientists, nutritionists, technology experts, enough to focus on food taste, safety and quality. Ofra Strauss, manufacturers, regulators, investors and a whole Now, the emerging connections between Chairperson, Strauss Group 6| Aiming to be Trustworthy by our Chief Executive Officer The past year has been especially significant for expectations of food companies and learn and the infrastructure to be their best selves us at Strauss Group. This was a year in which, what’s important to our consumers, employees, at work. In doing this, we are better able to alongside changes in the leadership of the nutrition professionals and other groups who deliver innovation that improves people’s lives Group and its subsidiaries, we performed are connected to our business, as well as what across our markets. We report our activities and strongly as a business, delivering growth at inspires trust in Strauss Group. progress in delivering products and services, the Group level and in all our subsidiaries. It We have already taken steps along the way. For all in the spirit of continuous improvement was also the year in which I was proud to take example, we have built a balanced nutrition and transparency. on the role of Chief Executive after 22 years strategy as part of the deep understanding Becoming a trustworthy company is not a project of serving the Group in different capacities that food affects public health. We have which has a beginning, middle and an end. It’s and in different countries. I thank our former redefined our marketing communications a journey, a way of life, and a commitment Chief Executive, Gadi Lesin, for leading Strauss principles because we understand that that we strive to fulfil every single day. It’s Group to achieve positive business results marketing shapes behaviors. We are engaged part of our responsibility as a global food and while maintaining our core of responsible daily in identifying and investing in advanced beverage company. And this will continue and ethical culture and practice. FoodTech technologies that will help us and into 2019 and beyond, as we strive to deliver Alongside strengthening our current business the food industry around the world bring business success and greater positive impact base, we have also directed much thought to people better food in a better way. Strauss on people’s lives. defining and planning our future. To deliver Group promotes a balanced diet and tries to our mission to improve people’s lives, we will provide practical nutritional options for a wide I thank you for choosing to read this report focus on continuing to develop our people and range of consumers. and invite you to comment and share your leaders, ongoing investment in innovation, At the same time, we continue to support expectations with us. Thank you for being a producing real and good food for our diverse our people and their growth within the part of our journey. consumers and doing everything in our power organization through training and to be a trustworthy company. development opportunities so they can Our stated goal, to be a trustworthy company, successfully adapt to a changing environment. is central to our progress. In order to advance We maintain our focus on a safe workplace for along our journey, in 2018, we conducted all our employees and we strive to embed a Giora Bardea, an in-depth study to understand today’s culture of inclusion, giving employees the tools Chief Executive Officer, Strauss Group |7 IN PRACTICE Trust is often regarded as a predictor of the core socio-economic strength of countries which provides the foundation for business growth. Striving “We would love to say there is a quick fix to building trust. That would to be a trustworthy company is at the heart of our business strategy based make everything easier. But there isn’t. The on the understanding that it can become our competitive advantage. expectations of our stakeholders are increasing Following much research, study and debate, we have developed the view and, in order to remain trustworthy, we must that trust is based on three main dimensions: leadership, culture and constantly adapt ourselves to every day’s new governance. We are committed to addressing all three dimensions in reality. In this way, trust is created anew every turn to ensure that Strauss operates in a manner that inspires trust at all day, decision by decision, action by action, levels of the organization. reaction by reaction, influencing whether we With the decision of our executive management to place the goal of being gain trust or lose it. Underlying these decisions, a trustworthy company at the heart of our business philosophy, we have actions and reactions must be a deep empathy accelerated a systematic process to understand what behaviors inspire and understanding for those whose trust we trust. This includes genuinely listening to our stakeholders in both formal must earn. At Strauss Group, we have made it and informal contexts. our mission to understand what creates trust, So far, we have created the tools to help us listen, conceptualize and so that we can respond by being trustworthy.” refine what being a trustworthy company means so that we can develop plans to meet the expectations of our stakeholders. Though our Strauss Osnat Golan, Trust Survey, conducted in 2018, we gained deep insights from a range VP Corp Communications, Digital & of stakeholder groups. Sustainability As we move forward, we will formulate processes that will help us advance our objective of improving our standing as a trustworthy company and deliver greater value to our consumers, our employees and our communities. We believe that, as a trustworthy business, we can expand our reach and enjoy sustainable business growth. 8| Strauss Trust Survey For the past several years, we have deliberately and consistently engaged with a range of key this is the most extensive outreach by any stakeholders, seeking to understand their expectations, concerns and perspectives about consumer-facing company in Israel, and we issues that affect them in relation to health and nutrition, food, food companies, the cost of have been humbled by the wealth of insights living and other socio-economic conditions, and of course about our own conduct as Strauss we gain from this investment in understanding Israel and how we meet their needs. Our annual stakeholder survey, first undertaken in 2015, what being a trustworthy company requires. is a process of systematic research with key stakeholder groups in Israel, our home base. We commission an independent firm to conduct this research each year on our behalf with rigor This process was not without risk. Receiving the and detailed analysis. direct, unedited, unfiltered views of all these In 2018, however, we made a step change in this approach. Realizing that trust is the critical groups, who have the power to grant our Social foundation for all relationships and the key to sustainable growth, we decided to focus the License to Operate, or not, is a bold step for our annual stakeholder survey on our stakeholders’ attitudes to trust. We wanted to know what leadership and our managers. We believe this we need to do to earn their trust. We revised our outreach methodology and the nature of the is one of the most important game-changing questions we asked each group and we expanded our outreach to include additional groups, processes for our company, and we are using such as consumer segments from different backgrounds, that we had not deliberately included the insights from our Trust Survey to fuel deep in prior research. And so the Strauss Trust Survey was born. discussion at senior management levels and The result, we believe, represents a true 360o picture of trust for Strauss Group. We believe inform our strategy and actions. STRAUSS TRUST SURVEY 2018: Outreach (Israel) 1,300 7 consumers leading media and communications 100 professional dieticians interviews 12 6 investor focus groups interviews with Strauss Group 9 employees major retailer interviews |9 We are pleased to share some of the headline insights from the Strauss Trust Survey in 2018. We were fascinated to discover that all stakeholder groups, each from their different standpoints and perspectives, find similar aspects important in determining what inspires them to trust a food company. While every group tends to emphasize their own specific expectations, for example, consumers prioritize product transparency, investors want financial transparency, employees need transparency about development opportunities, they all highly value transparency. We discerned six core themes that are relevant to all the stakeholder groups we surveyed. The six themes are noted below. What inspires trust in food companies in Israel? 1 Transformational 2 Responsible 3 Helping Me Leadership Conduct and Ultimately, everyone understands that they Transparency have to look out for themselves. So, their The company must be seen to be driving expectation of companies is that they will help change, being a pioneer in the market, the Responsibility and transparency go together. them do just that by providing the information, first to bring new technologies and innovations Everyone wants information about things that products, tools, guidance and frameworks that benefit the consumer and advance healthy affect them, while knowing that the company is so that they can make informed decisions in lifestyles. This is not only about products, behaving ethically and responsibly in all matters, the best way. Companies should aim to help it’s about creating new and inspiring goals. especially those that affect them. For each all players in the value chain inclusively, for Employees want to work for a company that group, the focus may be different – consumers example, this means addressing the needs has a shared and unifying purpose. relate more to products, employees relate of consumers who have special health or more to employment conditions and equal religious food requirements, or the needs of development opportunities, the media places small retailers in the market. focus on how the company communicates on difficult issues or in crisis situations and investors want clear financial reporting. 10 | 4 Fairness: win-win 5 Openness and 6 Sustainability Companies must balance commercial interests Familiarity and Solidarity with those of all others in the value chain – Companies are expected to exercise care consumers, retailers, farmers, employees and A company should not be a black holethere and concern for all those affected by their others. There must be a win for everyone, not needs to be names and faces that people can business. This includes consideration of local just for the company profitability. Products must see and relate to and trust. There should be communities and supporting social causes. be healthy AND priced fairly. Employees must accessibility to the company leadership and It’s also an expectation that companies will receive fair and competitive compensation in to how the company works, its factories and be stewards of the environment and minimize ALL roles, not just management. The key is technologies. Israeli companies in Israel are harm. Animals should be respected and cared exercising reasonable balance so that everyone expected to understand and connect to the for. The business should consider and care for can benefit. local heritage and culture. Inside the company, all people, animals and natural resources in there should be an open-door policy at all its sphere of influence. levels and no barriers to communication or silos between departments. | 11 WHAT DRIVES TRUST IN STRAUSS GROUP? 12 | In addition to the themes that are common to all stakeholders, different groups emphasized specific aspects of company behavior that are important to them and contribute to inspiring their trust. This understanding will help us create targeted programs to address these needs and expectations in a systematic way.* EMPLOYEES CONSUMERS • Family values AND DIETICIANS • Job security • Clear information on product or • Safe work environment packaging changes • Honest feedback • Transparency of product ingredients • Respect • Balanced pricing of products • Opportunity to influence • Broad product range to meet different • Collaboration and transparency needs • L isten to employees’ views and • Promoting healthy food and habits suggestions • Product safety • Work-life balance • Improving nutritional value of products • I nvest in employees’ skill development RETAILERS INVESTORS •T  ransparency of product AND MEDIA economics and pricing • Ethical conduct • I nnovation and investment in • Clear financial reporting product development • Early information on important • S trong brands issues or changes •R  eliable supply chain • Accessibility of senior executives •R  apid response in case of stock • Supporting local communities shortages and the environment * These topics represent a selection of the feedback from the Strauss Trust Survey 2018. Some topics were prominent with more than one group. | 13 OUR FRAMEWORK Sustainability framework “Since joining Strauss Group's Board of Directors, I have Our approach to sustainability is guided by internal drivers as well as been observing the trust-building process in globally defined expectations of business in society, that are a reflection which the Group invests considerable effort. of social needs around the world. As a company comprising four different The results are most evident in the confidence businesses, we adhere to a guiding framework that is globally relevant, that institutional investors have in the business identifying six group-wide areas of focus that are relevant to our global and the organizational processes that the Group business. Each company in the Group defines its individual goals and undertakes. It is my feeling that the concept and targets, based on its current business and stakeholder priorities and value of trust is acknowledged within the Group an assessment of specific risks and opportunities. In this way, we are and that ongoing work will yield positive results.” able to move forward sustainably as a global Group while affording flexibility to each operating company. For a detailed view of priorities Dalia Narkis, for each company, please see the section on Progress against Targets Director, Strauss Group and examples of practice in different sections of this report. 14 | Strauss Group Sustainability Framework EXTERNALLY DRIVEN INTERNALLY DRIVEN Stakeholder United Nations United Nations The Strauss Social Licence Business Corporate 6 expectations Sustainable Global Way Code of to Operate Strategy Governance Development Compact Ethical Model Goals Conduct Group -wide sustainability focus areas STRAUSS ISRAEL STRAUSS COFFEE STRAUSS WATER SABRA/OBELA Sustainability goals and targets developed by each company with relevance to its specific priorities while aligning with Strauss Group focus areas | 15 UN Sustainable Development Goals The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), ratified by the General Assembly of the United Nations in September 2015, represent a global agenda of action to achieve a prosperous future. Strauss Group supports the global efforts to achieve these goals and has identified the SDGs that reflect our greatest contribution below: What we are doing Read more in these sections Our core business is producing delicious and nutritious foods. Many of our products • Balanced nutrition are food staples. By making our products available to a wide consumer base, including • Responding to consumer needs those with special food needs, acting responsibly on product pricing, we provide • Investing in our communities nutritious food for millions of people each day. We also support local communities through local food banks for distribution to the hungry. We educate and encourage our consumers, employees and communities to lead an • Balanced nutrition active and healthy lifestyle based on balanced nutrition as a key element of good health and wellbeing. Our Balanced Nutrition strategy delivers products designed to help consumers live a healthy lifestyle and consume fewer empty calories (sugar/fats) and reduce sodium. We promote clean label products and 50% of our products in Israel have fewer than 10 ingredients. We advance women in our business currently 43% of our managers are women • Respecting employees (excluding Brazil) and we support a range of activities designed to encourage a culture • Culture of inclusion of inclusion. We also support women’s entrepreneurship in our communities and engage • Investing in our communities to empower women coffee growers in Africa , Asia and Latin America. We maintain a robust, financially sound business and contribute to local economies in • Respecting employees which we operate. We provide work for more than 14,600 employees and indirectly • Being a responsible business for tens of thousands more around the world. We observe and uphold human rights throughout our supply chain. We are at the leading edge of innovation in our industry and invest significant budget • FoodTech innovation in new product development. We lead a FoodTech hub that supports the development • Responding to consumer needs of transformative food technologies. We also develop products for consumers with special food needs. We strive to manage our materials and resources efficiently and minimize our • Being a responsible business global footprint. We invest in energy efficiency, water conservation and waste reduction and recycling. We strive to minimize our carbon footprint through increasing energy efficiencies and • Being a responsible business use of alternative energy such as biomass from coffee chaff. We support collaboration to achieve global prosperity and have been signatories to the • FoodTech Innovation UN Global Compact since 2008. We engage in collaborative initiatives that help improve • Being a responsible business the food industry’s contribution to global prosperity. 16 | Social License to Operate Material topics For the past four years, we have been The issues that represent our most important impacts and are most significant for our embedding our management approach of stakeholders remain those we identified in 2014, placing healthy lifestyles at the heart of “Social License to Operate” (SLTO) across our our priority focus. These topics were defined through stakeholder consultation and have group of companies. SLTO is based on a deep been re-validated each year through management review, our annual Strauss Trust Survey level of engagement with the stakeholders and ongoing interactions via a range of channels. Using these priority topics as our strategic who have the biggest impact on our business directional goals, the companies in Strauss Group adopt annual targets that are relevant to – including employees, consumers, dieticians, their own business, based on specific stakeholder focus. investors, media and more. We aim to build trust through understanding their needs and responding to them through the way we make decisions every day in our business. All Strauss Group Companies adopt SLTO targets in line with feedback received from stakeholders through our annual Strauss Trust Survey and other channels of interaction. ADVANCING HEALTHY PRODUCT TRANSPARENCY & REDUCING RESOURCE LIFESTYLES RESPONSIBLE MARKETING CONSUMPTION & WASTE Ethical conduct improving quality of life for helping consumers make preserving our colleagues and consumers informed choices the planet Our Code of Ethics, available in eleven languages, guides all our employees in the behavior expected of them as part of Strauss Group. All new employees are trained in the Code of Ethics and all employees take a refresher training annually. We also provide extensive anti-corruption training for employees in higher risk positions. ETHICAL SUPPLY DIVERSITY IN ENGAGING OUR CHAIN EVERYTHING WE DO EMPLOYEES Corporate governance supporting innovation, creativity aligning our organization to managing social and and sustainability environmental risk and inclusive opportunity meet sustainability goals leadership Led by Chairperson, Ofra Strauss, our Group Board of Directors takes a keen interest in sustainability and provides guidance and Key areas of interest by stakeholders addressed in this report support for our direction, strategy and action Consumers and nutrition Healthy food options, affordable pricing plans. Our Executive Teams report annually professionals to the Group Board on progress. We see sustainability as the responsibility of all Employees Equal opportunity, living wage, personal development Executive Team members and each company Suppliers Opportunity to engage, partnership, fair commercial dealings in the Group has a structure in place to advance Regulators Compliance, sharing of knowledge our sustainability agenda and strategy. Investors Robust corporate governance, risk management, ethical conduct Social organizations Supporting communities, protecting the environment | 17 PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS Company Targets in 2018 Progress in 2018 Targets for 2019 Promote healthy lifestyle Advanced nutrition program • Promote healthy lifestyle awareness in schools >> page 63 awareness Improve nutritional Reduced salt, sugar and fats in • Improve nutritional profiles profiles of products (salt, several products >> page 30 of products (salt, sugar, fat) sugar, fat) • Improve product Improve product Reduced prices in Israel >> affordability affordability page 32 • Improve the financial STRAUSS Improve the financial Employee social program >> wellbeing of employees ISRAEL wellbeing of employees page 50 • Reduce environmental Reduce environmental 2018 performance versus 2016 performance per ton of performance per ton of (per ton of product): product (versus 2018): product (versus 2016): • Energy: -9% • Energy: -5% • Energy: -2% • CO2e: -7% • CO2e: -5% • CO2e: -16% • Water: -3% • Water: -2% • Water: -5% • Waste to landfill: -7% • Waste to landfill: -2% • Waste to landfill: -6% Engage in an initiative for “More than a Cup” ->> page 60 • Maintain/expand “More ethical sourcing of coffee than a Cup” Reduce environmental 2018 performance versus 2016 • Reduce environmental performance per ton of (per ton of product): performance per ton of STRAUSS product (versus 2016): • Energy: -5% product (versus 2018): COFFEE • Energy: -2% • CO2e: -7% • Energy: -8.3% • CO2e: -3% • Water: -15% • CO2e: -8.2% • Water: -2% • Waste to landfill: -46% • Water: -9.7% • Waste to landfill: -19% • Waste to landfill: -11.2% Promote healthy lifestyle Strauss WaterBars >> page 47 • Promote healthy lifestyle awareness awareness Improve customer service Significant improvements >> • Maintain or improve page 67 customer service STRAUSS • Replace filters with Maze *Some Strauss Water 2018 targets were deleted due to company changes WATER technology for all customers in Israel at no extra charge • Introduce consumables collection platform for recycling 18 | Company Targets in 2018 Progress in 2018 Targets for 2019 Promote healthy lifestyle Continued work to influence • Promote healthy lifestyle awareness government support for plantawareness based foods >> page 31 • Improve nutritional profiles Improve nutritional Created plan to reduce salt across of products profiles of products (salt, all hummus and guacamole • Advance local sourcing of sugar, fat) products starting in 2019 key raw materials SABRA Advance local sourcing of Continued trials for local sourcing • Establish baseline metrics key raw materials of organic chickpeas for waste to landfill and OBELA utilities Maintain or improve 2018 performance versus 2016 • Establish environmental energy, water and waste (per ton of product): “Green Team” at Virginia plant to landfill performance • Energy: +17% versus 2016 • CO2e: +11% • Water: +26% • Waste to landfill: -29% Legend: Fully or mainly achieved Work in progress Not achieved in 2018 | 19 Sustainability 360‫̊‏‬ Conducted first Highlights 2018 SURVEY ON TRUST among 6 key stakeholder groups $1.55 Distributed economic value of BILLION Years Celebrated to our stakeholders around the world Implemented of the Strauss Institute in Israel COW TIME a new program to care for the welfare PLANTS of cows in our dairy supply chain Expanded Sabra’s $3.3 Invested WITH A PURPOSE community project in the U.S. to MILLION improve access to healthy food in our communities 20 | Expanded our Kitchen Achieved a total volume of 12 FoodTech hub to breakthrough food technology initiatives Identified alignment with tons of added 9 and support for United Nations Sustainable SUGAR REMOVED from our products in Israel since 2011 Development Goals Expanded our coffee supply chain initiative, “MORE THAN A CUP”, to 9 Reached a ACTIVE MILESTONE of PARTNERSHIPS 8 COUNTRIES in REACHING 13,000 WOMEN gluten-free COFFEE products in GROWERS 2018 in Israel | 21 39% 62% A GREAT PLACE TO WORK of all employees received of employees a formal performance covered by collective review in 2018 bargaining agreements 99% 23.33 average of EMPLOYEES on TRAINING HOURS permanent per person in 2018 employment contracts of all PROMOTIONS in 2018 were WOMEN $3.5 43 % of MANAGERS were MILLION WOMEN in 2018 (excluding Brazil) invested in Strauss NEW HIRES in 2018 Israel’s social program for employees in 2018 22 | PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT -13% GHG MILLION EMISSIONS per ton of product in ENVIRONMENTAL since 2014 EXPENDITURES in 2018 -7% GHG EMISSIONS per ton of product in 2018 -7% -4% ENERGY USE per ton ENERGY USE per ton OF WASTE of product since 2014 of product in 2018 -5% -4% WATER USE per ton of product WASTE GENERATION per ton of product was RECYCLED/REUSED in 2018 in 2018 in 2018 | 23 PERFORMANCE DASHBOARD PEOPLE Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Change in 2018 Total employees at year end Number 12,792 12,242 13,359 14,131 14,657 4% Employees on permanent contracts % 96% 98% 99% 99% 99% 0% Women in management % 41% 42% 43% 43% 43% 0% Women in global workforce % 40% 40% 41% 42% 41% -2% New employees % 29% 24% 24% 30% 32% 6% Employee turnover % 28% N/A 19% 23% 23% -1% Employees with performance reviews % 25% N/A 20% 19% 39% 99% Unionized employees % 49% N/A 52% 60% 62% 2% Employees above age 50 % 13% N/A 17% 15% 14% -5% SAFETY Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Change in 2018 Injury rate per 100 2.91 3.38 2.44 2.13 2.97 39% Lost day rate employees 66.49 60.75 40.85 61.23 66.46 9% Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Change Change in 2018 from 2014 Direct energy use GJ 1,246,574 1,265,309 1,269,042 1,308,407 1,337,000 2% 7% Indirect energy use GJ 529,617 591,946 603,608 594,496 629,036 6% 19% Total energy use GJ 1,776,191 1,857,255 1,872,650 1,902,903 1,966,036 3% 11% Energy intensity GJ/ton 3.19 3.22 3.17 3.09 2.96 -4% -7% Scope 1 GHG emissions Tons CO2e 79,414 81,716 84,526 85,697 84,222 -2% 6% Scope 2 GHG emissions Tons CO2e 67,363 62,725 66,136 66,012 68,143 3% 1% Total GHG emissions Tons CO2e 146,778 144,441 150,662 151,709 152,365 0% 4% GHG emissions intensity Tons CO2e/ton 0.26 0.25 0.25 0.24 0.23 -7% -13% Water withdrawal M3 1,670,794 1,697,047 1,868,063 1,945,363 2,002,620 3% 20% Water intensity M3/ton 3.06 2.99 3.22 3.21 3.06 -5% 0% Waste to reuse and recycling Tons 85,284 84,394 62,421 72,970 76,204 4% -11% Waste to landfill Tons 17,728 15,964 11,243 11,641 10,439 -10% -41% Total waste Tons 103,012 100,358 75,895 89,842 93,144 4% -10% Waste recycled / reused % 83% 84% 82% 81% 82% 1% -1% Waste intensity Tons/ton 0.19 0.18 0.13 0.15 0.14 -4% -26% 24 | Most of the financial value we generate as a group is distributed back to our stakeholders. Typically, around 63% serves as payment for the goods and services we receive to help run our operations and 23% goes to the employees in our business as remuneration and reward for their service. Around 0.2% of our revenues represent direct investments in our communities as cash donations or employee volunteering time. SHARING WEALTH WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS* 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Direct economic value generated 1,526 1,340 1,378 1,525 1,568 (revenues, interest on assets and investments) Economic value distributed Operating costs (payments to suppliers) 1,023 887 896 1,001 995 Employee wages and benefits 309 287 300 337 355 Payments to providers of capital 106 99 122 125 116 Payments to shareholders 29 54 55 63 57 Payments to governments 37 10 52 28 24 -14 Community investments 3 3 3 2.9 2.9 Total economic value distributed 1,507 1,326 1,429 1,557 1,550 Economic value retained 19 14 -51 -32 18 Does not equal revenue as reported in the financial statements due to a different basis of calculation. With regard to financial data, the detail in the official financial statements prevail. | 25 BALANCED Strauss Israel has adopted a new Balanced Nutrition Strategy that requires every product development decision for all the products in our portfolio to be guided by nutritional principles. Our “I think the role that nutrition plays in our lives is often underestimated. Balanced nutrition and active life is the foundation of good health, and good health empowers all of us to be at our best. By delivering food strategy is based on nine principles that guide us in our strategic that improves people’s lives, I firmly believe we are making a real difference development processes and product development decisions. We in our society. In the past years, we have expanded our view of what it see the implementation of this strategy as a critical step on our means to be a food and beverage company. It’s not about making more journey to earning consumer trust. food; it’s about making food more nutritious.” Eyal Shimoni, VP technology, Strauss Group 26 | Nine Principles of our Balanced Nutrition Strategy 1. Continuous improvement: offer the most 4. S trengthen the good: expand our 7. Sustainability: take responsibility for balanced product alternatives, and improve offerings in categories that support our impact along the value chain and the nutritional profiles of our foods balanced nutrition accelerate sustainable processes 2. Balanced nutrition: encourage balanced 5. Accessible nutrition: invest in products 8. Transparency: provide consumers with nutrition and adapt portion sizes to the for consumers with special dietary needs clear and transparent product information nutritional profile of the category for health need or personal preference through clear product labeling, packaging 3. C lean label: remove unnecessary or 6. Balanced nutrition for all: drive fair and communication. low-value ingredients from existing and pricing of products that support balanced 9. Passion for food: lead with a joy of creation new products nutrition and a genuine passion for food In line with these elements, we prioritize food products that can be integrated into healthy lifestyles and launched several new products in 2018, including: “In 2018, we took another step in our strategic approach to health and nutrition by establishing our new Gastronomy and Nutrition Division. Our role is to instill a holistic approach with coordinated food development processes throughout the organization. One of the pillars of this process is developing and maintaining our own people’s passion for food: making them proud and excited about the work they do and the food we produce as part of Pro Low-lactose “Taste of Nature” our overall organizational culture.” high-protein yogurt • Milky Ready to use fresh vegetables prepared with unique • Danone and cooked legumes including Michal Benishti, technology for active • Gamadim new products: grated carrots, Gastronome, Strauss Dairies consumers • Yotvata milk grated kohlrabi, cooked lentils, •C hocolate dessert chickpeas, beans, pumpkin •D anone yogurt and more. Only: Hummus Activia a clean-label dairyready-to-use Clean Eating fruit yogurt free dessert with salad with no with no flavorings, no food three variants added oil colors and no stabilizers | 27 Embracing Clean Label What Clean Clean Label is a movement. It’s the evolution of the desire of people to live healthy lifestyles, and that includes carefully means selecting the kind of foods they consume and provide for SIMPLE their families. In the U.S., 33% of all food and beverage products are clean label products (Nielsen, 2017). We are witnessing similar scale world-over. Recognizable ingredients, or less than 10 ingredients FREE FROM WHAT IS CLEAN LABEL? CLEAN Clean means products that Artificial are as close as possible to their colors. flavors, No artificial sweeteners, original form with visible, whole ingredients or preservatives, ingredients that consumers hormones, undesirable ingredients SUSTAINABLE antibiotics recognize. Clean avoids the use of multiple synthetic ingredients, Approved claims additives and colorings. Where such as fair trade. possible, clean eating refers to organic. non-GMO, sustainable source fresh, locally sourced, good food with minimum processing. Simphony No Cottage Activia Actimel & Sweet cheese flavoring cheese No clean eating, whole Drinkable No coloring substances flavoring milk, no stabilizers, no Gamadim No substances flavorings, no colors modified starch 28 | At Strauss, developing clean of consumers in the U.S. say they’re willing to pay label products is a priority. It’s challenging, requiring new more for foods and beverages that don’t contain formulations, ingredients and ingredients that they perceive are bad for them. modifying taste. We have created a structured process to deliver The Nielsen Company (US), 2017 more clean label products, and currently, about 50% of our products in Israel have less than Our clean Activia fruit yogurt has no flavorings, no food colors and 10 ingredients. We already offer no stabilizers – the only such product on the market in Israel. In consumers in Israel a range of our development process, we were able to reduce the number of clean label products, with several ingredients in Activia yogurt from12 to 6. We also offer an Activia more in our innovation pipeline yogurt that is based on whole milk (with 3.6% fat), using whole milk for 2019 and beyond. straight from our dairy farms. | 29 Reducing sugar, salt, fats and portions Sugar: We have been reducing sugar in our products since 2011, combining different considerations such as UGAR technological viability, taste and consumer preference. We deploy different technologies to achieve sugar removal across a range of dairy and other products. Salt: We have focused on high-sodium brands such as In 2018, we removed salads and salty snacks and achieved salt reductions 334 tons of sugar across a range of products including Ski soft cheese, Energy bars, potato chips, peanut snacks, corn snacks, from our products. hummus salads and more. Since 2011, we have Fats: Over the past 10 years, we have removed transremoved 6,000 tons. fats from all products and made substantial strides in reducing fat and improving oil sources in our products. Portion Control: Another element of balanced nutrition ALT is about controlling the number of calories you eat each day. We aim to help individuals manage this through a range of personal portion products. Both in the confectionery categories, such as chocolate bars and sweet snack bars and in other ranges such as personal In 2018, we removed desserts. Today, more than 70% of our personal portion 12 tons of salt from products are in units of less than 200 calories, and this includes 50% which are confectionery products. In this our Achla branded way we both give our consumers a choice but also help products. Since 2011, them stay in control. we have removed Hummus with zero added fat 17 tons of salt from these products. In 2017-2018, our work on reducing fats continued with a flagship program in our Achla brand, removing added oils from our entire range of over 40 hummus products. One ingredient of hummus is tahini, which can create a bitter taste that is generally made more Hummus timelinereducing fat content palatable through the use of added fats. To decrease 2009 2016 2018 the fat levels, we embarked upon a technological challenge that included blending several sources of Reduced fat content Launched Country All 40 Hummus Achla products tahini to achieve the right taste, and increasing the of hummus salads Hummus, with no are now free of added fat, with overall levels of chickpeas and raw tahini. from 23% to 16% added oil, retaining 10.9% fat, eliminating more only fat content from than 600 tons of added fats the tahini 9.5% fat from our production 30 | Hummus in U.S. nutrition policies and programs food exemptions. We hope these recommendations will help have an impact on promoting the uptake “We believe consuming hummus as Our Sabra hummus, as the leading hummus of hummus as a beneficial ingredient of a healthy part of a healthy lifestyle can brand in the U.S., continues to help educate diet, helping more people, especially younger positively impact well-being and the public about the science-based health people who value the convenience and versatility are committed to pursuing the benefits of hummus as a great-tasting snack or of hummus, to live in a healthy way. nutritional and health benefits of as an alternative to other spreads. In 2018, Sabra hummus through credible nutrition submitted comments to the Dietary Guidelines for Also, in the U.S., we launched “Taco Hummus research. We continue to engage Americans 2020 2025 Committee to consider Singles” in individual portions. This product the Sabra Wellness & Nutrition plant-based foods, specifically hummus as a means was designed to meet the U.S. Department of Advisory Board comprised of five to increase consumption of beans or legumes Agriculture (USDA) Food and Nutrition Service accomplished nutrition science for all life stages. We encouraged examination of (FNS) Smart Snacks in Schools standards, enabling and communications professionals dietary intake data to determine if legume intake the product to be sold outside the National to guide our scientific research was improving due to hummus consumption and School Lunch Program as a competitive food. pipeline and hummus nutrition and requested more specific recommendations for Competitive foods are not part of the school meal wellness messaging.” incorporating nutrient dense, plant-based foods program and can be sold in the cafeteria, school into food and nutrition policies and programs. stores, snack bars and vending machines as long as Cherie Floyd, In addition, Sabra recommended new guidance they meet the Smart Snack Standards. Our Classic CTO, Sabra Dipping Company relating to combination foods such as hummus Hummus Singles are already sold as part of the and guacamole in the National School Lunch school meal now, with Taco Hummus Singles, and School Breakfast Program, with a request for we are able to offer schoolchildren a healthy snack evaluation and redefinition of appropriate nutrient/ to see them through the day. | 31 Supporting nutritionists to advance healthy lifestyles Our Strauss Institute has been active for the past twenty years in promoting and supporting a healthy lifestyle based on balanced nutrition, alongside other social initiatives of Strauss in Israel with different partners to embed healthy lifestyle in school programs and other forums (see section: Investing in our Communities). Strauss Institute continues to support nutritionists and nutrition researchers as they strive to advance healthy lifestyles and influence Improving ingredient quality dietary habits of consumers in Israel. Every year, we host workshops and meetings where we share information and offer skills training to support the professional community. Our Strauss With advances in science and consumer Institute Conference in 2018 was attended by nutrition experts from government offices, scrutiny, food ingredients that were considered academia and health and nutrition related associations. The theme of the conference was safe for years can become less desirable. We advancing balanced nutrition among youth as a way to address concerning trends of eating aim to use only those ingredients that are truly disorders and obesity among children, teens and young adults. As we consider our next 20 years necessary for safe, quality product formulation of Strauss Institute, we intend to further raise awareness for support healthy and balanced and consumer taste preferences, and therefore nutrition, in line with our overall strategic approach, and provide research and tools that will stay abreast of changing market sentiment help the professional community improve the effectiveness of driving change in our society. regarding different ingredients. With our Israeli sugar-free chewing gum brand, for example, two ingredients (titanium dioxide and aspartame) have been traditionally used Making food more affordable to maintain the whiteness and sweetness of An important message we have received from our consumers in Israel through direct feedback the product. While food regulations allow and also through our Strauss Trust Survey is that the cost of living is challenging, and the cost of these ingredients, which are commonly used food in particular is a cause of stress. This was a message that came through loud and clear to in a range of food products, safety concerns in the social protests in Israel in 2011, where a big social movement targeted food companies have been raised in recent years. In 2018, we and pricing policies. It was clear that, in order to retain the trust of our consumers, we must were able to complete a 2-year development address this issue in a serious way. program to change manufacturing processes Since 2011, Strauss Group has publicly undertaken to stem the increase of food prices and across all our chewing-gum product variants drive food prices down wherever possible through passing on the benefits of operational to be the first sugar-free gum manufacturer efficiencies and investments in advanced technology. in the world to eliminate titanium dioxide During the past 8 years we have not raised food prices in Israel and we have reduced the prices and aspartame. We are proud to be the first of several foods. company to enable our consumers to chew Strauss is the only company in Israel that has made this commitment to our consumers and gum, with the quality, color and taste they are actually reduced prices of several products over the past years. In August 2018, while other used to, but without ingredients that cause leading food companies in Israel announced price increases, we at Strauss Israel announced them concern. that we would not raise prices for any of our products at least until the year-end. 32 | HAPPY BIRTHDAY! STRAUSS INSTITUTE TURNED 20 IN 2018 Achievements include: Numerous workshops, More than $800,000 awarded in podcasts, webinars 50 grants to young researchers and meetings for more who published more than 3,300 than 3,000 healthcare journal articles. professionals reaching almost 1 million clients 44% of grantees achieved professorships | 33 RESPONDING TO NEEDS We want everyone to be able to enjoy our products as part of a varied diet and healthy lifestyle. As a food manufacturer, we also have “It’s incredible to think of the number of people who live with food allergies or intolerances a responsibility to ensure our food is safe, not only for general – whether it’s gluten or lactose intolerance, allergies to consumption, but also for people with special food needs, which nuts, eggs, fruit, corn or anything else, more than 4% of the includes those who have different forms of food intolerances such population tend to be affected. That’s 40,000 people in every as those living with celiac or allergies. These issues affect not only 1 million. How can we, as a responsible food manufacturer, individuals, but also their entire families, and this amounts to not take this into account as we develop our products? Not many thousands of consumers in our markets. Some years ago, only is this a big market, addressing these special needs is consumers told us emphatically that they want us to do more to also our responsibility.” address these needs, so we started engaging more deeply with consumer groups to understand what’s important to them. This Udi Melamed, dialogue yielded significant insights that helped us make changes Safety, Environment & Quality Manager for the benefit of consumers with special food requirementswhether for health or religious reasons. We believe it is important to be inclusive in our approach, so even if the market for certain products is relatively small, we strive to give everyone a choice of products that are right for them. 34 | Expanding choices for gluten-free consumers Delivering gluten-free products is the result of complex operational processes in our manufacturing plants including separation of raw Gluten-Free Products by Strauss Israel material storage and production lines, targeted training for production staff and stringent quality testing protocols. During the past 7 years, we have been systematically modifying our processes to enable more glutenintolerant or gluten-sensitive consumers to enjoy a wider range We developed a unique of healthy foods. Additionally, front-of-pack label to help in 2018, we began working with customers quickly identify advanced technology for rapid gluten free products. 500 gluten detection to further enhance our real-time control 28 of our manufacturing process. 6 2006 2011 2018 All Strauss Fresh Salads are gluten free. In 2018, we launched more gluten-free products: yogurt variants with extras, chocolate bars with chocolate candy and oatmeal flakes. | 35 “Our Association represents the rights of more than 80,000 consumers, and their families, affected by celiac in Israel. Celiac, or gluten intolerance, can be a debilitating disease. To maintain a healthy lifestyle, our members need glutenfree food options with clear and prominent food labeling, so they know what’s safe for them to eat. We have been working collaboratively in constant dialogue with Strauss Israel for the past four years and have enjoyed helping make many more gluten-free products available for celiac and gluten-sensitive consumers and improving the transparency of product labels all without disadvantaging these consumers on price. We have found that Strauss is always willing to listen and consider the special needs of our members. In fact, I think Strauss has set the standard for gluten-free food, and In 2017-2018, we also launched several low-lactose I hope more companies will follow.” variants of Strauss’s popular dairy brands: Gamadim, Danone, Danny, Milky and Yotvata enriched milk. We Dan Solomon, now offer lactose-intolerant consumers 34 low lactose CEO, Celiac Rights Association products from Strauss Dairy and Yotvata. 36 | Transparent Advancing a responsible choices for approach to marketing consumers with Although Strauss Israel is a signatory to the Food Industry Association Marketing Charter and the Charter of the Israeli Marketing Association, which address responsible marketing allergies principles, we felt we needed to do more to protect our consumers. In 2018, we engaged our marketing and communication organizations in a deep examination of what we stand There are many regulations governing the labeling of for, how our values are reflected in our marketing and advertising and what we must do products that contain or may contain allergens in our for consumers to feel safe, respected and valued. This resulted in a new Strauss Group different markets. We apply these regulations strictly Responsible Marketing Position that includes our commitments to: and prominently on our product labels. In the past • Prohibit marketing and advertising targeted at children under 16 across all media channels year we adopted an additional precautionary layer • Prohibit distribution of marketing materials in or near schools of protection for our consumers. When we believe • Remove in-pack gifts as a promotional item targeted at children there is a very high risk of allergen exposure due to • Respect inclusion by avoiding gender stereotyping with our products a multi-product manufacturing environment, even • Refrain from employing children under age 16 in our advertising campaigns though a product itself is not expected to contain allergens in an amount that requires labeling, we In addition, our Responsible Marketing Position commits us to transparent product decided to label the product anyway as containing labelling, ethical, truthful and responsible communications about our products and an allergen. We worked with the Association for protection of consumer data privacy. Food Allergies in Israel to explain this approach and Since starting to implement this new approach, we have ceased including promotional received positive reactions. Ultimately, we prefer to gifts of TV characters in our products, stopped the practice of gender-specific product err on the side of safety for our consumers. At the packaging (such as princesses for girls and superheroes for boys on Actimel products) same time, we continue to implement separation of and moved key nutritional labelling to front-of-pack on certain products for children, production lines to avoid potential contamination, such as our Gamadim range. Just as importantly, we have included our new guidelines thereby removing the need for allergen warnings in marketing and advertising processes so that, right from the planning stage, our and enabling allergy-affected consumers to enjoy responsibility to our consumers is top-of-mind. a wider range of products. “After many years of ongoing dialogue, we have come to appreciate Strauss’s active support for consumers with allergies. “Equally as important as the safety of our products is the way we promote Strauss has implemented several best practices for managing allergens in food them to our consumers. This goes beyond simply telling the – including accurate product labelling, adjusting manufacturing operations to truth: we must take responsibility for the way our marketing remove allergen risks and also speaking out for regulatory changes that will messaging affects different groups, including those who are benefit allergic consumers. The effect goes beyond Strauss’s products – their vulnerable to advertising, such as children, or religious groups activities have helped raise awareness in the entire food industry. For consumers who may be offended by certain images or words.” living with allergies, this is good news!.” Eyal Dror, Shlomit Reder, CEO, Strauss Israel Chairwoman, Yahel Association for Food Allergies | 37 PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE Our consumers want to know we behave ethically and responsibly while making the products they love in their daily diets. At the same time, we recognize the significant impact agriculture “As a food and beverage company, we rely upon agriculture to deliver the has on our environment in terms of land use, climate change and water scarcity as well as on ingredients for our products. Whether it’s animal local economies. Working with local growers, for example, both reduces the environmental agriculture that includes the cows in our dairies impacts of transportation and helps maintain a vibrant local economy. that supply milk for our yogurts and cheeses or the farming of fruit and vegetables that we Helping our cows feel at home source from a range of growers, we aim to uphold the principles of animal welfare, human rights In 2016, we mapped our dairy supply chain processes and instituted a program to improve and environmental sustainability throughout conditions for cows, environmental sustainability and milk quality. In 2018, we went a step our agriculture supply chain.” further and developed a broader program that offers both structure and flexibility for farmers. As a key step, we conducted two round table discussions to solicit the guidance of experts Moshe Riany, in Israel including dairy farmers, academic specialists, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of VP Supply Chain, Strauss Israel Agriculture, the Milk Council and the Israel Cattle Breeders’ Association (ICBA). With their input, we developed our new “Cow Time” program. Cow Time now includes 20 aspects of cow wellbeing and milk quality that offers dairy farms a choice of which of these topics they prioritize according to the size and capabilities of each dairy farm. Cow time is already in operation at 22 dairy farms in our Yotvata supply network. In 2019, our dairy experts at Strauss Dairies will follow a structured Cow Time plan to continue to audit all our 77 farms in the north of Israel against their commitments and monitor their progress. 38 | Cow Time what our dairy farms monitor • Animal welfare: cow labeling, calf separation, pest control “Cows may not be able to use our human language, but they can express • Animal nutrition and health: cow feed, non-use of growth hormones themselves. We can tell how cows feel by examining their and overall medication overall health, their appetite and the amount and quality of • Environmental aspects: use of resources and pollution, energy efficiency, milk they produce for our dairies. We have been consistently water recycling, waste management working with farmers to improve cow conditions and overall welfare over many years.” • Dairy workers: farm worker employment, working conditions and employee safety Michal Benishti, • Continuous improvement: environmentally friendly feed, hay source Dairy Sustainability Manager, Strauss Group traceability and hay safety For further transparency, we published details of all the dairy farms we engage in Israel. To hear from our dairy farmers in Israel (in Hebrew): https://dairy-sustainability.strauss-group.co.il/refatot/ | 39 40 | Sourcing fruit “It’s quite some challenge to locate and secure stable suppliers who are willing to build the required locally infrastructure for local growing to meet our demanding quality and farming practices and work with us to realize Sourcing locally is a core principle of sustainable our goals of using local, safe and best quality fruit in our agriculture in our supply chain. For various reasons, yogurts and other products.” we have relied primarily on imports for several categories of fruit and we now see an opportunity Pini Gotliv, to change. We are on a mission to source fruit for Agricultural Purchasing Manager, Strauss Israel our dairy products from local growers in Israel – with an initial focus on the fruit used in yogurts. The challenges involved in local sourcing include ensuring the right quality for appearance, New food safety texture and taste, detailed attention at all stages of harvesting and cleaning the fruit to avoid program for growers contamination and foreign bodies and, of course, As part of our approach to achieve the highest levels of ensuring consistent availability of the quantities we food safety for our consumers, in 2018, we launched a need. With agriculture, there are many variables and new food safety program covering all aspects of fruit short growing seasons limit our time to conduct and vegetable farming, following a detailed study of trials and apply new solutions. We have been all our practices and safety risks. A full initial audit of all working on this across fruit varieties including suppliers is planned for early 2019, following which plans strawberries, peaches, nectarines and apples for will be developed to address below-standard findings. more than two years. We expect to launch our first see the Responsible Business section for more food yogurts with local fruit during 2019. safety initiatives. All fruit and vegetable farmers supplying Strauss Israel are periodically audited against 100 detailed aspects of safe farming practices. | 41 FOODTECH “Growth is driven by innovation Our Approach to Innovation and innovation derives from long term Innovation is the way we keep our promise to such as salt and sugar reduction, and vision. Creativity and out-of-the-box our consumers to keep pushing the envelope exploiting new technologies to deliver the thinking thrives in an environment of open to deliver foods and beverages that improve desired product qualities. knowledge, sharing, empowerment and their lives. It’s also the basis for maintaining • B reakthrough Innovation: Working with encouragement. Creating a communityStrauss Group as a vibrant, dynamic food startup companies at the beginning of based culture of innovation is how we company that continues expand its reach their journey is another route to innovation. grow our people, our business and the to consumers around the world and deliver We help these companies develop and brands that our consumers have come business growth. Innovation comes in many commercialize their innovations while to depend on.” forms, at different stages of the product piloting and adopting their new technologies development cycle, so it’s important to within Strauss Group. maintain a systematic approach to ensure • Seed Innovation: This means taking a broader, Shahar Florentz, we explore all possibilities to make products collaborative approach to supporting the Vice President-Growth and Innovation, better and make better products. FoodTech community and bridge a market Strauss Group Our innovation framework comprises four failure by nurturing early stage technologies key channels of innovation: that will serve the food industry in general and • Brand Innovation: Ongoing generation of not (only) specifically Strauss Group. While ideas for new products, brand extensions and some of the technologies align with Strauss technologies via our R&D experts, employee, Group's innovation goals, this approach consumer or supplier suggestions. These targets industry-wide transformation and ideas are progressed through an innovation consumer benefit on a much greater scale pathway and result in the launch of more than via Strauss Group alone. than 200 products each year across our group of companies. Below, we invite you to read more about our • Improvement Innovation: This focuses on most ambitious and successful venture – our responding to identified consumer needs, collaborative FoodTech hub called The Kitchen. 42 | In 2012, we started our Alpha Strauss FoodTech Community in Israel, which aims to create a complete ecosystem in relevant technologies for the food industry. Alpha Strauss links research institutes, researchers, inventors, entrepreneurs, investors and food companies considering all governmental regulation and available technological assets, to drive innovation in a collaborative way. “It takes a village. That’s what I have learned about innovation. Our initiative to advance FoodTech, Alpha Strauss, taught us that the best results come from collaborative efforts. Creating new, sustainable food systems has become a new core skill in our industry. After years of investment in building a community of FoodTech innovators, with trust as our shared value, we are seeing the fruits of our efforts.” Dagan Eshel, VP Innovation, Strauss Group The Kitchen: Revolutionizing FoodTech We believe that cooperation between industry land and water scarcity, or meet new lifestyle 2018, and all have accelerated the pace of and entrepreneurs can lead to the creation of preferences with alternatives to food products their innovation and one has commercialized better food solutions for people all over the derived from animals. a range of new food products in the Israeli world. For the past four years, we have been Our collaboration with the IIA was formalized market. investing and managing a FoodTech incubator, in 2014, with Strauss Group and the IIA In 2018, Alpha Strauss and the Kitchen in partnership with the Israel Innovation committing to investing up to $25 million hosted a sixth FoodTech conference in Authority (IIA). over 8 years in 30 approved FoodTech startup Israel, attended by 1,200 delegates from 28 The incubator is now home to 12 FoodTech initiatives. Strauss Group committed to fund countries, offering 62 startups the opportunity initiatives and attracts dozens of large industrial around 40% of this investment, and so The to present their initiatives to a wide network of companies interested in breakthrough Kitchen was formed. Entrepreneurs accepted potential investors or customers. Also, several technology that will change the future of the to The Kitchen receive financial, technical and global food company experts presented at food industry. These are the technologies that business support, an introduction to a global the conference, demonstrating the needs, help produce safer food, reduce environmental investor base and opportunities to engage opportunities and keen desire to accelerate impacts, develop alternatives to sugar or sodium potential investors in their initiatives. To date, the pace of FoodTech and adopt solutions or create alternative foods that address potential 12 companies have been welcomed to The that will help improve the lives of consumers shortages of ingredients via agriculture due to Kitchen FoodTech hub, including three in everywhere. | 43 Changing the world of dairy foods This growing awareness of the health benefits of plant-based foods, combined with increase in individuals with milk allergies and lactose intolerance, has led to an increase in the demand for dairy alternatives, creating a market worth billions of dollars and an exciting new global consumer base. In response, one of the first initiatives incubated in The Kitchen, has now delivered first-of-a-kind plant-based yogurt alternative that Strauss launched in Israel in 2018. The brand is called ONLY and it is a dairy-free, soy-free, clean label yogurt alternative which uses only natural ingredients. ONLY is the result of collaboration between Strauss Group and Yofix Probiotic Ltd, a FoodTech startup with a prebiotic and probiotic platform for dairy alternatives based on a unique blend of cereals, nuts and seeds. The launch was supported by an investment of more than a million dollar in a dedicated production line. Yofix was awarded the final €100,000 grant in PepsiCo’s Nutrition Greenhouse Program: In 2018, Yofix was included in PepsiCo’s European innovation accelerator program, along with other FoodTech startups from all over Europe. Of the ten finalists, Yofix was recognized as Changing the world of eggs Eggs are one of the most common sources of protein “The Kitchen provides us with a network having “significantly scaled up around the world and a valuable source of nutrition. of support in all aspects critical to its operations” and received the However, the resources used to produce eggs are the development of a new business. substantial, with 6 billion laying hens in the global egg This kind of support is beyond grant to continue its expansion. industry, requiring land, feed and substantial amounts valuable, and crucial for building our of water. If not carefully controlled, the egg industry can business and bringing our product also be a source of salmonella and disease. A startup to market – where we can make a that joined the Kitchen FoodTech Hub in 2018, Zero real impact, fulfilling a global need “The Kitchen is a builder of companies. We invest in Egg, provides the benefits of egg protein in a way that is good for the environment, for animals and for people. of the industry and of millions of consumers.” promising startups and help them break Zero Egg is a nutritious plant-based liquid egg that into global markets, and it is wonderful that tastes, looks and functions like real egg and can replace Liron Nimrodi, Strauss’s partners such as PepsiCo, Danone eggs in all uses: omelets, baked goods, mayonnaise, CEO, Zero Egg and others can be part of the international sauces and all forms of cooking and baking. Zero-Egg breakthrough of these exciting ventures.” has high nutritional values, zero cholesterol, and it is safe and economical. Expect to hear more about Zero Jonathan Berger, Egg as the process is developed and commercialized. CEO of The Kitchen FoodTech Hub 44 | Changing the world of meat It’s no secret that the production of red meat is Clean label vegan minced meat equivalent “The Kitchen is unique in our landscape in that it focuses on food, and on a major contributor to global greenhouse gas Rilbite joined The Kitchen in 2018, with a plantthe sustainable impact of food. The emissions. With Aleph Farms, there is a way to based minced meat that has the texture, look Kitchen provides us with knowledge reduce the global burden of beef production and behavior of real meat and serves as a full and helps steer us in the right on climate change by offering what was once minced meat replacement. Made of eight direction from both a technology thought impossible – cell-grown meat that has natural ingredients, Rilbite has the highest and a business perspective.“ the same texture, aroma and taste as beef. Aleph nutritional values compared to other non-meat Farms was co-founded in 2017 by The Kitchen in brands and is manufactured generating no collaboration with the Technion, Israel’s leading waste at all, as all ingredients are fully utilized. Barak Melamed, technical university, and incubated through The Similarly, Rilbite contains no added water, a major CEO, Rilbite Kitchen’s innovation platform. In 2018, Aleph Farms environmental advantage compared to the large successfully produced the first bovine cell-grown quantities of water used to produce meat from minute steak that delivers the full experience of cows. Currently, with The Kitchen’s support, and meat with the appearance, shape and texture of after positive reactions in limited market trials, beef cuts, overcoming the technical barriers to Rilbite is constructing a factory in Israel to serve recreating complete animal tissue structure. This both local and international markets with the was achieved through a bioengineering platform Rilbite product range. This will include products developed with the Technion. Aleph Farms plans for school lunch programs in Israel as the only to complete the development of cell-grown beef meat replacement product approved by the Israeli within two years – something that we predict will Ministry of Health. change the world of meat forever! | 45 New protein to replace sugar Amai Proteins joined The Kitchen in 2016, having created the world’s sweetest protein 15,000 times sweeter than sugar that is stable in any temperature. The protein is produced using biotechnology to enable optimized taste profiles. Having presented at The Kitchen’s FoodTech Conference in 2018, Amai Proteins now has collaboration agreements with two global food companies to pilot this technology in the hope of bringing it to scale to dramatically alter the sugar content of foods for the benefit of consumers and society as a whole. Process innovations for improved foods Innovation is not just new foods, it’s also the way we manufacture foods to give additional consumer or manufacturing benefits. For example, Inspecto, an early stage technology that entered The Kitchen in 2018, is developing a portable nanoscale detector for contaminants in food. By enabling early tests for contaminants in the field, Inspecto improves quality assurance processes, enables enhanced traceability of food components and reduces operational costs for food manufacturers. Another example is BactuSense, a Kitchen portfolio company that developed a chip-based device for rapid detection of bacteria that can be cost-effectively placed on every food production line. The BactuSense technology enables detection of bacteria of in 3-5 hours a new level of rapid analysis versus traditional testing which takes 48-72 hours. BactuSense is currently running a pilot in Strauss Dairies and we continue to collaborate to perfect the technology for scaling. “The access to a global network of leaders supports us in “Collaboration further advancing our product and our with our colleagues at Strauss is ongoing and business, and in the continued development we continue to consult with them as we further of more protein-based solutions.” develop and improve our technology.“ Dr. Ilan Samish, Raveh Gill-More, Founder and CEO, Amai Proteins CEO, BactuSense 46 | Strauss Water: Innovating for healthier water At Strauss Water, we tirelessly promote the health benefits of drinking more water, and we provide our consumers with an easy way to do just that. We also check in with them to see if our WaterBars are contributing to healthy drinking habits. Our consumer research in Israel shows: • 90% of WaterBar users declare they drink substantially more water (40% more on average based on past research) • 72% of Water Bar household family members drink fewer sweetened beverages In early 2018, Strauss Water launched a new water purifier, based on advanced Maze purification technology that we developed at Strauss Water. Maze enhances purification capabilities compared to our previous carbon purifier by removing chemical contaminants from a range of sources and heavy metals such as lead and mercury. It also improves the clarity, taste and smell of the water by filtering sand and rust, removing chlorine, eliminating aftertaste and reducing limescale buildup. All these properties make water from Strauss WaterBars cleaner, healthier and tastier. During 2018, we have been providing the new Maze purifiers to all WaterBar customers throughout Israel with no additional charge so that everyone can enjoy the cleanest water from the most advanced technology available. Haier-Strauss Water received four Golden Tripod awards from the Water Purification Industry in China for brand influence and innovation in 2018. | 47 RESPECTING Maintaining employee trust means respecting all our employees, for who they are and for what they contribute. There are many ways we show our respect: providing a positive workplace which is safe “I think trust is the ingredient that holds any organization and secure, rewarding our employees fairly and enabling them to achieve financial wellbeing, offering together and helps it succeed. We challenging work and investing in their professional development and above all, listening and responding must deliver on our promises to to their expectations, concerns and ideas. In return for our respect, our employees are engaged, motivated our employees, meaning that we and passionate about our joint mission to improve people’s lives through the products we make. must be a responsible employer, live our values and embrace the unique contribution we all bring. THE PEOPLE OF STRAUSS GROUP KEY HUMAN RESOURCES DATA When we do this well, we earn the 23.33 62% 99% trust of our employees and they, in turn, behave in a trustworthy manner in their internal and external interactions.” average training of employees of employees Nurit Tal-Shamir, hours per covered by on permanent Chief Human Resources Officer, employee in 2018 collective bargaining employment Strauss Group agreements contracts 4,638 40% new hires of all 38% of all employees in 2018 promotions received a formal in 2018 were performance women review in 2018 48 | W Employees by gender, 2018 OVER 50 W41 14% MEN 59% WOMEN 30-50 % 59% Employees UNDER 30 by age, 2018 27% Employees by region, 2018 ISRAEL EUROPE 40% 11% AMERICAS 49% | 49 Seeking The most recent employee survey in Straus Coffee in 2017 earned a 92% response rate Improving employee views and overall measure of employee engagement of 76%, which we understand is significantly benefits for The companies in Strauss Group regularly seek feedback from employees, both above the industry norm of 68%. Employees demonstrated a strong level of pride and loyalty employees through informal channels as part of in Strauss, and support for our approach to Since 2016, Strauss Israel has been ongoing communications and performance responsible business and care for communities systematically refreshing the remuneration management processes, but also through and the environment. and social benefits packages we provide structured surveys. This is a key element in In 2018, in Strauss Coffee, we also conducted to employees, especially to lower-income building trust. For example, in 2018, Strauss a specific survey among our 351 managers, employees, in order to help them live well Israel conducted a pulse survey measuring showing an engagement level of 86%. and save for the future. We call this our Social the attitudes and perception of Strauss as Managers have confidence in the company’s Program for employees and it comprises an employer and food manufacturer. The leadership and value the openness and honesty compensation which is higher than the legal survey showed an engagement level of 87%. of our communications. On the other hand, minimum wage, contributions to child care In addition, Strauss Israel's employees were managers requested further clarity on Strauss and long-term savings plans, in addition to invited to take part in the 2018 Strauss Trust coffee’s business strategy and operating all the other basic social benefits provided Survey which gave us deeper insights into the model, which are being addressed. for employees. In 2018, we again reviewed elements that drive trust among our employees. our progress and made adjustments to encourage employees to maximize their benefits, especially in the area of long-term Key findings from the Strauss Trust Survey among employees: “While we are satisfied with our overall engagement savings. We also reviewed all basic salaries to against our objectives and offered increases where relevant, as well as awarding all first line • Employees have a high level of trust in Strauss results and positive feedback from employees, mainly due to family values and ethical we took note of issues that employees told employees a special bonus for 2018. In a 2018 behavior of the leadership us needed improvement, such as greater employee survey 71% of employees responded • Employees believe Strauss acts in many ways collaboration within Strauss Coffee, further that they feel Strauss is investing efforts in to earn the trust of consumers opportunities for personal development improving their compensation and benefits • Employees wish to see greater investment and improvements in compensation. We are in personal development at all levels of the implementing new programs to address these company issues. By taking action on matters important • Employees recommend improving the sense to employees, we show our respect for them of belonging within and between business and this contributes to retaining their trust.” groups • Employees wish to see greater support for Matty Harary, ok-life balance at all levels in all departments Chief HR Officer, Strauss Coffee 50 | In 2018, Strauss Israel invested ILS13 million in Social Program benefit, bringing the total to almost ILS30 million in the past three years. Almost 4,000 employees benefit from the Social Program. | 51 Investing in our Strengthening our the sales and production units, in order to provide additional development opportunities future leaders management skills while improving operational performance and relationships within the teams. All new We continue to develop our leaders as the Aside from investing in identified highmanagers received training and coaching in key success factor for business success as well potential managers, we also focus on a structured program to give them the best as creating role models for the Strauss Way. improving management skills, starting with chance of success. Strauss Israel also ran a The Leading Our Way leadership program first-line management or supervisory roles. training program for more than 200 middleis a group-wide two-year transformative Young managers need guidance and support, managers who manage people with an aim to leadership program for 20 leaders in each and also play a significant role in our ability to enhance self-awareness of management style cycle. In 2018, we continued the second cycle. achieve our business objectives. and improved engagement of team members. The program includes a blended format of In Strauss Water in Israel, for example, 50 young workshops, shadowing, webinars, individual managers of call-center or sales operations coaching, 3600 assessments and more. In addition, complementary local programs participated in a program covering all basic management skills from time-management “As part of building a relationship based on trust with our employees, it is take place throughout the Group companies. to decision-making to managing people. important for us to address the issue of fair For example, in 2018, a program for firstAlso, Strauss Water’s development program wages. This is reflected in our efforts in our social time managers in Strauss Israel and a new for more experienced managers included 130 program, and in additional strategic programs four-month emerging leaders program for participants in 2018, and focused this year on for employee development and empowerment, managers at Sabra and Obela have resulted the role of managers as key in the personal improving their employability.” in improved leadership skills, enhanced development of their people. teamworking and closer alignment with our In Strauss Israel, we increased the number Alona Magor-Shoham, shared objectives. of management roles by more than 30 in VP HR, Strauss Israel 52 | First-time formal performance evaluation for employees At Strauss, we believe in providing our employees with the basic tools that will help them develop within Strauss as well as improve their overall employability for the future. For the first time in Strauss Israel, we decided to implement a formal performance evaluation process among production operators, sales representatives and other frontline employees, in order to help enhance their performance and engage them more fully in our overall mission at Strauss, our values and the importance of their work. We created a new process, designed to meet the specific needs of this large and diverse group of employees, and trained managers in its implementation. In 2018, more than 3,000 employees received a formal performance review for the very first time which was an empowering experience both for them and for their managers and contributed to building trust at all levels in the organization. Providing merchandisers with new skills Strauss Israel employs 855 sales merchandisers Therefore, we set out to offer our merchandisers new opportunities both for their own (86% are women), whose role is to organize our advancement and also to provide Strauss with a more capable and future-ready team. In 2018, products in the retail stores of our customers we implemented a program of personal development to provide lifelong learning for enhancing and ensure correct placement and visibility for interpersonal skills, occupational knowledge and overall capabilities to help merchandisers our products. However, as retail stores become perform their current roles while opening up opportunities for other roles within Strauss Group. more sophisticated with the adoption of new The first pilot program included 19 merchandisers in four day-long weekly workshops to help technologies, demands on merchandisers are merchandisers acquire these new skills. In 2018, an early success is that two participants from changing. At the same time, feedback from this program were already hired into new roles in Strauss. merchandisers was that they would welcome new opportunities to grow and develop. | 53 CULTURE OF At Strauss Group, we believe that inclusive business practices empower our employees, foster adapting working conditions to address innovation, build trustful relationships throughout our supply chain and improve our responsiveness the needs of observant religious women. to our customers and consumers, enabling us to achieve better business results over the long term Also in 2018, as every year, we celebrated in the right way. Inclusion for us represents both a business necessity and a core belief and is the International Women’s Day with a series result of respect, valuing others and caring about the lives we touch through the thousands of people of awareness and engagement events we employ and the millions of people we reach each day through our products and our operations. around the organization. In Israel, over the past few years, we have been increasingly targeting our efforts to embrace a broader level of diversity and inclusion, beyond our efforts in advancing gender equality. This includes increasing the representation in our business of employees from the Arab community in Israel, specifically in professional and office-based roles at our HQ. For example, in 2018, the events we organized around International Women’s Day included employee Ted-style talks on the “Diversity subject of equal opportunity in relation to minority groups or people with disabilities. Employees and inclusion are important elements of from these groups shared their experiences and inspired others to understand the challenges and our business culture. They represent a lens needs of all employees and advance inclusion in our workplace. through which we try to see our organization and the decisions we make. We have, for Championing gender equality many years, targeted gender diversity and have made strong progress. We continue We remain committed to gender equality, advancing women in leadership positions across Strauss to broaden our approach to take proactive Group. We work to embed a culture of equal opportunity and motivate managers to promote gender action to increase representation of more diversity for the benefit of the business, our employees and for society overall. In 2011, we counted diverse populations in our company, from 36% of women in management positions and in 2018, this has risen to 43% (39% including our JV the Board of Directors through all ranks operation in Brazil). Nevertheless, despite significant efforts, we find that increasing the number of of employees, and, most importantly, women in management positions remains challenging, and we therefore extended our objective create an organizational culture in which to achieving 50% of women in management roles by 2024, rather than by 2020. differences are our strength.” In 2018, we continued to support gender equality programs such as our work group that advances gender awareness among men employees and our woman-to-woman mentoring program for Noga Segev Nadir, women in pre-management roles. We also continue to provide a platform for a group of 14 women, Talent Management Director, sponsored by our Chairperson, who are driving change through specific initiatives, for example, Strauss Group 54 | women in management roles in Strauss Group (excluding Strauss JV in Brazil) | 55 Creating opportunities for employees from the Arab community in Israel In order to advance social equality in Israel and Impact initiative, a multi-sector partnership employees in Strauss Israel in managerial help bring together our diverse populations, founded in 2013 to achieve a breakthrough and professional roles from 36 in 2017 to during the past three years we have worked in the Arab employment rate and quality in 48 in 2018. This is in line with our specific to promote greater inclusiveness of the Arab Israel and improve the local economy and target to bring more Arab colleagues community in Israel in our organization. social solidarity. Our programs included, into such roles where they can make a Israeli Arabs, including Arab academics, among several other initiatives: meaningful contribution. To help achieve are traditionally underrepresented in • Created a dedicated steering committee of this, three of these new employees are Israeli workplaces. While 20% of the Israeli factory managers, division managers and recruitment professionals in Strauss Israel’s population are from the Arab community, other senior managers that meets every two Human Resources Department and provide their representation in the workforce is 15%. months to promote diversity and inclusion perspectives and tools to promote inclusion In 2017-2018, Strauss Israel and Strauss Water for Arab employees. of Arab employees. They have also supported advanced collaborations with the Collective • I ncreased the representation of Arab our HR skill development by conducting 56 | 22% The representation of Arab employees in Strauss Israel in 2018 “One of our main goals is to create a work environwas 22%, up from 19% ment where all employees can feel comfortable and in 2016 express themselves fully. We established Strauss Israel 20 Forum for Arab Employees to give voice to our Arab employees so we can better understand their needs and the barriers on both sides. The way to true diversity starts Arab employees with honest and transparent dialogue.“ were recruited to Strauss Water in 2018 Orit Halamish , Director Organizational Development, Strauss Israel training for all our recruitment staff in inclusive recruitment practices. In 2019, • Adapted our social benefits programs and communications to reflect cultural and “Through my position in Strauss Water, we target to increase Arab representation religious differences. I feel I can really be a part of a social change. It in managerial and professional roles with • Created a Strauss Israel Forum for Arab requires me to be personally committed, to be the addition of at least another 17 recruits. Employees, with 19 champions from the honest and direct and to continuously challenge • Recruited a diversity focused recruiter Arab community who are committed to the organization and the people around me to from the Arab community to advance Arab helping lead change and support personal adapt to achieve our goals. This means adapting, recruitment in Strauss Water and provide development and retention of Arab not only processes and approaches, but also guidance and support for Arab candidates. employees. each individual’s personal perspectives.“ • Conducted internal workshops on diversity • Conducted round table dialogue meetings and inclusion for managers and employees for Arab call center operators. Shirin Azbarga, and introduced diversity “language” in Occupational Diversity Coordinator training and communications, such as holiday Strauss Water greetings in Arabic and more. | 57 INVESTING IN OUR Building trust in communities includes showing that we care about local people and their social and economic development “One of the ways a company can engage most meaningfully with local communities is by collaborating on initiatives in more ways than meeting food and nutritional needs through that support both business development and local economic and social our products. We aim to maintain a strong connection in the interests at the same time. This is why we have been so successful with local communities in which we do business by helping to improve the Strauss Coffee “More than a Cup” program. It brings meaningful their lives through both the way we work and the initiatives that change to the lives of local women coffee growers while offering Strauss we advance. We engage with our communities in several ways, Coffee new value propositions for our consumers.” using different approaches, from the more immediate response to a specific requirement to supporting long-term projects that Rafi Camhi, deliver a step-change in the quality of life. HQ Supply Chain Manager, Strauss Coffee FROM LOCAL TO GLOBAL FOCUS Monetary Strategic and Product Collaborations Long-term Value Donations Employee with Nonprofits Creation through Volunteering in Collaborative our Communities Initiatives FROM IMMEDIATE REAL-TIME NEEDS TO STRATEGIC TRANSFORMATIVE INITIATIVES 58 | Donations and volunteering We encourage our employees to volunteer in social programs they care about. We manage a broad variety of local collaborative initiatives with many community partners in different countries – engaging in hundreds of individual social programs throughout the year in all (100%) of the countries in which we have a presence. We provide cash donations, in-kind donations of food and equipment where relevant, and time off for our employees to volunteer. Typically, our community investment is primarily targeted to causes that alleviate hunger, improve nutrition or promote healthy lifestyles. We reach more than 50 nonprofit partners through our ongoing donations programs. Community Investment US$ million 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 13,500 VOLUNTEERING HOURS Community Iinvestment Monetary donations 1.06 0.87 0.82 0.89 1.38 1.24 In 2018, Strauss Product donations 1.38 1.83 1.49 1.75 1.86 1.66 Group employees (retail value) volunteered Value of employee 0.50 0.53 0.50 0.45 0.50 0.41 volunteering time and 13,500 hours in community relations our communities Total 2.94 3.22 2.81 3.09 3.73 3.31 around the world. | 59 Creating Long Spotlight “Strauss su p p o r t s u s t o strengthen the Term Value for on Uganda work we do to create a bigger and faster impact on coffee growers in Uganda. Strauss is the Women Coffee In 2017, Strauss Coffee engaged with Kyagalanyi Coffee Ltd, the largest Ugandan first client committed to support our farmer program… it’s important for us to know that Growers coffee exporter and part of the VOLCAFE Group. Since 2008, Kyagalanyi has been steadily our clients appreciate the work we do and go the extra mile to support it. Year by year, we see As one of the largest buyers of green coffee building a strong farmer support program in that these programs give results in the form of in the world, we work hard to be a trusted Uganda that assists coffee growers in three higher yield, better bean quality and increased partner throughout our value chain, and this Arabica regions to increase production and loyalty of growers.” includes providing support where it is critically quality and grower income. Kyagalanyi Coffee needed to women coffee growers in Africa, maintains training programs for coffee growers Anneke Fermont, Asia and Latin America. Buy enhancing the in several regions. Our first projects started by Sustainability Manager, Kyagalanyi Coffee capacity of local women growers, we are investing in equipment to increase the value of helping transform, project by project, women’s coffee yields and grower income. In 2017 and capabilities and uplifting local prosperity. 2018, Strauss Coffee partnered with Kyagalanyi Strauss Coffee started this initiative, More Coffee in two innovative initiatives: plots. Training sessions are typically run by than a Cup, with a strategic commitment in women nominated as “Gender Ambassadors”. 2016. By the end of 2018, More than a Cup The Gender for Growth program: This 3-year More than 7,000 farmers, of which 35% numbers 9 active partnership initiatives in 8 program promotes gender equity benefits were women, attended these group training countries, reaching more than 13,000 coffee for over 2,300 households. Strauss Coffee sessions in 2018. growing women, helping them build thriving strengthens this program by funding a range livelihoods, supporting their families and of tools, including the Gender Harvest Game. communities. Strauss Coffee also purchases This innovative game simulates the daily life of coffee sourced from these partnerships for coffee growers during the annual coffee cycle, use in our leading coffee brands: Elite coffee, teaching couples how to make joint decisions MK Cafe, Doncafé, Ambassador and others. about coffee farm management. Strauss Coffee also provides rewards, in the form of seedlings, Our initiatives in each country are based on fertilizer or equipment to households that have local partnerships formed directly with coffee improved their gender relations. grower groups or local cooperatives. We engage with each group individually aiming Rwenzori Farmer Support Program: This 6-year to provide the support that is needed most. project aims to improve the livelihoods of over Often, it's not simply a question of funding. 7,500 coffee farmers in the Rwenzori mountain In most cases, it's about agronomy training, range, on the border of Congo. The first 3 acquisition of administrative and business years of the project focus on building a strong skills, technical advice and provision of coffee farmer support team, setting up demonstration processing equipment, while always focusing farms and running agronomy training. In 2018, on empowering women through the coffee more than 5,900 farmers (of which 50% were value chain. women) benefited from training sessions held in more than 3,000 individual farm visits. In addition, 478 training sessions were carried out on 33 newly established demonstration 60 | More than a Cup partnerships in 2018 HONDURAS EL SALVADOR UGANDA 286 women 31 women (Mt. Elgon and West Nile) from June 2016 from May 2017 2,800 households Supported renovating diseased from May 2017 Enabled construction and installation of a coffee dryer, coffee trees and distributed Provided agricultural supplies training and technical assistance. 10,000 disease resistant coffee and equipment and funding of a plants, agrotechnical support gender equity program. and collection facilities. COLOMBIA (Rwenzori Mountains) 300 women 7,700 households from April 2017 RWANDA from April 2018 381 women Provided equipment, training from May 2018 Provided agri training and and financial education. funding of a gender equity Provided training and the program. construction of a coffee washing station. DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC ETHIOPIA OF CONGO 500 women coffee growers 1,400 women VIETNAM and their families from June 2016 300 women from December 2018 Provided construction of from March 2017 Training for good agriculture a washing station, training Helped organize cooperative practices and installation and water supply for the programs and provided of clay cookstoves. coffee station. funding for new equipment. | 61 Collaboration to increase access to fresh food “Plants with a Purpose” is a multi-year community project aimed at improving access to fresh and healthy food in the U.S. The initiative started in 2016 in collaboration with Renew Richmond, a nonprofit that advances urban gardening as a way of strengthening communities. The program includes establishing community vegetable gardens in local schools as well as a 4,000-sq. ft. organic garden on campus at Sabra Chesterfield County plant. In 2018, Sabra made product donations to Feedmore, a local foodbank, and produce donations from community gardens amounted to the equivalent of 200,000 meals for community food support. Plants with a Purpose continued with several initiatives supported by Sabra including 18 new gardens beds at schools and on the Sabra campus and 11 volunteer gardening and cooking demonstration events. 62 | Opportunities for Women Collaborating to Coffee Growers in Brazil alleviate hunger In 2018, our joint-venture coffee company in Brazil, 3corações, launched an ambitious Latet is a prominent nonprofit with a mission long-term program to benefit women coffee growers and their local communities while to reduce poverty in Israel. Food rescue delivering unique, high-quality specialty coffees with a rich flavor and taste. The initiative, and distribution is a core program of Latet, called the Florada Project, will secure a sustainable coffee supply chain by expanding the supporting 60,000 families with monthly food knowledge and skills of women coffee growers, and enabling them to earn a fair profit for packages. Strauss Israel has partnered with their labor. The Florada Project includes several elements: Latet for over a decade, providing unsaleable •A  n education platform: 25 training videos covering specialty coffee growing best practices foods that are surplus to requirements and and business management, available free to women growers. helping Latet sort and distribute food packages. • A training network: Lectures and training sessions to learn and share in meetings with In 2018, Strauss donated 425 tons of food to other producers, with more than 1,200 coffee growers participating in 2018. Latet to help alleviate hunger in Israel. • An award program: A cash prize and recognition, in partnership with BSCA (Brazilian Association of Special Coffees), for the best quality coffee beans. In 2018, more than 650 growers entered the award program. • A marketing plan: An inspiring campaign for the marketing of Florada coffees via retail stores and online, stressing the unique qualities of the coffee and social advantages. 100% of the profits on sales are directed back to the growers so they can continue to invest in developing their capabilities. • A micro-lot approach: 3corações has purchased coffee from 130 micro-lots cultivated by Women Coffee Growers, and these coffees are now available for national distribution at affordable prices. This holistic approach is designed not only to ensure unique coffee supply with sustainable benefits for women and communities, but it also offers a new direct connection between coffee growers and coffee consumers. Coffee lovers can now enjoy Florada coffees, knowing who produced them and that their passion for coffee is supporting entire communities all around Brazil. Collaboration to advance healthy lifestyles In 2018, we established a collaboration in Israel with a new program that focuses on “We believe that food companies should play an active role in education for healthy lifestyles, balanced nutrition and the prevention of diabetes. The supporting food security as a strategic social association, called “Mehayom” collaborates with municipalities, community programs and agenda. With Strauss, we have a truly productive the business sector to educate and raise awareness of diabetes and influence public policy. partnership that extends to many employees Strauss Israel will fund ILS400,000 (approximately $110,000) to support a pilot project who get involved to support our efforts.” with 30 boarding schools to advance healthy lifestyles among pupils. Strauss employees will engage with the program as volunteers, to help build awareness. If successful, the Tzahi Langer, pilot will expand nationally, supported by Israel’s Ministry of Education. VP Marketing and Resource Development, Latet | 63 BEING A BUSINESS “Being a responsible business encompasses everything This section contains responsible business updates from 2018 in the areas of: Safety as we do and how we do everything. It’s rooted • Employee safety • Food safety a way of life in a fundamental desire to operate with • Customer service Maintaining a culture of safety and safe working honesty, integrity and transparency. It’s put • Environment practices is a primary goal in all our sites around into practice through a corporate infrastructure • Ethical sourcing and human rights the world, including manufacturing plants, of robust governance, ethical conduct and • Ethics, compliance and anti-corruption logistics centers and offices. This includes uncompromising compliance. That’s the • Corporate governance proactive measures such as a near-miss foundation upon which we build trust. Providing program, safety officers and the assimilation a safe workplace, minimizing our use of natural of safety standards. We aim to comply with resources, sourcing our products with care for human rights and engaging in initiatives to create positive impacts in society are all “When it comes to safety, we leave nothing to chance. We maintain a cycle of improvement that aims to all applicable safety laws and regulations and maintain an intensive training program for all employees, as well as risk assessments, hazard elements of being a responsible business that identify and mitigate all possible safety hazards minimization and communication programs. we aspire to uphold.” and risks. We work intensively to make processes Examples of specific advances in safety practice safer, examine ergonomics, upgrade equipment in 2018 include: Eyal Ayalon, and train employees .” Continued GEHSMS implementation: Since Senior Advisor to Chairperson, 2015, we have been implementing the Global Strauss Group Environment, Health and Safety Management Gideon Maor, System of PepsiCo, our salty snacks division Safety Manager, Strauss Israel partner in our salty snacks factory. GEHSMS is based on leading global safety standards, and represents a top-down, comprehensive management system for all aspects of safety 64 | management. Since adopting GEHSMS, we have had the lowest ever numbers of safety incidents in our salty snacks factory. In 2018, we developed our plan to implement GEHSMS throughout all Strauss Israel operations. “Our safety audits may show our bottom-line results, but the essence of this methodology is the fact that we engage in safety – learning the standards, developing work plans, implementing them and leading by example. The fact that managers personally involved is a valuable example to all employees of “walking the talk.” Yehuda Ashash, Operation Manager, Salty Snacks Factory, Strauss Israel Improving safety in sales operations: Strauss Israel employs more than 850 product merchandisers whose work is performed at customer premises around the country, presenting challenges for safety management Safety in our Workplace in 2018 as we do not control these places of work 2.97 66.46 ZERO and are not able to perform regular risk assessments. In 2018, therefore, we developed an innovative way to track safety issues. Using an existing Strauss portal and application for hand-held devices, we trained our injury rate per lost day rate per 100 fatalities merchandisers to report safety near-misses, 100 employees employees including uploading photos of the safety hazard. Once these reports are picked up by Sales Mangers, appropriate preventive action is taken, with the customer store management if appropriate. In 2018, 44 near misses were reported through the portal, demonstrating “We have a responsibility to protect our merchandisers, no matter where they work. In 2018, we made heightened awareness of merchandisers and great progress in helping keep them safe.” greater protection for their safety in their roles. In addition, we implemented safety training Toby Gutman, for contract-hired merchandisers which was Safety and Quality Manager, previously responsibility of suppliers. Sales Unit, Strauss Israel | 65 Maintaining processing and prior to distribution. We work closely with our growers to implement food safety safety standards and in 2018, for example, we installed a new lettuce harvesting machine Our foremost responsibility to the millions together with one of our growers, the first of of people who enjoy our food and beverage its kind in Israel. The main benefit is that the offerings every day is to deliver safe products process allows minimum contact with field that will improve their lives and not pose a soil during harvesting and therefore reduces risk to their health in any way. Our ability to contamination risk. continue to engage in our markets as a trusted New food safety system for Strauss Coffee: provider of food and beverage products relies In 2018, we went live with a new system for upon detailed attention to food safety. It Strauss Coffee which supports maintaining is fundamental to our long-term business high standards of safety throughout the success and value creation and to the health coffee supply chain. The new system is a of our communities. proprietary system that we developed with 100% of our food products in all our markets an external specialist company, and it covers are subject to strict regulatory guidelines supplier safety assessments, supplier audits and and labeling of ingredients and nutritional collaborative work with suppliers to address information. We comply in full with applicable safety risks and hazards. In 2018, we audited regulations and have not been subject to three production sites in Poland and Israel incidents of non-compliance resulting in using this new system. fines or sanctions during the past year with the exception of two minor incidents in Israel relating to packaged vegetables and one dairy product, which were quickly resolved “At Strauss Coffee, the entire supply chain team works hard to ensure that without product recalls or consumer harm. our factories deliver products of high quality to Where regulation is limited or not enforced, the customer. We are not complacent, and we we apply internal high standards both in our know that potential risks can arise at any time. factories and throughout the supply chain. Our Therefore, we decided to implement a new state food safety processes are regularly audited; in of the art proactive safety system tailored to our Israel in 2018, eight food safety audits were supply chain to further strengthen our position conducted in our factories by an independent on quality and safety.“ international auditor. Francis Bealin-Kelly, Examples of specific advances in food safety CTO, Strauss Coffee practices in 2018 include: Working with growers to improve fresh food safety: In Israel, we source the vegetables for our fresh salads and packaged fresh produce from local growers. We maintain strict quality and food safety standards through testing at all the phases of growing, delivering and processing salads and vegetables and apply triple-phase quality assurance on intake, 66 | Continuous Improving consumer service at Strauss Israel call center: Over the years, we have tried to improvement in make it as easy as possible for our consumers to reach us with their queries, concerns or customer service complaints, through a range of channels including telephone, email, online chat and Responsive and reliable customer service is an Facebook. In 2018, we added a new channel: important element of earning the trust of our text queries. Consumers can text with a customers. This was validate in feedback received service representative and even send photos through the annual Strauss Trust Survey. Our via text. This saves time for consumers and different divisions work with a very broad range enables them to speak with us whenever and of customers, ranging from large wholesalers, wherever is convenient to them. We continue major international and local retailers as well to measure the satisfaction of consumers as small stores, and in some businesses, we contacting the service center, and in 2018 we serve consumers directly, such as through our started surveying all consumers who contact franchised coffee kiosks or through Strauss Water, us rather than just a sample. Results in 2018 supplying and providing technical service directly were encouraging: to consumers. We also provide a comprehensive • 83% of consumers were very happy from service to consumers through our call centers to the service they received address their queries, concerns or complaints. We • 9 2% of consumers indicated they will consistently aim to provide first-class service to continue to purchase the product they all our customer and consumers. complained about • 88% of consumers indicated their attitude Examples of specific advances in customer towards Strauss is positive or very positive. service in 2018 include: Enhancing consumer experience by Strauss Water: In 2018, Strauss Water continued to improve service levels by upholding commitments that “In 2018, we achieved the highest level of customer satisfaction and maintained include technician service within 48 hours, progress in other customer service metrics. This improvements in delivery time for WaterBar is the result of our strong ongoing investment in components and consumer feedback requests ensuring our customers have the best experience after every interaction. We also continued to link both with their WaterBars and with Strauss Water. call center employee and technician bonuses Our customer retention rate increased by 15% to feedback frequency and quality. In addition, over the past two years.“ we have started to apply new digital tools to enhance the consumer experience with Strauss Liron Dolev, Water at all stages of their interaction with us. Head of Customer Service, Strauss Water Strauss Water Service metrics 2016 2017 2018 Customer satisfaction (via surveys) 6.8 8.5 9 Call center average waiting time (minutes) 4.02 1.49 1.56 Technician service within 48 hours 51% 79% 74% | 67 Caring for the environment As a responsible manufacturer of food and beverages with a global footprint, we act with respect for our natural environment and strive to minimize our impacts on climate change and global resource consumption. We believe that we can continue to grow our business and meet our consumers’ needs for healthy and nutritious products while exercising control over our environmental impacts. Importantly, our consumers, employees and many others expect us, as a responsible corporate citizen, to take care of the planet so that we and future generations can continue to thrive. We have publicly accounted for our environmental performance for more than ten years and continue to do so. Please see our performance dashboard in this report and in our downloadable GRI Content Index for details of our environmental performance on Strauss web-site. Some highlights: -4% energy use per -7% energy use per -5% water use per ton 82% of waste was ton of product ton of product of product in 2018 recycled/reused in 2018 since 2014 in 2018 -7% GHG emissions -13% GHG emissions -4% waste generation $10.7 million in per ton of per ton of per ton of environmental product in 2018 product product in 2018 expenditures since 2014 in 2018 Examples of improvements in resource materials used and overall waste generated. • Israel: saving 15% of the electricity consumption and reduced waste generation • Israel: ongoing sustainable waste disposal consumed by the compressed air system. We in 2018 include: including wastewater sludge to compost, implemented Israeli innovative technology • Romania: recycling coffee chaff generated product waste to animal feed, paper and with installation of underground buffer during the coffee roasting process in Romania. nylon to recycling and general mixed waste tanks. The large buffer (150 m^3) allowed • Romania: reducing the size of coffee for recycling as refuse-derived fuel (RDF). lowering of the system air pressure and vacuum packs by 7% with no change to In 2018, 3 factories in Israel achieved zero reduced the idle activity of the compressors. coffee weight in the pack, thereby reducing industrial waste to landfill. 68 | Ethical sourcing Responsible coffee procurement and human rights Strauss Coffee continues to be a member of the Global Coffee Platform and continues to purchase sustainable coffee in order to raise the economic value of coffee crops and provide Our extended supply chain, comprising tens of a boost to local economies. thousands of suppliers of goods and services in our different markets, is an integral part of our ability to provide delicious and nutritious foods and beverages to meet our consumers’ 2017 Purchased 6,896 metric tons of verified needs every day. We expect suppliers to uphold 4C coffees which is equivalent to 11.1% the same standards of ethical, responsible of our total coffee requirements and sustainable business as Strauss Group. By behaving with integrity towards our suppliers, and by working with suppliers who share our values, we enhance the trust of our consumers 2018 We purchased 2,768 mt of verified 4C and other stakeholders. coffees which is equivalent to 4.3% of Additionally, we are committed to respecting our total coffee requirements human rights in our value chain and in the communities where we operate. We comply with applicable laws governing human rights in the countries where we operate and conduct 2019 We plan to purchase approx. 1,400 our business with respect for human rights, metric tons of verified 4C coffees beyond the letter of the law, where appropriate. which is equivalent to about 2.1% of Our approach is underpinned in our Strauss our total purchases Group Code of Ethics and our participation in the UN Global Compact since 2008. Verified 4C coffees are coffees traded under a verification scheme governed by 4C Services In Israel, we continue (www.4c-services.org). to support womenThis green coffee procurement supplements our long-term collaborations for coffee development owned businesses and and sourcing through our More than a Cup initiative (see Section “Creating Long Term Value for Women Coffee Growers”). proactively seek to engage. In 2018, our Encouraging suppliers spend with women owned businesses with sustainability was more than We understand that our responsibility for ethical conduct extends right through our supply chain, so we were happy to support an initiative in Israel by Maala, a nonprofit advancing $21 million responsible business, to advance sustainability with smaller businesses. We mapped all relevant suppliers in our supply chain and encouraged eligible suppliers to join the program. In 2018, 75 smaller companies voluntarily participated in the Maala benchmark, of which 14 (19%) are Strauss suppliers. | 69 Ethics, and anti-bribery and instills a culture of Personal Data Protection compliance and compliance throughout the company. We educate our employees in the requirements With the introduction of various Data Protection Laws including the General Data Protection anti-corruption of anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) Regulation (GDPR) in Europe and the Data Protection Regulations in Israel, which set We aim to be compliant with all laws and and the UK Bribery Act of 2010, as well as with strict limits and rules for the collection and regulations applicable to our business as national laws and regulations in the countries use of personal information, we analyzed our well as with our internal standards, in all the where we operate. Specifically, we provide operations to identify what changes would countries in which we operate. Managers more extensive anti-corruption training for be required for full compliance. During 2018, within Strauss Group are responsible for employees in high-risk roles. There were no we put in place contractual and procedural adhering to compliance programs and confirmed incidents of corruption in 2018. frameworks to enable data privacy compliance. reporting to their respective Management and These include creating and implementing Data Board or Executive Committee. Strauss Group’s The global Strauss Ethics Hotline was established Privacy policies, procedures and other measures, Internal Auditor assesses the implementation in 2009 and has been managed by the Internal and comprehensive training for hundreds of of the company’s compliance programs Auditor since January 2011. Employees of employees in roles that are most affected by through regular audits. There were no Strauss Group companies around the world Data Privacy Laws requirements. In addition, confirmed incidents of non-compliance are encouraged without fear of reprisal to we also uphold our Strauss Group Data Privacy relating to marketing or environmental or access the Ethics Hotline by phone or via the Charter which stipulates the basic principles, social aspects in 2018. Strauss website. In 2018, the Hotline received goals and expectations that reflect our approach 5 approaches from employees and managers of Strauss to data protection and privacy. We maintain our Code of Ethics, available which were investigated and resolved. in eleven languages, to guide employees in the behavior expected of them as part of the We report transparently on our business Strauss Group. All new employees are trained impacts through this Sustainability Report, in the Code of Ethics and all employees take which also serves as an annual communication refresher training annually. Ethics Trustees are on progress to the United Nations Global appointed in each of our business units as a Compact. We believe in providing our point of contact for employees’ questions or stakeholders with information that can help reporting of suspected ethical breaches. The them make informed decisions in relation Ethics Trustees implement ethics training to Strauss Group. From time to time, we locally and ensure all procedures are followed. also publish additional or local reports. For example, in 2018, Obela Australia published Strauss Group upholds all applicable laws a Corporate Social Responsibility Summary and regulations regarding anti-corruption for Australia and New Zealand. 70 | Corporate governance At the end of 2018, the Strauss Group Board of Directors was comprised of 11 members, of which four were women. None of our Directors is an active executive of Strauss Group. Seven Directors are financial and accounting experts as defined in relevant regulation. During 2018, two new members were nominated to the Board following a targeted process to enhance Board. The need to recruit board members created an opportunity to add new skills and to optimize the composition and the diversity of the Board. The task of selection and nomination directors is an on-going process, focusing not only on the recruitment of a single Director, but on the entire representation within the Boardroom. The process aims to ensure that at any time, the Board consists of members with diverse skills and competencies who can deal effectively with Strauss Group's business and strategic challenges and opportunities. The two new Board members bring deep experience in the areas of public health (Professor Shuki Shemer) and marketing (Mr. Gil Midyan). For more information about our new Directors, see our website: www.strauss-group.com/ about-us/structure-management/board-members/. For details of our Board committees, see our website: www.strauss-group.com/about-us/structuremanagement/board-committees-rules/ The Board of Directors remains up-to-date with the activities of the Group and is well-versed in the challenges and opportunities that face our business, so they can contribute most effectively at a strategic level. In 2018, the Board of Directors met with management teams of business units, toured different Strauss Group sites and visited retailers and customers. Our Executive Team reports regularly to the Strauss Group Board on business progress against strategy, including on matters relating to sustainability. | 71 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is Strauss Group’s eleventh Sustainability Report and it describes the impacts of our business on our stakeholders in 2018. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. In addition, this report represents our annual communication to the United Nations Global Compact, to which we are signatories. Data presented in this report relates to the calendar year 2018. Our last full Sustainability Report was published in 2017, covering 2016. For the year 2017, we published a Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact to provide updates for our stakeholders in key areas of activity, as we did not publish a full GRI-based report in that year. We intend to continue publishing sustainability reports annually. In this report we have retained the material framework that was established in 2014 and remains relevant today, following internal validation. The boundaries of this report remain all Strauss Group companies under operational control, including managed Joint Ventures reported as full entities. No significant restatements of information have been made; small adjustments to data are noted alongside the data as presented. For our full GRI Content Index, please see our Sustainability Report website www.strauss-group.com We thank you for your interest in this report and would be pleased to hear your feedback. Please contact: Orit Braverman Sustainability Manager, Strauss Group Orit.Braverman@strauss-group.com Tel: +972-3-675-2400 www.strauss-group.com THANK YOU! Thank you for taking an interest in our Sustainability Report. We sincerely ask you to consider providing your feedback which will help us meet your needs more effectively. Please also visit our website, www.strauss-group.com , where you will find additional information and our sustainability blog, which is updated regularly. We acknowledge the hard work, passion and commitment of all Strauss employees who contribute to our business and sustainability performance, and to all those who contributed content for this Sustainability Report. Credits: Beyond Business Ltd-Elaine Cohen and Iris Rakovitzky (content and copy) Sher Consultants (environmental data) Studio Merhav (graphic design) Photography: Studio Details; Lior Nordman, Yossi Malul (page 39-40) www.strauss-group.com
