United Nations Global Compact ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issued: 01-FEBRUARY-2019 O P T I M I T Zagreb, 01 February 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Company OptimIT Reporting 01 February 201801 Name Date February 2019 Address Planinska 13a Membership 23 May 2013 HR-10000 Zagreb date Country CROATIA Number of 20 employees Responsible Denis Trupec Contact name Katarina Drnovšek person Managing Director for COP Manging Assistant E-mail denis.trupec@optimit.hr E-mail katarina.drnovsek@optimit.hr Phone +385 1 7897301 Industry Software development O P T I M I T Page 2 of 8 Nature of business OptimIT is a successful Croatian IT company specialized in custom software development based on Java platform, Open Source technologies and operating systems. The main areas of expertise represent Document Management Systems, Content Management Systems, eCommerce and Electronic Data Interchange (EDI). Our experts also developed specialized web-based solution CAP.CAP application that enables fast and secure dissemination of mass alerts and notifications in emergency situations. OptimIT analyses, develops, and maintains software solutions according to customer’s requests and specific needs. Our experts possess experience and knowledge necessary to offer integrated and customized solutions on a turnkey basis. Mostly common and verified technologies and platforms that our expert utilize are Intershop, Escenic, Liferay, Alfresco and EDInet. In past 15 years OptimIT has designed, developed and successfully completed over 100 projects in different areas such as: telecommunication, information technology, media, pharmaceutical, food, processing and trading sectors, etc. Consequently, our experts possess extensive experience in multi-national environment while working with national and international customers: private companies, governmental agencies and international organizations based in Croatia, Austria, Luxembourg, Slovenia, Denmark, United Kingdom, Serbia, Caribbean countries and Canada. OptimIT adopted ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 norms for quality and environment management systems and is committed to secure its market position as the leading force in the region and be at your service. O P T I M I T Page 3 of 8 Statement of support We are glade to take an active role in improving our world as a part of the UN GC “family”, and therefore submitting our new COP. It is my personal belief that business should promote responsible and sustainable development in everyday business and leadership activities as valuable investment in the future of Mankind and our Planet. I herewith confirm our long-term commitment to the United Nations Global Compact goals. It is our intention to support and implement the UN GC principles continuously in the future whenever possible. Denis Trupec, Managing Director GENERAL INFORMATION Company name: OptimIT d.o.o. Head office: Planinska 13a, 10 000 Zagreb, Croatia Owners: Mr. Denis Trupec, Mr. Damir Kovačić, Mr. Goran Petanjek and Mr. Goran Jakovljević Business type: Software development Year established: 28 December 2001 Managing Director: Denis Trupec Contact Person for COP: Katarina Drnovšek O P T I M I T Page 4 of 8 Corporate Vision, Mission and Value OptimIT is a propulsive company committed to creating optimal information systems and solutions aimed at improving our customers’ business processes, enabling them to use information technology in a simple and effective way. The company was established in 2001 and is privately owned. It enjoyed steady organic growth and currently holds 20 employees. The headquarters and the main office are in Zagreb, Croatia. The company is primarily oriented to provision of IT services and software development. Thus, all our staff are proficient in English language, hold university degree and are skilled IT professionals. In our work, we pay special attention to our customer's satisfaction, focusing on establishing long-term relationships with our partners and customers. We are committed to comply with professional and ethical norms of the industry and continuously enhance the quality of our services. With that purpose in mind we have adopted the worldwide accepted ISO9001:2008 standard for quality management systems, as well as ISO14001:2004 standard for environmental management systems in three disciplines: Software engineering, design of information system and IT services. OptimIT, as a part of UN Global Compact and Local UN Global Compact Network in Croatia; actively supports and promotes ten principles of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection, anti-corruption and social responsibility in our business activities. OptimIT considers its employees the greatest asset and believes that their exceptional performance and skills are fundamental to company’s success and quality of our services. It is our mission to provide our customers with the best suitable and customized IT solutions. We are aware that our employees' knowledge, experience and competence are an uncompromising precondition to do so. Therefore, our team consists of experts. All project leaders hold master or bachelor’s degrees in the field of computer science and have great working experience in an international environment. It is our wish to secure our position on the market as a leading force in the region and to be at customer´s service. We offer designs, development, support and maintenance services primarily focused on the Open Source and Java technologies stacks. Whether we design and develop new solution or upgrade existing ones, each project is tailored to customer’s specific needs and business environment. OptimIT offers competent and responsible people, coherent and motivated project teams with long experience in working together. We use the best practice and state-ofthe-art technologies, proven methodologies, planning, managing and monitoring processes for quality and timely implementation of projects. The outcome is secured top quality and efficient final product and service for the customer. We are completely customer-oriented in our work and create an ideal suitable IT solution that will optimize business processes and resources for our customers. O P T I M I T Page 5 of 8 UN Global Compact Principles The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights policies are already incorporated into our corporate culture, system of values, management style, and day-to-day business activities and communication. All our business processes and business relations are kept free from any human rights abuse. We are small company and as a small team we work close to each other in one big and comfortable office space. We care for the pleasant working atmosphere and we are colleagues who helping each other in all business situations. We adopted Rules of Procedure and we chose a Commissioner for the protection of the dignity of employees. Also, in our Office we have suggestion box. Our management board is always available for any suggestion and any questions, whether they are business or private nature. Our company have no experience with human rights violations. We do business in accordance with the regulations related to human rights and labour rights. OptimIT operates on a global market and we cooperate with customers of different nationalities or religions, and accordingly we do not allow any form of intolerance or separation. Our employees evaluate very positive this working experience in multicultural and multilanguage environment. O P T I M I T Page 6 of 8 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our employees are the core of our business and success. We strive to create a working environment based on positive approach to relations with others, where individual differences are honored and valued. Respect for the individual is one of our company's core values, reminding us all to treat people as we would like to be treated ourselves. We adopted Rules of Procedure and we chose a Commissioner for the protection of the dignity of employees. For any questions or other business-related matter, our employees can freely contact him with no fear of judgment or punishment. These questions and information are strictly confidential. All our workers are employed in accordance with the Labour Law of the Republic of Croatia. All of them have health and pension insurance. Our employees are well informed about labour rights. There is no force labour. All working overtime hours are adequately compensated with extra free days or payment. We also employ young, motivated people that just graduated and specialized in informatics, electrical engineering and computing. Our management has received few suggestions for education that will be accomplished in further period. Periodically the Company offers possibility to organize or provide specific training and education for its employees. In this moment in our team we have 20 employees, 6 women and 14 men in age between 19 and 49. Majority is between 25 and 35 years. Our employees are Croatian nationality and coming from different regions of Croatia. Our company don't have experience with incidents of violations of the Global Compact Labour principles. Our customers are companies and organizations from different countries and continents so our employees have experience of working in an international and multicultural environment. O P T I M I T Page 7 of 8 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We are constantly working on harmonizing the ethical, environmental and economic values of our business activities in a way necessary for a sustainable development. OptimIT has in place certified quality management system according to the ISO 9001:2008 standard. In this context, company established software development methodology and variety of procedures aimed at ensuring quality of deliverables, but also excellence in communication and organization of everyday working activities. We also hold ISO14001:2004 standard for environmental management. Now we are in a process to certify quality management system according to new ISO 9001:2015 standard. In our work we pay special attention to using environmentally friendly technologies. Software solutions and applications that we develop save paper, energy and work time. We recommend implementation of environmentally friendly business and technologies to our customers. The company regularly takes care of economical use of electricity and water. We also take care that paper, glass and plastic are placed in special containers for further recycling process. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We are committed to conducting our business in accordance with local and international regulations and procedures concerning anti-corruption. We are particularly intolerant towards any form of extortion or bribery from any part. Transparency of our business is our imperative. Our company operates transparently in all areas of work and regularly submits financial reports according to Croatian legislature. Ethical principles of the company are based on respect for the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Croatia, which shall comply with all employees. The Code of Ethics is incorporated into the Rules of Procedure. It regulates the behaviour of employees, performing work in accordance with the highest standards of the profession and the obligation to keep business secrets. Our Company don't have experience related to corruption, extortion and bribery. Most of our customers are international companies and organizations. O P T I M I T Page 8 of 8
