Helping Create Sustainable Indoor Environments SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Enabling Wellbeing Contents Chairman’s Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Group CEO Kai Konola Answers Questions on Corporate Responsibility . . . . . . . 5 Halton Group in Brief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Business Overview 2018 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Managing Corporate Responsibility at Halton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 The Steering Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Management Principles Guiding Corporate Responsibility at Halton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Principles and Coverage of CR Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 CR Risk Management in Halton Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Sustainability Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Halton’s Non-Financial Performance in 2018 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Key Responsibility Indicators at a Glance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Stakeholder Assessment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Materiality Assessment of Performance Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Halton and Corporate Responsibility: SWOT analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Economic Responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Purchases from Suppliers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Labour Productivity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Training in Anti-Corruption Policies and Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Social Responsibility (Own Labour) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Workforce by Employment Type and Contract . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Job Satisfaction and Employee Turnover . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Sick Days and Injuries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 Performance and Career Development Reviews . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 Ratio of Basic Salary of Men to Women . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 Environmental Responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Materials Used . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 Purchased Energy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 Energy Indirect GHG Emissions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 Energy Efficiency of Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 Waste . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 Suppliers Auditing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 Action Plan 2018–2020 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 Example: Customer Satisfaction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 GRI Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47 Contacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47 Hannu Hallila, Director, Corporate Responsibility, Halton Group hannu.hallila@halton.com Tel. +358 (0)20 792 2218 3 Halton Group SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Group CEO Chairman’s Foreword Kai Konola Answers Questions Halton is celebrating its 50th anniversary in 2019. Looking back, it’s clear to say that Halton has on Corporate Responsibility achieved its original targets. The founder, Seppo Halttunen, had a vision of building an international company based on its own production, research and product development, and with a good reputation among its customers. Right from the start, the company wanted to operate on an ethically sound basis. People’s wellbeing in indoor environments Concerning corporate responsibility, how are we became a key value and eventually the core of the doing today? company’s mission. This is also the basis for Halton’s new growth strategy, completed in early 2019, as the KK: We are in a good starting position in that we operate company bolsters its international position further in a highly skilled cleantech business which does not pose as a leading supplier of advanced indoor air soluus any major risks. Our solutions enhance people’s welltions and related technology. being and help save energy. Our customers and partners are willing to invest in quality, and the Halton Group has As Halton is increasing its global market share also maintained economic stability over the long term. On the in emerging markets, corporate responsibility issues other hand, we still have room for improvement regarding How is this reflected in Halton’s product and and addressing them consistently is becoming ever the environmental impact of our operations and establishsolution development? more important. As a result of new policy decisions ing sustainability-driven common processes and practices. and because we are standing on the threshold of Halton’s operating model relies on independent regional KK: We are developing more intelligent solutions utilizing our second half century in business, Halton has business units, and because of this we do not traditiondata on the indoor environment and end-user experience. raised sustainable operations as one of its strategic ally have many group-level processes in the company. This will enhance the quality and energy efficiency of cornerstones and will now publish its first corporate As we expand our operations in emerging markets, the indoor environments. We are also applying a more holistic responsibility report. The development of sustainimportance of these processes linked to our corporate approach to our end-user’s wellbeing in our selected able practices, and systematic documentation and responsibility will become greater. As part of our common customer segments in terms of reaching beyond indoor communication will boost the company’s competipolicies, we must provide our people with regular training air. We already offer indoor climate systems with integrattiveness and enhance its financial performance and on sustainability issues and policies in order to prevent any ed human-centric lighting and these have been received will enable Halton to offer its staff responsible and unethical or unsustainable action and to enable approprivery well. To offer the best outcome and convenience for competitive terms of employment. ate intervention in all our units when needed. Thanks to the customer in our projects, we will focus more strongly Halton’s traditionally strong ownership and values base, on delivering total solutions optimized for our customer Halton’s traditional operating idea – to enable corporate responsibility is widely respected in the compaenvironments. wellbeing in demanding indoor environments – ny and we have a solid ground to build on. has stood the test of time. Urban life is becoming increasingly the norm globally and people are What is your vision of Halton’s sustainable future? spending more and more time indoors. Therefore, What role does corporate responsibility play in the quality of indoor environments is growing in reaching the targets outlined in Halton’s new KK: There is an increasing demand for what we do. Many importance and Halton’s operating idea is becoming strategy? of the global challenges we will face in the future call for ever more relevant in today’s business world. Amid determined actions combined with progressive solutions. the modern global challenges and climate change, KK: Firstly, I believe that every highly skilled international I see Halton drawing on our extensive experience of the wellbeing in indoor environments is ultimately business can only create solid growth in a responsible field and co-creating these future solutions together with dependent on the conditions of the entire planet manner. More and more of our customers and partners our customers and partners. We will utilize digitalized and the success of sustainable solutions in all our are committed to complying with international recommensystems and our unique set of Halton Innovation Hubs operating environments. As we strive for wellbeing, dations, commitments and sustainability reporting standaround the world. Halton people play a crucial role in our we must therefore ensure that everyone wins. ards, and they require the same from their own business plans. Engaging our people and harnessing our innovative network. We too need to measure up to these standards. resources will be at the heart of our success in the future Mika Halttunen Secondly, we can help our customers and partners run too. Along with our corporate responsibility efforts, we will Chairman of Halton Group CELEBRATING 1969–2019 an even more sustainable business and enhance people’s also be looking more closely at our own operations and we wellbeing on their premises. The better we become in all will enhance these aspects in the company to make the this, the more opportunities we will have for growth. world a better place for future generations too. 4 5 Halton Group in Brief Business Overview 2018 The Halton Group is a global technology leader in indoor air solutions for demanding spaces. Halton’s business segments offer a globally unique range of expertise in indoor environments and we provide pioneering technology for commercial and public premises, healthcare institutions and laboratories, professional kitchens and restaurants as well as energy production environments and marine vessels. We promote and enable wellbeing by offering our end-users safe, comfortable and productive indoor environPositive Business Momentum in 2018 1,550 Halton employees in over 30 countries. Our latest ments that are energy-efficient and comply with sustainaHalton had a very positive and active year in 2018. The country addition was Chile, where we started local operable principles. markets were strong and provided good opportunities for tions in January 2018. Countries with Halton personnel growth. The building industry developed favorably in most of our markets. The markets in the food service, marine Licenced manufacturing New Strategy for 2025 Released Our mission is to enable people’s wellbeing cruise and ferry and healthcare sectors had very positive growth. Last year we carried out a significant amount of work on in demanding indoor environments. our new strategy toward the year 2025. This is now titled In 2018, the Halton Group had production units in Finland, Group sales reached their highest ever level of EUR 217.5 Mission 500. In indoor environments, we focus on Quality, France, Germany, Hungary, UK, USA, Canada, China, million. Our sales grew by 6% compared to 2017. This is Health & Safety and Sustainability. Malaysia and Brazil and eight R&D units in seven of these a good continuation of the growth that during the past 5 Leveraging our mission, enabling people’s wellbeing in countries. Licensed production is carried out in Southyears has been 4.6% (CAGR) each year on average. Within demanding indoor environments, we were able to find Halton was founded in Finland in 1969 by Seppo Africa, Mexico, New-Zealand and Australia. The Halton our strategic business areas (SBAs) growth was strongest several exciting new growth opportunities. We also firmly Halttunen. The company is owned by the Halttunen Group employs over 1,550 people in over 30 countries. The in the Marine and Foodservice SBAs. Our newest focus believe that our already existing SBA focus areas provide family and it is headquartered in Helsinki. company’s turnover in 2018 was nearly 218 million euros. segment is our Health segment, and this enjoyed good room for additional growth. market traction and grew by over 70% compared to 2017. Geographically Europe remained the largest region (58%), Succeeding in Mission 500 requires expanding the scope followed by the Americas (24%) and the Asia-Pacific (18%). of our offering and entering into new markets, both geoCustomers and partners To support our future growth, we continued to invest in people, innovations and operations. Our Empowering Engraphically as well as targeting new customer segments. These choices are made by each SBA. Examples of scope gagement program was released in June 2018. It aims to expansions include our turnkey business model offered by provide people and teams with practical ways to develop the Foodservice SBA to chain customers and our modtheir own levels of engagement with the company and its ular operating rooms for health customers. We are also HALTON BUILDINGS HALTON HEALTH HALTON FOODSERVICE HALTON MARINE mission. addressing interesting aspects of indoor wellbeing outside air solutions. One example of this are our Halton Culinary Indoor air solutions Indoor air solutions Kitchen ventilation, Cabin ventilation, To drive innovation, we invested approximately EUR 1 milLights for professional kitchens. and fire safety for for fire safety and galley ventilation, ﬁre lion in our Béthune factory research and product developintegrated lighting safety, central vacuum ment facilities and our unique show kitchen environment. Mission 500 also focuses on common enablers for • Public and commercial • Health care facilities solutions for cleaning system for buildings We continued the development of our manufacturing growth. We have worked on three main areas in this re• Operating theatres processes and tools, e.g., with major investments in Maspect. These are: strengthening the customer experience; • High-class ofﬁces and • Patient and isolation • Professional kitchens • Ships laysia and Finland. In the USA we acquired LCSystems Inc. enhancing our offering and operations through digitalizawork spaces rooms • Restaurants • Energy production to accelerate the entry of our comprehensive solutions tion; and developing our employee engagement. A good • Public venues • Medical and industrial • Food courts environments offshore into the North American market. As a result, our CAPEX example of our work in digitalization is the development labratories and onshore was exceptionally high (EUR 11.8 million). In spite of these of our next-generation remote management system to be • Heavy industry future growth-related investments, Halton Group’s relative utilized by all SBAs. profitability remained at a solid level of 7.2% (EBIT). The first steps of Mission 500 have been included in our These results were enabled by strong engagement from 2019 action plans. Halton Group Halton employees. At the end of 2018 there were over 6 7 Halton’s Value Creation Climate Change Global Economy Urbanization Air Pollution Technology, IoT DRIVING GLOBAL Minimizing the environmental Complying with ethical sourcing Contributing to healthy buildings by Providing quality replacement air Providing human-centric, impact of the production and principles and governance enabling safe and comfortable indoor and extracting effectively cleaned demand-based and fail-safe CHANGES products thoughout their life cycle environments exhaust air indoor environment solutions Full-scale modelling -Driven So st om e r l uti INPUT Cu o ns Solution Final design development Indoor Environment E n ga g e d peopl Agile Operation We create human wellbeing and economic value OUTPUT & IMPACT through enabling sustainable, Customerhigh-quality indoor environments. Manufacture driven selling e s Re th spon sibl e G row Life-cycle Services Logistics Comissioning & verification INPUT OUTPUT & IMPACT PEOPLE & LEADERSHIP MANUFACTURING PRODUCTS & SOLUTIONS ENVIRONMENT We offer meaningful duties to approximately 1550 We have 12 production units in ten countries and We solve our customers’ and users’ indoor We deliver energy-efficient and human-centric people in over 30 coutries around the world. We licensed manufacturing in four. Our production environment challenges with high-quality demand-based ventilation solutions that generate promote social responsibility in all our units units cooperate closely with our local R&D products and solutions enabling wellbeing in energy savings and help reduce the carbon through a common Code of Conduct. With our enabling agile projects. We produce demanding indoor environments within our footprint in our customer environments. Along Future Leadership Development program, we customer-driven products understanding local growing geographical reach. Our people in local with our corporate responsibility work, we also build a quality work place and culture. and highly specialized needs. Our global units understand the needs of our local and aim to cut our carbon footprint from own manufacturing network also allows flexibility regional customers and facility users. operations and to increase recycling in all INNOVATION with logistics arrangements. applicable areas. Our success is traditionally based on constant RESPONSIBLE SALES innovation and development supported by our PURCHASES We comply with ethical standards and guarantee SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY eight R&D centers, the Halton Innovation Hubs In all our puchasing operations, we comply with the safety of our solutions. We offer our We want to be a good corporate citizen and part operating as part of our factories in seven environmental and social responsibility standards customers and partners quality information and of society in every country we operate in. We countries. Halton has registered dozens of indoor through our Supplier Code of Conduct. In our support for their responsible purchasing support communities by paying taxes and air related patents along the decades. Based on energy purchases we aim to use renewable decisions. providing jobs, and by building better work our innovation assests, we aim to solve even the sources when possible. places for both the Halton staff and the people most challenging customer problems. We working in our customer environments. constantly develop our insights in co-creation FINANCIAL STABILITY projects together with our customers and Our operation is based on a long-term strategy partners. and agile execution creating financial value for our owners enabling future investments. 8 9 Management Principles Guiding Corporate Responsibility at Halton Roles and Principles Halton Group Policies Guiding Managing Corporate The CR Steering Group has defined Halton´s public management principles in order to guide the group’s CR Corporate Responsibility Responsibility at Halton activities. The principles were approved on January 1st in Halton’s CR policies are: 2019 by the Senior Executive Team, except for the Code of • Halton’s Code of Conduct; Conduct, which was approved by the Board of Directors • Halton’s Supplier Code of Conduct on November 1st in 2017. Corporate responsibility will be • Halton’s Environmental Policy managed as part of the normal planning and everyday work • Halton’s People Policy of the group. • Halton’s Health and Safety Policy Halton applies the Global Reporting Initiative standards as phase, this group will continue until CR has become so In this chapter, the contents of these policies are dethe basis for managing corporate responsibility and reportestablished that it does not need to be handled separately International Commitments scribed in brief. You will find the complete text of each ing on non-financial performance. Halton also recognizes but can be included in the group’s common management policy on our website: the requirements of the EU Directive on Non-Financial system. Halton is a multinational company, with its own production https://www.halton.com/en_GB/code-of-conduct Reporting. The directive does not directly apply to Halton units in ten countries (2018) and sales covering almost all https://www.halton.com/en_GB/other-group-policies because Halton is a non-listed company, but many of Halton’s CR Steering Group is chaired by the CEO and its parts of the world. Therefore, it is natural that Halton has enHalton’s customers conform to the directive, and as their members represent the directors of the business units gaged in voluntary commitments to common international supplier, Halton is keen to present similar policies and and chain business development, including the CFO, CPO agreements and initiatives, which in Halton’s case are: performance indicators. and the Group CR Director and Communications Manager. • The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises The CR Steering Group makes proposals on management • The ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and The Steering Group principles, operating models and programs and reports to Rights at Work and other relevant ILO Conventions the Halton Board. The Board of Directors decides on the In order to work systematically and take all necessary general business principles (Code of Conduct) and they We endorse the United Nations Global Compact strategic issues into account, Halton has set up a steering group will be notified of other CR issues such as the annual CR initiative for sustainable business practices and support the which has the responsibility for the CR development report. Global Compact’s Ten Principles focusing on human rights, work. After having completed the management system fair treatment of labour, respect for the environment and anticorruption. Halton was listed as a participant on the Global Compact website on December 17th, 2018. 10 11 CODE OF CONDUCT HALTON’S SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT HALTON’S ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Our Code of Conduct (“Code”) sets forth the most Though Halton does not have many suppliers that could Halton’s environmental actions take into account both the important principles and practices guiding Halton and its be regarded as risk suppliers regarding environmental, indoor environment, where energy efficiency and safety employees in all of their actions. The Code consists of the social and other risks, Halton wants to ensure that all its are important to customers who value people’s wellbeing, following areas: business partners comply with the same responsibility as well as the external environment, encouraging us to • Compliance with law (this applies to all countries in principles as Halton does. Therefore, a Supplier Code of minimize the environmental impact of our operations and which we operate); Conduct has been defined to outline the minimum expecproducts. • Human rights (this refers to the UN Universal Declaratations that Halton sets for its suppliers. tion of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration of FundaAll our operations have targets associated with energy, mental Principles and Rights at Work); The Supplier Code of Conduct consists of the water, and material efficiency and waste reduction. These • Employees (this stresses the value of diversity and prefollowing areas: issues are also taken into consideration in our product vents any offensive or other inappropriate behavior from • Compliance with laws and regulations; development and we strive to ensure that our products or towards our employees); • Respect for human rights and labour conditions (this are the most efficient available in the market. We measure • Anti-Corruption (this describes our actions for maintainincludes issues such as harassment, discrimination, our own environmental impact and aim at extending the ing a zero-tolerance approach); freedom of association, collective bargaining, child measurements to the use of our products and services. • Use of Halton’s funds and assets (personal interests labour, working hours, minimum wages); We cooperate with our key suppliers, encouraging them to shall not be in direct or indirect conflict with Halton´s • Occupational health and safety standards (this area implement their own environmental policies and practices interests); focuses on preventing and managing emergencies and that conform to Halton’s policies. We communicate this • Competition (our principles of promoting free competioccupational hazards, ensuring access to potable water, policy to all our employees and provide them with the HALTON’S HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY tion); sanitary facilities, adequate ventilation and lighting); resources needed for effective implementation. • Environment (refers to our compliance with environ• Adherence to ethical standards (conflicts of interest, Halton Group is committed to providing a safe and healthy mental standards and efforts to develop sustainable corruption, bribery etc.); workplace that promotes our own employees´ wellbeing. products and services); • Environmental responsibility (minimizing waste, emisIn our product development we concentrate on improving • Implementation and monitoring (the Code is included sions and the use of non-renewable resources); our customers’ indoor environments in order to enable the in employee training and compliance is continuously • Commitment to management (maintaining manageend-users’ wellbeing. monitored). ment systems to control risks and ensure compliance with laws and Halton’s requirements); All our units strive to adhere to our health and safety prinAs Halton’s reputation depends on the conduct of its em• Application to sub-suppliers (the same requirements ciples. We identify and evaluate all health and safety hazployees, each Halton employee is expected to comply with apply to sub-suppliers and this part of the Code of ards and manage their risks. We take preventive actions the requirements set forth in this Code without exception. Conduct specifically mentions conflict minerals tin, against accidents and injuries, and we measure and report Halton’s business partners are also required to endorse tantalum, tungsten and gold); HALTON’S PEOPLE POLICY data on critical health and safety issues. We provide occuthe principles of the Code as part of their contractual rela• Monitoring of compliance (includes on-site audits and Halton´s success is based on competent, motivated, pational health care services to our personnel and promote tionship with Halton. Specific requirements for suppliers documentation) engaged employees. Health, safety and wellbeing at work personal wellbeing by encouraging and supporting healthy are described in Halton Supplier Code of Conduct. • Violation (this part concerns corrective action plans, and as well as equal and fair treatment are important in all lifestyles and leisure activities. cases when the relationship will be terminated). countries where Halton operates. In Halton´s recruiting process, preference is based on objective evaluation of competences and suitability to the role. Salaries are based on job classification, local industry standards and legislation or collective agreements. High performance and engagement will be noted and rewarded. Job satisfaction is a key issue for our success and we monitor it regularly. Work Life Cycle management is an important area that effects employees´ wellbeing. We understand different phases and situations in our employees´ life and support their self-development. Halton belongs to employers´ associations in countries where significant possibilities for such memberships exist. Halton endorses freedom of association and collective bargaining and other terms of the ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We encourage open, proactive and responsible dialogue within our organization. 12 13 Principles and Coverage of CR Risk Management in Halton Group CR Reporting Goal The goal of risk management is to secure appropriate Halton’s CR report contains the standard disclosures cover all the production units first and then proceed onto risk identification, assessment and management, and to according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standard licensed production. As this CR report is the first one we monitor the related impacts across the group in a manner and takes into account that many of Halton’s customers have produced, we have still work to do to standardize the that enables the group to achieve its strategic and financial have to comply with the EU Directive on Non-Financial indicators in different units to verify their uniformity. goals. Reporting. The aspects and their indicators which are included in Halton’s reporting have been chosen in the We receive quite basic information about our suppliers and materiality assessment carried out by the CR Steering the raw materials and components they supply us with, Responsibilities Group. In considering the materiality assessment, the CR but we cannot say that we report much about what has The Board of Directors will review risks during its annual Steering Group took into account the information collecthappened before our own production. The same is true review of the implementation of the group strategy, evaled in our stakeholder assessment, risk assessment and with the end of the value chain – we cannot obtain inforuate the adequacy of the risk management and, if necesSWOT analysis. mation about how our products are used and how they sary, propose corrective measures. In addition, the Board are disposed of. Year by year, we will improve our data will regularly monitor the realization of risk management The Halton Group consists of production units in five on the energy our products consume when used by the at Board meetings held three times a year to consider the European countries and in four countries outside Europe. end-users of our products, as well as the share of recycled current status of different business operations. At these Licensed production is carried out in South-Africa, Mexico, materials in our production and the recyclability of our meetings, the executive management will provide the New-Zealand and Australia. In addition to production units, products at the end of their life cycles. In that way, we will Board with an interim report on the business area operathere are sales offices in important market areas around widen our value chain in both directions in the future. All tions. the world. The Group employs approximately 1,550 people deviations and limitations are reported in connection with in over 30 countries. The aim of Halton’s CR reporting is to the indicators and in the GRI Index. The directors of business areas and business units will ensure that all units and staff in their business units abide by local laws and regulations, and the Halton Code of Conduct. Development Plan Halton’s key operational risks include financial, customer, competition, employee, delivery, data security, data protection, intellectual property rights, and environmental and social risks. A decision has been taken within the company to continuously develop risk management in order to cover the company’s operations more comprehensively, to clarify its risk management responsibilities, and to enable proactive risk management, and, where necessary, to enact rapid corrective measures. 14 15 Sustainability Performance The Halton Way Our values guiding all of our work are the following: Halton’s Non-Financial Performance in 2018 CUSTOMER FOCUS Halton has collected CR data starting from the year 2017, and there Customer focus has been the foundation of Halton’s success is no comparable data from the previous years. We aim to make since the beginning and it will determine our success in the future our results proportional to our business volume, so that readers can too. We want to add the highest value for our carefully selected compare our starting point to other companies which have a longer segments in the markets. history in reporting and have described their development in the last few years. We comment on the possible lack or inadequacy of data We focus on meeting our customers’ and partners’ true needs under each indicator and in the GRI Index. and solving their indoor environment challenges even in the most demanding environments. Everyone at Halton works in customer service either externally or internally. Key Responsibility Indicators at a Glance TRUST AND ETHICS HALTON´S NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IN 2017–2018 Trusting and being trustworthy lays the foundation for 2017 2018 rewarding collegial and business relationships. We provide solutions for critical environments where trust and reliable Turnover EUR million 205.3 217.5 performance are fundamental. • per employee EUR thousand 136 139 Ethical and fair behavior is the foundation of trust. We treat our Profit before taxes EUR million 14.8 15.3 employees fairly and equally. Regarding our customers and • per employee EUR thousand 9.8 9.7 partners, we see to it that all of our actions meet ethical standards. Employees TEAMWORK • number 1,513 1,569 Success requires teamwork between individuals, teams and • sick days % 3.5 4.1 units. Co-operation, interdependence inside Halton and a strong Use of materials in tons 7,304 8,162 commitment to adding value to our customers form the foundation of Halton’s global success. • stainless steel in tons 3,226 3,644 • galvanized steel in tons 3,017 3,149 We focus on solving all the problems our customers have that Halton can help with, regardless of our organizational borders. • total use in tons per EUR 1 million in turnover 35.6 37 Waste in tons 2,522 2,763 CONTINUOUS LEARNING recovery rate % 93.3 95.1 The world is changing rapidly. To keep up with and to seize emergPurchased energy MWh 18,029 16,982 ing opportunities, we must continuously develop ourselves and improve our operation. We also value active self-development. • electricity MWh 9,894 9,581 • heat MWh 4,363 4,850 Continuous learning is an important element of job satisfaction that contributes to higher customer satisfaction. • fuels MWh 3,772 2,551 • total energy MWh per EUR 1 million of turnover 8.8 7.8 POSITIVE ATTITUDE CO2 emissions 1) tons n/a 2,000 We look into the future with curiosity and an encouraging spirit. • tons per EUR 1 million of turnover n/a 9.2 We value a proactive, solution-focused and positive attitude and atmosphere. To guarantee the best outcome even in challenging 1) Rough estimation situations, instead of complaining, we focus on making a difference. 16 17 STAKEHOLDER OVERVIEW AND MATRIX Stakeholder Expectations Our Actions CUSTOMERS & • Insight in customer needs • Develop our competitive insight and PARTNERS • Good added value increasing co-creation with customers • Premium quality and long life-span • Adopt sustainability and CR as key strategic focus area. • Reliability, low risks Customers and Partners are the most important • Develop positive handprint further • Easy-to-do-business-with Stakeholder Assessment and influential stakeholder group. By using Halton • Enhancing sustainability in our target • Develop our operation to meet quality, solutions, our customers want positive effects on their environmental and health & safety environments CR Steering Group started developing the CR manageoperations, leading to wellbeing, productivity and suscertificate requirements globally • Local presence in all market areas ment system by carrying out a stakeholder assessment. tainability on their premises. They want the solutions • Increase transparency by providing more • Meet or exceed all regulatory and data on handprint and foot print This assessment consisted of the following parts: and services to be reliable and risk-free and to provide sustainability requirements added value. Furthermore, they want Halton to comply • Expand global presence • Accurate and consistent product • Identifying the stakeholders; with their own promises concerning regular customdocumentation and warranty • Examining the requirements/expectations of each er interaction and reporting. Halton is responding to stakeholder group; these expectations by improving overall transparency, EMPLOYEES • Compelling company mission, credible • Develop our competitive edge and future strategy and sustainable financial promote growth • Halton’s own actions (present and future) for respondincreasing life-cycle services to ensure the long-term performance • Develop leadership skills and work ing to the requirements/expectations; functioning of Halton solutions, developing methods of • Permanent employment competencies • Halton’s own expectations concerning the stakeholders; monitoring and remotely adjusting indoor environmen• Measures of success of stakeholder engagement. tal conditions, developing pollution control systems, • Fair and equal treatment, professional • Develop people management model and leadership processes adding environmental and health and wellbeing certifiThe group analyzed each stakeholder group’s importance cates, and so on. Businesses utilizing Halton’s solutions • Safe working environment • Promote employee wellbeing and safety to Halton as well as their influence on Halton’ work. The emphasize efficient, reliable and thorough preand • Equitable and incentive rewarding • Enable transparency, continuous main stakeholders are briefly discussed below. post-sale support and accurate product documentation. • Opportunities for training and personal communication Halton has taken into account these customer needs development and is also planning to develop ways to calculate the • Work life-cycle management added value provided by their solutions. END-USERS • Safe, comfortable and sustainable indoor • Verify system performance environment • Increase insight in end-user needs Employees are of crucial importance to Halton’s OWNERS • Long-term strategy and value creation • Implement growth strategy success and are an essential stakeholder group. They appreciate transparent, fair and equal leadership, • Drive wellbeing in indoor environments • Sustainability regarded and with high-quality solutions communicated as a strategic corner including interactive communication, well defined roles • Competent employees, best professionals stone for the operation and responsibilities and good opportunities for self-de• Responsible corporate citizen • Act as trusted partner to all stakeholders velopment. A positive company image and reputation as well as equitable and incentive inducing rewards are • Excellent reputation globally • Engage Halton’s employees and enable wellbeing at work important for employees. Halton takes care that the supervisors are well trained and monitors the employees’ SUPPLIERS • Liquidity and low risks • Supplier Code of Conduct available on opinions using regular leadership and wellbeing indices. • Long-term business relationship Halton’s web site alto´Halton´ • Clearly communicated expectations and • Develop supplier management including transparent processes audits The Owners are naturally an important stakeholder • Feedback and support to enable service • Develop contract management group. Halton is a family-owned company – and has dedevelopment • Develop monitoring cided that CR will be a visible part of Halton’s strategy. • Increase interaction with suppliers The owners want to see sustainable value creation in SOCIETY & • Good corporate citizen and tax payer • CR including environmental and other Halton’s operations, emphasizing long-term aspects, COMMUNITIES certificates • Compliance with rules, regulations and avoiding breach issues, creating positive impacts on (authorities, regulatory agreements • Sponsoring, donations e.g. by Halton communities and the environment. Halton is a responparties, NGOs, fieldFoundation • Cooperation with communities sible company and wants others to know about it. specific associations) • Sponsoring, donations • Develop overall management system The CR development project will take into account the • Open communication • Corporate communication on the owners’ expectations and wishes. company website STUDENTS & • Internship and summer job opportunities • Hire students for internships, summer Other stakeholder groups assessed were suppliers, UNIVERSITIES • Thesis opportunities jobs and thesis positions authorities and regulatory parties, NGOs, trade unions, • Scholarships • Participate in student events sector-specific associations, the media and communities. The contents of the assessment can be seen in • Offer scholarships the attached table. The relevant actions planned are • Cooperation projects with universities disclosed in the Action Plan and the performance in MEDIA • Publish relevant business news • Corporate communication on the each area is reported in the annual CR Report. • Participate and share industry insight company website incl. CR pages • Press activities on significant business proceedings and industry findings • Content articles and SoMe posts 18 19 Materiality Assessment of Performance Indicators In choosing the material aspects and indicators for for Halton’s purposes and will probably not be expanded Halton’s CR management and reporting, the CR Steervery much in the years to come. Customer satisfaction ing Group utilized the GRI Standard as a checklist and and initiatives to produce energy-efficient products are at discussed the importance and relevance of each aspect top of the list, as well as a breakdown of the economic and indicator of the standard, from both Halton’s and the value distributed to stakeholders. Other indicators which stakeholders’ points of view. The stakeholder assessment received quite heavy weight from the steering group Agile and Effective Operations provided plenty of input for this discussion, as well as the include job satisfaction and employee turnover, screening 201-1a Economic value distributed risk assessment. suppliers using environmental criteria, and training staff on 204-1 Purchases from suppliers anti-corruption policies and procedures. Data on materials 301-1 Materials used As this report is Halton’s first, the list of material indicators used and the share of recycled materials are also high up 302-2 Purchased Energy is not yet very long, but it is already quite comprehensive on the list, as are purchased energy, GHG emissions and performance reviews. Responsible Growth 205-2 Training in anti-corruption policies and procedures 301-2 Percentage recycled materials 305-2 Greenhouse gas emission 306-2 Waste Materiality Assesment 308-1 Screening of suppliers using environmental criteria 10,00 414-1 Screening of suppliers using social criteria 412-2 Employee training on relevant human rights Responsible Growth CRUCIALLY Customer Driven Solutions Customer Driven 302-5 Initiatives to produce energy-efficient products IMPORTANT Solutions 417-1 Information requirements on products sold 102-4 Customer satisfaction surveys Engaged Employees 8,00 Engaged People Importance to Stakeholders 201-1c Labour productivity VERY IMPORTANT Effective Operations 401-1a Workforce by employment type and contract 401-1b Employee turnover and satisfaction 403-2 Sick days and injuries 404-1 Training by employee category 404-3 Performance & Career development reviews 405-2 Ratio of basic salary of men to women 6,00 All 21 indicators chosen as material can be seen in the Materiality Assessment Table. The status of each indicator IMPORTANT is reported in the relevant section and summarized in the GRI Index at the end of the report. IMPORTANT VERY IMPORTANT CRUCIALLY IMPORTANT 4,00 6,00 8,00 10,00 Importance to Halton Overview of Halton’s key areas regarding the materiality assessment 20 21 CASE Halton Innovation Hub From the very beginning, Halton’s trust in the power of research and development has formed the basis of its customer-driven, high-quality solutions. Its research and product Agile Operations development center established in Kausala, Finland, in 1984 was a huge investment, given the size of the company at the time. However, it quickly differentiated Halton from its competitors and demonstrated the importance of R&D facilities to a stable and growing business. The company now has seven R&D centers, eight Halton Innovation Hubs in eight countries Seppo Halttunen, the founder of Halton, believed on three continents, in which product development and soluthat large companies had amazingly inefficient organi­ tion testing are performed in close cooperation with customsations. He wanted to create a company that would ers and partners. The Kausala Innovation Hub, with its 1,500 do everything better: would function more efficiently square meters of research facilities, remains Halton’s biggest and could develop into the best international player in R&D center. In terms of performance, it still compares well demanding vertical markets. On this basis, Halton’s indewith the competition. pendent business units developed over the decades into an extensive global organization, with an entrepreneurial The Kausala Innovation Hub offers testing and measurement business model which has provided the foundation for of customized indoor climate systems by means of full-scale financially sustainable operations and above-trend mock-ups simulating the indoor climate conditions in cusgrowth. Foodservice, which is Halton’s largest business tomer premises as well as visualizing the performance of area, has performed best, multiplying its net sales more the solutions at hand to meet each customer’s needs. The than 11-fold since 2000. Hub has special facilities for measuring indoor environment circumstances covering air temperatures and velocities and Halton’s success is based on a highly developed unfurther, measuring acoustics. derstanding of the customer’s needs and the ability to produce the most suitable, tailored solutions for different segments and geographical areas. The high degree of autonomy of its organizational structure, which is based on small or medium-sized regional units, enables agile operations and fast reaction to emerging customer needs in different regions, and investment in quality that differentiates Halton from the competition. On the other hand, Halton’s global organization and segmentation has enabled it to find wider markets for many of its technologies based on regional R&D. In other words, Halton has been able to combine a small company’s lack of bureaucracy and light administrative touch with a global corporation’s economies of scale. Its international production network has also provided flexible logistics. In addition, Halton’s private ownership structure has given it room for maneuver in comparison to companies with quarterly horizons and centralized, top-down management. Halton Group provides its autonomous units with ambitious growth targets and high-level strategic frameworks, within which they are free to develop their strategies as close to the customer as possible. At Halton, the executive team and employees have traditionally been closely interwoven, with the units functioning as tight-knit small communities. Face-to-face interaction and flat organizational structures provide the basis for an entrepreneurial culture in which anyone can engage in innovation, and there is a short route from ‘customer needs to deeds’. 22 23 Customer-Driven Solutions The quality of the indoor environment has both shortThe trend of global urbanization is driving the construction term and long-term impacts on the occupants of buildings. of new buildings and indoor premises. At the same time, Considering that people spend more than 90% of their requirements for indoor environment quality and for solutime indoors, the indoor environment and indoor air quality tions that minimize environmental impacts and are also are inevitably crucial to the wellbeing of large numbers of comfortable are increasing. Halton seeks to grasp this oppeople and for the effective operation of businesses and portunity to the full to both grow its business and to leave organizations. This becomes even more relevant in the a yet stronger and more positive environmental handprint. demanding environments that Halton focuses on, such as professional kitchens or healthcare facilities. In kitchElements of Indoor Environment Quality ens there may be considerable toxic or heat emissions Indoor environment quality (IEQ) refers to the quality and moisture caused by cooking and appliances, while in of the building’s environment in relation to the health health-care there may be extremely strict standards for and wellbeing of the people who occupy the space in it. air purity. Demanding conditions in buildings also require The IEQ is determined by several factors, but the most highly efficient indoor air systems. The energy consumpfundamental aspects are the indoor air quality and thermal tion of these systems is an important factor impacting comfort, acoustics and lighting. During the past years, the both carbon emissions and the operating costs in these company’s focus has expanded increasingly towards inteenvironments. Halton is a fully customer-driven provider of grated and automatically adjustable, human-centric lightindoor environment solutions and this means that all these ing. Halton also provides ventilation systems adjustable by challenges must be tackled. users or by automation based on indoor circumstances, which helps enhance the overall IEQ. Wellbeing and Energy Efficiency in Professional Kitchens For decades, Halton has contributed to both improving indoor environment conditions and the energy efficiency Halton is well-known as a provider of premium systems, The indoor climate conditions in commercial kitchhave potential carcinogenic effects. Particulate matter in its target environments. The company’s indoor enviand the ability to adapt to various architectural and interior ens often vary considerably compared to domestic emitted from cooking oil fumes has been associated ronment solutions directly impact the end-users’ health, design solutions has proved to be a strong competitive adkitchens. In commercial kitchens, effective ventilation with respiratory problems, lung cancer and cardiopulsafety, comfort and work intensity, as well as the energy vantage. By enabling the realization of high-quality facilities is required because 1) there is considerable convective monary deaths. Ultrafine particles (UFPs, diameter < consumption of the facilities. that consider a broad spectrum of human-centric indoor and radiant heat given off by cooking equipment, 2) 100 nm) that form the major part of emitted particles environmental aspects, Halton is also contributing to the the air becomes laden with odors, grease, fumes, and have been shown to be more toxic than larger partiwellbeing and long-term benefit of all the involved parties. products of combustion, 3) the humidity levels can incles due to their smaller size and larger surface area. crease easily over a wide area, 4) air replacement and The highest particulate matter exposure comes from a consistent air temperature are required throughout pan-frying, while the lowest occurs when boiling or the cooking area and 5) supply air is required to dilute steaming food. and replace combustion products and to ensure the complete combustion of fuel (gas fired appliances). Commercial kitchens have a high risk of fire because of grease discharges. Vapor and small grease particles To maintain a quality indoor climate, it is also necrise above kitchen equipment and settle on hoods, essary to take care of the balance between the air for instance. This means that not all grease ends up Indoor Air Quality streams in the kitchen space and hence the air presin the filtering system but stays and accumulates on sure. If there is under pressure in the space, replacesurfaces where it can easily ignite. When accumulating ment air may leak in through alternate routes, thus on the kitchen floor or working surfaces grease can Lighting Comfort INDOOR Acoustic Comfort bringing in pollution and contaminants. also pose other safety and hygiene risks. ENVIRONMENT QUALITY Health Risks and Work Environment Kitchens are very hot working places. Studies have The amount and type of emissions from cooking shown that if the room temperature increases by depend strongly on a variety of factors. These include 5.5°C above comfort level, productivity may drop by as Thermal Comfort the cooking ingredients, type of stove and cooking much as 30%. For most people, this comfort level is at temperature. Both gaseous pollutants and particulate room temperatures between 20–22°C, while temperamatter are emitted during cooking and they have imtures in commercial kitchens can sometimes reach up pacts on health. For example, polycyclic aromatic hyto 40–50°C. This high temperatures undoubtably has a Architecture – HVAC design drocarbons (PAHs) and aldehydes have been shown to huge toll on a chef’s productivity and wellbeing. Interior Design – Control Systems 24 25 Noise levels in kitchens often reach over 80 dB and studies have shown that people should not be exposed to 85 dB noise for longer than 8 hours. Chefs often work 16-hour shifts making them exposed to dangerous sound levels for extended periods of time. Continued noise in the kitchen also contributes to increased levels of stress. One major source of noise in the kitchen is the ventilation system. Numerous factors affect the amount of noise that a kitchen ventilation system emits, including the design of the kitchen, the hood used, the ductwork, filters and size. Last but not least, lighting is an indoor environment factor has received very little attention in kitchens until recently. Studies have shown that different shades of light have significant effects on alertness and behavior in the workplace. Also, the amount of natural light greatly affects people’s mood and stress levels. Most commercial kitchens lack windows, so there is a complete absence of natural light present. For this need, Halton has developed an integrated human-centric lighting system that adjusts the color temperature and brightness to the human circadian rhythm, thus creating both employee wellbeing and energy savings. Safety and Wellbeing in Healthcare Facilities The importance of the indoor air quality (IAQ) is the most serious invisible health risk in these clean especially highlighted in healthcare facilities. Most rooms. They can multiply, form colonies and remain critically this is essential in clean rooms, such as infectious on surfaces, as well as spread to people operating rooms and laboratories, isolation areas and via the air and/or by touch, depending on the particle hospital pharmacies. Factors affecting IAQ include size. Energy Efficiency and High-Performance Meeting Building Regulations and Reducing the particle quantity, temperature, humidity and Ventilation the Environmental Impact pressure as well as movement and flow routes of Apart from people, the quantity of particles in the Kitchen ventilation is the largest user of energy in the A kitchen ventilation system is one of the most comthe air. indoor air is affected by the type and quality of the average commercial service business. The high energy plex parts to design when putting up a foodservice staff clothing, pressure differences between spacconsumption is driven by both the food-preparation establishment. Different building regulations set sevIn clean rooms, indoor air is subject to exceptionales, as well as the number of times that doors are equipment and the commercial kitchen ventilation. The eral requirements for the appliances and systems of a ly high hygiene standards. One purpose of indoor opened and the time they remain open. Research power needed to exhaust air in a kitchen hood increascommercial kitchen ranging from fire safety to channelair solutions for clean rooms is to prevent particles has shown that hygiene levels in operating rooms es exponentially, by a cube factor, with respect to the ling exhaust air, and the control of airborne pollutants at from entering the indoor air and to remove particles during surgeries in terms of particle concentrations air flow. Consequently, any reduction of this airflow the discharge point, for example, may be a prerequisite already in the air. In these spaces, people are a cenmay rise considerably higher than the target levels. will directly result in substantial energy savings. At for running a restaurant to achieve the desired cooking tral source of particles. The human skin sheds 3–15 the same time, the system’s ability to maintain quality volume and style on the premises. grams of dry skin in one day. This results in as many The microbe and particle quantities in the air of opindoor air should not be compromised. In traditional as 10 million particles. During surgery, the number erating rooms are known to be the most significant ventilation systems, the volume is adjusted manually of particles shed by ten people, for example, is in external factor causing infections in surgery, and are and often left to run at full speed for all operating hours. the millions. About a fifth of this number of particles a major cause of hospital infections. The existence Halton’s patented hood technology and intelligent decan be carriers or causes of infection. The latter are of drug-resistant microbes highlights the importance mand-based ventilation solution together help optimize referred to as potentially colony forming units, CFUs. of a hygienic indoor climate. the exhaust flow rates for the real amount of cooking They consist of various microbes and viruses and are and cuts energy consumption by up to 50% or more. 26 27 Halton and Corporate Responsibility: SWOT analysis STRENGTHS WEAKNESSES • Cleantech business and wellbeing adopted as a • Limited experience in CR reporting requirements genuine mission – positive handprint and procedures because CR work at Halton started • Wellbeing and energy-efficiency are traditional only recently cornerstones in Halton’s strategy. This is now • Group-wide understanding of how CR and reinforced as CR has been recognized as a sustainability drive profitable business and growth strategic focus area. is still to be created • High-quality products with long lifespan • Group-wide CR measurement practices and related • Less emissions caused by transportation of goods common processes at learning stage due to manufacturing close to customers • Global personnel with conditions of employment • Long-term customer and partner relationships reflecting local standards demonstrate high customer satisfaction • Local autonomy slowing down the adoption of • Private owner enabling long-term planning through common global practices different business cycles OPPORTUNITY THREATS • Several megatrends are creating increased • Suppliers’ or partners’ code of conduct conflicting demand for cleantech and wellbeing solutions, with our sustainable standards CASE The New Karolinska Hospital highlighting e.g. health issues and wellbeing at • Customers and partners with growing CR demands work exceeding our preparedness in sustainability Halton’s indoor climate system for operating rooms, the Halton Vita OR, • The digitalization trend provides opportunities to questions was developed together with project partners for the New Karolinska further enhance our positive handprint and reduce • Political instabilities, pressures and regulations Hospital in Stockholm, Sweden, that opened in 2016. Here, Halton proemissions, and to add customer and user value impeding compliance with sustainable principles vided a revolutionary technology that brings the level of hygiene required • The market demand for sustainable solutions and by demanding operations to the entire operating room. No limitations demonstrated CR compliance is growing are made to the operational layout as they would be in zonal systems. Halton’s solution is used in all flexible operating rooms, as well as in hybrid operating rooms in the new Karolinska University Hospital. The standards for controlling the levels of particles and pathogens vary from country to country and by type of operation from hospital to hospital. For example, the New Karolinska Solna hospital in Stockholm has set the limit value of its operating rooms to <5 CFUs/m3, while in many other national standards, the limit value for ultraclean operations is <10 CFUs/ m3. Halton’s solutions for operating rooms (with a patient and a staff of ten people) make it possible to achieve a level of <5 CFUs/m3. This was pre-validated prior construction by measurements conducted in simulated surgeries in the operating room laboratory built in Halton’s Innovation Hub product development facility in Kausala, Finland. have provided levels as low as 0 CFUs/m3. Furthermore, independent a 3rd party on-site qualification was conducted by the New Karolinska Hospital. In all, the OR ventilation solution underwent one the most throughout qualification processes of any hospital globally before it was adopted by the hospital. 28 29 Economic Responsibility ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED TO STAKEHOLDERS The economic benefit divided between stakeholders in 2017–2018 was the following: Economic value distributed to 2017 2017 2018 2018 stakeholders 2017–2018 Mill. EUR % Mill. EUR % Purchases from suppliers 80.7 39.3 % 87.9 40.4 % Other goods and services 30.7 15.0 % 31.8 14.6 % Salaries and other benefits 59.7 29.1 % 62.6 28.8 % Social security payments 14.9 7.3 % 15.4 7.1 % Interests paid 0.4 0.2 % 0.2 0.1 % Dividends paid 2.3 1.1 % 1.9 0.9 % Investments Taxes paid Left in company for further development 6 5.8 4.8 2.9 % 2.8 % 2.3 % 10.9 4.1 2.9 5.0 % 1.9 % 1.3 % Responsible Growth Turnover 205.3 217.5 As usual in industry, the suppliers receive the largest share of the economic value created and employees the second largest. CASE Halton Malaysia, Asia The roots of Halton’s mindset towards business responsiFor Halton, Malaysia has functioned as a regional center, bility lie in the strong family company culture and the confrom which the company has exported products and sequent long-term operations and persistence in building opened new business units in other Asian countries. Today, Purchases from Suppliers Training in Anti-Corruption Policies growth. In the developing Asian markets, this heritage has Halton has its own staff working in thirteen countries in and Procedures proved to be especially significant. the region, including Korea, Japan, China, Hong Kong, SinAmong Halton’s suppliers, 1,380 companies represent 80 gapore, Philippines, India, UAE, KSA, Indonesia, Thailand per cent of Halton’s purchases, and the rest supply small In 1996, Halton took a strategic step and started operand Vietnam. quantities or are in an irregular relationship with Halton. As Halton has employees in over 30 countries and custo­ ations and a factory in Port Klang, in Malaysia. UnfortuThe value of the overall purchases amounted EUR 80.7 mers and suppliers all over the world, it is a fact that nately the timing was not good, as the rapidly growing Expanding into new markets allows Halton to be close million in 2018. We do not have statistics on the geographcorruption and bribery have to be taken into account in our tiger economies collapsed in 1997. A great deal of investto new customers who may also come with new needs. ical division of the purchases – usually each manufacturing risk management. ments and development projects in the region had to Sometimes local innovations developed for local customunit buys the raw materials and components. This also be cancelled. Halton made a significant exception for its ers may end up having a greater global potential. The first depends on whether such suppliers exist close-by. Our anti-corruption policy is written both in our Code of Malaysian opera­tions, even though the new business unit product developed specifically at Halton’s R&D center in Conduct and our Supplier Code of Conduct. In addition, was operating deeply in the red. In many companies, this Malaysia was the mobile cooking station MobiChef that our employees have been provided with more detailed would have meant shutting down operations. Halton did was launched in 2014 in Singapore. Since then, its story Labour Productivity instructions and advice in the “Halton Way” leaflet. We not give up but postponed its business steps knowing it has continued on other continents, and the Halton Mohave a very clear zero tolerance approach on these issues. was working toward the right goal. In 24 years, Halton has biChef is now being manufactured in France for the EuroWe report our labour productivity – in terms of the sales grown a EUR 30 million business in Asia, employing over pean market, and in Australia. Recently, it was certified and and profit per person – on the Group level, as wages, curOur employees have been familiarized with the Codes 250 people in the region today. launched for the North American and Canadian markets. rencies, costs of living etc. differ very much from country and other instructions by their supervisors. E-learning to country, and the country-specific figures would not be material focusing on our Code of Conduct is part of the In March 2013, Halton officially opened its first Asian R&D Wherever Halton operates, it follows the group’s common comparable. In the future, when we have published reintroduction process for employees, so all new employees center on its Malaysian premises. In November 2013, Code of Conduct. For many developing areas in the world, ports for a few consecutive years, it will be possible to see will be trained. The material is also available on the Halton Halton relocated the premises from Port Klang to Subang this means applying standards that are higher than the how the productivity has developed. intranet, the Halton HIVE. Jaya to a new manufacturing facility of 5,000 sq. meters average of the surrounding business environment. Furtherin size. The factory specializes in manufacturing commermore, the company values economic responsibility and In 2018, our turnover per person was EUR 141,000 (EUR Any Halton employee who becomes aware of or suspects cial kitchen ventilation systems designed for hotels and consideration regarding making the right investments to 135,681 in 2017) and our operating profit per person was a violation of the anti-corruption or other rules, is required restaurants as well as institutional and corporate catering, continue building Halton’s long-term success and growth, EUR 9,880 (EUR 9,805 in 2017). to report his/her concerns either to their unit management chain restaurants and quick service restaurants in the and the company’s ability to provide people with safe or through internal communication. Asia-Pacific region. employment. 30 31 Employees Number of % of men / Men Women Men Women 2017 2018 Social Responsibility employees women 2017 2017 2018 2018 Finland 429 427 Finland 73.2 % 26.8 % 72.5 % 27.5 % Other Europe 641 653 Other Europe 81.9 % 18.1 % 81.6 % 18.4 % (Own Labour) North America 225 251 North America 88.0 % 12.0 % 86.9 % 13.1 % Asia 218 238 Asia 75.2 % 24.8 % 78.6 % 21.4 % Halton Group 1513 1569 Halton Group 78.0 % 22.0 % 78.0 % 22.0 % Employees by Region 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Finland Other Europe North America Asia 2017 2018 Social responsibility concerning our own Workforce by Employment Type labour is managed through our People and Contract Policy and our Health and Safety Policy. Halton’s success in business is based At the end of 2018, we had 1,569 employees (1,513 at on competent, motivated and engaged the end of 2017). Of these, 47 per cent were so-called Share of Men vs. Women employees, therefore we invest a lot in blue-collar employees and 53 per cent white-collar employ100% promoting health, safety and wellbeing ees. The women’s share of the workforce was 22 per cent 90% (22 per cent in 2017). The age distribution can be seen in at work. the graph. As the company was founded in 1969, there are 80% many long-standing contracts and the age distribution is 70% quite even. The share of employees over 60 years of age 60% is six per cent, and the share of those under 30 years of 50% age is 21 per cent. In the newer companies of the Group, 40% Age Distribution in Halton Group 2017 2018 30% the workforce is naturally younger than the average for the 30% Group. 20% 10% 25% Due to the numerous different information systems in the 0% 20% Group, it has not been possible in this report to provide Finland Other Europe North America Asia Halton Group 15% information on the numbers of contracts which are per10% Men 2017 Men 2018 Women 2017 Women 2018 manent vs. temporary and full-time vs. part-time. The IT 5% systems will be updated in the near future, and we expect 0% to provide data on the contracts after 2019. In this type of Age < 30 30=< age < 40 40 =< age < 50 50 =< age < 60 Age >= 60 industry, temporary and part-time work is quite rare, as very high skills are required from most of the workers. 32 33 Job Satisfaction and Sick Days and Injuries Employee Turnover Data on sick days and injuries covers all countries except the U.S.A. In the units from which we have received staSick Days, Share of Total Working Days Job satisfaction and employee turnover are closely linked tistics, the average number of sick days is five per cent of 2017 2018 and our Engaged People theme is high on our materiality the total number of theoretical working hours. In Finland, assessment list, but we do not have data on employee France, Hungary and Canada the number is above the Finland 4.8 % 4.9 % turnover yet for this report. average, while in Germany, Malaysia, China and the UK the figures are below the average. Once we have learned Other Europe 3.9 % 5.0 % We have carried out a survey and workshops titled Emmore about the sick leave in the next few years, we will be North America 1.2 %1) 2.9 % 1) powering Engagement in the Halton Group. 915 people able to analyze the situation better and carry out improvehave answered the survey so far, which represents 60% ments. Asia 2.0 % 2) 1.5 % of the Halton employees. Our estimation is that more than 80% of the employees have participated in half-day emThe total number of sick days caused by injuries at work Halton Group 3.5 % 4.1 % ployee engagement workshop sessions. The results have amounted to 438. We do not have data on the number of been published and employees have set their individual injuries, which means we cannot count the injury rate. The 1) = no data from the USA and unit level action plans and targets to develop their number of working hours was approximately 2.64 million, 2) = no data from China engagement. and a fair estimate of the injury rate is around 15 accidents per million working hours. More than half of Halton employees are engaged, or highly engaged On the average, Halton Sick Days, Share of Total Working Days % employees report that Halton 6 they are engaged, with an employment engagement 5 score of 3.82 out of 5. Based on our results, 20% of the people surveyed were 4 highly engaged, and 36% 9% 35% 36% 20% were engaged, 35% non3 Disengaged Not engaged Engaged Highly engaged engaged, and 9% disengaged (compared to the Gallup 2 average scores: 10%, 25%, 50% and 15%) 1 Average-Gallup 0 Finland Other Europe North America Asia Halton Group 15% 50% 25% 10% 2017 2018 Disengaged Not engaged Engaged Highly engaged Halton employees are engaged, especially with customers Halton employees are most strongly engaged with the Performance and Career Ratio of Basic Salary of All Halton responders customers and their own Development Reviews Men to Women teams, which is in line with our company values. We have used performance reviews at Halton Group for At the moment we have statistics only for Finland, but we COMPANY many years. In 2018, they were carried out in all units. are working on building our compensation equality inforWe found in our work The share of employees that participated in performance mation to be based on job classifications from all countries sessions that Halton reviews was 52 per cent in the Group overall (in 2017 the where we have production. Main principle is that we will employees want to be share was 45%). In the U.S., all employees participated, pay the same compensation for the same job regardless engaged and internal and the percentage was close to 100 per cent also in the of gender. The only thing which creates a difference in LEADERSHIP Disengaged TEAM communication is identified UK, Germany, Canada and Malaysia units as well as in SBA compensation levels is individual performance, which is as the most common Marine/Lahti. evaluated regularly. Not Engaged challenge to even better Engaged employee engagement. In our action plan we have a target to renew our performance review process to be able to support the company Highly Engaged strategy better. The process will be configured for the HR INDIVIDUAL WORK CUSTOMERS System in 2019. 34 35 Training Halton University Engaged People Halton Group has a global, continuous development program for the company’s personnel and selected external CASE New Horizons Overseas key stakeholders, such as customers. The aim of the program is to provide a contact area for issues that are central Derek Schrock is an R&D Manager working on Halton’s to Halton’s operations, and to enable continuous learning strategic projects in the USA. He completed the Future in a high-quality environment. Leadership Program in 2014 and worked as a posted worker in Halton’s China operations in Shanghai from The Halton Breathe In! event attracted 211 people from 25 2014 to 2016. During his China years, he contributed to countries around the world, of which 132 were external the opening of the Foodservice R&D Innovation Hub for participants and 79 were Halton employees. The aim was China. Derek says that his participation in the program to find and share insights on different aspects regarding and the consecutive secondment were driven by both the value of wellbeing from top management perspective. his interest in becoming more involved in leadership The event was arranged as part of the Halton University within Halton as well as his natural curiosity toward new concept. Halton Leadership Development Program cultures and overseas experiences. Halton has traditionally valued an entrepreneurial spirit and In his opening words, Halton’s Chairman of the Board, highly committed personnel in its organization. Leadership According to Derek, the program opened new perspecMika Halttunen, raised some common challenges posed to plays a critical role in creating a highly engaging work envitives and provided the participants with a good set of companies in today’s global business environment. Firstly, ronment, passing on tacit knowledge and maintaining the leadership tools. One thing that was stressed during the he noted that the operational environment is changing unique company culture. program is that leaders are servants who are here to rapidly, and companies have to run in order to even stay help others succeed wherever they are in the organizaput. Secondly, globalization affects practically all industries. In 2012, Halton introduced its global Future Leadership tion. Thirdly, new competition is evolving from directions that Program to prepare its potential next generation leaders may be hard to predict. Furthermore, customers have to accept broader occupational responsibilities with en“For this role, and on any occasion when seeking more power than ever, and they may change their direction hanced leadership skills in the future. The basic idea of the information within the company, the global network of and expectations at any time. Last but not least, technolprogram was to provide the company’s carefully selected, Halton professionals gained during the program has ogy is developing at an exhausting pace. As frequently talented young managers with a more comprehensive and been valuable,” he says. A fair number of those contacts stated, change is today’s constant. Halttunen discussed systemic understanding of leading the business. A further have also turned into friendships. the question of what is all this doing to people, who are aim of the program was to offer opportunities for global the resource that actually make the business happen. In networking across different Halton units as well as for “I feel that I can trust the people that went through the the midst of the turbulence created by constant change, gaining international work experience. Halton’s internationprogram with me in that we will do our best to help the issue of people’s wellbeing has strongly come up. al dimensions and multifaceted operations were also seen each other.” Wellbeing can be created on both the individual and organas an asset when raising new leaders. izational level. The question is whether wellbeing can also Regarding the lessons learned from his work overseas, be made a strategic element enabling companies to be Three programs have been completed during 2012 to Derek says, “It gave me a new understanding of the Before Derek’s journey to China, Halton’s CEO at the more successful. 2019. The number of participants in these three groups mindset of our customers and their needs in different time, Heikki Rinne, said to him, “Good or bad, this has been 51. The next application period will be opened in parts of the world. I also see Halton’s role as a thought experience will change your life.” To answer this major question, the event covered different 2020. leader and teacher of the field in the international enviareas: authentic leadership, wellbeing in indoor environronment even more importantly now.” Derek agrees, “The experience did indeed change my ments, sustainable development, digitalization, and millenMany personal development stories demonstrate that the life positively and I believe it also benefited Halton by nials and wellbeing. Halton Future Leadership Program has responded to exBefore the work opportunity in China, Derek was able helping the company open new R&D facilities for its pectations well. Key talents have been identified successto spend three months living in Malaysia which was Foodservice business and to bring in more customers Local training sessions based on the event content were fully and many have ascended their Halton career ladder another significant experience and provided him with within the greater China region.” arranged for all Halton employees during 2018. The training to take on more demanding leadership positions. Existing the opportunity to work closely with some of Halton’s was led by the members of Halton Group Executive Team business networks both inside the company and within key partners in the region. and assisted by Halton Leadership Development Program the field have naturally been an advantage in the execution participants. of various leadership responsibilities. Derek feels that his international experience is valued at Halton and that new opportunities have opened as a At the moment we are not able to give any statistics on result. the other training which has been carried out. Mainly the training has been focused on increasing professional competencies and leadership skills. 36 37 Materials Used Halton provides solutions for commercial and public premAt this stage, we have not yet adapted the principles of ises, healthcare institutions and laboratories, professional the circular economy. The proportion of recycled material kitchens and restaurants, as well as energy production in the steel and aluminum which we buy, depends on the environments and marine vessels. suppliers’ production process. We will increase the recycling information and guidance given to end-users on how The major materials for producing our products are stainto recycle our products at the end of the product life cycle. less and galvanized steel, aluminium and wood. A typical The statistics concerning the materials used are shown in material used in SBA Halton’s products is galvanized steel, the table below. The data covers all our production units. whereas SBA Foodservice and SBA Marine mainly use stainless steel. Wood is used for packing in all Halton factories. The largest quantities of aluminum are used at SBA Halton’s factory in France for exhaust grilles. Environmental Responsibility MATERIALS USED (TONS) Halton Halton North North MAIN MATERIAL Group Group Finland Finland Other Other America America Asia Asia GROUPS 2017 2018 2017 2018 EU 2017 EU 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Stainless steel 3,234 3,644 476 630 923 958 1,037 1,105 798 952 Our environmental management is guided by our enThe environmental impacts and risks of those units which (tons) vironmental policy (latest version approved on 1.1.2018) do not have certification are viewed to be very limited. We Galvanized steel and the ISO 14001 environmental management standard, will perform similar environment management activities 3,017 3,149 1,912 1,954 1,007 1,035 1 1 97 159 (tons) which has been certified in the following countries: even if not having formal ISO 14001 certification in place. Requirements for further formal certification is evaluated Copper (tons) 16 4 13 1 0 0 2 3 0 0 Hungary: Halton Kft annually. Aluminium (tons) 228 242 4 18 204 224 16 0 4 0 • ISO 9001 Quality Management, date 02-04-2018 • ISO 14001 Environmental Management, date 02-04Halton’s major environmental impacts arise from the maWood (tons) 545 669 80 102 35 48 360 438 70 81 2018 terials we use, as well as the energy we consume in our Fibres (tons) 24 0 0 0 24 0 0 0 0 0 production and especially from the energy our products Other materials 0 27 0 0 0 0 0 27 0 0 France: Halton Foodservice SAS consume in use. Greenhouse gas emissions caused by • ISO 14001 Environmental Management the production of purchased energy are important, though Plastic 8 9 4 3 3 5 0 0 1 1 • Finland, Halton Oy the amount is relatively small, and waste statistics are of insulation material 3 25 0 0 3 25 0 0 0 0 • ISO 9001 Quality Management, date 30.10.2017 course part of Halton’s reporting. • ISO 14001 Environmental Management, date Aluminized 238 420 0 0 0 0 238 420 0 0 30.10.2017 So far, all business units have carried out environmental Stainless Steel actions individually, without a group level target program. Materials Used 7,314 8,189 2,490 2,707 2,199 2,295 1,655 1,994 970 1,193 Finland, Halton Marine Oy Now that we have published our environmental policy and • ISO 9001 Quality Management, date 9.10.2017 action plan, there will be more coordination and cooperaTotal use tons per • ISO 14001 Environmental Management, date 9.10.2017 tion on the group level. EUR million of 35.6 37.0 • OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Managethe turnover ment, date 21.9.2016 In 2018, many units replaced their fluorescent lights with LED lights. Waste sorting and recycling has been China: Halton Ventilation Ltd. improved, especially increasing the utilization rate of • ISO 9001 Quality Management, date 15.9.2018 materials. This is specified in the 2019 action plan, as well • ISO 14001 Environmental Management, date 24.2.2018 as reducing energy consumption. Halton Marine SBU in Lahti uses natural gas for heating and is planning to switch ISO 9001 certifications cover about 33 per cent of our turnto geothermal heat, which can also be used for cooling over and ISO 14001 certifications cover about 42 per cent. during the summer. SBU Shanghai has a very detailed sustainability plan, including zero fire accident and zero chemical leakage programs, bringing waste gas and noise emissions up to the standards in question, and many other actions. 38 39 Purchased Energy In 2018, our production units purchased 9,581 MWhs of electricity, 4,849 MWhs of heat and 2,551 MWhs of fuel. The statistics cover all our production units. The largest electricity consumers are SBA Halton’s Kausala unit, SBA Foodservice’s U.S. unit and SBA Marine’s Lahti unit. 27 per cent of the electricity was renewable, 39 per cent was non-renewable and 34 per cent was based on nuclear power. The electricity consumption was 44 MWh per EUR 1 million of the Group turnover. The heat purchased was 92 per cent non-renewable and the fuels purchased were 100 per cent non-renewable. Kausala and Lahti use the majority of the purchased heat – Canada, the U.S. and Malaysia Foodservice units and the China Marine unit do not buy any external heat. ENERGY Halton Halton North North Group Group Finland Finland Other Other America America Asia Asia 2017 2018 2017 2018 EU 2017 EU 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Electricity purchased 9,944 9,582 5,499 4,946 1,724 1,706 2,175 2,199 546 731 (Mwh) renewable % 26 % 27 % 28.3 % 28.6 % 24.2 % 24.8 % 26.7 % 26.7 % 16.1 % 22.0 % non-renewable % 39 % 39 % 34.1 % 34.0 % 15.3 % 14.6 % 57.4 % 57.0 % 83.9 % 78.0 % nuclear power % 35 % 34 % 37.6 % 37.4 % 60.5 % 60.6 % 15.9 % 16.3 % Heat purchased 4,363 4,850 3,591 3,890 772 960 (MWh) renewable % 8% 8% 4.3 % 39.0 % Energy Indirect GHG Emissions The construction sector in all, plays a key role in terms of global CO2 emissions as shown in the following statement non-renewable % 92 % 92 % 100 % 100 % 95.7 % 61.0 % We do not have data on the GHG emissions of the by the International Energy Agency: Fuels purchased electricity and heat that each of our business units have 3,772 2,551 3,590 2,367 182 184 (MWh) purchased at this point in time. Therefore, we can only es“The buildings and building construction sectors combined timate a directional figure and base it on national average are responsible for 36% of global final energy consumprenewable % 0% 0 emission coefficients. This very rough calculation results tion and nearly 40% of total direct and indirect CO2 non-renewable % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % in 600 tons of CO2 from electricity, 700 tons from heat emissions. Energy demand from buildings and building and 700 tons from fuels, the total being thus around 2,000 construction continues to rise, driven by improved access tons. This would mean a little less than 10 tons per EUR to energy in developing countries, greater ownership and 1 million of turnover. the use of energy-consuming devices, and rapid growth in Electricity Purchased Heat Purchased global buildings floor area, at nearly 3% per year.” (https:// 90% 120% From 2019, we will collect more accurate information conwww.iea.org/topics/energyefficiency/buildings/) 80% 70% 100% cerning unit-specific GHG emissions. 60% 50% 80% Furthermore, according to research, right HVAC systems 40% 60% and building design can reduce their energy consumption 30% 20% 40% Energy Efficiency of Products by up to 75 %. (Source: Energy Efficient HVAC-system and 10% 20% Building Design, Maija Virta, Harri Itkonen, Panu Mustakal0% 0% Finland Finland Other EU Other EU North North Asia Asia Finland Finland Other EU Other EU North North Asia Asia Energy efficiency is a crucial aspect of Halton’s customlio, Risto Kosonen, Halton Oy, Finland) 2017 2018 2017 2018 America America 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 America America 2017 2018 er-driven product development as ventilation in different 2017 2018 2017 2018 commercial, public and work premises form a major part Driven by the global challenges, it is in the heart of both Renewable Non-reneweable Nuclear power Renewable % Non-renewable % of the buildings’ energy consumption and hence impact Halton’s mission of enabling wellbeing as well as our comsignificantly not only their operating costs but also on the petitive edge to make sure we continue to be pioneers carbon footprint. in energy efficiency of HVAC solutions optimized for our target segments. 40 41 Waste Practically all the waste produced by Halton is process All production units have submitted the total waste Customer-Driven Solutions waste. Most of our products are made of steel sheets, amounts both from 2017 and 2018. In 2018, the total and the shapes of the products and the holes in them amount was 2,763 tons (2,520 tons in 2017), of which 95.1 result in cutting waste. The steel waste is sold to recycling per cent was recovered (93.3 per cent in 2017). In 2018, companies who sort it and forward it to steel mills for 0.6 per cent of the waste was reused and 4.3 per cent making new material. was taken to landfills. WASTE BY THE GROUP AND ITS REGIONS Halton Halton Other Other North North Group Group Finland Finland Europe Europe America America Asia Asia 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Total tons 2520 2763 974 1143 798 761 603 660 146 199 CASE Ballpark Square, Washington, D.C. Recovery tons 2352 2626 974 1141 745 744 509 558 123 184 With the growth of mixed-use retail/residential developConcerning the energy efficiency and environmental Recovery % 93.3 % 95.1 % 100.0 % 99.8 % 93.4 % 97.7 % 84.4 % 84.5 % 84.7 % 92.3 % ments in urban settings there are a number of unique impact, Halton used energy efficient hoods that operate Reuse tons 9 17 0 0 0 7 0 0 9 10 challenges that must be addressed to ensure the harmoat lower exhaust airflow rates. These energy reductions nious coexistence of residents and tenants. Residents directly correspond to a reduction in greenhouse gas Reuse % 0.3 % 0.6 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.9 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 5.9 % 5.2 % want easy access to amenities such as restaurants, but do emissions. Landfill tons 161 118 0 0 53 10 95 103 14 5 not want the odors associated with them in their homes. Another aspect is the complexity in the integration of A second factor was that Halton optimized the type of Landfill % 6.4 % 4.3 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 6.6 % 1.3 % 15.7 % 15.6 % 9.4 % 2.4 % individual tenants in a common mechanical system while grease filtration and odor control based on the cooking Other waste, tons 0 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 taking sustainability into consideration. One such project process and environmental concerns. In this mixed housis Ballpark Square, in Washington D.C. The plan was to ing and retail development the residential units required Other waste % 0.0 % 0.1 % 0.0 % 0.2 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % have up to 8 tenant “bays” at street level occupied by a an optimal odor solution. Halton identified the solution as variety of quick service restaurants and fast casual dining a combination of UV lights plus carbon panels. The carestablishments. Above street level there are 11 stories of bon panels remove volatile organic compounds (VOCs) condominiums. which include not only odors, but also toxic compounds produced in the cooking processes, such as toluene and Suppliers Auditing Halton was sought out by the developer as the company benzene. By utilizing the carbon panels the emissions had experience with these types of projects. The requirewere substantially reduced. According ISO 9001 quality system we are auditing our ments were simple. Each tenant had to operate indesuppliers and environmental topics are also monitored in pendently from the others using a common exhaust. The The third factor was that Halton utilized odor sensors to connection with supplier audits. Social criteria’s have been replacement air needed to be controlled for each tenant determine when the carbon panels need to be replaced. added to audit program 2018, to be sure that suppliers foland their spaces needed to be continually balanced. It was Traditionally, there has been no feedback mechanism low our Code of Conduct. We prefer suppliers who apply critically important that there could be no odor complaints. available to help ensure that the carbon panels are still to ISO 14001 in their environmental management, and we Lastly, the developer wanted an energy-efficient and susfunctional. expect our suppliers to comply with all applicable labour tainable system. laws and international labour conventions. At the moment In combination, these three factors reduce the cooking however, we are not able to give any exact figures how The final result for the building was based on three main emissions from restaurants. The end result is that Halton many of our suppliers have ISO 14000 environmental factors for the control of emissions. Firstly, two exhaust delivered on all of the project’s requirements and there quality system. units with pollution control systems and electrostatic have been no odor complaints. Furthermore, Halton has precipitation systems for the removal of fine particles and helped improve the environmental conditions for the workdouble carbon panels were used. There were separate ers in the kitchens and to reduce the emissions, pollution systems for each tenant which operated based on the and energy use of the building. cooking activity on their premises. The entire system is remotely monitored by the developer and Halton. 42 43 HALTON’S ACTION PLAN FOR 2018–2020 Subject Actions Indicators Targets Schedule In charge Customer SBA specific NPS (Net Improvement vs. 2020 SBA Directors Satisfaction action plans. Promoter Score), previous year Customer or equivalent First value communication Corporate Setting up CR Report 100% 6/2019 CEO Responsibility reporting and published and communication communicated Code of Conduct Training the All employees 100% 2018, Done CR Director personnel trained Risk management Development of Risk management Risk management 6/2020 CEO risk management audits in Board is part of Halton processes business audits Management System in all levels of organisation Supplier CoC Roll-out globally Suppliers CoC 100% 2018, Done CR Director Action Plan 2018–2020 To be included communicated in standard with suppliers purchasing terms and conditions. Development of Development Improved energy New solutions 2020 SBA Director energy saving programs with efficiency are more technologies customers energy efficient compared to earlier generation The action plan for 2018–2020 consists of 11 issues, which are typical at this stage of CR development. These include: setting up Reduction of Development Number of One new 2020 SBA Director CR reporting and communication, training the personnel, developing emissions programs with innovations and application area employee engagement, carrying out an energy review of selected customers application areas 2020 sites, screening for ISO 14001 compliance, briefing on the Supplier Energy efficiency Energy review of Energy Decreasing 2020 CR Director Code of Conduct, and so on. Further and more challenging issues of our operations selected sites consumption in 10% of energy include improving the customers’ energy efficiency, reducing kitchen production sites consumption emissions through pollution control technology and reducing the use of non-renewable and non-reusable materials. Use of materials Reduce nonMaterial statistics Research on this In 2019 SBU Director renewable and topic established The Action Plan is presented in the table on the right. The table shows non-reusable the areas of responsibility and the actions to be taken along with the materials indicators we will use to assess whether we have achieved results. The results of the listed actions will be reviewed annually in the CR Suppliers' Screening ISO14001 100% of top 10 2020 SBU Director Report and new targets and actions will be set whenever they are environmental of ISO14001 compliance % suppliers needed. performance and compliance in the Marine social risks business unit Engaged Empowering Employee 75% engagement 2020 CPO employees Engagement satisfaction / or better for all roll-out engagement employees 44 45 Example: Customer Satisfaction GRI Index Contacts According to the GRI standard, a CR report ends with a Hannu Hallila In our strategy and values, throughout the company’s The enclosed graph summarizes the customer satisfaction GRI Index, in which the reporter discloses how the GRI Director, Corporate Responsibility entire existence Halton has been strongly focused on our concerning Halton’s Foodservice business area in the US. reporting requirements have been followed. There are two Oy Halton Group Ltd. customers. We have conducted annual customer satisfacoptions for claiming that the report is in accordance with hannu.hallila@halton.com tion surveys within our different business areas. In recent Our next goal is to create a systematic, group-wide the GRI – either the “core option” or the “comprehensive Tel. +358 (0)20 792 2218 years, the response rates of these surveys have dropped. process to collect customer feedback to support the option”. If neither of these options is appropriate, the reFor this reason, we have lately concentrated on getting development of our business and to improve the cus­­porter can choose a partial approach, using some specific Abbreviations Explanation feedback directly from our customers in the context of tomer experience based on real-time quality information. GRI standards and explaining how they are used. CEO Chief Executive Officer customer visits and meetings. Our perception of Halton’s A development project has been launched for this overall customer satisfaction is positive. Still, there is also purpose. The first phase will be carried out with our We do not yet claim to report in full accordance with GRI, CFO Chief Financial Officer. room for constant improvement. customers from the fall in 2019. but the GRI standard has been the basis for all our reportCPO Chief People Officer ing. At the beginning of the report, on pages 11–22 we SBU Strategic Business Unit disclose how our CR management has been built – the forSBA Strategic Business Area mation of the CR steering group (page 11), the definition of NPS Net Promotor Score CR management principles (pages 20–22), our stakeholder assessment (pages 12-13) and the materiality assessment CoC Code of Conduct HOW WOULD YOU RATE HALTON AS SUPPLIER? SUMMARY 2018 of performance indicators (page 16). The indicators that we CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate have chosen as material are disclosed on page 17. EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Taxes CAPEX Capital Expenditure You can find the detailed GRI Index on our website 2018 www.halton.com/sustainability. NPS Net Promoter Score 1% CFU Colony-forming unit 7% There is no external assurance of this CR report. Economic 6% performance metrics are based on the Board of Director’s Excellent Report and the consolidated financial statements that have been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy. 10% Very Good 41% This report is published in PDF format in English. There are Good also hard copies available of the report. Next time, Halton Fair will report its sustainability performance in 2020. Poor Don’t know/want to say 35% No. of respondents: 136 46 47 Notes Notes Enabling Wellbeing
