CVR NO. 27 49 26 49 Danish Ship Finance Sustainability Report 2018 Table of contents 3 Foreword from the Executive Board 4 Introduction 5 Assessment of sustainability initiatives in 2018 6 Legal framework 8 Sustainability at Danish Ship Finance 9 Sustainability and customers 11 Human resources 13 KPIs and well-being survey 14 Key employee statistics 17 Human rights 18 Environment 19 Anti-corruption and unusual gifts 20 The Danish Maritime Fund 21 Prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism 2 Foreword from the Executive Board As Chief Executive Officer of Danish Ship Finance, In our work, we have taken inspiration from the I believe we have a duty to demonstrate corporate important international efforts made by the United responsibility. We should actively contribute to Nations through the Ten Principles of the UN Global creating good conditions for our employees, reCompact, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and specting human rights, considering the environment Human Rights and the UN Sustainable Development and climate and combating corruption. This is an Goals. In this context, we have defined four key integral part of our business and will continue to performance indicators (KPIs), to which we intend be so going forward. In a rapidly changing global to dedicate special focus in the years ahead. environment, ensuring responsible business practice is a way to remain successful and contribute to Danish Ship Finance recognises the importance overall sustainable economic development. of transparency. Therefore, this annual report comprehensively covers the entire sustainability Like many other organisations, we are stepping up area, including our Communication on Progress our efforts to embed sustainability more deeply (COP) report, which is submitted to the UN Global into our operations. It is important to ensure that Compact Office. Danish Ship Finance continues to develop its business practices, and in many ways, we view these efforts as a means to future-proof the organisation. Erik I. Lassen In 2018, we began to upgrade our sustainability Chief Executive Officer approach and the topic is receiving increasing management attention. A lot still remains to be done, but it is a work in progress, which I believe is of particular importance. 3 Introduction Danish Ship Finance’s purpose is to provide ship Danish Ship Finance ensures that its sustainability financing in Denmark and also internationally (propolicies are in accordance with its values, and that vided that such activities do not unnecessarily limit they complement each other well. The company the company’s Danish operations). The company’s is highly committed to continuously integrating vision is to be the obvious choice in ship finance. In these values and sustainability initiatives into its order to achieve this, Danish Ship Finance aims to everyday operations, as this is an important way run a sustainable business that delivers long-term of ensuring that it is able to continue to create value for its customers, shareholders and investors, value for all stakeholders. with a focus on responsible business conduct. Danish Ship Finance strives to address sustainaThe company has defined the following set of values: bility issues that are meaningful to the company • Focusing on customers’ needs and the markets in which it operates. It intends to • Prioritising credit quality over short-term returns focus both on sustainability initiatives for in-house • A cting as a trustworthy and stable business use and on efforts related to any indirect impact it partner might have through the activities of its customers. • D eveloping its business to meet the needs of its stakeholders • A ccomplishing common goals through collaboration 4 Assessment of sustainability initiatives in 2018 Danish Ship Finance’s commitment to corporate • Danish Ship Finance focused on minimising its responsibility and sustainability continued to indirect impact on the environment through proform an integral part of the company’s activities active, future-oriented dialogue with stakeholders. in 2018. While the company complies with appli• Danish Ship Finance continued its intensive efforts cable regulations and strives to meet international to create a workplace that can attract and retain standards for sustainability and respect for human the most talented and dedicated employees. rights, it is aware that this is an ongoing process. • The KPIs regarding the well-being of employees showed a slight decline in the first three catDanish Ship Finance’s sustainability efforts in 2018 egories and an increase in the number of sick can be summarised as follows: days. Despite the negative development in 2018, • Danish Ship Finance increased its management Danish Ship Finance’s general level remained focus on sustainability and dedicated more high compared with similar companies, and it resources to embedding sustainability into its was still within the limits set for the KPIs. operations. This will continue to be an important focus area going forward. Danish Ship Finance will continue its sustainability • In accordance with one of the conclusions from initiatives in 2019, both internally and with regard the strategy review conducted in 2018, the to its stakeholders. company gave strategic priority to advancing its sustainability initiatives. • Danish Ship Finance signed a call for action in support of decarbonisation of the shipping industry, engaged with other banks to establish a system for financial institutions to disclose the alignment of their shipping portfolios with climate goals, and commenced partnerships with several working groups to analyse how to increase sustainability and embed circular economy principles in the shipping industry. 5 Legal framework Regulations and international standards The guiding principles state how governments and Danish Ship Finance reports on its corporate social business enterprises can conduct their operations responsibility in accordance with sections 135 and and undertake strategic planning to avoid infringing 135a of the Danish Executive Order on Financial human rights. A distinction is made between the Reports for Credit Institutions, etc. (“Executive efforts of governments and business enterprises, Order on Financial Reports”). The company’s susbut it is essential to note that the principles are tainability reporting is consistent with the “comply equally relevant to small and larger enterprises, or explain” principle. and also that enterprises should not only focus on their own efforts, but – importantly – should also Global Compact place certain requirements on their stakeholders. The UN Global Compact is an initiative that sets out ten general principles to encourage businesses The guiding principles underline, however, that the to commit to sustainability and which provide a expectations placed on business enterprises will good starting point for them to create suitable depend on their size and the nature and context policies. The principles are based on internationally of their operations. recognised conventions on human rights, employee rights, the environment and anti-corruption. The UN Sustainable Development Goals The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Based on the above reporting on the company’s are a call for action on 17 specific topics aimed at policies, principles, initiatives and results, Danish protecting the planet. The topics can be divided into Ship Finance estimates it complies with all ten printhree major groups: climate change, environmental ciples to the extent that is necessary and possible protection and social needs (education, health, job for a financial company domiciled in Denmark. opportunities, etc.). Guiding Principles on Business and Human The goals are not only to be used in national poRights litical initiatives; businesses are also expected to Ensuring that human rights are respected is an participate and set internal goals for their efforts important responsibility, and Danish Ship Finance by choosing the topics where they believe they has therefore decided to adopt the UN Guiding can contribute to positive change. Principles on Business and Human Rights. These principles were endorsed by the UN’s Human Rights Danish Ship Finance will include the SDGs as a Council in June 2011. point of reference for its sutainability efforts going forward, and will also encourage stakeholders to endorse and work actively to advance the agenda related to the SDGs. 6 Internal guidelines Danish Ship Finance has drawn up the following internal sustainability guidelines: • A sustainability policy (adopted by the Board of Directors and available on the company’s website) • Business processes for setting targets • A policy for the under-represented gender • A stress prevention policy • An anti-bullying policy • A gifts and hospitality policy • Guidelines in the personnel handbook to prevent discrimination based on race, religion and gender and guidelines to prevent corruption 7 Sustainability at Danish Ship Finance The company has been formally practising sustainindustry, the company recognises its exposure to ability since 2009 with a focus on the following environmental, social and ethical risks through the topics: activities of its customers. In this respect, there are multiple aspects of the business that are ex1. Human rights posed to sustainability risk. Danish Ship Finance 2. Human resources is strongly focused on anticipating and managing 3. Environment and climate both direct and indirect risks related to sustain4. Corruption and unusual gifts ability that could potentially have financial, legal or reputational consequences. The purpose of the sustainability efforts is to contribute to adding value to society at large and to the The company intends to ensure value-adding company itself. The strengthening efforts around sustainability through: sustainability complement Danish Ship Finance’s • A good working environment vision to be the obvious choice in ship finance, • Motivated employees and to create long-term value for its customers, • Prevention of stress shareholders and investors. Danish Ship Finance • Future-oriented dialogue with current and believes that the ongoing integration of sustainpotential customers ability into its culture and daily operations is an • Minimising any harmful impact on the important step towards ensuring that it remains environment an attractive business partner to all stakeholders. • Guidelines to counter corruption and bribery • Expectations and demands in relation to While regulation and commercial sentiment still has stakeholders some way to go before matching the momentum in the global sustainability agenda, Danish Ship Since 2017, Danish Ship Finance has defined four key Finance seeks to ensure that its conservative risk performance indicators (KPIs) for its sustainability profile is maintained through an increased focus on efforts, 2018 being the first full year in which the sustainability. As a financial institution providing KPIs were applicable. Targets and results are set credit to an inherently international and volatile out in section 6 below. 8 Sustainability and customers Due to the nature of its business as a financial Several measures are already in place to ensure services provider, Danish Ship Finance’s largest that the company’s customers meet the highest potential impact is through interaction with its standards. customers. Thus, while not neglecting the ongoing improvement of its own activities, the company First and foremost, Danish Ship Finance expects encourages its customers to endeavour to become all of its customers to operate their businesses in more sustainable and aims to support its clients’ accordance with national, regional and internasustainable business practices for the long term. tional legislation as set out by port states, flag states, classification societies and the International The shipping industry handles around 90% of Maritime Organisation (IMO). This is stipulated in transported goods in the world and is central to the loan agreements. the global economy as a facilitator of global trade. While shipping is widely considered to be among When engaging with a new customer, Danish Ship the most efficient forms of commercial transport, Finance carefully considers its reputation and the industry has a negative impact on the envitrack record. Regulatory know-your-customer ronment through CO2 emissions, accounting for procedures are always carried out in accordance an estimated 2.5% of global CO2 emissions, SOx with the law. Customers must meet requirements and NOx emissions, waste and the risk of pollution stipulated by Danish Ship Finance in terms of flag through unintentional discharges in the sea. state and classification societies. Prudent behaviour is evaluated through monitoring of the customer’s Danish Ship Finance is directly and indirectly exposed performance in port state control inspections. to the activities of its customers, and although Physical inspections of the customer’s vessels are customers are responsible for their own activities also carried out on a spot-check basis. In addition, and decisions, the company remains fully responas Danish Ship Finance is a proponent of traditional sible for the decision to engage or disengage with relationship banking, it spends a fair amount of any customers. Danish Ship Finance is confident time getting to know the customer’s management that considering responsibility and sustainability before progressing with any relationship. Together in this decision process improves the quality of the with the inevitable financial due diligence, these portfolio and its long-term prospects. measures allow Danish Ship Finance to ensure that it only enters into business relationships with the most reputable ship owners. 9 As discussed in last year’s edition of this report, many Regulatory scrutiny of the environmental impact ship owners place responsibility and sustainability at of the shipping industry and businesses’ and the core of their operations. This includes a strong end-consumers’ focus on prioritising sustainable focus on safety, health and training of employees, business partners and products are expected to and efforts to reduce any adverse environmental continue to intensify in the coming years. Danish impacts by lowering fuel consumption and waste Ship Finance is convinced that a strong commitment volumes, purifying ballast water and cutting CO2 to sustainable business practices will become a emissions. Further, given the international nature licence to operate in the shipping industry in the of both their employees and operations, ship ownnear future. ers in general place particular emphasis on human rights and anti-corruption controls. Thus, Danish Ship Finance will increase its focus on sustainability at its customers via constructive, In the past year, the focus on sustainability in the future-oriented dialogue. This will be done to shipping industry has only strengthened. In April monitor and maintain an acceptable risk profile for 2018, the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) the portfolio in order to ensure that the company reached an agreement to set international targets is able to continue to deliver long-term value for to cut CO2 emissions from the shipping sector customers, shareholders and investors. It intends and reduce the negative impact of the shipping to take an inclusive approach, without excluding industry on the environment. The target is at least ship owners that are not yet performing at a high a 40% cut in emission intensity by 2030 and 70% level in terms of sustainability. Danish Ship Finance by 2050, and at least a 50% absolute reduction believes that the biggest impact and contribution in emissions compared to 2008 levels by 2050. can be made by remaining engaged with customers In addition, the industry is preparing to meet the that may not initially meet the expected standards new global 0.5% sulphur cap requirement by 2020 for sustainability performance but that are comto reduce emissions of SOx into the atmosphere. mitted to entering into constructive engagement and improving. 10 Human resources Talented and dedicated employees are essential to Diversity any business, which is why employees and their Diversity is considered a strength that helps the well-being have a high priority with respect to company attract the best employees. The comthe sustainability initiatives. In 2018, an Human pany recognises diversity and aims to ensure that Resources department was established to ensure everyone can pursue a career on equal terms. This a consistent approach to human resources across includes offering flexible working conditions and the company. a human resources policy that accommodates different employee needs. Various goals have been defined for the human resource initiatives with the aim of facilitating high The human resources policy is complemented by health and safety standards and value creation events and activities for all employees, aimed through motivated employees. The company also at increasing their understanding of colleagues’ offers a range of benefits in the form of progressive different views, practices, preferences, working retirement arrangements, part-time schemes, a methods and interests. These activities have been health programme and a flexitime arrangement, shown to improve collaboration, efficiency and, the overall purpose of which is to create attractive not least, job satisfaction. and flexible working conditions. Targets and policies for the under-represented Attractive workplace gender Danish Ship Finance is a specialised company with a focus on attracting and retaining highly skilled Board of Directors employees. The aim is to create an attractive All eleven members of the Board of Directors are workplace through commitment, development and men. The shareholders nominate candidates for the well-being, and also to ensure a professionally chalBoard of Directors. This means that the Board of lenging environment and good working conditions Directors has no direct influence on the nominaby offering relevant staff benefits and a sensible tion of candidates. However, the Board will try to work-life balance. The Human Resources policies influence the process wherever possible. provide a framework for skills development and a flexible career path. The publication entitled “Targets and policy for the under-represented gender on the Board of As part of the company’s efforts to be an attractive Directors and at other management levels of the workplace, four key performance indicators (KPIs) company” sets out guidelines for how to increase have been defined, which are described below. the number of management members from the under-represented gender. In 2016, the Board of Directors set a target to have at least one female member by 2019. This target was not met by end-2018. 11 The Board of Directors consists of eight Board Stress is recognised as a common problem in many members elected by the General Meeting and industries. The company has adopted a stress three elected by employees. On an eleven-member prevention policy. Bullying, too, can have negative Board of Directors, four women and seven men are effects on occupational health, safety and, conseconsidered to be a balanced gender distribution. quently, on employees’ well-being. The company has adopted an anti-bullying policy. It moreover The company strongly disapproves of sexual harassment and it In accordance with the rules on targets and policies poses specific questions on this issue in employee for the gender composition of management, Danish surveys. Ship Finance intends to strengthen the pipeline of Board member candidates of the under-represented Finally, social events are organised to encourage gender. Also, the company would like to see an inand promote team spirit in the company, while crease in the share of the under-represented gender funds are granted to a staff association, which at the company’s other management levels. The also organises social events. company strives to offer continuing professional development courses in accordance with the desires Freedom of association and ambitions of employees. Such training courses Employees have the right to be a member of a are available to everyone with due consideration union. No statistics are kept regarding trade union for each individual employee’s situation. membership, as this is regarded as a private matter. In 2016, the company set a goal to increase the Whistleblower scheme number of women in management positions from The company has established a whistleblower scheme, one to two by the end of 2019. That target was allowing employees who witness non-compliance achieved in 2018 with the appointment of two new with financial legislation or any other serious crime female managers. The work to increase the perto report this anonymously to a third-party law centage of managers from the under-represented firm, which will investigate any reports submitted. gender will continue in 2019. The law firm has stated that in 2018 it once again did not receive any non-compliance reports from Health and well-being employees. Danish Ship Finance strives to provide an attractive setting for its employees and to help them to achieve The employees also have the opportunity to use a sensible work-life balance, for instance through an external whistleblower scheme by reporting its flexitime programme. All employees are covered suspected violations directly either to the Danish by various insurance policies, including personal FSA via its whistleblower scheme, to the Danish accident, dental and health insurance, and the State Prosecutor for Serious Economic and Interstaff canteen serves healthy and nourishing food. national Crime, or to the police. 12 KPIs and well-being survey Well-being survey Target no. 3: The score for employees not experiTo gauge both the well-being and job satisfaction encing long periods of negative stress should be of employees, the company conducts an annual at least index 75. employee opinion survey with assistance from an Current status: This score decreased from index external consultant. The employees’ responses are 80 to index 75 in 2018. anonymous. A more comprehensive survey is conducted every second year, most recently in 2017. Target no. 4: The average number of sick days taken by employees should not exceed eight days In the comprehensive survey, employees are asked per year. a range of questions concerning job satisfaction, Current status: The company registered an average professional challenges, management, work-life of 3.8 sick days per employee in 2018, against balance and internal communication. Four of these an average of 1.9 days in 2017. The increase can are selected as key questions that make up the largely be ascribed to a new method of calculation. short survey in even years. Two of the questions have also been selected as KPIs. Reaction to KPIs Although all scores were still above the satisfactory The survey conducted in December 2018 showed level of 75, the decline is noteworthy and the rethat employee satisfaction decreased from 2017 sults were very close to the minimum target levels. to 2018 but is still at a very satisfactory level. Hence, the company views it as a high priority to reverse the development and endeavour to restore Key performance indicators employee satisfaction to previous levels. ApparKPIs developed as follows: ently, there is no single reason for the negative development. However, 2018 was a busy year in Target no. 1: The score for employee satisfaction many respects and one area identified as having should be at least index 75 in the annual survey. room for improvement is the general workload Current status: General employee satisfaction deper employee. creased from index 81 in 2017 to index 78 in 2018. Danish Ship Finance had 72 employees on 1 January This was the second consecutive decrease, but the 2018 and 82 on 31 December 2018. index value was still above the minimum target. Target no. 2: The score for employees experiencing a healthy balance between their working life and their personal life should be at least index 75. Current status: The score for this was index 81 in 2017, but it dropped marginally to index 77 in 2018. 13 Key employee statistics Age distribution by gender Female Percentages of employees Male 25% 19% 20% 16% 16% 12% 15% 9% 10% 10% 5% 5% 6% 2% 5% 0% -30 30-40 40-50 50-60 60+ Age distribution of employees Source: Danish Ship Finance Age distribution by gender shows that most emAs no emphasis is placed on either age or gender ployees fall within the age group 50-60 years. The when hiring new staff, the company has set no average age of all employees remains unchanged goals for working actively to change the current at 45 years. distribution. At the end of 2018, Danish Ship Finance had 31 female and 51 male employees, equivalent to 38% and 62% of its workforce, respectively. 14 Seniority Percentages of employees 45% 50% 40% 30% 22% 20% 12% 14% 7% 10% 0% 0-2 2-4 4-6 6-8 8+ Years of employment Source: Danish Ship Finance The seniority chart above shows that 45% of employees have been with the company for eight years or more, which tallies with the high level of employee satisfaction. The average length of service is 9.5 years. 15 Educational background % Ph.D 1% Secondary education 4% Other education 5% Clerical background 7% Masters degree 49% Finance clerk 2% Academy Profession Degree Programme in Financial Management 9% Graduate Diploma in Business/Finance 21% Bachelors 2% Source: Danish Ship Finance The employees generally have a high level of Danish Ship Finance has a consistent focus on education and are specialists in their field. Forty increasing employee competency and education employees, or 49%, hold a master’s degree (unilevels, and the amount set aside for courses and versity degree or equivalent), while seventeen, or training is above the average for comparable com21%, have a graduate diploma in business/finance. panies. Employees have a say in whether resources There is a general tendency towards an increasing should be devoted to professional, personal or level of education. management development. 16 Human rights At Danish Ship Finance In accordance with financial regulations, Danish Although Danish Ship Finance is a financial company Ship Finance does not outsource any central tasks, subject to Danish law and all its employees work and its suppliers are therefore mainly restricted to in Copenhagen, it is aware of the importance of those providing office supplies, cleaning articles, promoting respect for human rights, not only in the IT services, canteen services, window cleaning company and nationally, but also internationally. and the like. Should any of these suppliers show signs of violation of internationally recognised Respect for human rights is fundamental to socihuman rights, they will be reprimanded and the ety, as it encapsulates respect for the individual relationship with them reconsidered. and the recognition of different outlooks on life, attitudes, religions, sexualities, ethnicities and With respect to customers, Danish Ship Finance political opinions. It is recognition of equality, expects them to comply with any legislation they including gender equality. are subject to. New loan agreements generally make more specific requirements regarding the The company does not discriminate with respect legislation they are expected to comply with. to working conditions or terms of employment. Expectations and demands in relation to stakeholders A company has a responsibility to focus on respect for human rights among its external relationships. This applies to suppliers and customers alike. 17 Environment Danish Ship Finance aims to contribute actively No new substantial ‘green’ investments, installato improving the environment within the areas tions, replacements or the like were made in 2018, of relevance to a financial company and through as no major replacement programme for lamps, constructive, future-oriented dialogue with its heating systems, or IT equipment, etc, was needed. customers. Expectations and demands in relation to stakeAt Danish Ship Finance holders As a financial company, Danish Ship Finance natDanish Ship Finance’s loan documents stipulate urally does not emit chemicals, carbon dioxide, that its customers are required to comply with wastewater, heavy metals, endocrine disruptors any environmental legislation to which they are or the like on an industrial scale. Nevertheless, it subject because of domicile, flag or the general maintains a continuous focus on protecting the regulation of shipping. Any failure to comply with environment when purchasing products, making these terms could ultimately entitle Danish Ship improvements to its offices, and replacing IT equipFinance to exercise remedies for breach of contract ment, etc. Moreover, items purchased should, as under the loan agreement. far as possible, be recyclable or able to be disposed of in an environmentally-friendly manner. Being a financial company with an already modest consumption of electricity, water, heating, etc., ­Danish Ship Finance could not achieve any noticeable environmental or climatic improvements by setting specific targets for energy saving. Given this, the company has decided not to introduce a separate policy or set specific targets for reducing its direct environmental impact. Instead, it will work to lessen any negative environmental impact it may have, which can often be combined with a financial saving. 18 Anti-corruption and unusual gifts At Danish Ship Finance The company allows employees to accept gifts valCorruption is a broad term used to describe situed up to DKK 1,000. However, an employee must uations where personal interests are mixed with seek prior permission from his or her immediate official interests, and includes bribery, fraudulent superior if offered a gift that could be considered abuse and extortion. Danish Ship Finance works unusual or that is valued at more than DKK 1,000. actively to fight corruption in all its forms and will never tolerate corruption. No incidents of corruption or attempted corruption occurred in 2018, nor is the company aware of The risk of encountering corruption, including beany gifts that did not comply with the guidelines. ing offered unusual gifts, is generally higher when a company is engaged in international activities Expectations and demands in relation to stakethan when operating in the Danish market. The holders company’s personnel handbook contains anti-corDanish Ship Finance’s loan documents stipulate ruption guidelines. that customers must be compliant with applicable legislation, including the prohibition of corruption. In line with its overall sustainability strategy, the company has defined several goals for initiatives Once again, no incidents of corruption or attempted against corruption and unusual gifts. The sustaincorruption occurred in 2018. ability policy stipulates that: • Employees accepting or requesting any form of bribery will not be tolerated • Employees may accept small gifts considered usual in a specific situation • Danish Ship Finance only offers gifts that could be considered usual in a specific situation 19 The Danish Maritime Fund Every year, Danish Ship Finance pays 15% of its The projects supported in 2018 included mapping profits to the Danish Maritime Fund in the form of and analysis of the number of women in the maria preferred dividend. The purpose of the Fund is time industry, a number of projects related to more to provide financial support for initiatives aimed efficient and environmentally-friendly cleaning of at developing the Danish maritime industry. The ships, and projects promoting knowledge of human main areas are the environment, recruitment, rights and their relevance to the maritime industry. education, optimisation (including business development, research and innovation), conferences and campaigns. Some projects are commercial, while others are non-profit. 20 Prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism Many companies, including financial companies, are Danish Ship Finance also has established policies, subject to the Danish Act on Measures to Prevent processes and procedures. It recently updated Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. The these in accordance with the new Danish AntiAct lays down detailed provisions that require a Money Laundering Act that came into into force strong commitment from companies. Danish Ship on 26 June, 2017, introducing several controls, to Finance gives high priority to this area and devotes be implemented both at the time of acceptance of adequate resources to gathering the required docnew exposures and during the term of exposures. umentation from its customers and to checking However, it should be noted that Danish Ship and verifying all relevant assessments. Finance does not offer accounts and normal banking transactions; it only lends against ship mortgages. In 2018, Danish Ship Finance found no reason to submit any reports to the Danish State Prosecutor for Serious Economic and International Crime. 21 DANISH SHIP FINANCE A/S (DANMARKS SKIBSKREDIT A/S) Sankt Annæ Plads 3 / DK-1250 Copenhagen K Tel. +45 33 33 93 33 / Fax +45 33 33 96 66 / CVR no. 27 49 26 49 danish@shipfinance.dk / www.shipfinance.dk 22
