UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES S Statement from the CEO We stand at a pivotal moment in time with a groundswell of sustainability awareness demanding that business, governments and communities together do more to play their part in responding to the climate crisis and other critical sustainability challenges. Our 2019 Sustainability Report, which accompanies this Communication on Progress, outlines the ways we are supporting our company purpose to supercharge New Zealand’s success – socially, environmentally and economically. In the report you can read more about our progress across five key areas: • Our People • Tackling climate change & carbon • Supporting New Zealand through sustainable tourism • Working with our suppliers • Reducing waste and plastics This year the Air New Zealand Executive identified ‘Sustainability in the Bloodstream’ as a long-term organisation-wide strategic pillar. We believe this will help us accelerate progress towards our sustainability goals. We remain committed to this path and to fulfilling our responsibility as a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. Jeff McDowall Acting Chief Executive Officer Air New Zealand UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES S Demonstrating our commitment This report serves as our communication on progress • In 2015, we refreshed our Supplier Code of Conduct, regarding Air New Zealand’s implementation of the ten which sets out our support of the UNGC principles and principles of the UN Global Compact, which we joined in minimum expectations of our suppliers, particularly 2015. The information provides specific detail on policies, around sustainability and transparency. At least 93 procedures and practices in respect of the UNGC’s percent of our suppliers, by procurement spend1, comply principles, and should be read alongside our 2019 with our Supplier Code of Conduct and we are working Sustainability Report, which sets out Air New Zealand’s to achieve compliance from all suppliers (excluding progress in relation to its Sustainability Framework. fuel and labour) by 2020. In 2017 the Supplier Code of This Communication on Progress covers the timeframe Conduct was updated to highlight Air New Zealand’s 1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019. ongoing commitment to observe, as a minimum, the same conduct, standards and behaviours that it Our commitment to the UNGC ten principles is expects of its Suppliers when conducting business. demonstrated in the following key policies, procedures and practices at Air New Zealand: • We encourage all employees to raise concerns about inappropriate conduct, including potentially unethical • Air New Zealand’s Code of Conduct sets out our or illegal conduct, while assuring confidentiality commitment to the principles enshrined in the United and protection against retaliation or any form of Nations Global Compact, and the standards of harassment. Employees are able to raise concerns via behaviour we expect from our employees globally. The their manager or human resources business partner, Air New Zealand Business Principles detailed in each or through an independent ‘Speak Up’ service (phone, section below are derived from our Code of Conduct. email or post). Our Just Culture and Reporting policy • All employees are required to abide by our Code of is intended to create an environment of mutual trust Conduct, which is communicated as part of training which encourages employees to report issues while modules before employment commences. Refresher being clear on the distinction between acceptable and training is provided to all employees on an annual basis. unacceptable behaviour. Code of Conduct training completion is reported to the • Air New Zealand’s 2018 Slavery and Human Trafficking Air New Zealand Policy Management Committee and Statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (UK), the Audit Committee. further embeds and elaborates on Air New Zealand’s commitment to the UNGC principles by ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chain or in any part of our business. AIRNEWZEAL AND.COM 1. This excludes fuel, airport fees, aircraft, taxes and labour. Where supply agreements are not in place, Air New Zealand’s purchase order terms and conditions are used to apply the Supplier Code of Conduct where the supplier spend is below $150,000. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES S Human Rights Global Compact principle Air New Zealand Business principle Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect • We will treat people fairly, with dignity and will pursue the protection of internationally proclaimed human equality of opportunity and inclusion for all employees rights; and through our employment policies and practices. We value diversity of people and thought. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in • We will recruit, select and develop our people on human rights abuses. merit – irrespective of age, race, colour, origin, gender, religious beliefs, disability, family or marital status, sexual orientation or other prohibited grounds. • We will take into account social, ethical and environmental considerations in our procurement and supply chain decisions. • Our Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct • See the Air New Zealanders section of our 2019 positions on Human Rights are supported by our Sustainability Report for discussion of our goals, Sustainability Framework (see our 2019 Sustainability implementation and outcomes relating to people safety Report), and the following Air New Zealand Group (health, safety and wellbeing), employee engagement, policies (publicly available policies are linked): diversity and inclusion, people development, and the future of work and lifelong learning. Disciplinary Policy and Disciplinary Guidelines • In the last year, we have received the Gender, Rainbow Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy and Accessibility Tick accreditations, which provide Procurement Policy independent validation that people of all genders, sexual identity and abilities respectively are accepted Just Culture and Reporting Policy and valued in our workplace. Workplace Bullying and Harassment Policy • A Bullying and Harassment awareness campaign and the Workplace Bullying and Harassment and training was rolled out to employees last year. Group Guidelines Bullying and Harassment representatives are in Transgender and Transitioning Gender guidelines place and receive ongoing training. HR systems and Domestic Abuse guidelines processes have also been subject to review and update to refine the process where a bullying or • At the date of this COP, 11,832 of Air New Zealand’s harassment claim is lodged and the confidentiality employees are based in New Zealand, with 708 further and actions following reporting. employees based in Argentina, Australia, Canada, China, Cook Islands, Fiji, French Polynesia, France, • See the Working with our Suppliers section of our Great Britain, Hong Kong, Japan, Samoa, Singapore, 2019 Sustainability Report for discussion of our Taiwan, Tonga, and United States of America. goals, implementation and outcomes relating to sustainable procurement. • We take legal advice in the local jurisdictions we operate in about human rights compliance and require managers across the organisation to comply with all company policies. Employment contracts are reviewed for compliance in each local jurisdiction and we seek compliance with policy and contract through governance and management structures. AIRNEWZEAL AND.COM UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES S Labour Global Compact principle Air New Zealand Business principle Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of • We will work in good faith, within the appropriate legal association and the effective recognition of the right to framework, with trade unions and other bodies that collective bargaining; our people collectively choose to represent them. • We will not tolerate child labour and are committed Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and to the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; compulsory labour. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • We will not accept any form of discrimination, harassment or bullying. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect • We will take into account social, ethical and of employment and occupation. environmental considerations in our procurement and supply chain decisions. • Our Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct • See the Air New Zealanders section of our 2019 positions on Human Rights are supported by our Sustainability Report for discussion of our goals, Sustainability Framework and the following Air New implementation and outcomes relating to people safety Zealand Group policies (publicly available policies (health, safety and wellbeing), employee engagement, are linked): diversity and inclusion, people development, and the future of work and lifelong learning. Airline Fatigue Risk Management Policy • See the Working with our Suppliers section of our Airline Safety Policy 2019 Sustainability Report for discussion of our Disciplinary Policy and Disciplinary Guidelines goals, implementation and outcomes relating to sustainable procurement. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy • Air New Zealand respects and supports the role of Just Culture and Reporting Policy unions in the workplace. 73% of our employees are Performance Improvement Policy covered by 34 collective agreements. People Health and Safety Policy For our airline Cabin Crew, in addition to Code of Workplace Bullying and Harassment Policy and Conduct training, we provide initial and ongoing the Workplace Bullying and Harassment Group training on management of customers with Guidelines disabilities and non-discrimination in this area. The guiding document in this regard is the ‘We Care Palm Oil Position Statement Disability Guide’. We recently introduced a human Procurement Policy trafficking awareness training module, and crew have completed a training module focused on wellbeing Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement and mental health. Sustainability Policy • Air New Zealand’s 2018 Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015, further embeds and elaborates on Air New Zealand’s commitment to the UNGC ten principles. AIRNEWZEAL AND.COM UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES S Environment Global Compact principle Air New Zealand Business principle Principle 7: Businesses should support a • We will protect the health, wellbeing, safety and precautionary approach to environmental challenges; security of our customers, employees and the communities in which we operate. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater • We will operate our business with discipline and environmental responsibility; and excellence to ensure sustainability, resilience and effectiveness. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • We will protect and safeguard the natural environment, minimising our use of finite resources and the release of harmful emissions to the environment. • We will invest in society and communities ensuring effective use of our resources and in line with our mission. • We will take into account social, ethical and environmental considerations in our procurement and supply chain decisions. • Our Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct • We achieved stage 2 certification with the International positions on the Environment are supported by our Air Transport Association Environmental Assessment Sustainability Framework, and the following Air New (IEnvA) programme, which independently assesses Zealand Group policies (publicly available policies airline environmental management. During the are linked): reporting year, we identified one environmental noncompliance. This will be resolved by the end of 2019. Sustainability Policy • In addition to our operational activities, Air New Zealand Procurement Policy also partners with the New Zealand Department of • See the Tackling climate change & carbon and Conservation, providing support for biodiversity projects Reducing waste & plastic sections of our 2019 and marine reserves. Several hundred Air New Zealand Sustainability Report for discussion of our goals, staff support conservation-related projects every year, implementation and outcomes relating to our through participation in the company Greenteam. aviation carbon reduction approach, low carbon • See the Working with our Suppliers section of our stationary energy, low carbon ground transport, 2019 Sustainability Report for discussion of our goals, waste management, and property and infrastructure. implementation and outcomes relating to sustainable procurement. AIRNEWZEAL AND.COM UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES S Anti-Corruption Global Compact principle Air New Zealand Business principle Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption • We will comply with all applicable domestic and in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. international laws and regulations, appropriate standards and principles, including all competition, anti-trust and anti-money laundering laws. • We will not tolerate any form of bribery, including improper offers of payments or gifts to or from employees. • We will avoid any activity or contracts that may lead to, or suggest, a conflict of interest between personal activities and Air New Zealand. • We will take into account social, ethical and environmental considerations in our procurement and supply chain decisions. • Our Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct positions on Anti-Corruption are supported by the following Air New Zealand Group policies (publicly available policies are linked): Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy Audit Independence Policy Competition Law Policy Continuous Disclosure Policy Conflicts of Interest Policy Gifts and Entertainment Policy Procurement Policy Securities Trading Policy • See the Working with our Suppliers section of our 2019 Sustainability Report for discussion of our goals, implementation and outcomes relating to sustainable procurement. • We review corruption risk as part of our due diligence on new flight routes. • We provide training on competition law for employees and specific groups who work in an environment where they may interact with competitors to ensure that they understand and are able to recognise behaviours that may have an anticompetitive purpose. AIRNEWZEAL AND.COM
