UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 As part of the company’s CSR effort to ensure consistent power supply, using renewable resource, to essential facilities in remote areas, PPL recently installed a 60 kilowatts solar system at District Headquarters Hospital and Complex in Washuk, Balochistan Principle1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) respects the dignity and rights of its human resource. Through our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Programme, we also support the right to education, healthcare, basic civic amenities and healthy recreation for communities. 3 Management Systems 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Strategic System for Organizational consultation with line managers and Human Development 4 PPL has a defined Leadership Competency Framework to achieve superior performance ACTIOnS through effective and strong leadership. Senior management’s capacity is Organizational Surveys developed in these competencies to enable them to Performance consistently perform and deliver better results. In the long-term, PPL remains committed to improve its employee engagement. this framework also helps build To this end, the company participates in various countrywide a succession pipeline in Human Resource (HR) benchmarking surveys to assess preparing the next generation of existing and emergent trends. The findings enable PPL to leaders for the company. align its HR system with leading companies and consolidate best practices already followed by the company. 4 As part of the annual training plan, in-house and public 4 The findings of a recently-conducted employee engagement training sessions were arranged survey indicate that there is a need to improve the current for staff at all levels. A total of performance management system. Addressing this 183 training programmes were Pakistan Petroleum Limited observation, the company plans to review the current held, which included 30 performance management system and recommend appropriate sessions facilitated by foreign changes to bring it in line with best industry practices. trainers in the core technical/professional areas. Capacity Building Moreover, Annual Assets and Exploration conferences were organized to review and plan Performance exploration and operational Staff capacity building at PPL is based on an integrated activities approach, including on-job training, coaching, mentoring, e4 PPL’s e-learning portal, in learning and classroom sessions, aligned with employee job collaboration with International requirements as well as need identification. To this end, staff Human Resource Development are regularly offered learning opportunities with a liberty to Corporation (IHRDC), continues prioritise their training plan while line managers are also to offer more than 1500 online sensitized on the importance and relevant skills for staff courses for oil and gas industry development. These efforts are supported by an professionals to augment the organisational culture that enables personal and professional capacity building efforts. To growth of staff. facilitate access to 4 To ensure that the values of PPL are in line with its vision and management best practices, the mission, a project was initiated in early 2018 to review the company also extended softcompany’s corporate values. The review of PPL values entailed skills trainings to staff through detailed discussions, management interviews, cross-functional globally acknowledged Harvard and cross-location focus groups along with a management Business Review’s online retreat. As a result, revised values were finalized, comprising learning portal Harvard Manage value creation, respect, integrity, serving the nation and Mentor. empowerment (V-RISE) 4 The first batch of the Associates 4 Following the board’s approval, interactive value inducted in March 2016, communication sessions were held at all locations for completed their two-year on-job management staff to ensure that they relate the company training in March 2018. Out of a values to their own personal values. Furthermore, values are total of 67 Associates, 54 were being translated in Urdu and slated to be rolled out to n-MPT offered regular employment staff as well in the next few months based on performance and 4 Keeping in view the changing industry context and company available vacancies. The needs, in early 2018, discipline-wise skills matrix was updated second batch of 35 Associates 4 for staff to include those skills that are needed to meet new inducted in July 2017 is now strategic objectives. Later, the matrix was translated into annual been placed in their core training plan for technical and non-technical functions through functional areas for focused on2 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress job training for a year. The batch will complete the two-year onIndustrial job training in July 2019. As such, PPL’s Associates programme is geared towards development of talent pipeline Relations as well as maintain an in-house skill set for achieving the and Employees company’s strategic and operational requirements. ACTIOnS 4 Posting of staff between fields and head office, on a rollingbasis, has been streamlined. Also, regular lateral staff rotation within head office has assisted employees in diversifying their learning and assisted company to benefit from their Fair Investigation experiences. 4 30 Special Trainees inducted for a two-year on-job training Procedures programme in 2016 as part of capacity building of young professional engineers and diploma holders belonging to Performance company’s producing fields have been confirmed based on PPL protects employee rights, their performance and available vacancies. ensuring equitable treatment and 4 PPL has a Technical Management Centre that subscribes to opportunity for all to voice their leading industry journals as well as other resources to keep views. staff updated with the latest trends and use of technology in 4 The company has an effective the Exploration and Production sector. policy for redressal of staff grievances, if any. Pakistan Petroleum Limited 4 Current reading material, including newspapers, magazines and periodicals are provided to keep staff updated on latest 4 Based on laws relevant to its trends and information. various locations, PPL follows the Standing (Orders) 4 The company’s monthly newsletter Progress, now in its 63rd Ordinance 1968 for official year of publication regularly reports on company activities and reprimand of staff. industry related news. The Urdu version of Progress, initiated in January 2011, reaches to staff and stakeholders who are 4 The company regularly otherwise not able to get first-hand information due to organizes town hall meetings language barrier. for staff at all locations to share new developments, concern 4 Staff is kept updated on company activities through posting and issues in an open photographs of various corporate events on intranet portal. communication with senior Besides, press clippings on oil and gas and energy sectors management. from leading newspapers are posted daily on the portal and circulated to senior management. Benefits Performance PPL provides its staff with competitive remuneration packages as well as strives to facilitate enabling working environment with ample capacity development and career progression opportunities. 4 In line with Companies Profits (Worker's Participation) Act 1968, PPL contributes five percent of its net profit to the Workers Participation Fund. 4 PPL follows the Employees Old Age Benefits (EOB) Act 1976, contributing five percent of minimum basic salary to EOB 5 institutions with employees' participation of 1 percent. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 The company pays Statutory Bonus under Section 10-C of the teams for various sports such West Pakistan Industrial and Commercial Employment as cricket and table tennis that (Standing Order) Ordinance 1968 as well as Annual Settlement participate in contests/ matches Bonus to non-management staff. with other organizations. 4 Annual Leave Fare Assistance is given to non-management 4 The company maintains fullystaff in addition to monthly remuneration. equipped health and fitness 4 PPL also extends loans to staff for house construction/ facility at head office as well as renovation and purchase of home appliances and vehicles. proper indoor games/ recreation facilities at field locations to 4 The company offers 13 annual scholarships to children of keep its employees mentally permanent non-management staff, with four scholarships for and physically fit. Head Office post-intermediate and professional and 9 for post-matriculation Sports Club remains available education. for staff recreation during lunch 4 Free bachelor accommodation along with necessary utilities is break and after working hours. given to field-stationed staff. The club at Sui Gas Field 4 Gratis Hajj and Umrah facilities are provided to workers. (SGF) and Kandhot Gas Field 4 PPL provides pick-and-drop transport facility to women staff. has a jogging track, badminton, tennis and squash courts and a 4 The company provides a nutritious and balanced lunch facility swimming pool for staff use. for management staff and women employees at head office and fields. 4 PPL also organizes indoor Pakistan Petroleum Limited games competition among head office and field employees. Employee Recognition 4 PPL organizes musical and other cultural programmes for Performance employees. PPL follows fair and transparent policies and procedures to 4 Company management and recognize and reward high standards of performance and staff celebrate religious and enhance staff motivation. cultural festivals as well as national days. 4 Performance Awards are given on an annual basis to employees together with departments in recognition of their outstanding achievements. The company recognizes and rewards individual and department’s efforts for extraordinary Preventing Forcible performance, innovation, creativity, cost savings, productivity Displacement gains and complexity reduction, waste elimination and outstanding QHSE contribution. Besides employee’s notable of Individuals social contributions are also rewarded. The scheme also sets out to establish role models within the organization that other Performance employees can emulate. Moreover, other initiatives such as Due to its strict adherence to spot bonus schemes are also in place. prescribed laws, PPL has never 4 PPL considers human capital its premium asset and had a case of forcible acknowledges longevity of service, ranging from 15 to 40 displacement of employees. years, through annual long service awards. 4 The company arranges farewells for retiring staff in Employment Policy for appreciation of their services. Handicapped and Disabled People Healthy Entertainment for Employees 4 PPL follows the Disabled Persons (Employment and Performance Rehabilitation) Ordinance 1981 and ensures employment of PPL attaches great importance to providing sports facilities handicapped personnel. and entertainment for staff. 4 In line with the Workmen 4 PPL encourages sports among employees and regularly Compensation Act in matters 6 organizes events such as Annual Inter-location Cricket related to disability, alternate Tournaments and in-door games to engage staff at head office job assignments are given to and fields in healthy recreation. Besides, the company has disabled staff. 3 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Employee Safety undertakes Safety Observation and Security & Feedback Tour Audit of assets/ locations beyond the set target. ACTIOnS 4 Use of personal protective equipment (PPE) and clothing Safe Working Conditions continue to remain efored for staff safety at work according to the nature of the job. Performance 4 Safety alerts and travel Employee safety and security is one of PPL’s top priorities. advisories are regularly sent to The company’s senior management is committed to employees. recognising QHSE as a core value for sustainable business growth and profitability. PPL has dedicated Security and QHSE 4 Security passes are compulsory departments to ensure hazard-free working conditions. The for PPL employees at the head following initiatives are taken to help protect company office and field locations. employees from risky situations and conditions: 4 Safety and fire drills are 4 To ensure safe plant operations and proactively avoid incidental regularly conducted as per environmental releases, Process Safety Management (PSM), Health, Safety and Environment based on OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration (HSE) requirements at head office and all field locations. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Series) 3132 principles, has been implemented. This came through a comprehensive PSM benchmarking study undertaken 4 HSE awareness and training by DuPont a couple of years back. For implementation, PPL sessions are regularly held. To used three core dimensions for Process Safety: leadership, further focus on increased culture and values; competence and information / hazard understanding and improvement analysis. For this, leadership workshops were organized and in the use of safety procedures, staff were engaged through training and seminars. Competence a specialized mandatory training framework was developed, procedures strengthened and hazard campaign for all staff is in place identification and hazard & operability studies completed across to build capacity in fulfilling basic the board as some of the key deliverables. QHSE protocols, including 4 PPL continues to ensure contractors’ safety through various prefirefighting, incident investigation emptive measures, including pre-mobilisation workshops, preand reporting, defensive driving, spud meetings, audits and placement of additional QHSE firefighting and first aid, over the human resource on seismic and drilling sites. period of four years. 4 In order to improve quality of risk assessment and proactive 4 ‘Hazard Identification, Risk precautionary response in mitigating risks, automation of ‘Risk Assessment and Management’ Management’ and ‘Incident Management’ processes are processes are shared with staff for compliance. Field-based Incident Categories Environmental Accidents — QHSE representatives provide Severity Wise training for conducting risk assessment of routine and 23 1 project activities. 4 Head Count System in the form of T-card is implemented at all 10 12 PPL fields, drilling sites, regional 135 office in Islamabad and West Wharf as a quick and accurate estimation of personnel’s location at various sites. near miss Accidents Major Minor Moderate 4 Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) has been on a decline completed in collaboration with globally renowned QHSE IT over the years due to PPL’s Software solution provider. Further, several trainings conducted commitment to PSM and for the staff before the software went Live in 2017. This has implementation of QHSE resulted in improved quality of risk assessments and tracking on procedures. LTIF of the 7 compliance for necessary control measures. company remained 0.23 during 4 For monitoring progress on health and safety measures, the reporting period. especially at fields and facilities, senior management regularly 4 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Employee Travel Safety Health Performance PPL has a comprehensive Road Transport Safety framework, focussing on safety of company staff as well as safe ACTIOnS transport of hydrocarbons Healthy Environment 4 A comprehensive framework is introduced on Road Transport Safety (RTS) which focuses on passenger safety with basic for Employees guidelines on hydrocarbon transport. 4 Detailed gap assessment criteria developed in line with RTS Performance framework and implemented at fields and offices. PPL supports a safe and healthy 4 Behavioural monitoring of drivers and passengers is focussed workplace by enhancing staff to improve Journey Risk Management plans and developing health and well-being. base stations. 4 Periodic check-ups are carried 4 Any unsafe driving practices, travel route issues, vehicle or out for fire extinguishers, fire employee complaints regarding transport are reported to alarms and sprinklers at all field Administration Department for necessary countermeasures. locations. 4 All company vehicles are regularly inspected for fitness/ tuning/ 4 Ergonomics survey has been Pakistan Petroleum Limited service at designated workshops/ garages. initiated to review working postures/ conditions of 4 Wearing seat belts is mandatory for company transport drivers employees at workplace. and employees using company vehicles. A policy is in place to bind staff to wear seat belts. 4 Kitchen hygiene and inspections are a regular feature along with 4 All PPL employees are insured while travelling locally, medical screening of food domestically or internationally. handlers. 4 Use of mobile phones is prohibited while driving company 4 Compliance assessment of vehicles. Occupational Health Protocols 4 First aid boxes, fire extinguishers, safety cones, toe chain/ have been completed at Sui, strop are placed in all company vehicles. Gambat South, Kandhkot, Adhi 4 Road Transport Safety guidelines are being prepared to further and Hala through independent emphasize company’s focus on safe road travel. consultant 4 Driving Safety Handbook has been introduced at PPL drilling 4 Chartered flight from Karachi to sites. Sui has been resumed through national carrier PIA after 4 Comprehensive QHSE evaluation criteria as well as thorough QHSE review. contractual clauses have been developed to improve transportation of crude oil/ condensate, LPG & nGL from Adhi, nashpa, Gambat South, Mazarani & Dhok Sultan besides, HSD & MS transportation across PPL fields. Basic Health Facilities 4 Apprised management that ‘risk transfer’ approach by parent companies to hold contractors and subcontractors solely Performance responsible for incident management and compliance of laws, PPL extends a comprehensive regulations and standards is not enough health plan and medical policy to 4 Risk card generated at the company level, including risk employees and their families. litigation plan The company has qualified doctors for providing medical 4 Reviewed legal & regulatory requirements as well as consultation and treatment at international standards (ADR 2018) and awareness campaigns head office and field locations. held at select fields, head and Islamabad offices 4 The company provides medical 4 Incident Analys is performed through VEHS software assistance to all employees, including their immediate family, and pensioners as per medical policy. More recently, the 8 company has started the provision of parental medical facility to management staff. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 PPL maintains a city clinic in Karachi, providing services 4 The Computer Training Centre throughout the day and on weekends to ensure easy access for and Library at Sui established in employees and their families. Besides, PPL has a full-fledged 2010 continues to be operated hospital located within the SGF premises. At other company by Kalsoft, an Information fields and locations, Kandhkot, Adhi, Mazarani, Adam and Technology company. So far, Gambat South, proper arrangements for emergency medical care nearly 950 locals have been are in place. trained in basic and advanced 4 The company has initiated hospitalization facility through certificate courses. Besides, insurance services in order to further facilitate employees and over 700 residents are their dependents registered library users. 4 PPL follows the Factories Act 1934, Mines Act 1923 and Oil 4 The company provides free-ofand Gas (Safety in Drilling and Production) Regulations -1974, cost transport facility to students which include employee personal hygiene, environment, of Taaleem Foundation Grammar emergency medical assistance and periodic medical check-ups. School (TFGS) and Federal 4 Health awareness sessions are regularly conducted by company Government Public School doctors and guest consultants for informing and updating staff on (FGPS), Sui. Besides, PPL has preventive measures and treatment of common diseases and extended infrastructure and inoutbreaks. kind support to both schools since inception. Recently, three 5 4 Ex-gratia payments are made to staff in case of prolonged sickness. family quarters for teaching staff were constructed and furnished Pakistan Petroleum Limited 4 Clean drinking water is provided to staff at all locations. at FGPS 4 PPL regularly provides the Corporate Social following scholarships for local students residing around its Responsibility operational fields to enable them to acquire quality education at renowned institutions: PPL stands committed to improving the quality of l Higher Professional Education Scholarship life for deserving population around its operational (HPES) scheme was initiated areas as well as in large urban areas through in 2005 to support both boys provision of education, healthcare, infrastructure and girls in District Dera Bugti to pursue education in development, livelihood generation, sports and reputable institutions across cultural conservation and has allocated a minimum the country. The scheme was 1.5 percent of its pre-tax profit for CSR activities. extended to include local students around PPL’s The company spent over Rs. 1191 million for CSR operated producing assets in initiatives during March 2018 to February 2019, other areas during 2009. To date, HPES has benefited which is over and above its minimum commitment. over 350 students. l Four-year scholarship ACTIOnS programme offers 40 annual scholarships for students of Education grade IX to XII from Balochistan to study at reputed educational Performance institutions across the PPL believes that one of the sustainable ways of improving country. Starting 2011-2012, livelihoods and well-being of underserved communities is by nearly 230 students have providing them access to quality education. benefitted from the scheme. 4 The company has been providing quality education to children l The company has extended of staff and locals at Sui Model School (SMS) since 1957. SMS 100 scholarships for students was upgraded to a girls’ college in 2009. Currently, the school of FC College Sui (previously 9 caters to nearly 3000 local boys and girls, including 95 at the known as Balochistan Public college. PPL has also established e-learning distant learning School). With an annual cost facility at SMS&GC. of Rs. 2.5 million, the UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress scholarship enables 10 deserving girls and boys each from students at Quaid-e-Azam grade 1 up to 10 to study free of cost. PPL has also contributed Rangers Special Children Rs. 20 million towards constructed of a FC Girls college. School, Karachi in the third year l 30 scholarships are extended at a cost of Rs. 2.5 million per with a commitment to cover annum for the hearing challenged students from Matiari and their education over a period of Sanghar districts in Sindh to study at Family Education 10 years until they complete Services Pakistan which has enabled them to study free of their matriculation with a cost for a year. donated of Rs. 3.6 million. l PPL has recently introduced a scholarship scheme to 4 PPL donated Rs. 5 million on to encourage local girls’ students of Sui Model School and Girls Habib University Foundation to College to take up studies in medicine at HEC-recognized support five underprivileged medical colleges across the country. Currently, one girl students for one year under the student secured the scholarship award. Talent Outreach Promotion and 4 The company regularly covers operational expenses of its two Support Programme of Habib adopted schools in District Kambar Shahdadkot, Sindh. University. 4 PPL established and operationalized three primary schools in 4 The company donated around Kandhkot in partnership with The Citizen’s Foundation in 2011 Rs. 17 million to national with an input of Rs. 83 million for which an endowment fund University of Sciences and was created. To date, over 650 students, both girls and boys, Technology (nUST), Islamabad are enrolled at these schools. One of the campuses have been for capacity building of 160 Pakistan Petroleum Limited upgraded to a secondary school. students each from Balochistan and FATA to appear in the To strengthen academia-industry partnership and promote nUST admission test under 4 research and development in disciplines relevant to the nUST-PPL Outreach industry, the company has established chairs at prominent Programme. universities. PPL Chair in Petroleum Engineering is operationalized at Mehran University of Engineering and 4 The company installed solar Technology (MUET), Jamshoro. PPL has allocated about Rs. energy system for computer 50 million for MUET chair. laboratory at Government Boys 4 PPL continues to provide operational expenses for Virtual Degree College, Kalat University (VU), Sui campus which was earlier established by 4 PPL repaired and refurbished PPL with an input of about Rs. 20 million. The VU campus is historic Dawood Government equipped with an advanced computer lab comprising 32 Boys Model High School, Kalat systems and an 8-MB fiber optic value-added network providing To further its efforts in promoting online courses leading to a bachelors, masters and doctorate in education, especially in remote a host of disciplines. Currently, 56 students are studying at VU areas, PPL has made contribution/ Sui campus which is being run by Taaleem Foundation. donations and provided support to 4 The company continues to support education of 10 deserving the following institutions, including: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2018March 2019 (Rs. in millions) Government Boys Middle School, Kanyal Bijrana, Tehsil Gujjar Khan, District Rawalpindi for construction of 3 classrooms 3.76 Government Middle School, Mureed Bajkani, District Kashmore for construction of 5 classrooms and sanitary facility 6.5 Government Primary School, Akram Bajkani, District Kashmore for construction of 3 classrooms 3.5 Government Girls Middle School, Rayian Gorcian, tehsil Gujjar Khan, District Rawalpindi for construction of 2 classrooms 2.59 Government Kazmia High School, Chichi noor, tehsil Gujjar Khan, District Rawalpindi for construction of an examination hall 4.76 FC Public High School, District Barkhan for construction of 4 classrooms and provision of furniture 4.8 Two government schools at District Washuk and three government schools at District Barkhan and Tehsil Gujar Khan, District Rawalpindi each for 10 provision of furniture 3.3 MUET, Jamshoro for Petro Fest 2018 0.4 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Healthcare Initiatives Merger Centres (TMC) at Turbat, Balochistan and Kandhkot, Sindh since 2005. The company Performance provides annual operational The company has provided extensive healthcare facilities in expenses of these centres at a some of the remotest regions of Pakistan through building and cost of nearly Rs. 3 million. assisting hospitals, mother and child healthcare centres, mobile Besides, PPL established dispensaries and medical camps ophthalmic operation theatre at 4 PPL runs Sui Field Hospital (SFH) since 1964. In addition to PPL TMC Kandhkot at a cost of staff and those of partners, SFH provides free-of-cost medical Rs.8.5 as well as provided facilities to a large number of local patients. SFH is equipped with operational cost for the theatre at latest medical facilities, including a 24-hour emergency ward to Rs. 3.5 million. The centres cater to trauma and accident patients. extend free-ofcost treatment for leprosy, blindness and 4 Fully-equipped mobile medical dispensaries (MMD) regularly visit tuberculosis to local more than 70 villages/ locations around Kandhkot, Mazarani and communities. producing fields of Hala and Gambat South on a weekly/ bimonthly basis to provide free-ofcost consultation and 4 The company continues to treatment to resident communities. Approximately 85,000 patients provide free-of-cost treatment to are reached annually through these MMDs. PPL has also local patients through a developed e-monitoring software to review MMDs impact and its dispensary, earlier constructed Pakistan Petroleum Limited staff performance. and furnished by PPL in Mastala near Adhi Field in 2007. A female 4 The 50-bed PPL Public Welfare Hospital (PPL PWH) was doctor is deputed by PPL to cater constructed, furnished and equipped by PPL at a cost of over to the healthcare needs of local Rs. 350 million on land provided by Government of Balochistan in women. PPL annually provides Sui Town. The hospital became autonomous with an independent Rs. 2 million to the dispensary for board. Hiring of management, consultants, other doctors and operational expenses. nurses is nearly completed. The out-patient department commenced operations in December 2013 and caters to over 4 PPL installed 60 KW solar power system at district headquarters 200 patients on a daily basis. PPLPWH has necessary facilities, hospital Washuk at a cost of Rs including gynaecology and obstetrics, emergency, operation 10 million to help provide theatres, laboratory and pharmacy. uninterrupted supply of electricity 4 PPL organizes bi-annual free-of-cost surgical eye camps around at the hospital its operational fields in partnership with Al-Shifa Trust Eye 4 To support viable community Hospital. Each camp benefits about 2000 patients for testing and healthcare projects and services, provision of glasses with nearly 200 patients undergoing onsite PPL has provided donations/ cataract surgery. sponsorships to the following 4 PPL has adopted Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre’s Triple institution: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2018March 2019 (Rs. in millions) Layton Rahmatulla Benevolent Trust for a fundraising event 0.150 11 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Enhancing Livelihood Opportunities Infrastructure Performance Development PPL believes in creating livelihood generation options to enable marginalized communities raise their quality of life. Performance The company has substantially invested in projects to engage Provision of need-based, durable local communities, both men and women, residing around its infrastructure is a key to operational areas in earning livelihoods through sustained development and sustained income sources. economic growth, especially in the far-flung areas of Pakistan. 4 The company set-up a Women Welfare Centre in Sui in 2006 The company has focused on to provide skill learning opportunities for local women. The developing infrastructure and centre trained over 400 local women until 2015 when it was civic amenities not only for its shifted to a purpose-built facility. Developed at a cost of nearly own use but also for local Rs. 32 million within TFGS premises, the Vocational Training communities. Institute (VIT) provides training to both women and men with access to market. VIT is run by Taaleem Foundation. The 4 PPL completed reconditioning batch of 45 students were trained in tailoring and embroidery of 1.6 km road from as well as operating computer for six months. Recently, 30 Shahdadpur-nawabshah road students among these successfully cleared the formal end-ofto village Mohammad Khoso, District Sanghar. Pakistan Petroleum Limited the-term assessment conducted by Trade Testing Board, Quetta. For now, 35 local students are enrolled at VTI. 4 PPL has completed five solar4 PPL provides scholarship to local youth around producing powered water supply schemes assets to study at The Hunnar Foundation – recognized by at districts Lasbela, Kharan and City and Guilds United Kingdom – for a 6-month diploma in Awaran. vocational training. Starting off with Sui-based students in 4 The company built 17 km road 2009, the company has so far extended 150 scholarships to in various villages of Kandhkot youth in Sui, Matiari and Sanghar. Gas Field, District Kashmore. 4 Women Vocational Training Centre (WVTC), Mastala near Adhi 4 To provide clean drinking water, Field was established in 2011 to facilitate local women in the company has extended increasing their income potential. PPL regularly provides solar powered water supply resource material and operational expenses for the centre schemes at four village in which is run by Behbud Association of Pakistan, a nondistricts Kalat, Sanghar and governmental organization. WVTC trains women in Kashmore. embroidery, tailoring and basic literacy skills. To date, over 500 4 PPL provides free-of-cost gas local women have been trained. These include over 35 women and water supplies to over who are regularly engaged to carryout traditional embroidery 90000 residents of Sui town on dresses sold at Behbud-run outlets without engaging a and villages around SGF. An middleman. average of 3 MMscfd free gas and nearly two million gallons of Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2018March 2019 (Rs. in millions) drinking water is pumped daily to Sui town at an annual cost of Distinguished Secretaries’ Society of Pakistan for 47th about Rs. 373 million and Rs. Annual Gala 2018 0.150 112 million, respectively. Pakistan Society for Training & Development for HR 4 To provide free-of-cost potable Conference (COnnEX 2018) 0.150 water to over 3000 residents of Pakistan Association of Petroleum Geoscientists for a field trip 0.100 Ghaibi Dero town and its surrounding villages near All Pakistan Geoscientist’s Association for 4 Annual Technical Mazarani Gas Field, District th Workshop 2018 0.350 Kamber Shahdadkot, Sindh, Pakistan Association of Petroleum Geoscientists for PPL runs a water supply Annual Technical Conference 2018 1.500 scheme using a bowzer facility since 2010 at an annual cost of about Rs. 3 million. 12 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Social Welfare Performance The company has a diverse, need-based social welfare policy. With a minimum pre-tax profit of 1.5 percent, PPL’s CSR initiatives go well beyond obligatory requirements to support the disadvantage communities. To ensure optimum on-ground implementation and impact, PPL works through government, local civil society organizations and local communities. 4 The company won the Pakistan Corporate Philanthropy Award instituted by Pakistan Centre for Philanthropy for the 14 consecutive years from 2004 to 2017 as the largest corporate giver in terms of volume of donations. 4 The company organized 2nd PPL Blind Cricket Championship 2018 in collaboration with Pakistan Blind Cricket Council at Peshawar. 4 PPL donated Rs 200,000 to Pakistan Blind Cricket Council (PBCC) for nepalPakistan Women’s Blind Cricket Series 4 The company continues to conduct impact analysis of its CSR projects around its producing fields 4 The company established badminton court at Public Club, Kalat Pakistan Petroleum Limited 4 To support organizations providing welfare services, enabling neglected societal segments to prosper and promoting environmental and cultural values, PPL has given generous donations to the following: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2018March 2019 (Rs. in millions) The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan (ICAP) for CFO conference 0.500 ICAP for Women’s Day 0.250 ICAP for Public Financial Management Conference 2018 0.300 IG Head Quarter, FC (South) Quetta, Balochistan (IGFC South) for Ramzan Cricket Tournament 0.100 IGFC South for Independence Day celebrations 0.200 13 Principle 2 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited PPL is highly committed to conducting its business in accordance with the highest ethical and legal standards. 14 Management Systems 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 PPL requires its employees to ETHICS maintain an environment free from prejudice, harassment and disruptive activities. ACTIOnS 4 In compliance with Oil & Gas Regulatory Authority’s directives Adherence to Highest Corporate Values to implement ‘Protection Against Harassment of Women at Workplace (PAHWW) Act Performance 2010’, the company took the PPL's vision, mission and values are testament to the following measures: importance the company places on corporate ethics. As such, 4 Circulated brochures on salient the company expects its employees to adhere to the following features of the Act, including core values: instructions on compliance, to 4 Promote leadership, empowerment and accountability all employees. 4 Pursue highest standards of integrity 4 Company’s harassment policy 4 Value people as the most important resource was prominently placed on PPL website and portal. 4 Promote innovation and value creation 4 A three-member committee, 4 Ensure excellence in all spheres of performance Pakistan Petroleum Limited including a women staff, was 4 Advocate teamwork aligned with business objectives constituted to address staff 4 Conserve environment by minimizing carbon footprint grievances. 4 Awareness raising sessions for Code of Conduct staff have been periodically organized on PAHWW Act 2010 and PPL’s harassment policy Performance with a mandatory requirement Business should uphold the freedom of association and the for each staff to participate. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4 Any suspected violations or 4 PPL believes in carrying out its business with integrity and actions that create hostile or honesty, adhering to the principles of good corporate offensive work environment governance and best practices. The company’s Code of such as sexual harassment or Conduct, approved by the Board of Directors, provide insensitive comments guidelines to employees for planning, managing and executing concerning gender, religion, work. The Code is available to all employees through the race, disability or age are company’s portal and website. Besides, periodic reinforcement promptly reported to is done through notice boards, brochures, e-learning modules management that ensures and on-screen popups on employees’ desktops/ laptops. appropriate actions in line with Standard Operating Procedures. 4 All incoming employees and trainees sign and submit an undertaking to ensure clear understanding and acceptance 4 Violations of the Code of and uphold the company’s Code of Conduct. Further, Conduct are viewed seriously employees’ acceptance and adherence to the Code of Conduct and have often resulted in is ensured through online undertaking at the time of filling-in disciplinary actions and, in performance appraisals as a mandatory step towards form some cases, led to termination submission. of service. 15 Principle 3 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited We acknowledge and respect rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We are committed to addressing issues, problems and grievances proactively to regulate the company's operations with dignity of labour, minimization of animosity and fostering a relationship of trust between management and workers. 16 Management Systems 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 The office bearers of the trade Industrial Relations union enjoy freedom to discharge their legal responsibilities without any ACTIOnS interference from management. 4 All terms and conditions of Freedom of Association employment of workers are reviewed biennially and discussed in a friendly Performance environment with CBA. After The company believes in the freedom of opinion and bilateral negotiations, a expression of all stakeholders and seeks to ensure a handsome increase in wages congenial and equitable working environment as per law. and other allowances are paid 4 The company complies with the Industrial Relations Act, through settlement. wherein employees are free to join any trade union of their 4 Policies on salaries and choice. allowances as well as other 4 PPL has a registered trade union, Pakistan Petroleum Workers benefits such as medical, leave Union, of which most workers are members. and travel are duly discussed and finalized with the CBA every two years. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Collective Bargaining 4 The company provides special leave to CBA union/employees Performance for appearance in court cases, if it is party to disputes. The company management and Collective Bargaining Agent (CBA) work towards creating a cordial working environment for workers at all field locations. 4 The CBA together with stewards and union members, coordinates with management to improve working conditions and redress job-related issues. 4 negotiations of the Charter of Demands are always settled amicably with CBA representatives. 4 Initiatives for change are undertaken by incorporating the union's suggestions to ensure hassle-free implementation. 17 Principle 4 Business should support the UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress elimination of all forms of 5 forced and compulsory labour. Principle Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited PPL supports abolition of child labour and elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour in its areas of operations or by any of its business partners and contractors. 18 Management Systems 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 Either party can terminate Employees employment contracts within the notice period. 4 Exit notice period for workers is ACTIOnS 30 days and for management, professional and technical staff Procedure for Preventing Under-age is 90 days. Employment 4 Exit interviews are taken to solicit feedback and institute corrective measures, if Performance necessary. The company strictly forbids child labour and actively prevents hiring under-age workers. 4 All PPL permanent workers are in the adult person (18 years Record of Checking and above) category, in accordance with the law. Minimum Wage Rate 4 To prevent under-age hiring, the ages of all workers are confirmed through national identity cards, birth certificates, Against Regulated educational certificates or Form 'B' issued by the national Database and Registration Authority. Amount Pakistan Petroleum Limited Performance The company keeps its wage Procedure for Preventing Forced policy in line with governmental directives to ensure fair Labour corporate governance. 4 All workers in the company Performance (both permanent and contract) are employed above the The company follows strict procedures to prevent forced minimum wage rate as labour. specified by the government 4 Employment agreement clearly states terms and conditions of and paid competitively in service, voluntary nature of employment, freedom to leave and accordance with market norms. any conditions associated with departure or cessation of work. 4 Employment agreements do not violate any human rights or labour laws. 19 Principle 6 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited PPL is committed to providing equal opportunities for employment as well as growth without any discrimination on the basis of race, gender, religion, language, social origin, birth or other status. 20 Management Systems 1 2 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Recruitment Employees ACTIOn ACTIOnS Equal Employment Opportunity Enabling working conditions for Performance PPL's employment policy provides equal opportunities for diversified workforce employment and discourages all forms of employee discrimination. Performance 4 PPL is an equal opportunity employer and provides equal As a leading employer and opportunity to women employees. responsible corporate citizen, 4 Women employees are placed at various levels in the PPL provides an enabling organization, ranging from non-management to senior environment for professional management positions. growth, with equity, security and human dignity, irrespective of 4 The company employs men and women employees under gender or religion. Pakistan Petroleum Limited standard screening processes based on merit and job suitability. 4 PPL has a diversified workforce and does not discriminate on 4 There are equitable career paths and opportunities for women the basis of race, colour, employees. gender, religion, disability or 4 To further emphasize equitable participation of working women family status in recruitment, and address their issues at workplace, the company celebrates training or advancement of its International Women's Day and Working Women's Day. employees. Dedicated sessions are organized for women employees to 4 Minorities are given special increase awareness about their role and responsibilities and holidays in accordance with address their issues. their religious festivals to ensure an open and moderate culture across the company. Career Plan: No Discrimination in Staff Promotions Performance 4 Hiring and promotions are done on merit, professional performance and qualification. 21 Principle 7 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited PPL is committed to environmental conservation by complying with national Environmental Quality Standards (nEQS). 22 Management Systems 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 4 Independent Environmental Environmental Management Monitoring is carried out for all seismic and drilling operations, especially in environmentally ACTIOnS sensitive areas, through reputed consultants to ensure Quality, Health, Safety and Environment compliance with environment management plan that includes recommended methodologies, Performance legal requirements and 4 The company’s QHSE policy is in place to ensure quality in all company’s HSE standards to company operations with emphasis on ‘embedding green address environmental issues practices, proactive risk management, complying with relevant while meeting stakeholders’ laws and maintaining communication with stakeholders to expectations. promote sustainability. The policy is displayed at prominent 4 All PPL-operated fields are locations at head, regional and field offices and can be accessed registered with Federal EPA through the company’s website: under Self-Monitoring and https://www.ppl.com.pk/content/policies Reporting Programme for 4 PPL has a well-defined HSE Management System developed in monthly testing through external line with internationally recognized ISO 14001 EMS and OHSAS laboratory and reporting against Pakistan Petroleum Limited 18001. The system provides continuous assessment and emission parameters prescribed monitoring against standard parameters to ensure the highest by nEQS. Also, monitoring of level of safety and minimal damage to surrounding natural vehicular emissions against environment. parameters such as smoke, CO 4 Annual QHSE targets are set and implemented within all and noise (dBA) was conducted. business segments/ assets. Monitoring of environmental key Subsequently, emissions, performance parameters (KPIs) is embedded in the standardized, exceeding nEQS/ PEQS regular QHSE reporting framework. Corporate environmental parameters, have been identified guidelines/ procedures, management tools and reporting have for root cause analysis and enabled the company to improve its environmental performance. rectification. Besides, QHSE Monthly Performance Report structure has been 4 To reduce ecological footprint of significantly upgraded to add on KPIs, improvise data gathering its operations, PPL regularly and facilitate analysis and inferring useful results for continual undertakes environmental improvement. studies prior to physical 4 PPL is an active member of PPEPCA and participates in its HSE mobilization at worksite. These committee meetings. These meetings provide a forum to discuss studies aid in carefully chalking latest industry practices, use of technology and benchmarking in out Environmental Management HSE management system. Plans (EMPs) for the entire project duration. Use of advance technology, new tools and techniques remain essential for Environmental Studies development of EMPs to minimize impacts. 4 Monthly Performance Reports Performance and Monthly Management 4 Initial Environment Examination (IEE) and Environment Impact Reviews are simple yet effective Assessment (EIA) studies are consistently undertaken for all monitoring tools to derive development initiatives, including drilling, seismic operations and management to sort out projects, in compliance with Pakistan Environmental Protection emerging risks & capitalize on Act, 1997. IEE/ EIA aim to identify potential environmental available opportunities in a timely impacts at development sites and advise mitigation measures manner. accordingly. The studies are submitted to relevant provincial 4 In addition to visits of officers Environmental Protection Agencies (EPA) for approval. Once from environmental protection approved, IEE/ EIA provide a benchmark for regular internal and agencies, QHSE monitors are 23 external monitoring against suggested mitigation measures. deployed at operating assets and Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress project sites to verify and report compliance of comprehensive EMPs. Management is committed at all levels to address real time issues in an environment friendly manner Precautionary Measures Performance 4 noise monitoring and abatement is ensured for safe working environment in high noise areas. For this, enclosures, sound barriers and PPE are provided, as appropriate. 4 To control accidental leakage, adequate control arrangements such as barriers and spill control kits are available at all operational areas. Besides, designated trained contingency teams are available to handle incidental spills. Pakistan Petroleum Limited 24 Principle 8 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited PPL ensures proactive acceptance of its responsibility and accountability for environmental imperatives. The company recognizes that operational excellence cannot be achieved without embedding HSE considerations into business decision making processes. PPL remains committed to raising environmental awareness among staff, suppliers and contractors for encouraging ecofriendly practices. 25 Management Systems 1 2 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Environmental Environmental Management Responsibility Enhancing Environmental Awareness ACTIOnS Performance Eco-friendly practices 4 Awareness raising sessions and training, focusing on environment and sustainability, are regularly held to apprise Performance staff on emerging issues. QHSE safety talk, alerts and bulletin PPL is adopting eco-friendly boards are effectively utilized to promote conservation. practices to minimize damage 4 QHSE weeks and international days such as World to natural resources through its Environment Day are regularly celebrated through special operations in line with its sessions and activities to foster conservation efforts, green commitment towards practices and safe working culture. sustainability. The following 4 Comprehensive QHSE guidelines for projects have been green practices are adopted developed in line with best international environmental by PPL: standards and effective risk management planning using the 4 Light-Emitting Diode (LED) Pakistan Petroleum Limited latest environment-friendly technologies. technology is used in all new 4 ‘Sustainable Energy Management’ was introduced in 2011 to projects and expansion promote energy conservation at all fields. Initially, baseline activities as well as several data for consumption pattern at each field was collected. Since existing projects, replacing then, significant improvement has been achieved against each conventional lights. LEDs has year’s benchmark in conserving electricity, gas, fuel and water many advantages over as well as waste generation, especially at fields. For this, traditional incandescent light target is set at asset as well as corporate level through a sources, including lower energy systematic process to align KPIs. For instance, sustainability consumption, longer lifetime, targets are set based on consumption in preceding year and improved physical robustness, compliance recorded at field asset. smaller size and faster switching. 4 PPL offices and fields have been declared ‘no Smoking Zone’ and separate smoking areas are designated for smokers. The 4 Tree cutting is avoided during non-smoking policy is displayed in all departments and seismic activities and site locations. restoration is simultaneously carried out for even minor 4 PPL is a corporate member of the Pakistan Chapter of World removal of flora/ vegetation Business Council for Sustainable Development as well as through green teams. leading environmental organizations, including World Wide Fund for nature. 4 Tree plantation campaigns are undertaken at companyoperated fields and exploration assets to off-set emissions and improve ambience. 4 Water-based mud, which is known for compatibility with natural soil, is preferred over oil-based mud that requires special treatment for disposal for all drilling operations. 4 Biodegradable explosives are used during seismic surveys. 4 Electronic communication together with duplex printing 26 has been promoted to reduce paper usage. More recently, Managed Print Services (MPS) UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress was launched back in 2018 for managing all business printing needs, including printers, scanners and copiers. With MPS, the company aims to produce less paper waste and increase efficiency as well as cost cutting. 4 PPL’s E-procurement portal (https://eprocurement.ppl.com.pk/esop/pkshost/public/ppl/web/login.jst) provides collaborative, web-based tools that enable staff and suppliers to conduct entire procurement and contract management activities. This has also resulted in saving a lot of paper that was earlier used in manual procedural requirements and approvals. Evaluation of HSE Performance Performance 4 PPL fields and select departments have integrated QHSE certifications aligned with ISO 14001 Environmental standard, ISO 9001 Quality and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health & Pakistan Petroleum Limited Safety Assessment Series. QHSE practices are gradually converted on advanced ISO 2015 version during surveillance audits of fields/ departments through external certification agency. 4 Internal and external audits/ monitoring of departments/ fields are carried out to assess compliance of standardized procedures at site and implementation of QHSE Management System and performance. Inspections, spot checks and suggestion forms are used during the process with staff participation. 4 The pool of ISO certified departments, fields and facilities contain 16 assets, departments and facilities that stand certified for ISO 9001 Quality Management System, 13 for ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and 14 for OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series. These include Adhi, Kandhkot and Hala/ Gambat South/ Mazarani assets, Sui Production, Sui Field Gas Compressor Station, Sui Field Hospital, Sui Field Utility and Drilling and Well Engineering, QHSE, Projects, Exploration and Construction departments. 4 QHSE Audit Module in SAP made functional with work in progress to automate processes, including incident investigation, monthly performance monitoring and sustainability reporting. 27 Principle 9 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited PPL believes in the use of emerging environmentfriendly technologies, especially for new projects, to reduce its carbon footprint. 28 Management Systems 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Environment-friendly 4 Further, advanced analytical Technologies software tools have been applied on stack emissions to conduct dispersion modelling of significant pollutants such as ACTIOn H2S from hot flares and cold stacks to safeguard surrounding Waste management and community, flora and fauna emission control from its detrimental effects. 4 Metal analysis of stack emissions continues at SGF, Performance Mazarani and producing assets The company seeks to minimize adverse environmental of Gambat South and Hala have impact of its operations through the use of innovative been carried out through technologies. Besides, PPL is focussing on adopting/ external laboratory for assessing embedding environment-friendly technology in all new potential environmental impact. project designs. Parameter including Lead, Mercury, Cadmium, Arsenic, 4 PPL has a well-defined waste disposal and management Copper, Antimony and Zinc all procedure, which is effectively implemented across the were found to be within safe company. This includes minimization, segregation at source, Pakistan Petroleum Limited limits. recycling and reuse, safe handling and disposal of hazardous waste as per standard environment-friendly procedures. 4 Process water is contained in ponds lined with pit line for 4 Effective arrangements such as landfill and incinerators are evaporation. Alternatively, employed for safe disposal of waste, besides acquiring wastewater evaporator and services of specialized contractors for disposal of hazardous forced draft evaporation waste and oily sludge recovered from operations. Moreover, systems are also utilized for composting of food waste is also carried out. treating effluent water in order 4 Corporate procedure on waste management has been to eliminate soil and groundreviewed to include technological advancements and end user water contamination. feedback for adopting more effective and environmentally safe 4 H2S dispersion modelling study processes. The procedure has been issued with emphasis on carried out at SGF to ascertain existing waste disposal measures. Moreover, to ensure harmful concentration at ground effective implementation of waste management procedure by level in routine as well as contractors, PPL staff visits contractors’ waste disposal sites emergency situations. Also, fire to verify the adequacy of disposal protocols as part of its mapping studies have been commitment to ensure environmental sustainability. conducted to ensure adequate 4 Emissions from all equipment at company facilities are coverage of fire and gas controlled through in-house maintenance programmes and detection systems across end of pipeline solutions. Going beyond minimum legal processing facilities. These compliance, PPL carries out ambient air monitoring in and proactive efforts are expected to around its fields/ sites since 2015 to proactively control air minimize environmental impact pollution with a focus on containing levels of CO, H2S, nOx, in routine plant operations and particulate matter, SOx, O3, CO2 . improve emergency response. 29 Principle 10 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited PPL is committed to eliminating corruption through implementation of ethical codes and policies that govern business operations and relationships with external stakeholders. 30 Management Systems 1 Employees 2 External UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Interfaces ACTIOnS ACTIOn Code of Conduct Credible Disclosure of Performance Information to The company has zero-tolerance for all forms of corruption, Investors and including bribery and extortion. Stakeholders 4 All employees are required to sign the Code of Conduct at the time of joining as well as submission of their appraisal besides undergoing online training especially designed to increase Performance awareness on the Code. 4 PPL ensures transparency in business transactions and 4 All employees are forbidden to give or receive any bribes or rejects any business practice, other payments intended to influence business decision or which may deem improper. compromise fair judgment. 4 All financial reports are properly 4 no employee can give money to obtain business for the audited by external auditors. company or receive money for giving company business to an 4 Quarterly briefing on financial Pakistan Petroleum Limited external agency. statements is given to 4 All employees are forbidden to accept gifts from suppliers, management. contractors, dealers or competitors, who have or wish to have a business relationship with the company. 4 Meeting of PPL’s Board of Directors is held on a quarterly 4 Rumour mongering and gossiping is strictly prohibited. basis. 4 All employees are required to declare their assets on a yearly 4 Media/ press briefings and basis. interviews are given on demand. 4 Consultative meetings with Corporate Governance CSR partners are held for social development initiatives. 4 The company ensures timely Performance payment of taxes. 4 PPL promotes fair business practices and ensures compliance 4 Checks such as annual with regulatory and legal requirements. declaration of assets, notifying 4 The company uses internationally acceptable accounting the company in case of receipt standards to maintain transparency. of gifts above a certain value, 4 All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly hospitality and potential recorded in the books of the company. conflicts of interest are inbuilt into the system to preempt 4 The company complies with regulations of the Security and corruption. Exchange Commission of Pakistan. 4 Similar checks and balances 4 Signed statement of compliance is included in the company’s are built into organizational annual reports. processes, governing 4 no incident of corruption has been reported in the company. procurement, materials and 4 All business units are analyzed for risks related to corruption. personnel in accordance with 4 Regular checks by Internal Audit Department are carried out the Manual on Delegation of for all departments to ensure compliance with company Authority and Public procedures and ensure course correction, if required. Procurement Regulatory Authority, a public sector entity to monitor procurement in a transparent manner. 31 4th Floor, PIDC House Dr. Ziauddin Ahmed Road P. O. Box 3942, Karachi-75530 UAN: +92-21-111-568-568 Tel. Nos: +92-21-35651480-89 Fax Nos: +92-21-35680005 & 35682125 Website: www.ppl.com.pkt
