Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 We build for a better society. B Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Operations Skanska’s operations consist of Construction and Project Development, including Residential Development, Commercial Property Development and, until 2018, Infrastructure Development. Business units within these streams collaborate in various ways, creating operational and financial synergies that generate increased value. Residential Commercial Property Infrastructure Construction Development Development Development 1 Constructs and renovates buildDevelops new residential projects, Develops customer-focused office Secures and manages the value ings, infrastructure and homes, including single and multi-family buildings, shopping centers and of Skanska’s existing publicalong with facilities managehousing, built by the Construction logistics properties built by the private partnership (PPP) assets. ment and other related services. business stream. Construction business stream. 1 A s of January 1, 2019, Infrastructure Development is no longer a business stream and is reported in Central on a separate line. Well diversified, Percentage of total revenue in 2018 with a leading market position Skanska’s diversification across various business streams with operations in eleven countries and several market segments strengthens the Group’s 40% Sweden Sweden competitive standing and ensures Finland Finland a balanced and diversified risk profile. USA Norway Norway 38% United Kingdom United Kingdom Denmark Denmark Poland Poland Czech Czech Republic Republic Slovakia Slovakia 22% Hungary Hungary Romania Romania Green revenue in 2018 Green market value in 2018 Green financing in 2018 Percentage of total Construction revenue Percentage of Commercial Property Percentage of total central debt 3 that is that is Green and Deep green, as defined Development market value from Green Green, according to the Skanska Green by the Skanska Color Palette™ 2. and Deep Green projects, as defined by Bond Framework or other investor green the Skanska Color Palette™ 2. demands. 46% 93% 85% 0 50 100 0 50 100 0 50 100 2 Read more about Skanska Color Palette™ on page 77. 3 Funding managed by group function Skanska Financial Services. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 C Skanska as an investment Skanska is one of the world’s leading construction and project develop­ment companies, focused on selected home markets in the Nordic region, Europe and USA. Supported by global trends in urbanization and demographics, and by being at the forefront of sustainability, Skanska offers competitive solutions for both simple and the most complex assignments. Driven by the Group’s values and an attractive business model, Skanska helps create sustainable futures for customers and communities as well as create value for shareholders. Favorable global trends Expected population in urbanization in Skanska’s home markets The current global trends in urbanization and demoMillions of people graphics increase the need for new and more sustainable Mdr kr 350 solutions and drive investments in infrastructure, health70 300 care, housing and education. Such demands are oppor­ 60 250 tunities for Skanska to create value while building for 50 200 a better society. 40 150 30 100 20 50 10 0 0 1990 2016 2050 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Nordics Europe USA Eget kapital Source: Health Nutritionbalans utgående and Population Statistics: Population estimates Eget kapital utgående and projections balans, utdelningar återlagda (World Bank). Kr % 25 45 40 Proven business model 20 35 Appealing long-term total shareholder return 30 Through 15 a solid business model, Skanska generates signifSkanska’s business model has a long track record of good 25 icant free working capital in Construction , which puts the 20 financial returns generating attractive shareholder returns 10 Group in a strong financial situation, while maintaining 15 long-term. 10 a5high level of investments in Project Development. 5 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Periodens resultat per aktie, kr Avkastning på eget kapital, % Earnings for the period per share and return on equity Growth in equity SEK % SEK bn 25 45 70 40 60 20 35 50 30 15 40 25 20 30 10 15 20 5 10 5 10 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Earnings for the period per share, SEK Return on equity, % Equity closing balance Equity closing balance, dividends restored D Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Contents Skanska applies both segment and IFRS reporting. For more details, please see below. Group overview 2018 in brief 1 Comments by the President and CEO 2 Skanska’s values 6 Share data and funding 7 Business plan 2016 –2020 9 – Sustainability focus areas 10 – Financial targets 2016 –2020 11 – Great People 14 – Market Making 16 – Operational Excellence 17 Risk and opportunity management 20 – Example of risk management in Hisingsbro project 25 Market overview 28 Business model 32 Business streams A national treasure, Business streams Construction 36 38 restored and modernized Residential Development 42 Commercial Property Development 46 Infrastructure Development 50 Corporate Governance Nationalmuseum, Stockholm Corporate Governance report 56 Construction Board of Directors 66 Group Leadership Team 68 Across from the Royal Palace and Parliament House sits Sustainability National­museum, Sweden’s museum of art and design. In 1866, Sustainability report 70 Nationalmuseum opened at this grand location and over the Financial information next 150 years became an artistic treasure known throughout Financial analysis Europe. But in all that time, a major renovation was never done. Consolidated income statement 94 In 2008, the Swedish government decided to restore and modConsolidated statement of comprehensive income 100 ernize the museum, aiming to display more of the museum’s colConsolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 102 lection of some 700,000 objects and meet current demands for Consolidated statement of changes in equity 104 security, climate control, safety and accessibility. A careful balConsolidated cash flow statement 105 ance was needed between preserving the building’s heritage Parent Company income statement 107 while adapting it to new requirements. Parent Company balance sheet 108 Skanska was the general contractor, undertaking activities Parent Company statement of changes in equity 109 Parent Company cash flow statement 110 that were both exacting and extensive. Rock was delicately Notes, table of contents 111 blasted away beneath the museum to create public areas, tech– Note 67, Allocation of earnings 196 nical system spaces and a kitchen. Wires, pipes and ducts were Auditor’s Report 197 inserted into floors with only millimeters to spare. The facade Independent practitioner’s review report was repaired with new stones blended in from the original on Skanska AB’s greenhouse gas reporting 201 quarry. Perhaps most noticeably, windows that had been covMajor orders, investments and divestments 206 ered by masonry or darkened were cleared and updated with GRI index 210 modern glass, restoring sunlight to the galleries while helping Consolidated quarterly results 214 conserve energy. Annual General Meeting 216 Investors 216 On October 13, 2018, Nationalmuseum re-opened in a Addresses 217 ceremony led by HM King Carl XVI Gustaf. Both visitors and artwork now have an improved experience. Report of the Directors About this report Segment and IFRS reporting The 2018 Annual and Sustainability Report is submitted by the Board of Directors and Skanska’s business streams Construction, Residential Development, Commercial the President of Skanska AB (publ) to describe the operations of both the company Property Development and Infrastructure Development represent the Group’s and the Group. The formal annual report consists of the Report of the Directors operating segments. The point in time for recognizing revenue differs between and financial reports on pages 20-24, 56-197, 210-213 and are audited by Skanska’s segment and IFRS reporting for Residential Development and Commercial Property external auditors. Pages 70-93, 210-213 include Skanska’s statutory sustainability Development. In this report, revenues and earnings for these business streams refer report, according to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. For the first time, Skanska is to segment reporting, unless stated otherwise. The statements of financial posireporting in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) “core” sustaintion and cash flow are presented in compliance with IFRS. However, the financial ability reporting guidelines. Skanska aims to ensure that all information and data reports are prepared in accordance with IFRS. As of January 1, 2019, Infrastructure is relevant, transparent, consistent, accurate and complete and that it provides an Development is no longer a separate business stream and is reported in Central on objective picture of the Group´s operations. Further information about Skanska’s a separate line. sustain­ability work can be found at: group.skanska.com/sustainability. Skanska AB, Swedish corporate identity number 556000-4615. This document is in all respects a translation of the Swedish original Annual and Sustainability Report. In the event of any differences between this translation and the Swedish original, the latter shall prevail.  Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Skanska in brief 1 2018 in brief • R  evenues amounted to SEK 170.5 billion • Operating income amounted to SEK 4.8 billion and includes restructuring charges, project write-downs and impairment charges • Underperformance of Construction units in Poland and the USA affected the profitability of the Construction stream • Strategic actions including restoring profitability in the Construction stream, maximizing the potential in Project Development as well as making Skanska more efficient has been undertaken during 2018 • Continued high performance from Project Development with record-high divestment gains of more than SEK 4.0 billion, within the Commercial Property Development stream, and maintained performance within Residential Development • Strong financial position • Proposed dividend SEK 6.00 per share Return on equity Financial strength, SEK Operating margin Target of ≥ 18% Net operating financial assets/liabilities Target of ≥ 3.5% operating margin for the Group (can be negative if opportunities arise) within the Construction stream 14.1% 14 billion 0.7 % Return on capital employed Unrealized gains in Order backlog, SEK Project Development 1 Project Development, SEK Correspond to 14 months of production Target of ≥ 10% 13.0% 13 billion 192 billion 1 As of January 1, 2019, a new definition will be applied. For further information see page 11 and Note 44. Revenue, SEK 171 bn in 2018 Operating income, SEK 4.8 bn in 2018 Operating income per segment, 2018 SEK bn SEK bn 180 10 150 8 120 6 90 4 60 2 30 • Construction, 19% • Residential Development, 26% • Commercial Property Development, 54% 0 0 • Infrastructure Development, 1% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2 Comments by the President and CEO Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Comments by the President and CEO Skanska’s financial position remains strong, powered by continued high performance in Project Development in 2018. Strategic actions to improve profitability and Construction execution are underway, while our values and sustainability expertise provide competitive advantages. In 2019, we will further ensure a strengthened company for the years ahead. Sweden and Skanska Finland. However, those positives were negatively impacted by weak performances on two US projects and a major restructuring in Poland. The Construction stream operating margin of 0.7 percent (0.8) is well below our target of at least 3.5 percent – we aim to achieve that target through our strategic actions. Project Development’s strength Project Development continued to perform at a high level, with return on capital employed of 13.0 percent (14.5), topping our target of at least 10 percent. Commercial Property Development had another record year in 2018 with an all-time high in gains from divestments, ­surpassing SEK 4 billion. With continued strong demand from tenants and investors, the 53 ongoing projects – another high point – represent a robust portfolio with significant During 2018, my first year as Skanska’s Proud of our progress value to be realized in future years. We see CEO, I, along with the entire Group LeaderWe have done much work toward these the biggest potential for growth in the USA. ship Team, have focused on three priorities: priorities in 2018, and I am proud of the progIn Residential Development, we remain • Restoring profitability in the Construction ress we have made. Within Construction, well-positioned, despite reduced sales business stream for instance, we are much more disciplined due to a slowdown in our largest market,­­ • Maximizing the potential of our successat bidding for projects, sticking to core proj­Sweden. Shifting the mix of housing types ful Commercial Property Development ect types and geographies and placing profit in our diversified portfolio, combined with and Residential Development streams ahead of volume. By being more selective, good project risk management, contributed • Overall, making Skanska more efficient our order bookings and backlog are trending substantially to the maintained profitability. and effective downward to a healthier base. Also, we are We expect the Swedish housing market implementing better ways of controlling to have a longer recovery so we are ­taking I am confident these priorities, and the firm projects and managing risks. We are on our actions to address this condition. Our actions driving them, are right for Skanska. way to gradually returning to stable profit­Residential Development markets have These will strengthen Skanska and ­provide ability in Construction. long-term housing needs, and with greater shareholder value for many years the strength of our balance sheet we are to come, building off the foundation we Financial performance pursuing opportunities. have in our clear values, solid balance Overall in 2018, operating income was With Infrastructure Development, sheet, integrated business model, excellent SEK 4.8 billion (5.5). Return on equity was during 2018 we narrowed the focus to people and trusted brand. They will enable 14.1 percent (18.6), below our target of at securing and developing the value of our us to advance further with our Profit with least 18 percent. We achieved strong perforexisting public-private partnership (PPP) Purpose Business Plan, through which we mances in Commercial Property Developassets, mainly owing to market conditions. leverage our business to build for a better ment, Residential Development and several Over time, we will realize those developsociety. Construction units, particularly Skanska ment gains. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Comments by the President and CEO 3 “ Integrating sustainability into our business enables us to deliver better solutions for customers, drive operational efficiencies, manage risks and support society in key ways.” Bolstering our organization In 2018, we created a new Group gover­ nance framework to reduce risks and increase effectiveness. This framework – to be fully implemented throughout 2019 – bolsters our decentralized organization, providing business units with more flexibility to serve markets and customers while ensuring proper oversight over critical provides Skanska with excellent ways to Also, political and macroeconomic uncerbusiness processes. leverage our green expertise. Such discustainties appear to be increasing even further. This governance framework joins with sions help us appreciate how much we have We are well prepared for future conditions, Skanska’s values and Code of Conduct to achieved within sustainability, and remind as we have strengthened risk management provide the basis for delivering stable value us how much more we can do. processes and continually protect our to shareholders. Also, we further strengthDuring 2018, five fatalities occurred on balance sheet. ened our organization by streamlining our projects. No fatality, and no injury, is To continue to grow Project Development Skanska’s headquarters and bringing it acceptable. We must – and we will – close and at the same time keep our financially and the Group Leadership Team closer to the gap between actions and truly living our strong position, the Board of Directors operations. Care for Life value. Increasing our focus proposes a dividend of SEK 6.00. on Health and Safety is a top priority for Integrating sustainability Skanska. We see a close parallel between Continuing to execute We continued to integrate sustainability safety and profitability. Working safely The strategic actions we initiated in 2018 into our business, enabling us to deliver requires operational discipline, which is began to demonstrate positive results last better solutions for customers, drive operaalso essential to achieving high perforyear. We will continue to execute those tional efficiencies, manage risks and support mance overall on our projects. Our safest activities in 2019 to build up to consistent, our people and society in key ways. projects are our most profitable projects. appropriate returns for shareholders. Our sustainability focus areas encompass I and the entire Group Leadership Team, Health and Safety, Ethics, Green, ComLooking ahead together with all of Skanska’s great people, munity Investment and Diversity and For 2019, we see sustainability, particularly look forward to continuing to earn the trust Inclusion. These are closely linked to the relating to climate impacts, becoming even of our shareholders, customers and comUnited Nations’ (UN) Sustainable Developmore important because of both regulations munities in the years ahead. ment Goals, and they help us continuously and voluntary corporate commitments. uphold the universal sustainability prinWe actively promote such high demands. ciples defined by the UN Global Compact. With this, we continue to see many opporStockholm, February 2019 During the UN’s General Assembly tunities across our markets, especially in September, I had the honor of sharing within Commercial Property Development. Skanska’s views of the business opportuniHowever, in many of our home geographies Anders Danielsson ties of sustainability at a symposium at the and segments, the markets are leveling out President and CEO UN headquarters. I spoke of the rapidly and it is difficult to tell how long this relagrowing market for green buildings, which tively favorable situation will last. 4 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 5 Commercial Property Development and Construction Houston’s new meeting point Capitol Tower, Houston, USA At 35 stories and 72,000 square meters, Capitol Tower is Skanska’s largest-ever single property development. It is setting a higher standard for offices in America’s fourthlargest city and beyond. To maximize its prime downtown location, Capitol Tower will have a two-story atrium that uniquely links the street level with Houston’s underground pedestrian network. This will be a vibrant community hub with a culinary market, shops and cultural events. Also, tenants will be able to gather at the Skypark green space overlooking the Houston skyline. Furthermore, Capitol Tower is among the first buildings worldwide to achieve top-level Platinum pre-certification under the LEED green building standard’s most stringent version. This indicates Capitol Tower’s focus on m ­ inimizing energy and water use – along with other environmental impacts – throughout its life cycle, while supporting the well-being of those working inside. These aspects will help tenants lower costs and attract and retain employees. 6 Skanska’s values Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Skanska’s values Fundamental to Skanska’s success are its four values, which continually guide the Group in a fast-changing world. Skanska drives the need for every employee to strongly live these values in all they do. Skanska aims to select customers and partners that share the Group’s values. Care for Life Important to caring for life is supporting personal health and well-being. This includes mental health, which affects people’s safety and long-term performance. For instance, in the UK, since 2015 Skanska has had a mental health program, which has led to having 315 mental health ambassadors to help guide other employees on mental health issues and mental health awareness days. By 2020, all UK line managers are to have had mental health training. An aim is to make it as natural to talk about mental health as it is to discuss any other illness. In 2018, workshops were launched to share this journey with supply chain partners to aid their corporate mental health initiatives. Care for Life Act Ethically and Transparently Living by the Code of Conduct and never accepting shortcuts is fundamental to Skanska. In 2018, strategic work – with a specific focus on anti-corruption, anti-trust/competition law and sanctions – continued to improve Skanska’s process for managing risks relating to ethics, among the Group’s top risks. Reviews were conducted across business units to ensure that ethical risks identified the previous year were being effectively mitigated by such measures as enhanced procedures and training. Risk assessments followed by assurance reviews form a solid model for ethics risk management, with the two-year process underway continuously. Act Ethically The risk assessment is formed to integrate the mitigation of the ethics risks into the business & Transparently units’ existing business processes, keeping ethics a natural part of the way of doing business. Be Better – Together Collaborations enable the best solutions. As an example, Skanska has together with the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), the organization behind the LEED green building rating system, developed a digital platform to address a key green building challenge: how to inspire customers to invest in green solutions when it is unclear how their properties compare environmentally to similar facilities nearby. Enter the Market Insight Tool, which harnesses USGBC’s database of LEED projects to provide customers with insights on whether a green investment decision could make a building project environmentally Be Better – future-proof, or be a risk to their long-term investment. Skanska is piloting this tool, Together and with the USGBC plan to make it openly available in fall 2019. Commit to Customers Skanska strives to be a partner with customers, enabling mutual success. In Stockholm, for instance, Skanska is collaborating with Stockholmshem, the city’s largest housing company, to provide much-needed residences through ways that reflect shared values. Skanska supports Stockholmshem’s focus on proper working conditions and practices throughout the supply chain. Also, two projects provide platforms for innovating and implementing the latest green solutions to reduce climate impacts, lower operating costs and create jobs. Supporting all activities is a focus on learning from past projects to Commit to proactively improve delivery. Customers Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Share data and Funding 7 Share data and Funding Skanska’s Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, and the market capitalization on December 31, 2018, was SEK 57.8 billion. The last price paid for Skanska Series B shares in 2018 was SEK 141.0. Share price development 2018 • Skanska’s Series B shares (SKA B) •1  09,185 shareholders. During 2018, project write-downs in the are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm • Market capitalization of Construction stream negatively affected Bloomberg ticker SKAB:SS SEK 57.8 billion and a share price of the Skanska share price. Towards the end of Reuters quote SKAb.ST SEK 141.0 on December 31, 2018. 2018, the Skanska share was also impacted • Skanska has a sponsored American by negative market sentiments, especially • In 2018, 2.2 million SkanskaIndex Series B Depositary Receipt program (Level I) affecting the construction sector. The share shares were traded on200 average per day. in the USA that is traded under the rebounded somewhat by the very end of the • The Board proposes a dividend 2018 but remained at a relatively low level symbol SKBSY. of SEK 6.00. and ended 2018 down 17 percent, to compare 150 with ­Nasdaq Stockholm exchange, 8 percent down for 2018. Skanska share price closed at SEK 141.0 on December 31, 2018, which is About ten equity research analysts follow strengthens the Group’s competitive 100 ­standing equivalent to a market cap of SEK 57.8 billion. the company regularly. Under the Skanska and ensures a balanced and diversified risk share tab on the Group’s website for invesprofile. This has contributed to Skanska’s Dividend policy tors is a list of these analysts, along with long track record of good financial 50 returns Skanska’s dividend policy is to pay out 40–70 their current recommendations. generating attractive shareholder returns percent of the profit for the year as dividends Skanska’s diversification across various long-term as well as achieving a strong finanto the shareholders, provided that the combusiness streams with operations in several cial position that allows Skanska 0 to borrow pany’s overall financial condition is stable and geographical markets and segments at attractive rates. 2014 satisfactory.2016 2015 2017 2018 • Skanska B • SIX Portfolio • DJ Construction & Materials • SBI 1) Totalavkastning Return Index Titans Total Return Index The largest shareholders in Skanska AB, ranked by voting power, 1) Strategic Benchmark Index består av noterade företag som sammantagna avspeglar Skanskas verksamheter. December 31, 2018 Total return of the Skanska share compared to indices Shareholders, excluding Skanska’s own holdings % of votes % of capital Index Industrivärden AB 23.9 6.9 200 Lundberg Group 12.8 5.3 Alecta 4.1 5.8 Swedbank Robur Funds 3.8 5.4 150 Skanska employees through Seop 1 3.8 5.4 AMF Insurance & Funds 3.8 5.4 BlackRock 1.7 2.4 100 Vanguard 1.6 2.3 Carnegie Funds 1.3 1.8 1.1 1.6 50 SHB Funds & Life Insurance 10 largest shareholders in Skanska 57.9 42.3 other shareholders in Skanska 42.1 57.7 Total 100.0 100.0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 of which shareholders in Sweden 84.0 77.3 of which shareholders abroad 16.0 22.7 • Skanska B • SIX Portfolio • DJ Construction & Materials • SBI 1 Total return Return Index Titans Total Return Index 1 Not treated as a unified ownership group and includes earned matching and performance shares 1 Strategic Benchmark Index consists of listed companies that, taken together, reflects Skanska’s operations. to be delivered to the participants in the future. . Source: Modular Finance Holdings 8 Share data and Funding Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Dividend I­ ndustrivärden AB, with voting power of a new Green Bond Framework was estabFor the 2018 financial year, the Board’s 23.9 percent, followed by Lundberg Group lished, aligned with the developed Green assessment is that the Group’s financial with voting power of 12.8 percent. Mdr krDuring Bond Principles. The bonds are listed on position remains strong and has proposed the year, foreign ownership decreased 70 to Nasdaq Sustainable Bond Market. All outa dividend of SEK 6.00 (8.25) per share. The 16 percent of voting power. standing corporate bonds (MTN) amountproposal is equivalent to a dividend ­totaling 60 ing to SEK 1.8 billion were at the end of the SEK 2,458 M (3,373), corresponding to Funding year in the form of green bonds. Bilateral 63 percent of the profit for the year. Skanska has several borrowing 50 programs – loans to USD 200 M are also financing No dividend is paid for the Parent Comboth committed bank credit facilities and Skanska’s green projects. A revolving pany’s holding of Series B treasury shares. market funding programs – which40 provide credit facility amounting to EUR 200 M is At the end of 2018, the Parent Company’s good preparedness for temporary fluctuadesigned to primarily safe-guard financing holdings of Series B treasury shares amounttions in the Group’s short-term30 liquidity the Groups green projects. A EUR 600 M ed to 10.2 million shares, corresponding requirements and help ensuring long-term revolving credit facility maturing 2023 with to 2.4 percent of capital stock. The total funding. During the last years,20 Skanska has a remaining 1-year extension option constidividend amount may change by the record increasingly been focusing on green financtutes a back-up facility for Skanska’s funding date, depending on repurchases of shares ing. By the end of 2018, the majority 10 of the needs. At the end of the year, the central and the transfer of shares to participants in Group’s central funding, managed by debt portfolio amounted to SEK 4.3 billion. Skanska’s long-term employee ownership group function Skanska Financial0 Services, Unutilized credit facilities of SEK 8.6 billion 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 program. is green labeled. Through sustainable combined with available liquidity amountfinancing, Skanska leverages the Group’s • Eget kapital ing utgående to SEK 5.0 billion ensuring that the balans Ownership • Eget kapital utgående extensive green expertise while diversifying Group has balans, sufficient utdelningar financial capacity. återlagda The majority of Skanska’s shareholders its investor base. In 2018, Skanska successare financial and institutional organizafully issued its second Green Bond in two tions in Sweden. The largest shareholder is tranches. In connection with the bond issue Skanska share history Growth in equity 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 SEK bn Year-end market price, SEK 141.00 170.00 215.10 164.80 167.90 131.40 70 Year-end market capitalization, SEK bn 57.8 69.5 88.0 67.7 69.0 54.0 60 Average number of shares for the year, million¹ 409.7 408.9 409.3 411.0 410.8 411.3 50 Highest share price during the year, SEK 179.70 226.60 218.70 208.40 170.00 131.60 40 Lowest share price during the year, SEK 134.85 170.00 149.20 151.40 126.70 104.60 30 Yield, % ² 4.3 4.9 3.8 4.6 4.0 4.8 20 Earnings per share 3, SEK 9.55 12.01 15.89 11.96 9.98 8.43 Regular dividend per share, 10 SEK 6.00 4 8.25 8.25 7.50 6.75 6.25 Dividend pay-out ratio 5, % 63 69 52 63 68 74 0 1 Number of shares outstanding at year-end. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2 Dividend as a percentage of respective year-end share price. 3 Earning per share according to segment reporting divided by the number of shares outstanding. 4 Based on the dividend proposed by the Board. • Equity closing balance 5 Dividend as a percentage of earnings per share. • Equity closing balance, dividends restored Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Business plan 2016-2020 9 Business Plan 2016-2020: Profit with Purpose Guided by the Profit with Purpose Business Plan, Skanska is striving to increase shareholder value while building for a better society. for a better so uild cie eb ty W Skanska Purpose Market Making al Profit tion Business Plan era ence Gre Peo at ple with Op xcell E Purpose Care Act Ethically & Be Better – Commit to Skanska Values for Life Transparently Together Customers Profit with purpose Improve profitability and reduce risk Skanska’s purpose is to build for a better During 2018, Skanska took strategic Aspirations 2020 society. Working with customers and comactions to improve profitability and munities, and driven by the Group’s values, reduce risk. • Industry-leading total shareholder Skanska has a responsibility and opportuWithin Construction, this involved return nity to influence its customers and together restructuring and increasing focus on core • Balanced value creation between contribute to society in positive way. business operations in Poland, the Czech Construction and Project Development The five-year Profit with Purpose BusiRepublic and the UK. In the USA, Skanska • Recognized as a preferred partner ness Plan – lasting until 2020 – is based on will no longer bid on power sector projects, when it comes to creating solutions the view that profit and purpose are interso called engineer-procure-construct that meet customers’ needs linked, with each strengthening the other. (EPC) projects and mega design-build • Living our values and recognized Profit is needed to deliver Skanska’s purpublic-private partnerships (PPP). pose of building for a better society, and In addition, the Infrastructure as a value-driven company building advancing with that purpose contributes Develop­ment business stream will confor a better society to Skanska’s profit. Skanska has high ambicentrate on securing and managing the • An injury-free and ethical environment tions for both profit and purpose, and for value of Skanska’s existing PPP assets. • The most attractive employer in leveraging them to create value for the As per January 1, 2019, Infrastructure the industry Group’s shareholders. Development is no longer a business • Cooperation within and between units stream and is reported in Central on and business streams as One Skanska Focus areas a separate line. in high-performing teams Skanska aims to reach the Group’s aspiraOn Group level, the headquarters was tions for 2020 by carrying out key strategic brought closer to operations to increase • Improved operational efficiency actions during the 2016 to 2020 period. efficiencies and better respond to the These actions center on developing the needs of markets and customers. Also, 2019 priorities Group’s people; advancing “market making” initial steps were taken to strengthen abilities to improve service to customers; the Group’s decentralized internal • Leadership in Health and Safety and increasing the performance of operagovernance model through clarified • Restore profitability and reduce risk tions and support functions. responsibilities and an improved control within Construction These are the Group’s focus areas: framework. • Controlled growth in Commercial • Great People Property Development • Market Making 2019 priorities • Adapt Residential Development • Operational Excellence Restoring Construction profitability to market conditions and continuing to create value through Project Development – both while living • Concentrate Infrastructure the Skanska Values – are the Group’s priDevelopment on asset management orities in 2019. Achieving them requires • Implement the new Group actions involving Great People, Market Governance Framework Making and Operational Excellence. 10 Sustainability focus areas Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability focus areas Skanska supports the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals. These Global Goals are closely linked to Skanska’s core sustainability areas of Health and Safety, Ethics, Green, Community Investment and Diversity and Inclusion. Health and Safety Ethics Green Community Diversity Investment and Inclusion Skanska cares for Skanska does busiSkanska promotes Skanska engages in Skanska fosters an life. The Group ness with a high green solutions and local communities inclusive culture and works safely, degree of integrity conducts operations and establishes leverages diversity or not at all. and transparency. in green ways. long-term partnerto deliver the best ships. solutions. Delivering on purpose society while delivering a profit, the dual customers, communities and the Group’s Sustainability is grounded in the Skanska aims of the Profit with Purpose Business people. Further information is provided in values. It is integral to achieving the Plan. Skanska’s projects and how they are the Sustainability Report on pages 70–93. Group’s purpose of building for a better delivered create sustainable futures for Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Financial targets 2016–2020 11 Financial targets 2016–2020 Skanska’s business plan for the 2016 to 2020 period sets financial targets that best reflect the profitability of operations and show the Group’s financial capacity for investments and growth. The operating margin is an expression Target 2018 Outcome 2018 of the profitability and efficiency within Construction. This margin is affected by Construction Operating margin The operating margin was the mix of contract types and the different geographical markets. Return on capital employed and on equity are measures of ≥ 3.5% 0.7% how well lender and shareholder capital Project Return on capital employed Return on capital employed are being used (­capital efficiency), and are Development for the combined Project was Development operations considered fair measurements for the Project ­Development business streams and the Group, respectively. The Group’s ≥ 10% 13.0% financial strength enables the continuation of increased investments in Project Develop­ment. Return on equity ≥ 18% 14.1% Financial Net operating financial Net operating financial strength assets / liabilities assets / liabilities were Outcome 2018 The operating margin in the Construction business stream was below the target. The can be SEK operating income was negatively affected negative 14.2 billion mainly by impairment of goodwill in USA, restructuring of business units within Construction in Europe and project writedowns in Poland and USA. New definitions for 2019 Return on capital employed, Project Development Project development continued to perAs of January 1, 2019, Infrastructure % form at high level, with return on capital Develop­ment is no longer a business 20 employed of 13.0 percent, topping the target stream. As a consequence the Return on of at least 10 percent. Commercial Property capital employed target for Project Develop15 Development had another record year in ment is no longer including Infrastructure 2018 with an all-time high in gains from Development. In addition, return in Com10 divestments surpassing SEK 4 billion. mercial Property Development business In 2018, return on equity of 14.1 percent, stream is based on yearly earnings and not 5 was below target. on successive value creation. For further Skanska’s financial position remains information, see Note 44. 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 strong. • Return on capital employed, Project Development • New Return on capital employed, Project Development • Target % 20 15 10 5 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 • Avkastning på sysselsatt kapital, Projektutveckling Ny, avkastning på sysselsatt kapital, Projektutveckling 12 Financial targets 2016–2020 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Financial targets 2016–2020 13 Construction Improving millions of journeys Waterloo Station and Southwestern Main Line Upgrades, London, UK Waterloo is Britain’s busiest railway station, with a train arriving or departing almost every minute during peak times. Properly a ­ ccommodating all those travelers required major upgrades to increase capacity and boost reliability. Skanska, in an alliance with Network Rail, Aecom, Colas Rail and Mott MacDonald, designed and constructed improvements that will increase Waterloo’s capacity by up to 30 percent. Sustainability, collaboration and innovation were key to executing this complex assignment. For example, 4-D digital models were used to plan and then safely and securely execute intensive work periods that ran 24 hours a day, seven days a week. These models helped ensure the lowest possible impacts to pass­enger service. Also, an industry-leading sustain­ability strategy covered 21 challenging targets. This drove such actions as determining that existing foundations could be ­re-used instead of installing 65 new piles, reducing carbon emissions equivalent to taking 292 cars off the road for a year and saving customer Network Rail nearly SEK 60 M. 14 Great People Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Great People Building for a better society requires great people. To deliver for customers and society, Skanska is focused on employee skills, engagement, diversity and health and safety. Skanska needs great people who have the now and into the future. When the number Wider experiences enable right skills and commitment, and who of Skanska people must be reduced, as higher performance share and live the Group’s values. People occurred in the 2018 restructuring to Customers and society face increasingly who thrive in a culture based on transparimprove Skanska’s performance, all complex challenges. To provide the sophisency, trust, values and high-performance departing people are treated fairly. ticated solutions they need, Skanska must teamwork. People who are seeking opporcontinually upgrade competencies and fully tunities to learn and grow. Being safe, healthy and included leverage the diversity of the Group’s people. Attracting such talented people, developEnsuring people’s safety, health and wellImportant to this is systematically ing and retaining them, is a key challenge being underpins all activities, supporting broadening the experiences of employees, and opportunity. On all fronts, Skanska Skanska’s Care for Life value. Ensuring developing both them and Skanska. is making positive progress. In 2018, the health and safety is an ongoing challenge Employees – especially managers – are Group continued to be ranked as a top for the construction industry. The Group provided opportunities to undertake new, employer across key markets. Important aspires to eliminate all injuries, along with challenging assignments in different funcadvantages for Skanska are the Group’s reducing health hazards – such as noise and tions, business units and geographies. deeply embedded values, many professional poor ergonomics – that are damaging over Both longand short-term assignments are development opportunities and strong the long term. Supporting mental health important to energizing people and boostpurpose – all factors increasingly sought and enabling a proper work-life balance ing organizational knowledge sharing and in employers. are also key. collaboration, thereby driving higher perFor those already part of Skanska, the Health and safety is boosted by greater formance. In 2018, 30 percent more senior results of the 2018 employee survey show diversity and inclusion. At all levels of the leaders moved into roles in different units, the positive impacts of initiatives to enable Group there is a clear focus on achieving compared to the same period in the prior people to do their best work, while harnessa more diverse workforce when attracting, year. ing their commitment and motivation. For recruiting and retaining employees. This Examples of broadening experiences example, 78 percent of respondents recomis coupled with efforts to train managers to include rotating managers through perimend Skanska as a good place to work and make the most of team diversity to achieve ods of service on teams that review risks 84 percent say their job makes good use stronger performance together. and opportunities with potential projects. of their skills and abilities. Both metrics Becoming a more diverse and inclusive This is part of Skanska’s increasing efforts surpass industry benchmarks. organization enables people to contribute to build knowledge and expertise around Skanska undertakes strategic initiatives to their full potential, and improves the managing risk. Also, the Skanska Unlimited to ensure an organization of great people, Group’s performance. program provides employees the opportunity to work in another business unit or function, in their home country or internationally, for three to six months. Employees, by gender Employees, by geography • Men, 82% • Nordics, 41% • Women, 18% • Europe, 35% • USA, 24% • Män, 82% • Norden, 41% • Kvinnor, 18% • Europa, 35% Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Great People 15 Employees in 2018 38,000 Securing value-driven leaders Skanska has two flagship programs to Employee perspectives develop the value-driven leaders needed to steer the organization, now and in the “It’s important for me to be proud future. The Skanska Top Executive Program and excited about what I do, and (STEP) is run in collaboration with two of that’s how I feel being part of the world’s leading business schools, IMD Skanska. Through roles involving in Switzerland and Ivey in Canada. For Skanska people earlier in their careers and public-private partnerships, ready for management roles, the Skanska financial operations, Commercial Stretch program aims to build knowledge Property Development and now and the ability to lead in an international Residential Development, I’ve environment. helped improve communities in In 2018, Skanska launched a guide for many ways while learning and first-time managers to provide a common foundation across the Group. It is based on growing as a professional. It’s also Skanska’s Group-wide leadership profile, great being part of an organization which clarifies the expectations the Group with such a strong focus on values, has for all employees and provides guidance and colleagues representing many and support for continuous development. cultures.” Employees are annually evaluated based on this leadership profile, which includes such Marie Passburg, competencies as “deliver results,” “focus on Regional Manager customers” and “drive sustainability.” All business units have training programs that match the specific needs of the “I find it rewarding and energizing respective unit, targeting employees at all to create teams with people having levels. different backgrounds, talents and perspectives. A diverse group of Employee ownership people, together in a supportive shows engagement Seop, the Skanska employee ownership environment, lets the team and program, increases the Group’s ability to everyone on it perform at their recruit and retain top people and aligns best. Also, I strive to provide everythem more closely to the Group and shareone on my teams with different holders. The program provides employees opportunities to help keep them with the opportunity to invest in Skanska while receiving incentives through matchmotivated and challenged. It makes ing shares and shares based on business me happy to help others succeed, unit performance. so I am eager to invest the time and effort for this.” Harri Vesanto, Site Manager 16 Market Making Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Market Making Skanska understands customers needs and takes initiative, enabling the Group to provide solutions that contribute to their success. Through Skanska’s sustainability leadership and combined resources and knowledge, the Group can help customers prosper. Skanska seeks to align the Group’s broad daily activities. Values help differentiate is profitably providing customers with talents to deliver solutions that help cusSkanska, as people want to collaborate with resilient and low carbon solutions. tomers succeed. Essential to this is undercompanies that are responsible and trusted. standing the evolving needs and challenges Furthermore, Skanska seeks customers and Broader perspectives of customers, including the broader context partners with similar values. Customers appreciate Skanska’s ability to of market trends and government prioriprovide them with the best solutions by applyties. Skanska does this through early and Sustainability as a differentiator ing innovations from throughout the Group’s on­going engagement with customers. With rising sustainability regulations eleven countries of operation, and through Involvement early in the project life cycle is and corporate requirements, increasingly collab­orations between business units. increasingly valued by customers, especially relating to the United Nations’ Sustainable Similarly, Skanska’s wide footprint enables those with highly challenging assignments. Development Goals, customers are requiring the Group to provide international customers innovative new solutions. Also, sustainwith holistic service. Values appreciated by customers ability and impact on society are becoming In all Skanska markets, the Group engages Skanska’s values – including Commit to more important to investors. with local and national governments and other Customers – are key to the Group’s aspiraSkanska’s strategic work toward leaderstakeholders to create solutions that benefit tion of being recognized as a preferred ship with sustainability – involving the society in important ways. For example, durpartner when it comes to creating solutions focus areas of Health and Safety, ­Ethics, ing the 2018 Almedalen Week political event that meet customers’ needs. Customers and Green, Community Investment and in Sweden Skanska organized 12 seminars, others appreciate how Skanska has inteDiversity and Inclusion – is an important particularly about reducing climate impacts grated values into the Group’s culture and differentiator for the Group. One priority and creating safe neighborhoods. Skanska is actively working to extend third-party sustainability certification systems beyond buildings and into civil infrastructure. Important to this is helping public customers see how such systems can help them achieve their sustainability targets, a process that can improve Skanska’s standing as a preferred partner. In the USA, the Group is pioneering the use of Envision, a sustainability certification system for civil infrastructure, now used by 45 government agencies. Expo Line Phase 2 in Los Angeles is the first Envision-certified transit project. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Operational Excellence 17 Operational Excellence Strong results for Skanska and high customer satisfaction depend on excellence in the Group’s operations. Top priorities are increased bidding discipline, digitalization, collaboration and knowledge sharing. Skanska is continuously improving the management of the design process, com­ with sustainability, including improved Group’s operations. This involves ensurmercial terms and project scope changes safety and reduced carbon emissions. As an ing that the right resources are being used are being given increased attention. example to support a strong digital foundatogether with efficient, effective processes. tion, Skanska in 2018 provided all site workEqually important is providing all employBuilding on strengths ers in Sweden with personal digital devices ees with the proper skills. Finally, it is Common, proven project practices are to enhance ways of working. about leveraging knowledge and expertise prioritized to advance toward world-class across Skanska, and creating values-based project delivery. Sharing and adopting good New possibilities through partnerships partner­ships. practices from across the Group improves Partnerships are essential to digitalization. performance and is a competitive advantage. In 2018, Skanska finalized a first-time Stricter bid strategy Group-wide agreement with leading digital Special focus is being placed on improving Digitalizing the business partner Autodesk that enables expanded construction project execution. This begins Digital capabilities are being enhanced to access to their applications, which can with a stricter bid strategy. Based on sweet increase project delivery certainty and provide benefits throughout design and spot analyses, business units are prioritizefficiency, and to strengthen collaboration construction. Also, Autodesk is adapting ing pursuing projects in sectors and geograand knowledge sharing. Examples include their digital solutions to Skanska's needs. phies in which they have proven strengths building information modeling (BIM), Throughout Construction and Project and records of success. Skanska will only drones, data analytics and virtual and Development operations, closer work with bid on projects after identifying teams with augmented reality. Such technologies also partners is increasingly important. the right competencies. More broadly, provide increased opportunities to advance To accelerate digitalization as a way of improving performance and streamlining processes, Skanska Sweden launched Digital Hub in 2018. This center innovates, develops and tests digital tools and practices with key partners and suppliers, including Autodesk, Bluebeam and Microsoft. Some 230 people across organizations participated in Digital Hub’s two major brainstorming sessions last year. 18 Operational Excellence Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Commercial Property Development and Construction A smart and healthy workspace Spark, Warsaw, Poland Spark, Skanska’s second largest office development in Central Europe, makes it easy, enjoyable and healthy to spend time in and around the complex’s eventual three buildings. Spark helps people perform at their best. Light, air quality and other factors affecting personal health and well-being have been given high consideration, leading to Spark’s intended certification under the international WELL Building Standard. Skanska is driving the market for healthy buildings by pursuing WELL certification for all office developments in Central and Eastern Europe, and others in the Nordics and the UK. Additionally, Spark is the first project to feature Connected by Skanska, which uniquely integrates building functions with users' mobile devices. Parking, guest check-in and more are managed by an app, which also connects building users to each other – even across companies. This unified offering eliminates traditional access cards, increasing convenience and safety and attracting strong tenant interest. In 2018, Skanska divested Spark’s first completed building in a transaction valued at about SEK 510 M. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Operational Excellence 19 20 Risk and opportunity management / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Risk and opportunity management Proactive and structured risk and opportunity management at all levels provides increased resilience to risks and a greater ability to capture oppor­ tunities. Strategic actions taken in 2018 further reduce Skanska’s risks. Construction and Project Development Within business units, key activities Enterprise risk management operations depend on properly managing involved implementing a simplified, more Established by the Board, Skanska’s Enterrisks and opportunities. These are often targeted strategy for Construction operaprise Risk Management Policy sets out the specific to each project. tions in Poland; increasing focus on the core structure and responsibilities for risk manWith Construction assignments, the business in the UK and the Czech Republic; agement across the Group. Enterprise risks project type and size, where it is located, in the USA, stop bidding for both mega are categorized as strategic, operational, how the contract and delivery approach design-build public-private partnership financial and regulatory. For each category, are structured and the customer all have (PPP) projects and engineer-procure-conthe policy details the primary policies, prosignificant bearings on the eventual outstruct (EPC) projects in the power sector. cedures, regulations and other controlling come. Likewise with Commercial Property All units continued to be more discidocuments governing risk management. The Development and Residential Development plined in bidding, only pursuing projects Skanska Group Leadership Team is ultimately projects, site location and local market for which the Group has a track record of responsible for these risks. As part of the risk conditions are of prime importance. success during the year. management system, strategic sustainability With Skanska having thousands of projects underway every year, the Group has developed and continues to refine a Skanska Tender Approval Procedure: Construction suite of procedures and tools to manage Activity Preliminary Draft tender Final tender Execution accordrisk and opportunities amid these varying evaluation of the with a focus on ing to contract with conditions. This platform provides a strucproject with a the main risks a continual focus tured and efficient means of maximizing focus on Skanska’s and opportunities. on monitoring risk core geographies, and opportunities. profitability and moving forward with competence, the Group’s business plan. It builds on customer, contract Skanska’s fundamentals of focusing on and partners. core project types and knowing customers Responsible Business unit Business unit Business unit and markets. The variety of Skanska’s projects, conDecision Proceed or abstain? Submit tender Contract tracts, locations and customer categories or abstain? negotiations also provides a key benefit in the risk Responsible Business unit Business unit Business unit Business unit Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team diversification. The Group is well-balanced Board of Directors Board of Directors against ups and downs in geographies and market sectors. Skanska Investment Approval Procedure: Commercial Property Development and Residential Development Activity Land investment Launch of project, Start of project Divestment of Strategic actions to reduce risks with a focus on considering pricing with a focus on project with a focus In 2018, some strategic actions were taken location, zoning, and pre-sale rate main risks and on the occupancy partners, environ(Residential opportunities in rate and payment to reduce risks. The Group’s leadership was mental issues and Development only). the market. terms (Commercial brought closer to operations and the headreturn. Property Developquarters was streamlined, both to better ment only). support business units in responding to the Responsible Business unit Business unit Business unit Business unit needs of markets and customers. Also, initial steps were taken to bolster the Group’s Decision Proceed or abstain? Proceed, hold, Proceed, hold, Proceed or hold? decentralized governance model through re-develop or re-develop or divest? divest? clarified responsibilities and improved Responsible Business unit Business unit Business unit Business unit control framework. Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team Board of Directors Board of Directors Board of Directors Board of Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Risk and opportunity management 21 risks are approached in the Skanska SustainRisk category Description Risk examples ability Business Forum, including members Relates to Skanska’s purpose, • Skanska values from Group Leadership Team. Ethical risks long-term objectives and strategy • Brand Strategic are managed by the Group Headquarter's risks • People Ethics function, the Group Headquarter's • Management • Markets Ethics Committee and the Ethics Committees • Climate change impacts within the business units. • Ethics Each business unit is organized to adequately manage its specific risks and opportunities. To Threatens the achievement of Skanska’s • Project and investment selection strengthen the units in this area, continuous business plan and short-term objectives • Bidding and developing Operational and goals, or efficient project delivery • Production skills development and exchange of experience risks • Change and contract management takes place. • Reporting and forecasting • IT system failure or attack • Environmental incident Enterprise-wide risk • Health and safety incident management approach Proactive and structured risk and opportu­ Threats to Skanska’s financial strength • Funding nity management is embedded at every level and financial assets • Asset management Financial of the organization. Skanska uses Group-wide risks • Counterparties procedures for identifying and managing • Macroeconomic conditions risks and opportunities: the Skanska Tender Approval Procedure and the Skanska Investment Approval Procedure. Guided by the Relates to compliance with internal • External regulations and legislation rules and applicable external laws and • Contracts and agreements procedures, the Skanska Risk Team supports Regulatory regulations • Internal rules risks the Group Leadership Team by examining and analyzing tenders along with investment and divestment proposals subject to top management approval – approximately 300 projects per year. The tenders are selected based on business unit competence, geography, contract type and contract size. Initially each business unit conducts risk Enterprise level and opportunity assessments and identifies Large and complex projects receive additional scrutiny at Group level. measures for managing risks. Through the Skanska’s diversity of projects across geographies and business streams 2018 strengthening of the Group’s decentralenable the Group to be better prepared about risks and opportunities. ized governance model, processes, procedures, Operational level control and training have been enhanced. For those tenders and proposals that are Business units are further integrating more structured ways processed at Group level by the Skanska Risk of evaluating projects into their ways of working. At all operational levels, every Skanska employee is a manager of risk. Team, the team issues a recommendation based on the business case, risks and opporProject Level tunities. The final decision is made by the Excellent management at the project level is the most Skanska Tender Board which consists of the important element in Skanska’s ability to control risks Group leadership Team, and, in certain cases, and maximize opportunities. by the Skanska Board. 22 Risk and opportunity management / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Main risks Skanska conducts an annual review of the Group’s enterprise risk environment, measures are assessed and corrected, as required. The table below presents examples including mapping existing risks, identifyof significant risks, including sustainability ing and responding to potential new risks, risks, to Skanska divided in distinct but and reviewing the status of risk manageoverlapping risk categories – a risk may fall ment activities. This review generates a into more than one category. Read more on ranking of enterprise risks; for each of the Skanska's sustainability work in Skanska's main risks, the appropriateness and effecsustainability report on pages 70–91. tiveness of management and mitigation Risk category Risk area and description Potential impact Mitigation measures Ethical breach, anti-corruption • Fines, penalties and • Code of Conduct, anti-corruption policy and Skanska values provide and bribery matters criminal and civil charges clear direction to employees Strategic • Corruption, bribery, • Damaged reputation and • The Supplier Code of Conduct set the same expectations on external risks money laundering, anti-trust, lost trust as a responsible parties when it comes to doing ethical business as Skanska's own employees. competition breaches or other company and employer • New Group Governance Framework, the development of which included breach of Skanska values • Delisting from public reviewing all existing policies and procedures connected to ethical procurement in some breaches markets • Regular employee training on appropriate behaviors and actions • Clear internal reporting structure of suspected breaches and also the Code of Conduct Hotline reporting system managed by a third party • Due diligence deepens knowledge of suppliers, subcontractors, joint venture partners, sellers of land and buyers of real assets Human rights violations • Consequences for • Act Ethically and Transparently value, Code of Conduct and Supplier • Human rights violations, such individuals Code of Conduct guide employees and those working on behalf of Strategic as unfair working conditions, • Damaged reputation and Skanska to act appropriately regarding human rights risks modern-day slavery, harasslost trust as a responsible • Code of Conduct Hotline provides an anonymous way for employees ment and discrimination at company and external parties to report suspected misconduct workplaces/sites and by • Financial fines and • Skanska is conducting controls of certain suppliers based on a risk-based subcontractors or suppliers penalties, civil lawsuits approach and criminal charges Climate change risks • Operational cost increases • Code of Conduct and Environmental Policy, enabled by the environ­mental • Physical risks caused by extreme or delays due to extreme management system, guide actions relating to environmental risks and Strategic weather conditions due to weather conditions secure legal compliance risks climate change • Not adapting to new • Employees are trained on proper environmental practices and are • Low awareness of increased climate regulations and immersed in activities that lift Skanska’s Care for Life value customer demands to build demands from investors • Drive innovation and offer new sustainable solutions to customers resilient and/or low-carbon and customers • Green Leadership Group coordinates with environmental specialists buildings and infrastructure • Lost business on actions for reducing carbon emissions opportunities Diversity and inclusion • Difficulties attracting, • Diversity and Inclusion is integrated in business plan, Skanska values, • Low diversity among employees recruiting and/or retaining sustainability agenda and Code of Conduct Strategic and subcontractors in terms of employees with needed • Diversity and Inclusion Vision and Strategy are activated through risks gender, age, ethnicity, family sitcompetencies a Group-wide network with local action groups and action plans uation, educational background, • Damaged reputation • Diversity and Inclusion is integrated into employee attraction and and work experience from harassment and recruitment initiatives, employee performance review process and • Non-inclusive, even explicitly discrimination cases leadership development programs excluding, workplace culture, • Decreased employee • Community Investment Guideline supports the Diversity and Inclusion resulting in exclusionary experiengagement and producVision and Strategy also from a community perspective ences and cases of discriminativity due to non-inclusive tion and harassment behaviors and experiences Increased competition • Below-cost pricing, • Market making responsibility at business unit level • Increased competition, includdecreased margins • Sweet spot review in Construction business units and focus on Strategic ing from low-cost actors new business sectors in which Skanska is most competitive risks to market • Innovative solutions for customer needs, including through collaboration and knowledge sharing across business units and with leading partners • Procurement planning • Early involvement with customers provides important opportunities to improve competitiveness • Increased agility due to 2018 actions of bringing leadership closer to operations, streamlined Group headquarters and new Group Governance Framework Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Risk and opportunity management 23 Risk category Risk area and description Potential impact Mitigation measures Lack or loss of key employees • Financial and non-financial • Employee development and career planning, including transparent • Inability to attract, recruit and consequences for projects performance review process based on diversity and inclusion Operational retain skilled, diverse and • Decreased employee • Structured resource planning risks committed workforce engagement and produc• Seop (Skanska Employee Ownership Program) tivity due to non-inclusive • Group-wide employee survey behaviors and experiences • Structured succession planning for management teams • Decreased ability to deliver • Integrate Skanska values, sustainability agenda and Code of Conduct for customers with the business plan • Competitive compensation packages Loss making projects/investment • Operational inefficiency, • Enterprise Risk Management Policy (ERMP) • Wrong team, geography increasing costs and • Improved project reporting and review procedures in all business units Operational or customer, and/or poor decreasing profits • Revised project scrutiny and approval procedures risks execution of contract or • Project losses and invest• Heat maps project ment write-downs • Comprehensive employee training programs • Damaged reputation and • Improved management of claims and litigation, with new inability to meet project Claims Management Policy adopted in 2018 commitments • Construction margin roadmap and sweet spot analysis in all Construction business units • Active work with capital at risk, pre-leasing and pre-sales requirements Health and safety risks • Multiple fatalities, • Employees are trained on proper health and safety practices and are • Injuries, accidents and ill health life-changing injuries, immersed in activities that lift Skanska’s Care for Life value Operational regarding people at Skanska and injuries and long-term • Health and Safety Policy describes how all Skanska employees and other risks sites, or people affected by ill health that otherwise project participants contribute to achieving injury-free environments Skanska work activities reduce life expectancy • Group Health and Safety Standards and 2019 requirement for business or quality units to have an externally certified health and safety management system provide control over operational health safety risks • Safety Road Maps in all business units guide safety program development • Safety Performance Network shares best practices across projects and drives development of health and safety program Environmental risks • Damaged reputation and • Code of Conduct and Environmental Policy guide actions relating to • Major environmental incident loss of license to operate environmental risks and secure legal compliance Operational in operations or supply chain • Harm to people and • ISO 14001 (international environmental management system standard) risks • Pollution or other negative ecosystems certifications ensure a systematic approach to dealing with environmental impacts • Increasing costs and risks and issues decreasing profits • Environmental specialists at Group and business unit levels support line management with securing compliance and achieving Group environ­ mental expectations, which go beyond compliance and include retaining ISO 14001 certification • Skanska engages with suppliers to reduce risks of supply chain environ­ mental breaches • Employees are trained on proper environmental practices and are immersed in activities that lift Skanska’s Care for Life value Resource efficiency • Operational inefficiency, • The Skanska Color Palette secures a strategic approach to future• Inefficient uses of energy, increasing costs and proofing projects regarding resource efficiency (energy, carbon, Operational materials, waste and water decreasing profits materials and water) risks • Inability to meet project • Employees are trained on proper environmental practices and are schedule immersed in activities that lift Skanska’s Care for Life value • Improved planning through building information modeling (BIM) and other digital tools 24 Risk and opportunity management / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Risk category Risk area and description Potential impact Mitigation measures Lack of control of business unit • Operational inefficiency, • New Group Governance Framework provides increased clarity performance, poor management increasing costs and of decision making and accountability, with increased emphasis Operational decisions decreasing profits on business units to manage and develop locally risks • Lack of clarity of strategy and • Project losses and • New Group Function Assurance and Control overall direction of business investment write-downs • Focus on core business , with sweet spot analysis • Lack of predictability with busi• Damaged reputation and in all Construction business units ness unit financial performance inability to meet project • Strategic risk-reward bidding and poor implementation of commitments • Changes in management teams corrective actions • Pursuing and winning the wrong projects Macro financial instability • Project/investment • Active management of funding • Economic slowdown, effects: • Financial risks managed in accordance with Finance Policy Financial lack of demand, yield shifts default or non-payment • Free working capital in construction operations, monitoring risks by customers of net working capital and operating net financial assets • Difficulty obtaining and liabilities (ONFAL) funding • Limits for capital at risk and capital employed in Project Development streams • Business diversification • Business units monitoring macroeconomic situations and trends on country and regional levels Cost increases • Project costs increase • Improved project reporting and review procedures • Booming markets, commodity during execution causing • Strategic procurement and early commitment of subcontractors Financial price increases, labor shortages, margin fade or losses • Review of counterparty risks risks subcontractor failures, currency • Higher costs for external • Insurance, including that to cover any subcontractor defaults exchange rate shifts funding • Currency hedging in accordance with Finance Policy • Demands with greater • Skanska Tender Approval Procedure and Skanska Investment expectations on sustainability Approval Procedure • Skanska Green Bond Framework broadens network of potential investors for Skanska projects Political risks • Negative impact on • Home market strategy with extensive knowledge about country • Any act, decision or ruling by projects or business units and regional political landscapes Regulatory a government, regional or local • Quarterly business unit reviews risks decision maker, public authority • Skanska Tender Approval Procedure and Skanska Investment or similar Approval Procedure • Early dialogues with public officials on projects with high levels of governmental risk Supply chain risks • Damaged reputation if • Review of counterparty risks • Suppliers not following suppliers and subcontrac• Strategic procurement and early commitment of key Regulatory Skanska’s Supplier Code of tors act in ways not subcontractors risks Conduct consistent with the • Increased due diligence of suppliers, subcontractor • Performance risks associated Skanska values and intermediaries including sanctions controls with each supplier’s financial • Margin fade or financial • Supplier Code of Conduct condition and ability to procure loss materials and labor • Inability to meet project schedule Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Risk and opportunity management 25 Throughout bidding and production, a constant focus on risks and opportunities The 80-year-old bridge that is a vital business unit levels. Heat maps specific from Skanska USA Civil and Skanska artery between central Gothenburg and to each region guide the process, setting Sweden’s tech­nical center. Hisingen is worn out, owing to the heavy the level of approvals needed based on To go on to submit the tender to the loads of time and the many people who the type of project and contract. customer, the bid team needed to first cross it every day on foot, cycle, transit Large projects or those that otherwise demonstrate to the project boards and or in vehicles. It is being replaced with have major risks advance to the Group risk teams that they had smartly considan adjacent structure – the Hisingsbron level, with approvals needed from the ered the top risks. They did their work bridge – that will go beyond stitching Skanska Tender Board, comprised of properly. together the city to also be a key part of members of the Group Leadership Team. a major urban development plan, as well Having business units bolster their risk Careful planning leads to as a new landmark. management operations and proceconfident production Identifying and managing risks and dures is a priority across the Group. In September 2016, Skanska and a joint opportunities was key to the success venture partner together signed a conof Skanska’s tender, and such work Risk focus from the start tract to design and build the Hisingsbron continues to be important now into Proceeding with a bid starts by preparbridge. Construction has been underway production. ing an initial assessment of operational for almost 2.5 years, and the major risks risks. Numerous core aspects – including identified during the tender process conAn appealing project project team staffing and relevant past tinue to be the top risks. Mitigation plans The Hisingsbron bridge project was experience – are addressed through the team had then developed continue appealing because it is a core type of civil written reports and interviews. As one to be implemented, and their effecconstruction undertaken by Skanska level of approval is satisfied, the project tiveness adds certainty to the delivery Sweden, in a city where Skanska has an rises to the next level of review. With the approach. established presence. The customer is Hisingsbron bridge, the Skanska Tender Risks are proactively addressed daily known and trusted. Also, around the Board granted approval to commence by preparing method statements that time of the tender Skanska Sweden was developing a full tender. describe how each activity will be done finishing another movable bridge in – this level of detailed planning itself Gothenburg, with many of those team Strengthened by broad competencies mitigates many risks. In total, about members available for the Hisingsbron With an eventual total contract value 200 risks are being tracked throughout bridge. Even with such advantages for of SEK 2 billion, the Hisingsbron bridge the project, and every six months the Skanska, the opportunity was defined to required a significant tender process. team gathers to review those and look be a very large and complex project in a Skanska’s bid team spent about one year ahead over the next six months. Financial city center, necessitating careful scrutiny. developing the tender, and throughout risks are separately reviewed every it they had a continuous focus on propquarter during the forecasting process. Multi-level approach erly handling such significant risks and Construction of the Hisingsbron As part of the Skanska Tender Approval opportunities as the structure, schedule, bridge will continue until 2021, as will Procedure, Skanska Sweden has decisionenvironment and bridge lifting machinthe focus on risks and opportunities. making project boards supported by ery. Skanska’s broad competencies aided advisory risk teams at regional and them in this work, with insights shared 26 Market Making Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Market Making 27 Construction Meet one of the world’s greenest schools Heimdal High School, Trondheim, Norway They had been learning in a worn and outdated 41-year-old school. But since August 2018, Heimdal High School students have a new academic home, a facility full of light, rich with common spaces for learning outside the classroom, and fused with the latest technology. It was a welcome – and needed – change. “Our fantastic new school signals to students that education is important, and that they are important,” says Principal Elisabeth Tandstad. Skanska built this 1,100-student school and provided the engineering expertise required for it to stand out in another key way: It is one of the world’s greenest schools, fulfilling a key customer ambition. To solve this great challenge, the school is designed to consume 75 percent less energy than a comparable building, and with zero greenhouse gas emissions from its operation. 71 percent of needed energy is produced on-site through a geothermal heat pump, solar cells and a biogas-fueled power station. Any excess heat is used to warm an adjacent swimming pool, and extra power is exported to the grid. Data from these energy sources will be used in science classes, making the school itself part of the lesson. 28 Market overview Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Market overview Global trends in urbanization and population growth are increasing the need for new and more responsible solutions, and are driving investments in infrastructure and for facilities in key areas including healthcare, offices, housing and education. Such demands are opportunities for Skanska to create value while building for a better society. Key market drivers for Construction and Project Development Skanska’s ability to grow and create value in the Group's home markets is affected by external factors. Economic Urbanization Public Political Sustainability Consumer growth spending stability confidence % 4,0 % 3,5 Economic 3,0 growth continued to weigh on the 14 UK’s growth, markets. In the USA, the share is much lower The 2,5 upwards momentum in the US economy while economic activity12in the Central and is below pre-2008 financial crises levels, continued 2,0 during 2018, driven by higher European countries moderated 10 from but is slowly increasing. The level of con8 public 1,5 spending and the impact of the high levels. struction investments in the other European 6 2017 1,0 tax cuts on private investments and Led by Norway, the Nordics have the countries improved due to stronger use of 0,5 4 consumption. In the Nordics, growth was highest level of construction investments European Union funds in Central Europe. 0,0 2 than in 2017.2015 stronger2014 Brexit’s uncertainty 2016 as a percentage 2018of GDP within 2017 Skanska’s 0 Norden Europa USA 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Norden Europa USA GDP growth in Skanska’s home markets Construction investments in Skanska’s home markets as a percentage of GDP % % 4.0 14 3.5 12 3.0 10 2.5 8 2.0 6 1.5 1.0 4 0.5 2 0.0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Nordics Europe USA Nordics Europe USA Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Market overview 29 Skanska’s home markets Construction investments 2017 Sweden SEK 10,500 billion SEK 50 billion Finland Norway USA Norway Sweden Finland Denmark Norway USA Norway United Kingdom Nordics Poland Czech Republic Denmark Slovakia USA United Kingdom Hungary Miljoner % av totala befolkningen Europe Poland Romania personer som lever i urbaniserade områden Czech Republic 400 100 Slovakia Population Hungary 350 Romania = 10 million people 300 75 250 200 Urbanization Forecasts indicate 50 that urban areas could Nordic home supply 150 The urban population is increasing around grow by 2.5 billion people by 2050. UrbanFor years, the number of homes started in the 100 world, with an average of 70 percent ization drives investments 25 into transporNordic urbanized areas has fallen short of of50the global population predicted to live tation, mass transit, housing, energy and demand, creating a large deficit in the supply in0urban areas by 2050. All of Skanska’s water systems and0 other infrastructure, as of homes. In 2018, the number of people movmarkets are 1990 above that average, with 2016 the well as into offices, education and health 2050 ing to urban areas slowed in Sweden, while strongestNorden development Europa in theUSA USA and care. Increasing focus is being placed on the number of homes started decreased from the Nordics. that growth occurring in responsible ways. record highs in both Norway and Sweden. Homes constructed in relation to urbanized growth Urbanization in Skanska’s home markets in Sweden, Norway and Finland Millions % of the total population People of people living in urbanized areas Homes 400 100 250,000 350 200,000 300 75 250 150,000 200 50 150 100,000 100 25 50,000 50 0 0 0 1990 2016 2050 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Nordics Europe USA Increase in the number of people in urbanized areas, per year Number of homes started, per year Personer Bostäder 30 Market overview Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Green buildings already comprise a signifiHealthier buildings is also a priority for Efficiently designed and produced buildcant share of global construction activity, sustainable building, particularly in USA. ings and infrastructure provide some of the with that share expected to continue to There is also a growing trend of social most effective means to achieving sustaingrow and double in the next three years. aspects for sustainable buildings, such ability goals, such as addressing climate In Skanska´s markets, the main drivers as increased employee performance and change, creating thriving communities and for future green buildings are customer supporting the local economy. driving economic growth. demands and environmental regulations. Stockholm, Increasing portion Budapest, of green building activity Boston Washington D.C. % Helsingfors, Prag Seattle 50 Avtagande Sjunkande hyresökningar hyror 40 Köpenhamn Tilltagande Utplanande This graph shows the percent of respondents in Oslo hyresökningar hyror 30 the World Green Building Trends 2018 survey of Wrocław customers, designers and contractors that expect Warszawa, Łódź, to haveDanmark more than 60 percent of their projects to 20 Katowice Houston be green. In this global survey, green buildings Finland Tri-City considerSverige the environment in design, construction 10 Norge and operation. 2015 Kraków, Poznań 2018 2021 Storbritannien USA • All green projects Källa: JLL, Kv 3, Kv 4 2017 Polen Tjeckien G20 Property clock/offices Transparency Slovakien index Ungern The property clock indicates the strength of the office sector within This corruption perception index that includes all of Skanska’s Rumänien specific markets. Skanska has a diversified portfolio of projects and home markets 0 spans from 20 0-100. Scoring 40 closest 60 to 100 is 80best, 100 land in different development phases in the cities listed below. as that indicates being perceived as having less corruption. The Central European countries are still struggling with corruption issues, while the Nordic region continues to rank highest. Stockholm, Budapest, Boston Washington D.C. Denmark Helsinki, Prague Finland Seattle Rental Rents Sweden growth falling Norway slowing United Kingdom Copenhagen USA Rental Rents Poland Oslo growth bottoming Czech Republic accelerating out Wrocław G20 Warsaw, Łódź, Katowice Slovakia Houston Hungary Tri-City Romania 0 20 40 60 80 100 Kraków, Poznań Source: JLL, Q3, Q4 2017 Source: JLL, Central Statistics offices, SEB, HSBC, Citibank, Transparency International, UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, World Bank, Dodge Data & Analytics (2016 and 2018). Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Market overview 31 Construction Much-awaited neighborhood addition Åparken Skatepark, Sundsvall, Sweden What had been a little used stretch near the city’s harbor is now full of life and motion, thanks to this new park for skateboarding and BMX biking. Riders seem to defy gravity as they navigate the smooth concrete corners and curves. The city’s young people had been eagerly awaiting those opportunities. “It is absolutely wonderful that we have this park,” an 18-year-old said at the opening. Skanska supplied the special concrete that could handle the park’s challenging technical requirements. The Group is one of the largest ready-mix concrete producers in Sweden. Having that market position and strong sustainability ambitions, Skanska is working to improve concrete’s environmental standing. It’s a building material with many advantages, but significant greenhouse gases are emitted producing cement, a key ingredient that binds concrete together. In fact, cement is one of the main sources of greenhouse gas emissions during construction. In 2019, Skanska is launching new lower emission concrete mixes in Sweden. Furthermore, when possible during project design the Group strives to use less concrete. 32 Business model Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Business model Skanska generates value through the thousands of projects the Group executes each year. Every project should both be profitable and delivered in line with Skanska’s ambition to be a leader within sustainability. Skanska’s scale and diversity of operations produce operational and financial synergies that create further value. Benefits from being both The Group’s operations are based in local project development business with a strong local and international business units that have strong knowledge local presence. By being a market leader, Skanska is well of their respective markets, customers The business units collaborate in various positioned to meet the highest expectations and suppliers. Local units are backed by ways, creating operational and financial of customers. The Group’s scale and finanSkanska’s brand and financial strength, synergies that generate increased value. cial strength provide Skanska with advanas well as Group-wide expertise and the Going forward, even more effort and tages in the most complex assignments, in Skanska values. Consequently, Skanska is resources will be invested in releasing these which collective experience and know-how both a local company with global strength synergies. are leveraged to meet customer needs. and an international construction and The free working capital in Construction combined with the profits generated by the Group enable the financing of investments in Project Development Revenue Investment ◀ ◀ from external opportunities External ◀ Construction Project Development ◀ customers financing Revenue with associated contract profits ◀ Internal contracts are generated by investments in Development gains are generated and are realized upon divestment Project Development ◀ Operating margin ◀ Return on capital employed ◀ ◀ Return on equity Dividend Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Business model 33 SEK 26.7 bn of Skanska’s total order backlog were contracts involving more than one business unit Operational synergies struction and Development units, which capital combined with profit generated by Operational synergies are primarily generreinforces customer focus while ensuring the Group, as well as the Group’s ability to ated through the local, specialized expertise efficient utilization of the Group’s collective leverage its balance sheet to borrow money, contained in the business units. With this, technical and financial resources. enables the financing of investments in units in the same business stream often Project Development, which generate a collaborate to leverage resources and capaFinancial synergies return on invested capital. These investbilities, and this also enables the sharing Skanska’s Construction business stream ments also create new contracts for the of best practices. Furthermore, all Project does not tie up capital but instead operates Construction stream, generating further Development projects bring together Conwith free working capital. The free working profits. Skanska’s Construction Project Development operations Operational • Shared common values and people’s expertise in all areas on a Group-wide scale synergies • Collaboration reduces risks, maximizes opportunities and improves project delivery, providing benefits to customers • Close cooperation in procurement and production increases efficiencies • Internally generated construction contracts • Operations in different geographies reduces risks and creates a stable platform for increased operating income over time Leads to • Innovative solutions to challenges • Strong financial position Skanska • Maximized opportunities in the marketplace • Enhanced returns from multiple sources being more competitive • Improved cost control through 34 Business streams Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Business streams 35 Construction A home and much more BoKlok Geografin, Haninge, Sweden BoKlok, the low-cost housing concept owned by Skanska and IKEA, makes it possible for more people to own their own home. Yet being affordable does not mean getting less: these homes in Sweden, Norway and Finland are welldesigned and high quality, and environmentally responsible both in production and as completed homes. To be a better partner, BoKlok – Swedish for “live smart” – is striving to have an even greater positive impact in the municipalities where it is creating communities. This starts with listening closely when municipal officials describe their challenges and priorities, and then discussing how BoKlok might be part of the solutions. In Haninge, just south of Stockholm, such conversations led to understanding the municipality’s need for more homes for families newly arrived in Sweden. BoKlok saw an opportunity to facilitate an arrangement between it, the municipality and the development’s housing association. Now, seven of the 68 homes are being provided to new Swedish residents. Education and job opportunities are also part of this arrangement, aimed at helping accelerate the integration of the families into Swedish society. 36 Business streams Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Business streams Skanska’s operations consist of Construction, Residential Development, Commercial Property Development, and until 2018, Infrastructure Development. Business units within these streams collaborate in various ways, creating operational and financial synergies that generate increased value. Construction Revenue Operating income Market drivers and key trends Countries share of Group, % 1 share of Group, % 1 GDP growth Sweden – Growth in the Construction business Norway stream strongly correlates to growth Finland in GDP. Poland Public investment 85 19 Czech Republic – Infrastructure investments are largely driven by the public sector. Slovakia UK Urbanization – Urbanization brings an increasing need USA for infrastructure to be expanded, which increases demand for the Construction SEK 157,894 M 85 19 SEK 1,099 M business streams’ skills and products in areas such as highways, bridges, mass transit airports and water treatment works. Residential Development 6 26 Revenue Operating income Market drivers and key trends Countries share of Group, % 1 share of Group, % 1 Household confidence indicator Sweden – Potential customers’ views on future pay Norway raises, housing costs and borrowing opporFinland tunities affect decisions on whether to buy. Poland Urbanization 6 26 Czech Republic – More and more people are moving to cities, leading to increased demand for homes. Shortage of housing –Housing production has lagged population growth, resulting in an under supply – more homes need to be built. This means greater SEK 10,739 M SEK 1,505 M demand for this business stream’s expertise and products. 9 54 1 Before central and eliminations. 85 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 19 Business streams 37 6 26 Commercial Property Development Revenue Operating income Market drivers and key trends Countries share of Group, % 1 share of Group, % 1 Economic growth Sweden – Economic growth increases companies’ Norway recruitment needs, which drives activity Finland in the leasing market. Denmark Urbanization 9 54 Poland –More people moving to cities increases demand for offices and logistics centers Czech Republic close to cities. UK Cost-efficient location Hungary – Energy-efficient, green premises in Romania attractive areas are in demand and are USA SEK 16,271 M SEK 3,069 M contributing to relocation. Attractive investment – Long-term tenants in high-quality properties offer attractive returns for investors. Infrastructure Development Project Portfolio, estimated gross present value, Phase In 2018, Skanska closed down the Group’s 0 1 public-private partnership (PPP) project development organization. The Group is concentrating on securing and managing the value of existing PPP assets, and real• Construction, 27% izing these • Bygg, 27% over time. As of January 1, 2019, • Ramp-up/ • Uppstart/drift, 73% Infrastructure Development is no longer steady state, 73% a business stream and is reported in Central on a separate line. SEK 4,700 M 38 Construction Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Construction 39 Construction Modern hospitals, bridges, schools, transit lines and other key facilities are necessary for society to thrive. Construction – the largest business stream in terms of revenue and people – leverages Skanska’s local and Group-wide expertise and resources to enhance communities. Olympic Stadium Modernization and Renewal, Helsinki, Finland This stadium has a proud history, having been the center of the 1952 Summer Olympic Games. Skanska is preparing it to have an exciting future as the largest and most important venue in Finland for major sports and cultural events. One million visitors are expected every year. The Group’s responsibilities include totally renovating the seating area, along with covering it with a massive steel roof that curves in two directions. Below ground, new spaces for sports training and logistics are being constructed, and modern systems are being installed throughout. This is Skanska’s largest-ever single building construction project in Finland as the sole main contractor. It reflects Skanska Finland’s strategy of focusing on large and complex projects, leveraging the Group’s knowledge and competence. Supporting the stadium’s successful delivery is experience gained from two other major sports venues in Helsinki. Also, Skanska USA Building contributed expertise. 40 Construction Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Construction Strong performance in Sweden and Finland were overshadowed by underperforming units in Poland and USA. Measures were taken during 2018 to restore profitability within the Construction business stream. Targets and actions – Major events 2018 Market outlook 2019 business plan 2016–2020 Despite a continued stable and strong In Construction, the overall market • Restore profitability and reduce risk performance in the Nordic region, and activity is high but is expected to level out. through enhanced risk management Sweden and Finland in particular, during The non-residential and civil markets 2018, the profitability in the Construction in Sweden are very strong, although the • Enhanced focus on market making stream was low due to underperformance landscape is competitive. The residential • Operational efficiency in Poland and USA. building market has come down from • Operating margin ≥  3.5% Operating income amounted to a high activity level. In Norway, the out• Early Contractor Involvement (ECI) SEK 1.1 billion, with a corresponding operatlook for the civil market remains positive, ing margin of 0.7 percent. The operating but with significant competition in new • Continued focus on free working income was negatively affected by impairbids. The non-residential market also capital ment charges and restructuring charges, benefits from increased public investtotaling SEK 0.8 billion, related to the ments, while investments in the residenSelection of competitors restructuring of the Polish operations and tial building market are lower. The overall • Balfour Beatty the process of exiting the US power sector. market situation in Finland is stable In addition, operating income was impacted except for a slight slowdown in the resi• Ferrovial by project write-downs of SEK 2.0 billion, of dential building market. • Granite which SEK 0.6 billion and SEK 1.4 billion in In the UK the uncertainty related • Grupo ACS Poland and USA, respectively, related to cost to Brexit is limiting investments in the • Hochtief overruns due to lower production rates and non-residential building market. The delays. Claim resolutions in the US civil opercivil market is stable. In Central Europe • NCC ations and effects of pension curtailments in there is a high activity level in general • Peab the UK had a positive impact of SEK 0.5 biland construction related inflation is high. • Strabag lion. The comparable period contains impairIn Czech Republic the civil market is still • Veidekke ment charges and project write-downs of very competitive but contract conditions SEK 2.5 billion in total. is expected to improve. • Vinci Measures to improve profitability involved, In the USA the overall market is strong. among other things, restructuring and The civil construction market remains increasing focus on core business operations good, although competition is intense, in Poland, the Czech Republic and the UK. In and the building construction market the USA, Skanska will no longer bid on power is strong in sectors such as aviation, sector projects (EPC) and mega design-build education and healthcare. public-private partnerships (PPP). Construction Business operations in 2019 SEK M 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 The implementation of the actions taken Revenue 157,894 150,050 138,001 140,648 128,663 during 2018 to restore profitability and reduce risk will continue. In general, Operating income 1,099 1,205 3,546 3,874 4,508 Skanska will be more selective in bidding. Operating margin, % 0.7 0.8 2.6 2.8 3.5 Cost control and a more decentralized Free working capital, SEK bn 25.6 21.8 22.5 20.5 18.1 way of working will also be in focus. Operating cash flow 3,275 2,136 4,562 6,803 2,979 Moreover, risk and claims manageOrder bookings, SEK bn 151.7 151.8 170.2 122.1 146.9 ment as well as developing employees’ Order backlog, SEK bn 192.0 188.4 196.3 158.2 170.5 competencies will further increase going Number of employees 37,006 39,002 40,991 42,193 42,397 forward. • Building Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 construction,Construction 49% 41 • Civil construction, 41% • Residential, 6% • Service 1, 4% Order backlog 1 Facilities management SEK 192 bn or maintenance contract. • Government, 60% • Institutional 1, 10% • Corp. Industrial, 8% • Commercial Development, 12% • Building • Residential • Husbyggande, 49% Development, 6% construction, 49% • Other, • Anläggnings5% • Civil construction, 41% byggande, 41% • Residential, 6% • Bostäder, 6% 1 Mainly private healthcare • Service 1, 4% • Serviceinstitutions. and educational 1) , 4% 1 Facilities management 1) Kontrakt för drift och underhåll or maintenance contract. av anläggning Order backlog, total SEK 192 bn Revenue, total SEK 158 bn Type of product Customer structure Geographic area % •8 Government, 60% • Stat & kommun, 60% • Building • Husbyggande, • Institutional 1 , 10% 49% • Nordics,• Institutioner 37% 1) , 10% construction, 49% •7 Corp.•Industrial, Anläggnings8% • Europe, • Företag, 22% 8% • Civil construction, 41% • Commercial byggande, 41% • USA, 41%• Kommersiella • Residential, 6% • Bostäder, 6 Development, 12%6% fastighetsutvecklare, 12% • Service 1, 4% • Service 1), 4% •5 Residential • Bostadsutvecklare, 6% Development, 6% • Övrigt, 4% •4 Other, 4% 13Mainly private healthcare 1) Främst hälsovård och utbildning 1 Facilities management and educational 1) Kontraktinstitutions. för drift och underhåll i privat regi. or maintenance contract. 2 av anläggning 1 0 Sverige Norge Finland Polen Tjeckien Storbritannien USA och Slovakien Revenue and operating margin, rolling 12 months Market share, Skanska’s Construction business stream % • Government, 60% SEK bn % • Stat & kommun, 60% 6 • Institutional 1, 10% 180 8 • Institutioner 1), 10% • Corp. Industrial, 8% • Företag, 8% 5 • Commercial 150 7 • Kommersiella Development, 12% fastighetsutvecklare, 12% 4 • Residential 120 6 • Bostadsutvecklare, 6% Development, 6% •5 Nordics, • Övrigt, 37% 5% • Norden, 37% 3 • Other, 5% 90 • Europe, 22% • Europa, 22% •4 USA, 41% • USA, 41% 2 1 Mainly private healthcare 60 1) Främst hälsovård och utbildning and educational institutions. 3 i privat regi. 1 30 2 0 0 1 –1 –30 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sweden Norway Finland Poland Czech Republic UK USA and Slovakia • Operating margin • Revenue The market share in Sweden is significantly higher than in the rest of Skanska’s markets. Despite this Skanska is one of the leading companies in the US and the UK markets, respectively. The low market share in these countries is due to higher market fragmentation and competition. % Mdr kr 6 • Nordics, 37% 180 • Norden, 37% • Europe, 22% • Europa, 22% 5 • USA, 41% Value creation in Construction 150 • USA, 41% 4 120 3 Skanska’s Construction business stream builds and renovates 90 complicated projects for international customers with high buildings, industrial facilities, infrastructure and residences. It expectations for quality and execution. 2 60 also executes service-related assignments, in areas such as facility With a strong risk-assessment focus during the tender stage, 1 30 operations and maintenance. Skanska concentrates on securing the right projects, for which 0 In keeping with Skanska’s business model, contracting assign0 there is a balance between risk levels and expected margins. –1 ments are also executed for Skanska’s Project Development op–30 Skanska is increasing the share of contracts in which customers 2014 erations. 2015 This collaboration2016 generates2017 2018 synergies for the Group. value service, capability and project approach – in addition to • Rörelsemarginal Project and•synergy Intäkter opportunities are also generated thanks price – when evaluating tenders. Skanska’s clear focus on sustainto the financial expertise and resources within the Group. A comability – including Safety, Ethics, Green, Community Investment, bination of financial strength and global expertise in Construction and Diversity and Inclusion – is also a factor that strengthens and Project Development enables Skanska to take on large, Skanska’s offering to customers. 42 Residential Development Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Residential Development 43 Residential Development To help make people’s lives better and easier, Skanska develops homes that are well-designed, responsibly produced, reasonably priced and in good locations. Residential Development together with the Construction business stream delivers these homes in optimal ways. Kvibergs Entré, Gothenburg, Sweden Important to developing these 133 apartments was contributing to local society. Skanska leveraged this project to offer new opportu­ nities to those outside the workforce, a pilot initiative to integrate labor market efforts into housing development. Skanska invited 11 interns to be part of creating Kvibergs Entré or a nearby project for at least three months. The focus was preparing each intern to enter the workforce, with experiences and training tailored to individual interests and needs. Some joined construction teams, with others involved with sales and customer service. At the conclusion, eight of the 11 interns received permanent employment with Skanska or other companies. The rest chose to continue their educations. Bringing those eight into the workforce – including Harvin Ali, shown on the left in her new role as a Skanska production leader – will produce a SEK 8 M benefit to society within two years, according to an external evaluation. 44 Residential Development Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Residential Development The Residential Development stream maintained strong profitability during 2018 despite reduced volumes in a slow Swedish market. Diversification across markets and segments allows shifting the portfolio mix and enables Skanska to pursue opportunities in current market environment. Targets and actions – Major events 2018 Market outlook 2019 business plan 2016–2020 Profitability within Residential Develop­ The overall Swedish residential market is • More selective in project starts ment remained on a good level. The lower weak and there is an oversupply of new revenue in 2018 compared to prior year is built homes which impacts Skanska’s • Reviewing cost structure related to slower markets in Sweden and market segments and product range nega• Design to cost Norway. The Swedish market, especially tively. Confidence among home buyers is • Increased capital efficiency Stockholm, continues to be slow as the decreasing due to uncertainty about factors • Pursue opportunities current over­supply must be absorbed impacting the direction of home prices such and the willingness of customers to buy as future economic growth, employment, a home in early stages of construction interest rates, credit supply, among other Selection of competitors has decreased. The operating income of things. This is expected to impact the mar• Bonava SEK 1.5 billion includes a positive effect ket negatively going forward. The under• Central Group from release of provisions of SEK 300 M lying housing needs should however be related to completion of projects, as well supportive longterm. In Norway the market • DOM Development as land divestment gains amounting situation is a bit more stable than in Sweden • Finep to SEK 200 M. The operating margin and the Finnish market is solid. The Central • JW Construction amounted to 14.0 percent. Excluding the European market is slowing down after a • JM release of provisions and land divestments, period of strong growth. the operating margin was 10 percent. • Peab During the year, 4,480 (4,318) homes Business operations 2019 • YIT were started and 3,653 (4,285) were sold, Skanska is adapting the Residential Develof which 623 (197) rental apartments. opment operations to current market conditions, including by being more selective in starting projects and by reviewing the cost structure and the balance sheet. At the same time, the financial strength of the Group enables Skanska to pursue opportunities in current market environment. Residential Development SEK M 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Revenue 10,739 13,237 13,264 12,298 9,558 Operating income 1,505 1,716 1,605 1,174 683 Operating margin, % 14.0 13.0 12.1 9.5 7.1 Investments –10,542 –11,093 –9,148 –6,675 –6,871 Divestments 12,146 11,773 7,517 8,630 8,939 Operating cash flow from business operations 1 1,154 1,229 –1,210 1,509 1,830 Capital employed, average, SEK bn 13.6 12.7 11.6 9.3 10.4 Return on capital employed, % 2 11.4 15.4 17.1 14.4 7.1 Number of employees 542 482 434 389 396 1 Before taxes, financing activities and dividends. 2 A definition is provided in Note 44. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Residential Development 45 Bostäder 9 000 % 100 90 7,539 homes under 8 000 80 7 000 70 6 000 60 5 000 construction 50 4 000 40 3 000 30 2 000 20 1 000 10 0 0 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sålda i produktion Osålda i produktion Osålda färdigställda Försäljningsgrad Homes under construction and unsold completed Revenue and operating margin, rolling 12 months Homes % % SEK bn 9,000 100 20 16 8,000 90 14 7,000 80 15 12 6,000 70 60 10 5,000 50 10 8 4,000 40 6 3,000 30 2,000 5 4 20 1,000 10 2 0 0 0 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sold under construction Unsold under construction Unsold completed • Operating margin • Revenue Värde 5. Kundvård Sales rate 4. Försäljning och produktion Operating income, total SEK 1.5 bn Homes started and sold Geographic area 3. Marknadsföring % och projektering Mdr kr Homes 20 16 4,000 14 15 2. Planläggning 12 3,000 och bygglov 10 • Norden, 90% 10 • Nordics, 90% 8 2,000 varav Sverige, 50% 1. Idé och o/w Sweden 50% 6 • Europa, 10% analys • Europe, 10% 1,000 5 4 Förhandsbokning 2 0 Markförvärv inför produktionsstart Tillträde 0 0 Nordics Europe 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 5–7 år Tid Started o/w Sweden Sold o/w Sweden • Rörelsemarginal • Intäkter Value Bostäder creation in Residential Development 4 000 Generating value in Residential Development begins with an 3 000 Value 5. Customer care analysis of macroeconomic and demographic trends. Where is 4. Sales and 2 000the growth, who are the target groups and what do they need construction and want? 1 000 3. Marketing and preBefore making land purchases, Skanska analyzes local conditions construction engineering 0in detail. Then begins a step-by-step process aimed at ultimately Norden Europa offering customers the best possible value. During the planning 2. Planning and Startade varav Sverige Sålda varav Sverige stage, Skanska establishes a framework in close collaboration permitting with the municipal authorities. Based on the potential offered by 1. Concept the site’s surroundings, an attractive neighborhood is designed and analysis and built on the basis of the residents’ needs and environmental and community considerations. Skanska’s own sales organization Advance booking Land purchase before production start Move-in then markets the new homes to the right target groups. 5–7 years Time 46 Commercial Property Development Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Commercial Property Development 47 Commercial Property Development Skanska develops offices and properties that contribute to tenants’ success. These environmentally efficient facilities are flexible and support well-being and creativity. Collaborating with the Construction business stream produces the best solutions for customers and the greatest value for Skanska. 121 Seaport Boulevard, Boston, USA Throughout the creation of 121 Seaport, Skanska addressed challenges and possibilities in innovative ways. The result is not only an iconic, green and flexible office building, but the highest-ever divestment value for a single Skanska commercial development project. Skanska sold 121 Seaport for SEK 4 billion in 2018, topping Skanska’s sale of the neighboring 101 Seaport for SEK 3.8 billion in 2016. A key innovation resulted from an underground transit line that cuts through one corner of the site. To accommodate that line, Skanska designed the 17-story building as an ellipse. That distinctive shape made a bold statement in the neighborhood and led to other benefits, including needing 10 percent less cladding and requiring 15 percent less energy – with reduced direct sun exposure lowering cooling needs – than a similarly sized rectangular building. 121 Seaport has achieved top-level LEED Platinum green certification, and is fully leased. 48 Commercial Property Development Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Commercial Property Development Gains from property divestments were the highest ever, reaching more than SEK 4.0 billion, including joint ventures. At the same time, investments in new projects continued to grow with 28 new p ­ rojects started during the year. Targets and actions – Major events 2018 Market outlook 2019 business plan 2016–2020 The high level of investments, leasing and Vacancy rates for office space in most of • Increase project activity divestments continued during 2018, and by the Nordic and Central European cities the end of the year Skanska had 53 ongoing where Skanska has operations are stable. • Increase landbank projects. Gains from divesting 19 property In Sweden vacancy rates are low and rents • Drive cost efficiency projects reached an all-time high of are high. Demand for office space is strong • Controlled expansion SEK 4.0 billion including joint ventures, in Poland and in other parts of Central with all three geographies contributing Europe as well. In USA, demand from Selection of competitors to this success. For example: tenants is good in Boston and Seattle, while • Skanska sold the office buildings somewhat weaker in Washington D.C., • Boston Properties Tändstickan I and III in Gothenburg, and Houston’s energy corridor. • Echo investment Sweden, for SEK 1.0 billion. Modern properties with high quality • Ghelamco • In Malmö, Sweden, Skanska sold the tenants are in demand from property inves• Hines office building Studio, for SEK 1.0 billion. tors, resulting in attractive valuations for • The office project Mill Park, in Budapest these properties. Investor appetite remains • Lemminkäinen/YIT Hungary, was sold for SEK 1.0 billion. strong in the Nordics, especially Sweden, • NCC • Skanska sold the 121 Seaport office USA and Central Europe, but the number • Skandia Fastigheter tower development in Boston, USA, of shortlisted investors in transactions are • Trammell Crow for SEK 4.0 billion. fewer and more selective regarding investment objects. Yield levels in Sweden and in • Vasakronan In 2018, a total of 28 projects were started, USA have likely bottomed out. spread across all geographies. Leasing activity reached an all-time high, with Business operations 2019 511,000 square meters leased during the Skanska aims to continue the high activyear. Unrealized gains, excluding properties ity in Commercial Property Development. divested according to segment reporting, Through a controlled expansion, Skanska totaled SEK 8.6 billion by the end of will grow stronger in current markets. In the year. addition, Skanska is analyzing entering the Los Angeles, USA, market. Commercial Property Development SEK M 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Revenue 16,271 11,440 10,226 9,034 10,228 Operating income 3,069 2,714 2 ,336 1,947 1,700 of which gain from divestments of properties 1 4,005 2,879 3,111 2,564 1,989 Investments –11,452 –10,716 –8,364 –8,826 –6,885 Divestments 15,275 9,341 9,043 9 ,914 8,237 Operating cash flow from business operations 2 3,984 –3,119 –687 917 1,174 Capital employed, SEK bn 26.7 24.5 19.9 16.5 15.0 Return on capital employed, % 3 12.8 15.5 14.8 15.6 11.4 Number of employees 414 389 364 344 304 1 Additional gain included in eliminations was 321 197 173 190 279 2 Before taxes, financial activities and dividends. 3 A s of January 1, 2019, return will be based on yearly earnings and not on successive value creation. A definition is provided in Note 44. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Commercial Property Development 49 Unrealized gains of SEK 8.6 bn Mdr kr 10 Mdr kr 9 8 18 7 16 6 14 5 12 4 10 3 8 2 1 6 0 4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 2 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0 Orealiserat resultat i: Mark Pågående projekt Färdigställda projekt kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 kv2 kv3 kv4 kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Realiserat resultat, rullande 12 månader • Intäkter från fastighetsförsäljningar, rullande 12 månader • Rörelseresultat från fastighetsförsäljningar, rullande 12 månader Revenue and operating income from property divestments Unrealized and realized gains SEK bn SEK bn 18 10 16 9 14 8 12 7 6 10 5 8 4 • Nordics, 36% • Norden, 36% 6 3 • Europe, 27% • Europa, 27% 4 2 • USA, 37% • USA, 37% 2 1 5. Försäljning Värde 0 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q44. Q1 Fastighetsförvaltning Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 • Revenue from divestments, rolling 12 months Unrealized gains in: Land Ongoing projects 3. Byggande Completed projects • Operating income from divestments, rolling 12 months Realized gains, rolling 12 months och uthyrning Capital employed, total SEK 26.7 bn Leasing, total 511,000 sq m Geographic area Geographic area 2. Projektering och produktionsförberedelser • Nordics, 36% • Norden, 36% 1. Bygglov och detaljplan • Nordics, 38% • Norden, 38% • Europe, 27% • Europa, 27% • Europe, 38% • Europa, 38% • USA, 37% • USA, 37% • USA, 24% • USA, 24% 5–7 år Tid Value creation in Commercial Property Development The development of commercial projects is a continuous process Value 5. Divestment with clearly defined phases. The average development cycle from 4. Property management project conception to completion is five to seven years. All acquisitions of land are preceded by macroeconomic and 3. Construction and leasing local market analyses.• A major Nordics, 38%step in value creation is taken • Norden, 38% when the zoning plan•isEurope, approved 38% for undeveloped land. The • Europa, 38% • USA, 24% • USA, 24% design is based on previous Skanska experience and adjusted to local market demands, aimed at creating compelling premises 2. Design and pre-construction for tenants and property investors as well as enabling efficient construction execution. A successful leasing process usually begins in ­connection with the start of construction, with most leases 1. Building permit and zoning signed before ­construction is completed. The construction projects are carried out by Skanska’s local construction units. Property management can add further value to the property. 5–7 years Time All projects are developed with divestment as the ultimate goal. Divestment occurs when Skanska has provided maximum value to the project within the Group’s competency areas. 50 Infrastructure Development Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Infrastructure Development 51 Infrastructure Development Secures and manages the value of Skanska’s existing public-private partnership (PPP) assets, and realize these develop­ment gains over time. Highway 3 / Highway 25, Løten to Elverum, Norway Many trucks going between Oslo and Trondheim travel these roads, joining people making short trips between local communities. But these roads are not intended for so much traffic, leading to accidents. Skanska is increasing the roads’ safety and capacity through Norway’s first public-private partnership (PPP) in 10 years. Skanska is financing, designing and building 25 kilometers of roadway, and then maintaining it for 20 years. Finalized in 2018, this PPP contract is worth SEK 5.8 billion, of which SEK 2.7 billion relates to the construction. It is one of Norway’s largest road projects ever. To support the customer’s focus on minimizing local impacts, the Group devised an innovative way of safely treating on-site about 100,000 cubic meters of soil requiring special environ­ mental handling. Compared to the traditional requirement of hauling away such soil, this provided added customer value without further crowding the roads. 52 Infrastructure Development Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Infrastructure Development Skanska has closed its public-private partnership (PPP) project development organization. Going forward, the focus will be managing existing PPP assets. As of January 1, 2019, Infrastructure Development is no longer a business stream and is reported in Central on a separate line. Targets and actions – Major events 2018 Business operations 2019 business plan 2016–2020 In 2018, Skanska reached financial close on Skanska is concentrated on securing and • Maximize the value of Norway’s Highway 3/Highway 25 road PPP managing the value of its existing PPP existing portfolio project, adding to Skanska’s investment assets and realizing these development portfolio in Infrastructure Development. gains over time. • Close down project The PPP portfolio’s net present value at As of January 1, 2019, Infrastructure development organization the end of 2018 increased to SEK 3.6 billion Development is reported in Central on (3.0). The unrealized development gain a separate line. As a consequence, it is in the project portfolio amounted to excluded from the Return on capital SEK 1.1 billion (0.5). employed target for Project Development. The operating income for 2018 includes For further information, see page 11. restructuring charges of SEK 120 M as well as success fee from the financial close of the Mdr kr Highway 3/Highway 25 road4,0 PPP project and additional payment from a previous 0,2 3,6 0,4 0,1 3,5 divestment. The comparable period con3,0 tains the gain of SEK 0.9 billion 3,0 from the divestment of the investment2,5in the A1 motorway project in Poland.2,0 1,5 1,0 0,5 0 31 dec, Tidsvärde/ Investeringar/ Valuta31 dec, 2017 Riskminskning Desinvesteringar effekt 2018 Infrastructure Development Changes in net present value SEK M 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 SEK bn Revenue 105 81 237 106 163 4.0 0.2 3.6 0.4 0.1 Operating income 31 925 1,818 863 463 3.5 3.0 Investments –63 –449 –1,336 –234 –328 3.0 Divestments 80 1,950 3,102 1,114 419 2.5 Operating cash flow from business 81 4,096 –1,045 1,258 –106 2.0 operations 1 Capital employed, SEK bn 2.2 1.8 5.4 1.8 1.9 1.5 Return on capital employed, % 2 24.6 3.6 41.1 12.7 16.9 1.0 Net present value, project portfolio, 0.5 SEK bn 3.6 3.0 4.3 4.8 5.3 0 Employees 61 94 102 111 127 Dec 31, Time value/ Investments/ Currency Dec 31, 1 Before taxes, financial activities and dividends. 2017 Reduced Divestments effect 2018 2 A definition is provided in Note 44. As of January 1, 2019, Infrastructure Development discount rate is excluded from the return on capital employed target for Project Development. For further information, see page 11. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Infrastructure Development 53 • Market risk, 51% • Availability risk, 49% • Nordics, 32% • Market risk, 51% • Marknadsrisk, 51% • Europe, 2% • Availability risk, 49% • Tillgänglighetsrisk, 49% • USA, 66% Project portfolio, estimated gross value, total SEK 4.7 bn Geographic area Compensation type 1 Phase • Nordics, 32% •• Norden, 32%51% Market risk, ••Marknadsrisk, Construction, 51% 27% • Europe, 2% •• Europa, 2% risk, 49% Availability ••Tillgänglighetsrisk, Ramp-up/ 49% • USA, 66% • USA, 66% steady state, 73% Estimated annual cashflow in Skanska Infrastructure Development’s project portfolio December 31, 2018 2 SEK M 2,500 2,000 • Nordics, 32% • Norden, 32% 1,500 • Construction, 27% •• Europe, 2% Bygg, 27% • Europa, 2% • Ramp-up/ •• USA, 66% Uppstart/drift, 73% • USA, 66% 1,000 steady state, 73% 500 0 -500 –1,000 2019 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 2055 2060 2065 2070 • Inflow: SEK 45.9 bn (interest, dividends and repayments) • Outflow: SEK –1.3 bn (contracted equity investments) 1 Cash flows have been translated into SEK at the exchange rates prevailing on December 31, 2018. Project portfolio, SEK M Mkr 2 500 • Construction, 27% Year of • Bygg, 27% Invested • Ramp-up/ • Uppstart/drift, 73% 2 000 Concession steady state, 73% Operation/ full as per Total 1Category 500 Type Country Compensation 1 Phase end Ownership completion Dec 31, 2018 Commitments 1Highways 000 500 Elizabeth River Tunnels Highway USA Market risk Ramp-up/steady state 2070 50% 2017 860 860 0 I-4 -500Ultimate Highway USA Availability Construction 2054 50% 2022 0 656 000 –1Highway 3 / Highway 25 Highway Norway Availability Construction 2040 50% 2020 0 68 2019 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 2055 2060 2065 2070 • Inflöde: 45,9 Mdr kr (räntor, utdelningar och återbetalningar) • Utflöde: –1,3 Mdr kr (framtida kontrakterade investeringar i eget kapital) Social infrastructure 1) Kassaflödena är omräknade till valutakurserna per den 31 december 2018. New Karolinska Solna Health Sweden Availability Ramp-up/steady state 2040 50% 2018 590 591 Papworth Health UK Availability Ramp-up/steady state 2048 50% 2019 64 64 Airports LaGuardia Airport USA Market risk Construction 2051 32% 2024 0 566 Total Skanska 1,514 2,806 1 In the availability model compensation is based on providing a given amenity and agreed services at a predetermined price. In the market model, compensation is based entirely on the volume of utilization and the fees paid by end-users. 2 Cash flows have been translated into SEK at the exchange rates prevailing on December 31, 2018. 54 Infrastructure Development Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Infrastructure Development 55 Commercial Property Development and Construction A brilliant new landmark Juvelen, Uppsala, Sweden A triangular building that glimmers like a gemstone is the first sight for travelers from Stockholm as their trains roll into Uppsala. Juvelen, the Jewel, is this city’s new landmark. It provides high performance with architecture and green, supporting the creativity and well-being of those who will work inside. At 11,500 square meters, Juvelen is among the largest of what Skanska calls a Deep Green project, according to Skanska Color Palette™, when the construction process and/or building performance has a near-zero impact on the environment, ensuring that the project is environ­mentally futureproof. Having a strong green profile for Juvelen was essential to securing the project’s land from the City of Uppsala, which aims to be fossil-fuel free by 2030. Energy is a key component of Juvelen. It is engineered to require 55 percent less energy than Swedish regulations, with cooling naturally provided by the Group’s patented Deep Green Cooling system – using boreholes drilled into bedrock. Electricity is supplied by rooftop photovoltaic cells and Swedish wind farms. Juvelen’s energy solution results in close to zero greenhouse gas emissions in the building’s annual operations. Also, only environmentally efficient materials have been used, and all waste has been avoided, re-used or re-cycled. 56 Corporate governance report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Corporate governance report Good corporate governance ensures that Skanska is managed sustainably, responsibly and efficiently on behalf of all share­holders. The overall goal is to increase value for shareholders, and in doing so meet their expectations for invested capital. The purpose of corporate governance is also to ensure oversight by the Board of Directors (the Board ) and management. By having a clearly defined governance structure as well as proper rules and processes, the Board can ensure that management and employees are focused on developing the business and thereby generating value for shareholders. This Corporate governance report for 2018 has been reviewed by the company’s external auditors in compliance with Chapter 9, Section 31 of the Swedish Companies Act. The report contains information as required by Chapter 6, Section 6 of the Annual Accounts Act. Corporate governance principles The corporate governance of Skanska is based on both external Skanska is one of the world’s leading construction and project and internal governing documents as well as on monitoring comdevelopment companies, focused on selected home markets in pliance with these by all business units and functions in the Group. the Nordic region, Europe and USA. Supported by global trends Below is Skanska’s formal governance structure. in urbanization and demographics, and by being at the forefront Skanska has no deviations from the Swedish Corporate Goverof sustainability, Skanska offers competitive solutions for both nance Code (the Code ) to report for the 2018 financial year. Nor simple and the most complex assignments. Driven by the Group’s has Skanska been subject to any rulings by Nasdaq Stockholm’s values, Skanska helps create sustainable futures for customers and Disciplinary Committee or decisions on breaches of sound practices communities. The parent company of the Group is Skanska AB, in the stock market by the Swedish Securities Council. For more a Swedish public limited company with a registered office information, go to: group.skanska.com/corporate-governance/. in Stockholm, Sweden. Skanska's ethical and sustainability endeavors are an integral part of the business, and the Board discusses these issues on a regular basis. Governance structure Nomination Shareholders/AGM Auditors Committee Compensation Committee Board Audit Committee Project Review Committee Group President and CEO, Internal Audit and Functions Group Leadership Team Compliance Construction Residential Commercial Infrastructure Development Property Development 1 Development 1 As of January 1, 2019, Infrastructure Development is no longer a business stream and is reported in Central on a separate line. Key external governing documents Key internal governing documents • Swedish Companies Act • Articles of Association • Nasdaq Stockholm Rule Book for Issuers • Procedural Rules for the Board and its Committees • Swedish Corporate Governance Code • Instructions for the CEO • Annual Accounts Act • Finance Policy • International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) • Information Policy and other accounting rules • Enterprise Risk Management Policy • Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards 2016 • Skanska’s Code of Conduct which is available on the Group's website: group.skanska.com/corporate-governance/ governing-documents/ Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Corporate governance report 57 Shares and shareholders paper. All documents relating to the AGM are published on the Skanska AB’s Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm Group's website in both Swedish and English. Shareholders listed in the Large Cap segment. The share capital at the end of 2018 in the register of shareholders on the record date who notify the amounted to SEK 1,259,709,216 shared between a total of ­company of their intention to participate in the meeting are entitled 419,903,072 shares, of which 19,725,759 are Series A shares and to attend it either personally or by proxy through a representative or 400,177,313 are Series B shares. The company’s Series A shares substitute. Shareholders have the right to have matters addressed at entitle the holders to 10 votes per share and the Series B shares to the AGM if they have submitted a request to the Board no later than one vote per share. Series A and B shares carry the same right to seven weeks before the AGM. share in the company’s assets and entitle the holder to the same dividend. There are no restrictions on the number of votes each Annual General Meeting 2018 shareholder may cast at an Annual General Meeting. The 2018 AGM was held on April 13, 2018, in Stockholm. A total At the end of 2018, Skanska had a total of 109,185 shareholders, of 960 shareholders, representing around 59.3 percent of the according to statistics from Euroclear Sweden. The 10 largest total number of votes were represented at the AGM. Among shareholders held 57.9 percent of the votes and 42.3 percent of the other matters, the meeting voted to re-elect Hans Biörck, capital. Industrivärden’s holding amounted to 23.9 percent and Pär Boman, Nina Linander, Fredrik Lundberg, Catherine Marcus, Lundberg’s holding to 12.8 percent of the votes. Jayne McGivern and Charlotte Strömberg as members of the Board. More information about the Skanska share and shareholders Hans Biörck was re-elected as Chairman of the Board. The employees is available on page 7. were represented on the Board by Ola Fält, Richard Hörstedt and Yvonne Stenman as members, and with Pär-Olow Johansson and General Meetings of shareholders Anders Rättgård as deputy members. All members and deputy memThe shareholders’ meeting is the highest decision-making body bers of the Board, as well as the company’s external auditors and within Skanska and it is where shareholders exercise their influmembers of the Group Leadership Team, were present at the AGM. ence over the company. At the Annual General Meeting (AGM), The AGM re-elected Ernst & Young AB as external auditor. The the shareholders decide on key issues, such as adoption of income AGM also decided to approve a dividend to the shareholders of statements and balance sheets; the dividend; the composition of SEK 8.25 per share. the Board; discharging the members of the Board and the CEO The Board was authorized to acquire a maximum of 3,000,000 from liability; election of external auditors; and principles for Series B shares in Skanska AB to ensure future share allotments to remuneration to senior executives. Skanska’s financial year is participants in Skanska’s employee ownership program (Seop) and from January 1 to December 31, and the AGM is to be held within on the transferal of a maximum of 700,000 Series B shares in Skanska six months of the end of the financial year. The date and venue AB on Nasdaq Stockholm. These shares were acquired based on an for the AGM is communicated no later than the publishing of the earlier authorization to buy back treasury shares for the purpose of third quarter interim report on the Group’s website. The notice covering certain costs, primarily social insurance contributions, convening the meeting is published in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar which may arise in connection with Skanska’s employee ownership (the Official Swedish Gazette) and on the Group’s website. An program. Complete information on the AGM and the minutes of the announcement of the notice convening the meeting is published meeting are available on the Group's website: group.skanska.com/ in Dagens Nyheter and in at least one more Swedish daily news­ corporate-governance/annual-general-meeting/agm-archive/. Annual General Meeting 2019 The next AGM for shareholders in Skanska AB will be held at 10:00 a.m. on March 28, 2019 at Stockholm Waterfront Congress Centre in Stockholm, Sweden. 58 Corporate governance report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 The Nomination Committee The 2018 AGM gave the Chairman of the Board a mandate, This information was announced on the Group’s website and ahead of the next AGM, to allow each of the four largest sharepublished in a press release on September 27, 2018. According to holders in terms of voting power to appoint a representative to the Code, the majority of the Nomination Committee’s members join the Chairman on the Nomination Committee. In determinare to be independent in relation to the company and management ing which are deemed to be the largest shareholders in terms and at least one member is also to be independent in relation to the of voting power, the list of shareholders registered with and largest shareholders in the company in terms of voting rights. All categorized by Euroclear Sweden AB as of the last business of the appointed members are independent in relation to the comday in August is to be used. pany and management and three are independent in relation to the largest shareholders in the company in terms of voting rights. The Nomination Committee’s mandate includes: In preparation for the 2019 AGM, the Nomination Committee • Evaluating the composition of the Board and its work held seven meetings at which minutes were kept. No fees have been • Preparing proposals to submit to the AGM regarding the paid out for Nomination Committee duties. To perform its work, election of Board members and the Chairman of the Board the Nomination Committee has taken part of the internal evalu• Working with the Board’s Audit Committee to prepare ation carried out of the Board’s work, the Chairman’s account proposals to submit to the AGM regarding the election of Board duties and the company’s strategy. The Committee has of auditors also interviewed individual members of the Board. Furthermore, • Preparing a proposal to submit to the AGM on fees for Skanska AB's CEO and CFO have attended a meeting for presentamembers of the Board to be divided between the Chairman tion of the company's operations and strategies. and other members, and any compensation for committee The Nomination Committee considers that those different fields work, and for auditors of competence and experience considered important to Skanska • Preparing a proposal to submit to the AGM regarding are well represented on the proposed Board and that the compoa Chairman for the AGM sition and the size of the proposed Board is appropriate to meet • W hen applicable, preparing a proposal on changes to the Skanska’s needs. The independence requirement is also deemed to principles for appointing the next Nomination Committee have been met. The Nomination Committee has also discussed the diversity requirement. In this regard the Nomination Committee On the Group's website there is information on how the has decided to apply as its diversity policy rule 4.1 of the Code, which shareholders can submit their own proposals to the states that Board members are to collectively exhibit diversity and Nomination Committee: breadth of qualifications, experience and background. group.skanska.com/corporate-governance/ A gender balance is also to be aimed for. In addition to the inforannual-general-meeting/nomination-committee/. mation already provided on the background and experience of the members of the Board, it has been determined that the proposed Nomination Committee 2019 Board will consist of three women and four men. The gender balThe Nomination Committee for the 2019 AGM has the following ance is therefore 43 percent/57 percent, which, in the opinion of composition: the Nomination Committee, is consistent with the gender balance • Helena Stjernholm, AB Industrivärden requirement. (23.9 percent of votes1) The Nomination Committee’s proposals, work report and Chairman of the Nomination Committee supplementary information on proposed members of the Board • Mats Guldbrand, L E Lundbergföretagen AB are published on the Group's website in connection with the notice (12.8 percent of votes1) convening the AGM. • Bo Selling, Alecta (4.1 percent of votes1) • Lars-Åke Bokenberger, AMF (3.8 percent of votes1) • Hans Biörck, Chairman of the Board, Skanska AB 1 Based on shareholding as of August 31, 2018. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Corporate governance report 59 Board of Directors The members and the deputy members of the Board Project Independent in Independent in Born, Elected, Audit Compensation Review relation to the relation to major Member Position year Nationality year Committee Committee Committee Company and GLT shareholders Hans Biörck Chairman 1951 Sweden 2016 • • • Yes Yes Pär Boman Member 1961 Sweden 2015 • • • Yes No John Carrig 1 Member 1952 USA 2014 • • • Yes Yes Nina Linander Member 1959 Sweden 2014 • • Yes No Fredrik Lundberg Member 1951 Sweden 2011 • Yes No Catherine Marcus Member 1965 USA 2017 • Yes Yes Jayne McGivern Member 1960 UK 2015 • • Yes Yes Charlotte Strömberg Member 1959 Sweden 2010 • • Yes Yes Ola Fält 2 Employee Representative 1966 Sweden 2018 – – Richard Hörstedt Employee Representative 1963 Sweden 2007 • – – Gunnar Larsson 1 Employee Representative 1953 Sweden 2014 – – Yvonne Stenman 2 Employee Representative 1959 Sweden 2018 – – Pär-Olow Johansson Employee Representative (Deputy) 1954 Sweden 2014 – – Anders Rättgård Employee Representative (Deputy) 1961 Sweden 2017 – – • = Chairman • = Member 1) Until April 13, 2018 2) From April 13, 2018 According to the Articles of Association, the Board is to consist operations, review and approval of the interim reports and year-end of no fewer than five and no more than ten members with no more report, strategic review of Skanska including a restructuring of the than three deputies, all of which are elected by the shareholders Construction operations and Infrastructure Development operaat each AGM. The Board has overall responsibility for Skanska’s tions to improve profitability, but also organizational and leadership organizational structure and management and the Board’s main changes and the establishment of a new governance framework, as duty is to safeguard the interests of the company and the sharewell as internal control, risk management and compliance matters. holders. The Board thus makes decisions regarding the Group’s strategy, interim and annual reports, major construction projects, Evaluation of the work of the Board investments and divestments, appointment of the President and The work of the Board is evaluated annually through a structured CEO and matters concerning the organizational structure of the process aimed at improving work processes, efficiency and collecGroup. The Chairman leads the Board in its work and has regular tive expertise, and to assess any need for change. The Chairman of contact with the President and CEO in order to stay informed the Board is responsible for the evaluation and for presenting the about the Group’s activities and development. findings to the Board and the Nomination Committee. In 2018 an In 2018 the Board of consisted of seven members elected by evaluation was carried out in the form of a questionnaire and indithe AGM, without deputies, plus three members and two deputy vidual conversations between the Chairman and each member of members appointed by the trade unions. According to the Code, the Board, but also through discussion during board meetings. The the majority of the Board’s AGM-elected members are to be Chairman was also evaluated through a written questionnaire and in­dependent in relation to the company and senior executives discussion with the Board; the Board meeting on this occasion was and at least two members are to also be independent in relation chaired by another member appointed for the purpose. The outcome to the largest shareholders in the company. Seven of the Board of the 2018 evaluation was that the work of the Board was deemed to members elected by the 2018 AGM are independent in relation to be functioning well. the company and its management. Of these, four members are also independent in relation to the company’s largest shareholders. The Fees to the Board composition of the Board and an assessment of the independence Total fees to the AGM-elected Board members were approved by of each member are presented in more detail on page 66-67. the 2018 AGM in the amount of SEK 8,567,500. The Chairman of the Board received SEK 2,040,000 and the other Board members, The work of the Board in 2018 not employed by Skanska, SEK 680,000 each, the Chairman of the The work of the Board follows an annual agenda established in the Audit Committee received SEK 220,000 and the other members of Board’s Procedural Rules. In preparation for each Board meeting, the Committee SEK 157,500 each, the Chairman of the Compensathe Board receives reports and documentation compiled accordtion Committee received SEK 110,000 and the other members of ing to established procedures. The purpose of this is to ensure the Committee SEK 105,000 each, and the Chairman of the Project that the Board has the relevant information and documentation Review Committee and the other members of the Committee on which to base decisions. In 2018 the Board held ten meetings, received SEK 205,000 each. For more detailed information, including its statutory meeting. The more important issues see Note 37. dealt with by the Board during the year included monitoring 60 Corporate governance report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 The Board’s committees Compensation Committee The overall responsibility of the Board cannot be delegated, but The main task of the Compensation Committee is to prepare the Board may appoint committees to do preparatory work and recommendations for Board decisions on the appointment of the explore certain issues in preparation for decisions by the Board. President and CEO, including salary and other compensation, Skanska’s Board has formed three committees to provide strucand other Group Leadership Team members, including compen­ ture, improve efficiency and ensure the quality of its work (i) sation, pension and employment terms for these individuals. The Audit Committee, (ii) Compensation Committee and (iii) Project Committee prepares recommendations for Board decisions on Review Committee. The members of the committees are appointincentive programs, and examines the outcomes of variable salary ed annually at the statutory meeting of the Board. The Board’s components. Procedural Rules specify which duties and decision-making In 2018 the Compensation Committee consisted of Hans Biörck powers have been delegated. The committees report orally to the (Chairman), Pär Boman and Jayne McGivern. The Code requireBoard at each Board meeting and all minutes from the committee ments regarding independence, according to which the Chairman meetings are submitted to the Board. of the Board is permitted to be the Chairman of the Compensation Committee and other AGM-elected members are to be independent Audit Committee in relation to the company and the Group Leadership Team, have The main task of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in therefore been met. overseeing the financial reporting, reporting procedures and The Committee held seven meetings in 2018. Important matters accounting principles, and to monitor the auditing of the accounts addressed during the year were review of executives’ other assignfor the Parent Company and the Group. The Committee also ments, review of Skanska’s variable remuneration programs for the evaluates the quality of the Group’s reporting, internal auditing Group Leadership Team, and review and evaluation of the applicaand risk management, and reviews the reports and opinions of the tion of the principles for remuneration to senior executives as well company’s external auditors. The Committee monitors the exteras the existing remuneration structure and remuneration levels nal auditors’ assessment of their impartiality and independence, including proposal for a new long-term incentive program (Seop 5). and that there are routines in place stipulating which non-audit services they provide to the Parent Company and the Group. The Project Review Committee Committee also monitors compliance with the rules on auditor The Project Review Committee makes decisions on individual rotation. The external auditors are present at all Audit Committee projects within the Construction, Commercial Property Developmeetings. At least once a year the Audit Committee meets the ment and Residential Development business steams, investments auditors without senior executives being present. and divestments within Infrastructure Development and certain In 2018 the Audit Committee consisted of Charlotte Strömberg project financing packages. Projects that involve especially high or (Chairman), Hans Biörck, Pär Boman and Nina Linander. unusual risks or other special circumstances may be referred to the The Committee held seven meetings in 2018. Important matters Board for a decision. The Committee consists of all AGM-elected addressed during the year included capital allocation, financing, members and employee representative Richard Hörstedt. The pension reporting, external reporting, impairment testing, writeCommittee held eleven meetings in 2018. downs in construction projects, larger disputes, review of the interim reports and year-end report, risk management and External auditors compliance matters. According to the Articles of Association, the Parent Company shall have one or two authorized public accountants as external auditors. Attendance at the Board and Committee meetings A registered accounting firm may be appointed as the company’s Board Audit Compensation Project Review external auditor. At the 2018 AGM Ernst & Young AB was re-elected meetings Committee Committee Committee external auditor, until the close of the 2019 AGM. Authorized Number of meetings 10 7 7 11 Public Accountant Hamish Mabon is the auditor in charge. The Member external auditor has attended two board meetings to report on the Hans Biörck 10 7 7 11 auditing process of Ernst & Young AB for Skanska and to provide Fredrik Lundberg 10 11 the members of the Board with an opportunity to ask questions Nina Linander 9 6 11 without management being present. The external auditor has also attended all meetings of the Board’s Audit Committee. For inforJohn Carrig 1 2 2 2 3 mation on fees and other remuneration to the external auditor, see Charlotte Strömberg 10 7 11 the table below and Note 38. Pär Boman 10 7 7 11 Jayne McGivern 8 7 11 Fees and other remuneration to external auditors Catherine Marcus 10 11 Ernst & Young Richard Hörstedt 9 9 SEK M 2018 2017 Ola Fält 2 8 Yvonne Stenman 2 6 Audit assignments 50 49 Pär-Olow Johansson 10 Audit-related activities besides the annual audit assignment 3 5 Anders Rättgård 10 Tax advisory services 2 1 Gunnar Larsson 1 2 Other services 3 3 Total 58 58 1 Until April 13, 2018. 2 From April 13, 2018. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Corporate governance report 61 Operational management and internal governance Skanska’s management structure Group Leadership Team 1 Anders Danielsson, President and CEO Magnus Persson Caroline Richard Kennedy Claes Larsson Kirsi Mettälä, EVP, CFO Fellenius-Omnell EVP EVP EVP, EVP, General Counsel Human Resources Finance Legal Human Resources Communications Reporting and Assurance and Skanska Skanska Commercial Sustainability Business Unit/ Accounting Control USA Building Property Operating Unit Development Nordic Financial Support Skanska Skanska Commercial Skanska Core Corporate and Analysis USA Civil Property Finland Function Development Europe Skanska Skanska Commercial Skanska Group Financial Services Property Norway Function Development USA Investor Skanska Residential Skanska Reports directly Relations Development Sweden to the Board Europe Information BoKlok Skanska Technology Housing Czech Republic and Slovakia Internal Audit Skanska and Compliance Poland Asset Skanska Management 2 UK The President and CEO and the Group Leadership Team Core corporate functions and group functions The President and CEO is appointed by the Board and runs the Core corporate functions and group functions are based at the company in accordance with the instructions adopted by the group headquarters in Stockholm. The core corporate functions Board. The President and CEO is responsible for the day-to-day and group functions assist the President and CEO and the group management of the operations of the company and the Group. The Leadership Team on matters relating to corporate functions, work of the President and CEO is evaluated at one Board meeting co­ordination and oversight. They also provide support to the busieach year at which no senior executives are present. The President ness units. The head of each group function reports directly to a and CEO has no business dealings of any significance with member of the group Leadership Team. The head of the Internal Skanska AB or its Group companies. Audit and Compliance reports directly to the Board by way of the The President and CEO and the Executive Vice Presidents form Audit Committee. A presentation of the core corporate functions the Group Leadership Team. In alignment with the strategic and the group functions can be found on page 69. review in 2018, Skanska has undertaken a comprehensive restructuring of the business, primarily in the Construction stream, to Remuneration to senior executives improve profitability. During the year focus has also been at orgaThe 2018 AGM approved principles for salaries and other remunizational and leadership changes and the establishment of a new neration to senior executives. These are described on page 174. governance framework. Information about salaries and other remuneration to the PresiInformation on the President and CEO and the members of the dent and CEO and other members of the Group Leadership Team, Group Leadership Team can be found on pages 68-69. as well as outstanding share award and share-related incentive programs are found in Note 37. 1 Effective as of January 17, 2018, with the exception of CFO Magnus Persson, who took on his position as of February 2, 2018, a new Group Leadership Team in a new structure replaced the former Senior Executive Team, working closer to the business units in order to strengthen the business units’ performance. The business unit Presidents were appointed members of an Extended Leadership Team. 2 Portfolio of PPP assets. 62 Corporate governance report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Skanska reporting structure Commercial Residential Property Infrastructure Operational units Construction Development Development Development 1 Sweden Business stream Norway Operating Finland unit Commercial Property Development Nordic External Czech Republic Reporting and Slovakia Poland United Kingdom Commercial Property Development Europe Residential Development Europe USA Civil USA Building Commercial Property Development USA Infrastructure Development 1 1 A s of January 1, 2019, Infrastructure Development is no longer a business stream and is reported in Central on a separate line. for a better so uild cie eb ty Skanska internal governance W Skanska Purpose Market The organizational structure of Skanska is characterized by clear Making decentralization and a large measure of delegation of authority al and responsibility to the business units. The philosophy is to be a Profit tion Business Plan era ence Gre Peo at decentralized and integrated company organized in business units ple with Op xcell E with profit and loss responsibility. Each business unit is headed Purpose by a president and has its own administrative functions and other Skanska Values Care Act Ethically & Be Better – Commit to resources in order to conduct its operations effectively. Aside from for Life Transparently Together Customers day-to-day operations managing projects, the business units deal with matters such as their strategic development, business plans, investments, divestments and organization. areas Health and Safety, Ethics, Green, Community Investment as This interdependence calls for a governance model that supports well as Diversity and Inclusion. the local characteristics of the business with a profit and loss Fundamental to Skanska’s success are four values; Care for Life; responsibility, while ensuring a synergy model, adherence to Act Ethically and Transparently; Be better – Together and Comcommon standard values, processes and brand protection. mit to Customers. They serve as a moral foundation and compass and Skanska constantly drives the need for every employee to Purpose, values and strategy strongly live these values in all they do. While creating value, Skanska's Purpose is to build for a better Sustainability at Skanska is grounded in the Group’s values. The society. The Purpose reflects the Group’s role in society, a position Group’s sustainability focus areas are strengthened by their conthat enables Skanska to create shareholder value. Skanska provides nection to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals innovative and sustainable solutions to create a sustainable future and will guide Skanska’s efforts to significant positive contribufor its employees, customers, shareholders and communities. This tions to the global sustainable development agenda and to society. is reinforced by continued commitment to the sustainable focus Skanska’s sustainability report can be found on pages 70-93. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Corporate governance report 63 Code of Conduct New governance framework Skanska’s Code of Conduct is key to bringing the Group’s values At the beginning of 2018, Skanska announced strategic actions to to life. The Code of Conduct describes the expected behavior of increase profitability and reduce risks in the Construction operaevery employee in interactions with fellow employees, customers, tions. On Group level, the headquarters organization was brought local communities and other stakeholders. The Code of Conduct closer to the operations to increase efficiencies and better support defines Skanska’s commitment at the workplace, in the marketbusiness units in responding to the needs of markets and customers. place and to society. It covers such topics as health, safety and Also, initial steps were taken to strengthen and focus the Group’s wellbeing; diversity and inclusion; data protection; environment; decentralized governance model through improved control confidentiality; conflicts of interest; fraud; fair competition; antiframework and clarified roles and responsibilities. In addition to corruption and anti-bribery; and insider information and market the Board's governing documents and Board policies, the Group abuse. Leadership Team has adopted policies, standards/procedures and All Skanska employees must adhere to the principles and guidelines for the Group. These Group policies, standards/procerequirements contained in the Code of Conduct. All employees dures and guidelines are updated regularly to reflect changes in receive Code of Conduct training every two years, and new operations or new regulations. The Board’s Procedural Rules state employees are trained within one month of starting with Skanska. which items of business will be decided upon by the Board, by the The Code of Conduct is supplemented by the Supplier Code President and CEO/Group Leadership Team or at the business unit of Conduct, which must be adhered to by all subcontractors, level. Skanska’s policies are mandatory documents on core operating suppliers, consultants, intermediaries and agents. The Supplier rules of the Group, addressing risks, goals and where corporate Code of Conduct is included in agreements with these parties as governance is needed. In addition to the Board’s Procedural Rules, guidance on expectations of them and on what they can expect and Skanska’s Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct, from Skanska. The Supplier Code covers topics such as fair Skanska’s Group policies include: working conditions; discriminations and harassments; anticorruption and anti-bribery; and fair competition. • Finance Policy • Anti-Corruption Policy Skanska’s Code of Conduct Hotline provides a mechanism for • IT Policy • Enterprise Risk Management employees, suppliers’ employees and other third parties to anony• Claims Management Policy Policy mously report on breaches or suspected breaches of the Skanska’s • General Group Policy • Human Resources Policy Code of Conduct. The hotline is managed by an independent • Insider Policy • Health and Safety Policy third-party service provider. • Personal Data Protection • Environmental Policy Policy • Information Policy Group standards or Group procedures are more detailed requirements, actions or operations necessary in order to meet the policy’s objectives. Group guidelines are recommendation documents. A newly established group function, Assurance and Control, will support business units to implement the new framework and follow up to assure compliance. Group Policies Core mandatory operating rules of the Group Group Standards or Group Procedures More detailed requirements, actions or operations necessary in order to meet the policy objectives Group Guidelines A non-binding document with recommendations 64 Corporate governance report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Internal control which issues a recommendation. The final decision on tenders, This description includes the most important elements of the investments or divestments above the threshold is made by the company’s internal control and risk management systems in conSkanska Tender Board which consists of the Group Leadership nection with financial reporting. Team and in certain cases, by the Project Review Committee. The company considers the greatest enterprise risks that the Control environment Group faces to be the following: The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that Skanska has effective and adequate risk management and internal control. • Loss or lack of key employees The purpose is to provide a reasonable assurance that the opera• Loss making projects or investments tions are run appropriately and efficiently, that external report• Ethical breaches ing is reliable and that laws and internal rules are complied with. • Lack of control of business unit performance The Board’s Procedural Rules ensure a clear division of roles and • Accidents with multiple fatalities responsibilities for the purpose of ensuring effective management • Macro-financial instability of business risks. The Board and the Group Leadership Team has also adopted a number of fundamental rules of importance A more detailed description of the risks and how they are for internal control work, such as the company’s Enterprise Risk managed is found on pages 20-24. Management Policy and the Governance Procedure. The Group Leadership Team reports regularly to the Board according to Information and communication established routines. The Audit Committee also presents reports Significant accounting principles, manuals and other documents on its work. The Group Leadership Team is responsible for the system of importance in financial reporting are updated and information of internal controls required to manage material operational risks. on them is communicated regularly. There are several information This includes a clear decision making structure and the Group channels to the Group Leadership Team and the Board for important framework of policies, standards/procedures and guidelines. information. For its external communication, the Group has an A new group function, Assurance and Control, has been estabInformation Policy to ensure that the company meets the existing lished to support the Group Leadership Team in monitoring regulations for providing the market with accurate information. the system of internal controls. Monitoring Risk assessment and control activities The Board continually evaluates the information provided by the Skanska has identified the material risks in its operations that Group Leadership Team and the Audit Committee. Of particular may, if not managed correctly, lead to errors in financial reportimportance is the result of the Audit Committee’s work on moniing and/or have an impact on the company’s performance results. toring the effectiveness of the Group Leadership Team’s internal The company has subsequently ensured that the Group has rules control processes. This includes ensuring that steps are taken to in place to guarantee that these risks are managed. The Group address the shortcomings revealed in internal and external audits Leader­ship Team and the group functions are responsible for and to implement the proposed actions. managing general risks relating to strategy, macroeconomics and regulatory frameworks, while the main tasks relating to Internal Audit and Compliance operational risks and opportunities are carried out at the local The group function Internal Audit is responsible for monitoring level within the business units. and evaluating risk management and internal control processes. Risks and opportunities for improvement are both greatest The work is planned in consultation with the Audit Committee during the actual execution phase of the projects, and thus the and reporting takes place directly to the Board through the Comwork focuses heavily on this phase. Since almost every project mittee. Matters relating to internal audit are also communicated is unique, risks and opportunities must be analyzed with respect on an ongoing basis to Skanska’s external auditors. In 2018 Internal to project type, location, execution phase and client. Audit focused on reviewing the risks identified relating to the Skanska uses a Group-wide procedure for identifying and mancompany’s projects, business critical processes and key corporate aging risks associated with construction contracts, projects and functions. A total of some 117 audits were conducted during the investments. A specialized group unit, the Skanska Risk Team, year within all business units. There was a particular focus on the examines and analyzes projects and investments above a certain business operations in the USA and central Europe. The audits size. The proposals are then processed by the Skanska Risk Team, were performed in accordance with a uniform audit method. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Corporate governance report 65 Construction A growing commitment to education and research Life Sciences Building, Seattle, USA With more students majoring in biology and an ambitious research program, the University of Washington’s Biology Department needed a new home. They sought an open, flexible and sophisticated building to progress learning, teaching and research about the living world. Skanska leveraged the Group’s expertise with research facilities and green buildings to deliver this transformational facility, continuing a 20-year partnership with the university. The Group was key to creating solutions that support the university’s sustainability initiatives while helping lower operating costs. For example, a unique installation of 496 vertical photovoltaic glass fins on the facade shades the interior while producing electricity to light four floors. Also, a common way of purifying water for laboratory use typically wastes much still-clean water. However, this building re-uses that “waste” water to irrigate plants in the greenhouse. 66 Board of Directors / Report of Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Board of Directors Hans Biörck Pär Boman Nina Linander Position Chairman Board member Board member Born Sweden, 1951 Sweden, 1961 Sweden, 1959 Elected 2016 2015 2014 Shareholding 25,000 B shares 1,000 B shares 3,000 B shares in Skanska, 2,600 B shares related December 31, 2018 persons Other Board – Chairman Trelleborg AB, –C  hairman, – Board member Telia Company AB assignments – Board member, Handelsbanken AB – Chairman, Awa Holding AB, Handelsbanken AB – Chairman, Essity AB – Board member, AB Industri­värden – Chairman, Svenska – Board member, Castellum AB – Board member, OneMed AB Cellulosa Aktiebolag, SCA – Vice Chairman, AB Industrivärden Education –Master of Science in Business and – Degree in engineering – MBA, IMEDE, Switzerland Economics, Stockholm School of and in economics – Master of Science in Business Economics and Economics, Stockholm School of Economics Work – Chief Financial Officer, – President and CEO, – Head of Product Area experience Skanska AB Handelsbanken AB Electricity, Vattenfall AB – Chief Financial Officer, – Senior Vice President, Autoliv AB Head of Staff Unit Finance, – Chief Financial Officer, AB Electrolux Esselte AB –P artner, Stanton Chase International AB Dependency relationship – Independent in relation – Independent in relation – Independent in relation in accordance with to company and company to company and company to company and company Code of Corporate management management management Governance – Independent in relation – Dependent in relation –D  ependent in relation to major shareholders to major shareholders to major shareholders Board members and deputies appointed by the trade unions Ola Fält Richard Hörstedt Pär-Olow Johansson Born: Gävle, 1966 Born: Helsingborg, 1963 Born: Stockholm, 1954 Skanska Industrial Solutions; Region Hus Syd Region Hus Stockholm Nord SEKO, appointed 2018 Swedish Building Workers’ Byggnads, appointed 2014 Board member Union, appointed 2007 Deputy Board member Board member Shareholding in Skanska Shareholding in Skanska 1,169 B-shares Shareholding in Skanska 4,304 B-shares 0 shares Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of Directors / Board of Directors 67 Fredrik Lundberg Catherine Marcus Jayne McGivern Charlotte Strömberg Board member Board member Board member Board member Sweden, 1951 USA, 1965 United Kingdom, 1960 Sweden, 1959 2011 2017 2015 2010 6,032,000 A-shares and 14,050,000 0 shares 0 shares 7,000 B shares B-shares through 900 B shares related person L E Lundbergföretagen AB (publ) 5,376 A-shares and 2,100,000 B-shares privately – Chairman, AB Industrivärden, – NCREIF PREA Reporting – Senior Advisor to Madison Square – Chairman, Castellum AB – Chairman, Holmen AB Standards Board (Private) Garden plc on Development and – Board member, – Chairman, Hufvudstaden AB Construction Clas Ohlson AB – Vice Chairman, – Chairman, Brick By Brick – Board member, Sofina S.A. Handelsbanken AB – Member, The Swedish – Board member, L E Lundberg­ Securities Council företagen AB – Board member, Kinnevik AB – M.Sc. Engineering, Royal Institute – M.S., Real Estate Investment and – Harrogate Ladies College – MBA, Stockholm School of Technology, Stockholm Development, New York University – Fellow of the Royal Institution of Economics – MBA, Stockholm School of – B.S.E. Real Estate Finance and of Chartered Surveyors Economics Entrepreneurial Management, – Dr. (Econ.) h.c., Stockholm Wharton School, University School of Economics of Pennsylvania – Dr. (Eng.) h.c., Linköping University – President and CEO, – Global Chief Operating – Red Grouse Properties – Senior Project and Account L E Lundbergföretagen AB Office, PGIM Real Estate – Chief Executive Officer, Manager, Alfred Berg, – MBL Life Assurance Multiplex plc (Europe) ABN AMRO, Stockholm Corporation – Managing Director UK, – Head of Investment – T he Related Companies Anschutz Entertainment Group Banking, – Integrated Resources – Group Development Director, Carnegie Investment Bank MWB Group Holdings plc, – President, Jones Lang LaSalle Norden – D ivisional Managing Director, Redrow plc. – Independent in relation – Independent in relation – Independent in relation – Independent in relation to company and company to company and company to company and company to company and company management management management management – Dependent in relation – Independent in relation – Independent in relation – Independent in relation to major shareholders to major shareholders to major shareholders to major shareholders Anders Rättgård Yvonne Stenman Auditors Born: Holmestad, 1961 Born: Stockholm, 1959 Ernst & Young AB Region Hus Göteborg Region Hus stockholm Auditor in charge Unionen, appointed 2017 Nord since 2016: Deputy Board member Ledarna, 2018 Hamish Mabon, Board member Stockholm, Shareholding in Skanska born 1965. 5,931 shares Shareholding in Skanska Authorized public 0 B-shares accountant. 68 Group Leadership Team / Report of Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Group Leadership Team Anders Danielsson Caroline Fellenius-Omnell Richard Kennedy Position President and Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President since January 17, 2018 General Counsel, (since January 17, 2018) (since 2017) Responsible for business units/ Responsible for Core Corporate Reponsible for business units Core Corporate Function Function/ Group Function – Skanska USA Building – Skanska Finland – Legal – Skanska USA Civil – Skanska Norway – A ssurance and Control – Skanska Sweden – Skanska Czech Republic and Slovakia – Skanska Poland – Skanska UK – Communications Born 1966 1968 1966 Joined 1991 2017 2004 Skanska in Shareholding 106,232 B-shares 4,080 B-shares 38,798 B-shares in Skanska, December 31, 2018 Board – – Board member, Aktiemarknads­ – ACE Mentor Program, NY, USA assignments bolagens förening (AMBF) – Building Trades Employers Association, NY, USA Education – M.Sc. Engineering, Royal Institute – Master of Laws, – Bachelor of Arts, Rutgers College, of Technology, Stockholm Stockholm University Rutgers University – Advanced Management – Master of Laws, – Juris Doctor, Seton Hall University Program, Harvard, College of Europe, Brügge, School of Law Boston, MA, USA Belgium – Master of Laws, London School of Economics and Political Science Work – E xecutive Vice President, – Group General Counsel, Tele2 AB – President and CEO, experience Skanska AB – Group General Counsel, Sidel Skanska USA Building – President, Skanska Sweden – General Counsel Europe, – Chief Operating Officer, – President, Skanska Norway Tetra Pak AB Skanska USA Building – Corporate Counsel, – General Counsel, AB Electrolux Skanska USA Building Presidents of Gunnar Hagman Skanska Sweden Business Units Ståle Rød Skanska Norway Tuomas Särkilahti Skanska Finland Magnus Persson Skanska Poland Michal Jurka Skanska Czech Republic and Slovakia Greg Craig Skanska UK Paul Hewins Skanska USA Building Don Fusco Skanska USA Civil Jonas Spangenberg BoKlok Housing Björn Matsson Skanska Residential Development Europe Jan Odelstam Skanska Commercial Property Development Nordic Katarzyna Zawodna Skanska Commercial Property Development Europe Robert Ward Skanska Commercial Property Development USA Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of Directors / Group Leadership Team 69 Claes Larsson Kirsi Mettälä Magnus Persson Executive Vice President Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, (since 2006) Human Resources Chief Financial Officer (since January 17, 2018) (since February 2, 2018) Responsible for business units Responsible for Core Corporate Responsible for Core Corporate – Skanska Commercial Property Function/Group Function Function/Group Functions Development Nordic – Human Resources – Reporting and Accounting – Skanska Commercial Property – Sustainability – Financial Support and Analysis Development Europe – Skanska Financial Services – Skanska Commercial Property – Investor Relations Development USA – I T – Residential Development Europe – Internal Audit and Compliance – BoKlok Housing – Asset Management 1965 1963 1976 1990 1994 2006 172,489 B-shares 18,434 B-shares 10,057 B-shares – Chairman , Handelsbanken’s – – regional bank board of directors, western ­Sweden – M.Sc. Engineering, Chalmers – Bachelor of Business Administration, – Ph.D. in Business Economics, University of Technology, Haaga-Helia University of Applied Uppsala University Gothenburg Sciences – Master of Science in Business – MBA, Chalmers University – eMBA, Aalto Executive Education Economics, Uppsala University of Technology and Göteborg University – President, Skanska – Senior Vice President, HR and – Chief Financial Officer, Commercial Property Communications Skanska Finland Skanska Sweden Development Nordic – Senior Vice President, HR develop– Senior Vice President, – President, Skanska ment, BU Skanska Finland Investor Relations, Skanska AB Fastigheter Göteborg – HRD manager, Skanska Finland – Group Manager, Corporate Finance, – HR specialist, Skanska Finland Skanska AB – Head of Research & Analysis, Skanska Financial Services Senior Vice Presidents, Katarina Bylund Reporting and Accounting Core Corporate Functions/ Karolina Cederhage Communications Group Functions Anders Göransson Internal Audit and Compliance Lena Hök Sustainability Mark Lemon Assurance and Control André Löfgren Investor Relations Therese Tegner Skanska Financial Services Jarosław Urbańczyk Information Technology (IT) Caroline Walméus Financial Support and Analysis 70 Sustainability report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability report Driven by its values – Care for Life, Act Ethically and Transparently, Be Better Together and Commit to Customers – Skanska helps create sustainable futures for customers, communities and employees. This is integral to the Group’s purpose of building for a better society, as well as delivering value for shareholders. 100% Skanska supports the United Nations’ 17 The Code of Conduct training required of Sustainable Development Goals. These are employees is conducted continuously. All new closely linked to the Group’s five sustainemployees are to be trained on the Code within ability focus areas Health and Safety, Ethics, their first month of employment. In 2018, this was Green, Community Investment and achieved with 93 percent of newly hired employees. achievement of Code Diversity and Inclusion. All current employees are to take part in Code of Conduct training. Skanska´s Code of Conduct connects all training every other year. In 2018, 100 percent of parts of the Group with Skanska’s values, this target was achieved. This is an important part strengthening the business. The Code of of raising awareness and constantly reminding Conduct defines how all Skanska employees of Skanska's values. The training is held in person work and interact everyday with each other, and is complemented in all business units by customers and other stakeholders. practical dilemma discussions. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Sustainability report 71 Materiality assessment ability, but also clearly expect Skanska to The most important stakeholder groups are: Skanska´s sustainability report and sustainenhance the Group’s leading position. ■■ Shareholders/investors/banks ability focus areas are based on an assessAdvancing further within sustainability ■■ Customers ment of the importance of the Group’s is aligned with Skanska’s purpose – We ■■ Suppliers/subcontractors impact on sustainability topics according build for a better society – and the Group’s ■■ Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to key external and internal stakeholders. ambition to be a leader in delivering sus■■ Employees Skanska’s most material sustainability tainable solutions to customers. The UN ■■ Management areas were determined during 2018 through Sustainable Development Goals further More information about the stakeholder a structured materiality assessment. direct the Skanska’s efforts to make the dialogue is presented on page 90 (SustainThe assessment shows that stakeholders most significant positive contributions to ability governance). consider Skanska to be a leader in sustainsociety. Materiality assessment Crucial Crucial 7 Anti-competitive behavior Bribery and corruption Through the materiality Responsible supply chain Safe and healthy assessment, the sustainSustainable materials work environment ability topics presented in the blue shaded area Impact on climate change were identified as the Fair and decent employment Importance to Stakeholders Important Importance to 6 Energy efficiency most material to Skanska’s Sustainable industry Diversity, external and internal stake­ Water management inclusiveness and holders. non-discrimination Impact on biodiversity Waste management 5 Skanska’s stakeholders Training of employees Contribution to society 4 Important Skanska’s impact on sustainability topics Crucial 4 3 5 6 7 3 Skanska’s impact on sustainability topics Social conditions and personnel Ethics Environment Human rights Sustainable industry Important Management Crucial Crucial 7 72 Sustainability report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Global commitments International Labor Organization. Skanska Recognition Skanska has been a signatory of the United also follows the guiding policies of TransSkanska was during 2018, awarded by UniverNations’ Global Compact since 2001, parency International and applies the Presity of Lund and financial newspaper Dagens and continues to support the UN Global cuationary Principle. Industri as one of the most sustainable corCompact’s Ten Principles, which relate Furthermore, Skanska is an active parporations on the Nordic Nasdaq and winner to human rights, labor, environment and ticipant in other international sustainabilof the Capital Goods category. Sustainabilityanti-corruption. This sustainability report ity initiatives, including the United Nations related recognition received by Skanska constitutes Skanska’s Communication on Global Compact Network, International during 2018 also include: Progress (COP) and shows how the Group Chambers of Commerce; World Green has continued to implement the Ten PrinBuilding Council, World Business Council ■■ OMX Stockholm 30 ESG Responsible Index ciples during 2018. for Sustainable Development, International ■■ MSCI AAA Skanska supports the rights of all people Chemical Secretariat (ChemSec) and ■■ CDP Climate Change A– as described in the Universal Declaration Catalyst, which promotes women in the of Human Rights adopted by the United workforce. Nations, and in the conventions of the Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Sustainability report 73 Ethics and anti-corruption During 2017, all business units took part in each other, with support by the Group Corruption and ethical breaches make longan updated, in-depth process for assessing Headquarter's Ethics function. lasting economic growth more challenging ethical risks. About 500 employees each The risk assessments and assurance to attain, increase inequality and hinder identified key ethical risks in their respecreviews form a continuous two-year process. human rights. Skanska continuously works tive business unit. The outcomes of this For information about risks, see pages to advance ethics and anti-corruption. The risk assessment – conducted every other 20-24. Group reviews the Code of Conduct every year – form the basis for the ethics work in year, and in 2018 the Code was updated to each business unit, and are implemented Code of Conduct hotline include procedures for properly abiding by as practical actions in each unit’s business Skanska’s Code of Conduct Hotline allows international sanctions regulations and supplan. These results are aggregated on Group employees and those external to the Group ported by the Sanctions Procedure. level, where they are used to create prevento anonymously report suspected breaches tive initiatives. of the Code of Conduct. This hotline is Understanding and guarding In 2018, an ethics assurance review foloperated by a third party, and is an alteragainst ethical risks lowed up on the implementation of meanative to internal reporting possibilities. In Skanska’s annual risk survey of top mansures to mitigate the top ethical risks identiCases reported to the hotline are managed agers, corruption and bribery are identified fied by each business unit the prior year. by the Group Headquarter's Ethics function as top risks to the Group. A lot of work is Such mitigation measures involve procureand reported to the Skanska Headquarter's undertaken to mitigate these risks. This ment processes; training and highlighting Ethics Committee. Cases are resolved in is also reflected in the Code of Conduct local policies involving conflicts of interest; collaboration with business units ethics Program which sets the structure on how and defining and implementing control committees. all business units works with ethics. One processes, such as involving due diligence Failure to comply with the Code of Conimportant part of the program is the ethics of third parties. To share experiences, this duct results in disciplinary action up to and risks assessment. was done by the business units reviewing including termination of employment. An employee who violates anti-corruption or other relevant laws may also be referred to law enforcement authorities for possible criminal prosecution. During 2018 disciplinary actions were taken. Ongoing major ethics cases Skanska´s subsidiaries in Brazil, Argentina and Finland are involved in legal proceedings related to corruption allegations. There is also ongoing cartel investigations in Brazil. Details on these proceedings are provided in Note 33 to the Annual and Sustainability Report. In July 2014, and prior to the start of the Brazilian proceedings, Skanska decided to exit the Latin American market, following several years of financial losses. Skanska has had no ongoing projects in Latin America since March 2016. 74 Sustainability report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Responsible supply chain reports of potential breaches of supply chain Skanska has a large supply chain consisting working conditions, launching investigations One of the world’s biggest of suppliers of materials and products, along immediately. All business units performed safety events with contractors performing work on project specific audits during 2018 to follow up on Since 2005, Skanska has run sites. About 90,000 suppliers work with possible risks of ethical breaches. Safety Week, a week that Skanska each year. The construction industry The Skanska Supplier Code of Conduct is emphasizes the essential role is mainly local or regional and the contraccontractually included in all agreements with of safety in living the Skanska tors stretch from large organizations to onesuppliers and contractors. New suppliers are values of Care for Life, Be Betperson businesses. trained on the Supplier Code of Conduct. Due ter Together and Act Ethically Skanska supports recognized global diligence processes are utilized for suppliers, and Transparently. It involves human rights and fair working conditions for intermediaries, joint venture partners, sellers trainings and activities for people working on or in the Group’s projects, of land and buyers of real assets. The due Group employees, subcontracworkplaces and supply chain. Skanska has diligence process covers areas such as supply tor employees and customers zero tolerance for any form of human trafchain, environment, safety, anti-corruption, and other partners. Over the ficking or child, forced or compulsory labor, competition law and transparency regarding last five years, Skanska has including such practices as the unlawful or owners and financing, as well as sanctions. extended the boundaries of illegitimate withholding of wages. Skanska is conducting controls of certain supSafety Week even further, The Group’s business processes include pliers based on a risk-based approach. Potenand it is now an industry event measures to support and drive global human tial consequences when violating the Supplier in the USA, Poland, Finland rights standards, local laws and the Skanska Code of Conduct may include but are not and the UK. Through this, the Code of Conduct. These include routines to limited to contract termination. This occurred industry becomes safer and screen subcontractors and subcontractors´ during 2018. stronger, together. employees. Skanska takes very seriously any Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Sustainability report 75 Health and safety Ensuring people’s health and safety is an ongoing challenge for the construction industry. Skanska aspires to achieve an injury-free environment for all employees and workers, including subcontractors, and anyone who may be affected by our work. This commitment goes beyond safety to also include responsibility for those people’s health and well-being. This includes reducing long-term health-hazards, such as noise, dust and poor ergonomics, as well as addressing stress and mental health. Driving higher standards Skanska´s Group Health and Safety Standards are more stringent than local reguSafety round at Commercial lations in several countries. These apply Development project Mill Park, across Skanska and are important to raising Budapest, Hungary. the safety performance of the Group and the supply chain. The Health and Safety Standards cover aspects that include training, incident management, risk assessment and instructions about personal protective equipment. The Group continuously strives for its own employees, with subcontractors system for health and safety, such as for higher industry standards by involving expected to do the same for their employees. OHSAS 18001. This is already achieved by competitors and partners. In some business units, there is an internal 90 percent of Skanska, and is key to driving Each business unit undertakes an annual occupational health service and in others, a high level of safety performance across review of performance against plan. This this is contracted in. the Group. review includes identifying risks, hazards The Group Health and Safety Policy Skanska´s Health and Safety Road Map and control measures. Each business unit states that in 2019, all business units must guides and supports the Group’s business also manages occupational health programs have an externally certified management by advancing health, safety and well-being. Encouraging mental health, program. This has led to such initiatives In 2018, workshops were launched within Skanska and beyond as having 315 mental health ambassato share Skanska UK’s journey around Skanska is increasing the Group’s focus dors to help guide other employees on mental well-being with supply chain on mental health as an important mental health issues, and mental health partners. Learnings from this can be aspect of employee well-being, as awareness days. Also by 2020, all line used to help supply chain partners cremental health affects safety, health and managers are to have mental health ate their own program or enhance their people’s long-term performance. In the training. An aim is to make it as natural current offering. More than 100 people UK, Skanska has been a leader on this to talk about mental health as it is to attended these sessions in 2018, repretopic, since 2015 having a mental health discuss any other illness. senting both small and large companies. 76 Sustainability report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 This road map focuses on culture, comMuch more needs to be done to eliminate to ensure that every work activity was munication, competence, control systems and manage the risks that traditionally being conducted safely. Not until all safety and the involvement of contractors. The have been part of construction. Some of the procedures were ensured accurate did sites Group strives to improve health and safety greatest risks on construction sites involve re-open and activities resume. knowledge and skills, and openness and falls; lifting and handling; contact with transparency are valued to drive continumaterials, objects or vehicles; and electriSafety performance ous improvement. cal discharge. Skanska focuses on learning Safety performance is measured using both from every serious accident to improve the leading and lagging indicators. The lagging Furthering a caring and learning culture systems, organization and leadership skills indicators are reported on Group level, and A highly engaged, informed and trusting to avoid future accidents. After a fatality include both Skanska employees and subworkforce enhances health, safety and there is a Global Safety Stand Down, in contractors working on sites. well-being. As part of developing people, which the entire organization pauses to pay In 2018, the lost-time accident rate Skanska’s health and safety educational respect to the deceased and share learnings. (LTAR) was 3.5 (3.4). There were 712 (730) programs include both values and proceLearnings from accidents are used to lost-time injuries, in which people were not dures. The cultural change program Injurydevelop the Group’s standards and guidavailable to work their next shifts, and 1,028 7Free Environment (IFE) has been running ance, which are then adopted by each busi(1,029) injuries of all types. It is important 6for 16 years and is adopted by more than ness unit. The heads of health and safety to also track small and medium injuries to 570 percent of Skanska´s 4,4 business. There is functions for each business unit conduct learn about the root cause. 5,1 4,2 4 also business unit-specific health 3,5 and 3,5 safety peer reviews to 3,5 improve health and safety During the last three years, nine of the 3,3 3,3 3,4 management 3,9 system training. performance. 2,8 11 fatalities that occurred on Skanska proj3 During 2018, Skanska developed a health Analyses of failures to handle health and ect sites involved subcontractor employees. 2and safety program called Commit to safety risks are important for preventive Subcontractors perform most of the work 1Action that specifically supports leaders. work and mitigation measures. For examdirectly constructing Skanska´s projects, 0This initiative aims to build the competence ple, in 2018 after three fatalities occurred which is why Skanska integrates them into 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 of teams within the business units to related to Skanska Poland’s operations, the Group’s health and safety culture, proenhance performance. The first pilot was all 150 ongoing construction projects and cesses and standards. performed in Sweden. 30 facilities within the unit were stopped Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR), 2008–20181 Fatalities, 2008-2018 Number of employees lost-time accidents multiplied by 1,000,000 hours Number of fatalities on Skanska project sites, inclusive of Skanska employees divided by total labor hours. Inclusive of Skanska employees and subcontractor and subcontractor employees working on Skanska jobsites. employees working on Skanska jobsites. Number 7 14 6 12 12 5 4.4 10 5.1 4.2 4 3.5 3.5 3.5 8 9 9 3.3 3.3 3.4 8 3.9 2.8 3 6 2 4 5 5 1 2 3 3 3 3 2 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1 Reporting is based on the requirements in Skanska Safety Metrics Reporting Procedure, which outlines definitions of data to be reported. National regulation and conditions are taken into account. Antal 12 12 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Sustainability report 77 Green management system Green revenue Green market value Skanska’s environmental commitment Measured as percentage of total Construction Measured as percentage of Commercial Property relates to impacts of the Group’s operarevenue that is Green and Deep Green, according Development market value from Green and tions and processes, and the long-term to the Skanska Color Palette™. Deep Green projects, according to the Skanska Color Palette™. environmental performance of buildings and infrastructure delivered by the Group. In keeping with the Care for Life value, Skanska promotes green solutions and seeks to conduct operations in green ways. Through the Group’s Journey to Deep Green™, Skanska aspires to go beyond 46 93 compliance and push toward future-proof projects: projects intended to accommodate future environmental demands and conditions. The network of heads of green functions, Green Leadership Group, is a strategic group for driving green development within Skanska. Skanska Color Palette™ Skanska Color Palette™ Since 2009, the Skanska Color Palette™ has been the core of Skanska’s environmental Vanilla Green Deep Green Compliance Beyond Compliance Future Proof management system. It defines Skanska's vision of Green and Deep Green projects Energy Net zero according to four priority areas: energy, Primary Energy carbon, materials and water. Green refers to when construction processes and/or Carbon Near Zero Carbon building and infrastructure performance Construction are beyond compliance on several defined indicators. The Vanilla level includes Materials Zero compliance with ISO 14001. Deep Green Unsustainable projects have a zero or near-zero environmental impact, ensuring that the project is Materials future-proof. The Color Palette™ is adapted Zero Hazardous to different markets as conditions, such as Materials regulations, vary between countries. Zero Waste The Skanska Color Palette™ sets the strategic green direction for projects and is Water Net Zero Water the basis for the Group’s definition of green revenue and market value from green projects. The Skanska Color Palette™ is a tool to measure and strategically guide green activities. 78 Sustainability report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Reduced impact on climate change The construction industry and the built environment are recognized as large contributors to global warming. Greenhouse gas emissions relating to the construction industry involve the extraction, manufacture and transport of large quantities of materials, as well as construction activities. Furthermore, buildings and civil infrastructure have environmental impacts lasting for decades through their final use and operation. Skanska has committed to the Paris Solar panels, Heimdal School, Agreement and aims to reduce greenhouse Trondheim, Norway. gas emissions from the Group’s operations and provide sustainable solutions to help customers, communities and other stakeholders fulfill their climate ambitions. An innovative way Skanska is supporting energy sources, such as solar panels and geoSkanska's ambition is to significantly reduce advanced energy efficient buildings is the thermal energy. greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Group’s partnership in Norwegian PowAnother example of advancing with High increases in national and regional erhouse, a collaboration of five companies renewable energy is an initiative called “New regulations and demands on energy effidedicated to making “energy positive” renewable energy,” which was established by ciency and reductions in carbon and other buildings, which produce more energy than Skanska Commercial Development Nordic to emissions are seen in Skanska’s markets. they consume. Energy positive buildings increase the supply of electricity generated to Skanska, together with Columbia Uniresult from fusing highly efficient archithe power grid from renewable sources. Rather versity in New York City, has analyzed tecture and engineering with renewable than buying green power already being the demand for sustainable buildings and infrastructure projects across the USA. Focus areas in the study are green and Total energy usage 1 safety, including health and well-being. MWh 2018 2017 2016 2015 The study continues to be used to further Fuel usage (non-renewable) 1,021,815 1,023,242 1,121,646 1,278,787 guide Skanska’s efforts within US markets Fuel usage (renewable) 69,621 68,094 54,482 271 to enhance sustainability business opporElectricity usage 241,495 272,979 263,246 259,479 tunities. Non-renewable 114,531 154 ,363 143,037 104,502 Energy efficiency Renewable 126,964 118,616 120,209 154,977 Within energy, Skanska focuses on what the District heating usage 10,499 11,740 3,721 573 Group can directly control and influence. District cooling usage 623 1,499 2,597 196 Skanska aims to improve energy efficiency Total energy usage 1,344,054 2 1,377,555 1,445,692 1,539,306 in both construction operations and within Energy intensity 3 7.88 8.57 9.55 9.94 the use of buildings and infrastructure. In addition, fossil fuels are increasingly sub1A  ctivity data is based on invoiced data, real-time meters, models and estimates or data as reported by suppliers. Energy conversions are done using publically available conversion factors and from open databases like stituted with renewable energy. However, International Energy Agency (IEA). this is challenging in some of Skanska´s 2 E nergy reduction from year 2017 is 33,502 MWh or 2.43 percent. markets. 3 Total energy MWh/MSEK revenue, according to segment reporting. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Sustainability report 79 produced to meet government quotas, this or aiming to be. The reductions in annual Protocol. A limited assurance engagement involves committing to long-term agreeenergy usage for those divested properties of the Skanska carbon emission inventory ments to purchase electricity generated by stands at 97.6 TJ, representing 38 percent has been undertaken by Skanska’s external off-site solar facilities developed specifically reduction. 1 auditors, EY. More information is on for these agreements. These commitments pages 202-203. for Skanska project developments grow the Greenhouse gas emissions renewable energy supply. Skanska´s ambition to minimize greenhouse ■■ Scope 1 emissions include direct emisEnergy usage throughout the value chain gas emissions often leads to improving sions that occur from sources owned or is challenging to capture. There is an ongoefficiency in the Group´s operations, thus controlled by Skanska, such as boilers, ing effort to better capture this data. About helping lower costs. For example, being able furnaces and vehicles. one third of Skanska´s business report to safely re-use a foundation, rather than ■■ Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from this data. The intention is to increase this demolishing it and building a new, requires the generation of electricity, heating and reporting in coming years. The estimations less equipment, fuel, and consumes less cooling purchased and consumed by of energy usage are based on green house material, all leading to reduced emissions Skanska. Scope 2 emissions occur at the gas emission reporting, see page 80. and reduced costs. facility where the electricity, heat and The Commercial Development business Since 2009, Skanska's external greenhouse cooling is generated. units in Europe and Nordics divested 11 gas reporting has covered all business units. ■■ Scope 3 includes indirect greenhouse gas properties during 2018, all of them LEED Greenhouse gas emissions are measured in emissions from sources not owned or certified at Gold or the top Platinum level, accordance with the Greenhouse Gas directly controlled by the organization. Together with Microsoft, improving data. This results in different outcomes materials. Also, it is expected to incentransparency on embodied carbon depending on the tool used and no tivize manufacturers to produce lowTo reduce carbon emissions from buildclear path to benchmarking embodied carbon products. ings and infrastructure, Skanska and carbon as an industry. Already, Microsoft is the first large other green building leaders are increasTo improve this situation, Skanska corporate pilot user of EC3, incorporatingly focusing on embodied carbon, in 2018 created and seed funded the ing it in the modernization of its 72-acre referring to carbon dioxide emitted Embodied Carbon (EC3). EC3 is an Redmon campus near Seattle, USA. during the manufacture, transportation open-source database of construction “This could have a substantial impact and assembly of products and materials material information based on envion reducing carbon emissions in our used during construction. Embodied ronmental product declaration (EPD) remodel and eventually the entire built carbon is a significant source of greendata. EC3 with data on about 10,000 environment,” Microsoft said of EC3 in a house gas emissions, yet it’s challengmaterials will be made free and publicly post on the company’s blog. EC3 will be ing to make appropriate decisions on available in 2019. This increased availmanaged by the University of Washinghow to best manage it. For instance, ability of data will improve awareness ton’s Carbon Leadership Forum, with within the US market existing embodied about the impacts of embodied carbon additional funding support from across carbon calculators are not necessarand will help drive carbon reductions the building sector. ily transparent or aligned with their by enabling more informed choices of 1 T his calculation is made according to the building performance rating method in Appendix G of ASHRAE Standard 90.1-2007, by comparing annual consumption of energy from the two models, proposed and baseline, in order to determine the energy efficiency of current projects. 80 Sustainability report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 During 2018 Skanska started to report scope including air travel, car travel and train Skanska Sweden is one among several busi3 data. About one third of the business – travel, employee commuting including fuels ness units conducting climate calculations that Skanska Sweden and Skanska UK – reported used for commuting and upstream transinvolve obtaining information about products’ scope 3 and had those figures assured by EY. portation and distribution including fuels carbon footprints during their life cycles. In the This amounts to 474,000 tonnes of carbon purchased by subcontractor. early design phase, a broad perspective, including dioxide equivalent (CO2e) and consists of Calculations done in analyzing procurethe selection of materials and construction metha selection of the GHG Protocols 15 scope ment data show that including the supply ods, can make projects carbon efficient both dur3 categories. Categories included are purchain in greenhouse gas assessments can ing construction and throughout their life cycle. chased goods and services including materiincrease the potential impact by several During 2018, Skanska Sweden performed more als as cement, concrete, steel, asphalt, bitutimes as much compared to when only than 400 individual life cycle climate calculations men, sand, gravel and stone, business travel assessing Skanska's own operations. That using Skanska´s own developed tool. result highlights the importance of working In 2018, Skanska achieved Leadership level A– with customers choice of design and matein the CDP Climate Change rating. This indicates rials in order to impact supply chain emisSkanska has implemented actions to effectively Making solar power sions, work that provides key opportunities manage environmental impacts related to clia standard feature for innovative partnerships. mate change. BoKlok, the stylish-yet-affordable housing concept owned by Skanska and IKEA, is one of the Direct (scope 1) and indirect (scope 2) emissions (CO2e) first large residential developer Tonnes CO2e 2018 2017 2016 2015 in Sweden to make a large-scale Scope 1 275,173 275,537 312,800 330,758 commitment to solar power. Beginning in 2019, BoKlok – SwedLocation-based method 36,824 55,464 52,704 49,207 Scope 2 ish for Live Smart – is equipping Marketbased method 57,187 71,389 73,300 – all of its apartment projects in Greenhouse gas emission intensity 1 1.95 2.16 2.55 – Sweden with photovoltaic solar 2 Skanska Sweden and Outside of scope panels on the roof, bringing this Skanska UK 7,002 renewable energy source to about 1 S cope 1 and 2 marketbased/MSEK Revenue, according to segment reporting. 1,000 homes annually. This will 2O  utside of scopes is the direct carbon dioxide (CO2) impact of burning biomass and biofuels. help lower residents’ energy costs and carbon emissions. In 2019, about 2,800 square meters of solar panels will be Reporting principles installed, with their operation Skanska calculates and reports our greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. Scope 2 emissions are calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance applying expected to decrease the carbon the market based and location based methods. emissions. Furthermore, the solar Activity data is based on invoiced data, real-time meters, models, assumptions and estimates or data as repanels will improve the value BoKported by suppliers. Energy conversions are done using publically available conversion factors and emission faclok provides to customers, as many tors are sourced from open databases like International Energy Agency, IEA (2018), DEFRA (2018) and Reliable Disclosure Systems for Europe, RE-DISS(2016). Greenhouse gases included in the reported carbon inventory are homebuyers prefer green features. carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). Biogenic emissions of CO2 from the combustion of “We want to make it easy for cusbiofuel and biomass are reported separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions as Outside of scope. tomers to live affordably and susThe GWP's used in the calculation of CO2e are based on the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) over tainably,” says Jonas Spangenberg, a 100-year period. Skanska applies the financial control approach. Emissions data is subject to inherent BoKlok CEO. uncertainties due to incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emission factors and uncertainties in measurement methods and resulting effects on measurements and estimations. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Sustainability report 81 Reduced waste and efficient On all projects, Skanska commonly use of resources includes subcontractor waste in the reportRenewing roads with Resource efficiency, reduced and circular ing. In those markets where the common less carbon emissions use of materials, and minimized waste are industry practice is to exclude waste from Worn-out asphalt pavement connected to operational efficiency and subcontractors in such reporting, Skanska removed from Sweden’s roads has decreased environmental impacts. still strives to involve subcontractors in the long been re-used in making new Since 2008, Skanska has had a target for waste minimization planning and activities. pavement, but Skanska saw posreducing waste. More than 10 years later, Materials containing hazardous substance sibilities to re-use even more to the self-generated waste that goes to landfill components ending up as waste are handled further reduce carbon emissions across the Group has declined from close according to local regulations. This is and costs. In 2018, Skanska began to 30 percent to less than 6 percent, demontracked by measuring the amount of waste commercially re-using up to strating this commitment and the systems generated from projects in the local market. 80 percent of pavement through and processes behind it. Several projects As part of achieving Deep Green projects, a process the Group developed have gone even further, aiming to generate Skanska aims to eliminate the use of unsusthat involves blending a plantzero waste, in which all waste materials are tainable materials. based oil into the manufacturing put to reuse or recycling in circular loops. process. This oil, a byproduct from the forest industry, rejuvenates the petroleum-based binder that holds the aggregates together, as the binder becomes brittle over time. This circular approach minimizes the need for new binder while maintaining road safety and quality. Together with using renewable fuels to power the asphalt plants, these methods Self-generated waste to landfill 2008 2018 1 reduce carbon emissions by up to 75 percent. % 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1T he waste disposal method has been determined on organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor. 82 Sustainability report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 As a construction and project development company, Skanska has a considerable Adapting buildings to consume less water impact on water use, both during the conWith water forecasted to be less consistently available in many places and struction phase and the end use of buildSkanska’s Deep Green ambition of buildings that collect or produce all the water ings and infrastructure. In many markets, they need each year (net zero water), Skanska’s Commercial Property Developwater is regarded as a scarce resource and ment units are working to lessen water use in buildings. is recognized as a priority area on the In the Nordic countries, efforts are centered on more efficient water fixtures Skanska Color Palette™. In 2016, Skanska and systems. In Central Europe and the USA, the focus is extended to capturing started collecting water data at the Group rain water and re-using it for flushing toilets and irrigation. Toilet flushing is level. Skanska is continually working to also accomplished by using “grey water,” which is waste water from sinks and improve the Group’s water management showers that has been chlorinated and sterilized. and reporting. For example, Skanska’s Capitol Tower in Houston, USA, incorporates a 190,000 liter tank that collects rainwater and air conditioning system condensate to use for flushing toilets and irrigation. Skanska’s Residential Development units are doing similar work. Skanska has rebuilt the Rockaway Beach Boardwalk in New York, USA, which was damaged during Hurricane Sandy in 2012. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Sustainability report 83 Green financing projects. Strong demand for those bonds pendent reviews of green bond frameworks. Through sustainable financing, such as – which are listed on Nasdaq Sustainable A key aspect of our framework is that the green bonds and loans, Skanska leverages Bond Market – demonstrated the keen environmental impact reporting is aligned the Group’s extensive green expertise and interest in sustainable financing among with the United Nations’ Sustainable Develportfolio while diversifying the investor investors. The Group’s first green bond issuopment Goals. base. This enables the Group to increase ance was in 2014. At the end of 2018, Skanska’s central investments in sustainable commercial Guiding this latest bond issuance was the debt, managed by group function and residential developments at a more updated Skanska Green Bond Framework, Skanska Financial Services, amounted to rapid pace than can be achieved solely which is aligned with the Skanska Color SEK 4.3 billion, of which 85 percent conthrough internal capital. Palette™. The framework was third-party sisted of green financing, including green In 2018, Skanska issued a second round verified and deemed strong and trustworbonds. Skanska’s ambition is to have the of green bonds, valued at SEK 1 billion, to thy by the CICERO (Center for Internamajority of its central financing from green supply financing for eligible Commercial tional Climate Research), internationally and sustainable loans and bonds. Property and Residential Development recognized as a leading provider of indeGreen financing Through green bonds, enabling more Measured as percentage of total central debt 1 that is sustainable developments Green, according to Green Bond Framework or other investor green demands. Skanska issued a second round of green bonds, valued at SEK 1 billion, in 2018 to provide financing for eligible Commercial and Residential Property Development projects. Under this framework, all projects funded by these bonds must be aiming for upper 85 levels of certification under any of these third-party systems: LEED, BREEAM, DGNB or the Nordic Swan Ecolabel (Svanen). The four Commercial Development projects that these green bonds will initially help fund all aim to exceed those green requirements by targeting the highest LEED levels, Platinum or Gold: • 2+U, Seattle, USA: 38-story office tower 1 F unding managed by group function Skanska Financial Services. • Sthlm 01, Stockholm: 27-story office tower • Epic, Malmö, Sweden: 6-story office tower • Centrum Poludnie 2, Warsaw, Poland: Two buildings, 15and six stories 84 Sustainability report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainable cities and industry of extreme weather, such as heat waves, In cooperation with citizens, local commuMore than half of the Earth’s population floods, drought and intense precipitation, nities, authorities and other stakeholders, lives in urban environments and the trend the demand for resilient solutions is rising. Skanska identifies how to address some of is that it will only increase, along with That includes buildings, transportation, society’s most important social and enviincreased sustainability requirements. Due water management and energy solutions. ronmental challenges. Some examples are: to global warming and increased frequency Exposition Phase 2 Light Rail, Los Angeles, USA, used the Envision certification system to develop a sustainable project looking beyond the needs of today. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Sustainability report 85 ■■ Developing offices and residential areas Public customers represent 60 percent of ■■ Skanska has pioneered the use of the with good access to public transportation, Skanska’s Construction revenue. Influencinternational CEEQUAL infrastructure and facilitating bicycle and electric car ing public customers to increase demands sustainability certification system in sharing pools. regarding sustainable solutions and seek Sweden, Norway and Finland. In Norway, ■■ Utilizing Skanska’s patented Deep Green added value in procurement provides great in 2018 the Storåselva power plant became Cooling technology – cooling buildings business opportunities for Skanska. Also, the first Norwegian project certified under through a unique geothermal system – by engaging in organizations in the conCEEQUAL. In Finland, the Lahti Southern on Commercial Property Development struction industry and beyond, Skanska Ring Road aims to be Finland’s first projects in the Nordics and Europe. can drive change by showing good examCEEQUAL-certified road project. ples and leadership. ■■ All Skanska Commercial Property ■■ Engaging in stakeholder dialogues and Skanska constantly aims to improve Developments must achieve at least LEED arenas for political discussions, such as construction industry standards. Skanska´s Almedalen Week in Sweden, the Shared Gold, and all Residential Developments Color Palette™ was launched in 2009, in Sweden are certified under the Nordic Value Summit in New York City and a and was a way to set the framework for roundtable on the United Nations’ SusSwan Ecolabel (Svanen) and all those in Skanska´s Journey to Deep Green and to Norway will be certified under BREEAM tainable Development Goals held at the influence customers and the industry. UN headquarters and organized in part by NOR beginning in 2020. Supporting and using third-party environthe International Chamber of Commerce mental certification systems for building ■■ The Group has committed to certifying and the UN Department of Economic and and infrastructure projects – including all Commercial Property Development Social Affairs. In such settings, Skanska Living Building Challenge, LEED, Envision, projects in Central Europe under the shows the opportunities of sustainable BREEAM and CEEQUAL – continues to WELL Building Standard, which helps development and construction. raise the bar for green construction. Exambuildings support personal health and ■■ Creating much-needed affordable, yet ples of Skanska’s leadership include: well-being. During 2018, Skanska had stylish homes in the Nordics through 17 pre-certified WELL projects, meaning ■■ Skanska has contributed expertise and BoKlok, a partnership of Skanska and that based on their design they will likely support to developing Envision, a main achieve final certification. IKEA. The market opportunities and sustainability certification system for civil sustainability aspects are highlighted in a infrastructure in the USA, now used by Stanford University case study on BoKlok, 45 government agencies. released in 2018. Driving a carbon neutral fossil free while also increasing comKey milestone include halving emisconstruction industry petitiveness. Skanska in Sweden led the sions by 2030 and reducing emissions To support Sweden’s target of climate development of the construction and 75 percent by 2040, compared to 2015 neutrality by 2045, key industries – civil engineering roadmap, which was measures. This roadmap will drive a including construction – were asked by endorsed by about 70 organizations fossil-free agenda that extends to such the Government to prepare roadmaps spanning the value chain and, in April related sectors as steel and concrete. describing how they will become 2018, presented to the Government. 86 Sustainability report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Building for resilience a large truck trailer, are delivered by sea the warming Arctic climate. Melting at the top of the world from a Skanska manufacturing plant permafrost is beginning to be another Svalbard, a Norwegian archipelago well on mainland Norway. This controlled new and serious challenge for Svalbard, within the Arctic Circle, is naturally a environment is key to ensuring highly and so to ensure the homes’ ongoing harsh place to live. In recent years the efficient production with strong focuses functionality they will be supported by environment has become even more on safety, quality and minimizing waste. steel frames driven into the earth. Previchallenging, as Svalbard’s main village The modules arrive nearly complete, ously, such deep foundations were not was hit by avalanches that destroyed inside and out, ready to be assembled necessary. many homes. In 2018 and into 2019, by crane into full houses. They are a In another aspect of resiliency in the Skanska is delivering modular homes to key part of the solution – delivered harsh climate, the homes are built to help this village quickly rebuild. with partners – to ensure these new need little maintenance and to be highly These housing modules, each the size of homes will last for at least 60 years in energy efficient. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Sustainability report 87 Community Investment In addition, design for social impact projects in Gothenburg, Sweden. Through Skanska is committed to supporting local Skanska strengthens communities through them, Skanska offered internships of at least communities by leveraging the Group’s design by utilizing holistic design solutions three months to long-term unemployed business to address local social challenges. for projects. This can involve creating intepeople in the local community. As a result, Skanska’s approach to community investgrated movement patterns to reduce segreeight out of the 11 people received permament aims to create shared value, both gation; opening shared spaces to enhance nent employment with Skanska or other social and economic, for local communitrust, health and safety; and generating companies. The rest chose to continue their ties and customers, as well as for Skanska. inclusiveness by improving accessibility for educations. According to an external audiThe Group’s three Community Investment people with disabilities. tor, doing societal cost benefit analyses of focus areas – employability, education There is a lack of systematic, comparable the results, this will produce a SEK 8 miland design for social impact – all relate to ways to measure and report economic and lion within two years. Skanska’s core business and expertise. social impacts from community investment. Increasingly, providing value to society Within employability, opportunities for However, Skanska has started to explore is a part of the public procurement process diverse groups to enter the job market are ways to measure impacts more systemin several Skanska home markets. Undercreated together with partners by providing atically. Measuring business and societal standing what criteria, societal and skills, opportunities and, when possible, impacts will be the focus of a strategic environ­mental, as well as financial return, employment. When it comes to education, research collaboration with the University the public customer value is vital to identify Skanska supports schools and other orgaof Örebro and Stockholm School of Ecobusiness opportunities. nizations by providing students with role nomics that Skanska began in 2018. models and learning opportunities to help One example of reporting economic inspire further study. value involves two Residential Development Helping small businesses succeed In the USA, Skanska’s Construction Management Building Blocks and similar programs provide training to help companies owned by women and ethnic minorities compete for business, despite the social and economic challenges they often face. Since 2006 Skanska has worked with more than 424 such companies in the New York City metro area alone, providing some Skanska is pursuing international 9,700 hours of training to help WELL Building Standard certifithem compete for major contracts. cation for all Commercial DevelBy providing education and supopment projects in Central and Eastern Europe, including Spark port, including structuring work in Warsaw, Poland. packages to be more suitable for smaller firms, Skanska bolsters the Group’s supply chain. This improves Skanska's ability to be competitive while strengthening the industry and society. 88 Sustainability report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Diversity and inclusion Surpassing benchmarks Diverse and inclusive teams outperform Skanska is making continued progress with Creating inclusive environments homogenous teams, and diverse and diversity and inclusion. Regarding 2018 with supply chain partners inclusive organizations increase their results from the Group’s annual employee Promoting diversity and inclusion ability to attract and retain top people. survey, positive responses to diversity and through procurement and supply Furthermore, inclusive workplaces foster inclusion questions exceeded external benchchain activities has been a core healthy and safe work environments. marks, and the gap between Skanska and the focus of the A14 Integrated DelivDiversity and inclusion offers key benchmark results continued to increase. ery Team – a construction joint benefits but there are key challenges too, The 2018 employee survey results showed venture that includes Skanska – especially with the construction sector a strong correlation between inclusive leadin delivering the UK’s biggest road – including Skanska – being comprised ership and employees’ effectiveness and upgrade for Highways England. primarily of men. intention to stay with Skanska. Thus by the For example, the supplier selection As part of driving change, Skanska Group’s culture becoming more inclusive, process involved innovative behavencourages and develops leaders to be this helps lessen a business risk: the lack or ioral assessments, which included excellent at fostering an inclusive culture. loss of key employees. The 2018 survey also placing bidders in interactive sceThe Group’s work within inclusion aims revealed a link between inclusive leadernarios to measure their organizato go beyond specific aspects of divership and a culture of care, a key aspect in tions’ collaborative and inclusive sity addressed in legislation by creating Skanska’s safety work. behaviors. Behavioral aspects workplaces characterized by openness, accounted for more than 20 perfairness, trust and respect – environments Diversity performance cent of the bid scoring for key proinclusive for all. Gender is the diversity component tracked curement packages. The team’s Business units are responsible for at Group level. Other aspects of diversity, open procurement approach has adapting Skanska’s overall Diversity and such as ethnicity or cultural background, created opportunities for a more Inclusion Vision and strategy into approare tracked by business units but not on diverse supplier pool, including priate action plans and targets. Skanska Group level, since definitions differ small businesses, to bid for work. has a community of inclusion advocates, be­t ween countries. The behavioral journey with senior leaders from business units who Targets for diversity and inclusion have suppliers did not stop at the – together with the Human Resources been part of all units’ business plans since selection stage. For instance, the function – support units’ development of 2015. team has proactively managed diversity and inclusion plans and actions. these partners by holding more than 100 fully 360-degree performance reviews, inclusive of all internal project stakeholders, to collectively drive high perforEmployees by gender mance throughout the project 2018, % 2017, % 2016, % organization. For such cuttingCategory Men Women Men Women Men Women edge work, the team was a finalist All employees 83 17 83 17 83 17 at the 2018 World Procurement Senior executives 67 33 67 33 78 22 Awards, competing for the Supply Senior positions (level Chain Initiative Award against 3-6) 78 22 78 22 80 20 such global multinationals as Intel, Skanska AB Board Bayer and GlaxoSmithKline. 1 of Directors 43 57 50 50 63 37 1 E lected at Annual General Meeting. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Sustainability report 89 57% Skanska Sweden is one of the most success­ Among business unit Presidents (BUPs), there ful business units when it comes to diveris diversity regarding nationalities but 11 of sity. Skanska Sweden has set targets to the 12 BUPs are men. Increasing the number increase the number of women in senior of women in top positions – and throughout line positions (level 3-6), aiming for 30 perSkanska – is a long-term effort. In 2018, four of Women are members cent of women in those roles by 2020, the shareholder-elected directors in Skanska´s of Skanska’s Board compared to 10 percent in 2015. The share Board are women. of women in Skanska Sweden´s senior line Skanska’s ways of working with diversity and positions reached 18 percent in 2018. inclusion have been externally recognized. ESS, European Spallation Source, Lund, Sweden. 90 Sustainability report / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability governance Sustainability is closely linked to Skanska’s core business through the Skanska values, Skanska's Purpose and the Profit with Purpose Business and Plan 2016-2020. The management of sustainability follows the Group Governance Framework and internal audit procedures pages 56-64. The Code of Conduct Group Policy is based on the Skanska values and sets the standard for the daily behavior of employees. The Group Governance Framework is decided by the Board. The business units are responsible to comply with what is stated in the Group Policies and Group Procedures and Standards. The framework for sustainability is set by the Code of Conduct, Skanska Group Environmental Policy, Skanska Group Health and Safety Policy, Group Health and Safety Standards, Safety Metrics Reporting Procedure, Skanska Color Palette™, Global Restricted Substances List, Green Metrics, Reporting Procedure, Skanska Green Bond Framework, Health and Safety Road Map, Anti-corruption Policy, Sanctions Procedure, Code of Conduct Program, Human Resource Policy, People Strategy and Diversity and Inclusion Strategy. To strengthen Skanska’s sustainability ambitions in relevance to business the Skanska Sustainability Business Forum, including members from Group Leadership Team, is a body for anchoring strategic decisions. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Sustainability report 91 It is mandatory for business units to be The responses were evaluated and mapped The most important stakeholder groups are: third-party certified according to the ISO to identify the most material sustainability ■■ Shareholders/investors/banks 14001 environmental management stanareas. Group management established the ■■ Customers dard. In 2018, Skanska received no major final materiality assessment. ■■ Suppliers/subcontractors non-conformance (MNC) citations from Notable changes from the materiality ■■ Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) external auditors. From 2019, all business assessment presented in the 2017 sustain■■ Employees units must also have an externally certified ability report include a higher priority given ■■ Management management system for health and safety, to environment and climate, as well as sussuch as OHSAS 18001. This latter certificatainability throughout the supply chain. tion is already achieved by 90 percent of Skanska. Sustainability performance is assessed via key performance indicators (KPIs) and the annual Group-wide employee survey. Employees are annually evaluated according to their capability to drive sustainability. Sustainability – through health and safety parameters – is part of incentive programs for business unit management teams. Stakeholder dialogue and materiality assessment An open and ongoing dialogue with stakeholders is a key component in day-to-day operations and long-term planning. This provides important insights regarding needs, expectations and challenges. One important tool for internal stakeholder dialogue is the annual Group-wide employee survey. To identify Skanska’s most material sustainability areas, a materiality assessment is performed every two years. During 2018, Skanska performed a structured stakeholder dialogue – including an online survey and interviews – with external and internal stakeholders. Key questions were selected and aligned with regulations, the UN Sustainable Development Goals, UN Global Compact, GRI Standards, along with current industry trends and benchmarks. 92 Sustainability report Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Construction Advancing science and sustainability European Spallation Source (ESS), Lund, Sweden ESS will be the most powerful research facility of its type, using neutrons to enable scientific breakthroughs with materials, energy, health and the environment. The pioneering research conducted there will enable new and better computer chips, plastics, batteries, pharmaceuticals and much more, helping improve people’s daily lives. Aiming to be one of the world’s most sustainable research centers, ESS is committed to a three-part energy concept: responsible, renewable and recyclable. To support this, it has cut its energy needs by more than half, down to the equivalent of the annual consumption of about 40,000 apartments when in full operation. Also, through an innovative partnership between ESS and energy company E.ON, surplus energy will be recycled into a local district heating network, further decreasing costs and carbon emissions. Additionally, ESS’ 69 hectare site will become a model for biodiversity, with plants native to the local area and new habitats for bees and other species. This will support the surrounding farmland with ecosystem services such as pollination while providing a peaceful environment for visitors and ESS employees. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 93 94 Financial analysis / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Financial analysis Revenue increased both in Swedish kronor and in local currencies, In the UK the uncertainty related to Brexit is limiting investments while operating income according to segment reporting fell both in the non-residential building market. The civil market is stable. in Swedish kronor and in local currencies compared to the previIn Central Europe there is a high activity level in general and ous year. The overall profitability in Construction was weak. The construction related inflation is high. In Czech Republic the civil operating income was negatively affected by impairment of goodmarket is still very competitive but contract conditions is expected will in USA, restructuring of business units within Construction in to improve. In USA the overall market is strong. The civil construcEurope and project write-downs in Poland and USA of SEK 2.8 biltion market remains good, although competition is intense, and the lion in total. The project write-downs of SEK 2.0 billion in total, building construction market is strong in sectors such as aviation, were caused by delays and cost increases in projects as well as lower education, data centers and healthcare. productivity. The Construction operations in Sweden and Finland remained strong during the year. In the beginning of 2018, strategic Residential Development initiatives to improve performance and reduce risk in Construction The overall Swedish residential market is weak and there is an operations were taken in several of Skanska’s operating units. Gradoversupply of new built homes which impacts Skanska’s market ually, Skanska has already started to see the impacts of these initiasegments and product range negatively. Confidence among home tives. Orderbookings were good, with the Nordics having higher buyers is decreasing due to uncertainty about factors impacting order bookings than revenue during 2018. The order backlog at the the direction of home prices such as future economic growth, end of the year amounted to SEK 192.0 billion, which is equivalent employment, interest rates, credit supply among other things. This to 14 months of production. The Residential Development business is expected to impact the market negatively going forward. The stream showed a strong profitability despite reduced volumes due underlying housing needs should however be supportive long-term. to a slow Swedish market. A mix-shift in Skanska’s diversified portIn Norway the market situation is a bit more stable than in Sweden folio, combined with good project risk management, contributed and the Finnish market is solid. The Central European market is substantially to the maintained profitability. In addition, release slowing down after a period of strong growth. of provisions as well as land divestment gains affected the result. During 2018, the number of homes sold totaled 3,653 (4,285) and The Swedish market continues to be burdened by an oversupply the number homes started totaled 4,480 (4,318) of which BoKlok of new homes. A further weakening in confidence among home sold 926 (1,195) homes and started 1,158 (1,257) homes. At the end buyers regarding the future direction of home prices is impactof the year, 7,539 homes (7,243) were under construction. Of these, ing the market negatively. Commercial Property Development 68 percent (76) were sold. had a very active and profitable year on all three home markets. During 2018, the Nordics, Central Europe and USA made divestCommercial Property Development ments of SEK 15.7 billion with gains from property divestments of Vacancy rates for office space in most of the Nordic and Central SEK 4.0 billion according to segment reporting. At the end of the European cities where Skanska has operations are stable. In Sweden year, Commercial Property Development had 53 ongoing projects. vacancy rates are low and rents are high. Demand for office space Skanska leased 511,000 square meters during the year. Leasing is an is strong in Poland and in other parts of Central Europe as well. In important factor in the company’s ability to realize surplus value USA, demand from tenants is good in Boston and Seattle, while generated in future years. somewhat weaker in Washington D.C. and Houston’s energy corThe Infrastructure Development business stream reached financial ridor. Modern properties with high quality tenants are in demand close on Norway’s Rv 3 road PPP-project (public-private partnerfrom property investors, resulting in attractive valuations for ships) during the year. The Infrastructure Development business these properties. Investor appetite remains strong in the Nordics, stream was restructured during the year and the focus going forespecially Sweden, USA and Central Europe, but the number of ward will be on managing and securing the value of Skanska’s shortlisted investors in transactions are fewer and more selective existing PPP assets. regarding investment objects. Yield levels in Sweden and in USA have likely bottomed out. Market outlook At the end of the year, Commercial Property Development had Construction 53 ongoing projects, representing leasable space of 1,154,000 square In Construction the overall market activity is high but is expected meters. to level out. The non-residential and civil markets in Sweden are very strong, although the landscape is competitive. The residential building market has come down from a high activity level. In ­Norway, the outlook for the civil market remains positive, but with significant competition in new bids. The non-residential market also benefits from increased public investments, while investments in the residential building market are lower. The overall market situation in Finland is stable except for a slight slowdown in the residential building market. 75 50 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Financial analysis 95 25 0 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 Kv1 Kv2 Kv3 Kv4 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 • Orderstock • Orderingång, rullande 12 mån • Intäkter, rullande 12 mån • Orderingång per kvartal Construction order bookings, order backlog and revenue Revenue SEK M 2018 2017 SEK bn Revenue by business stream according to 200 segment reporting 175 Construction 157,894 150,050 150 Residential Development 10,739 13,237 Commercial Property Development 16,271 11,440 125 Infrastructure Development 105 81 100 Central and eliminations –14,515 –13,985 75 Total revenue according to segment reporting 170,494 160,823 50 Difference in accounting principles 1,236 –2,946 25 Total revenue according to IFRS 171,730 157,877 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Revenues according to IFRS increased by 9 percent (increased 6 percent in local currency) to SEK 171.7 billion (157.9). Revenue • Order backlog • Order bookings, R-12 according to segment reporting increased by 6 percent (increased • Revenue, R-12 3 percent in local currency) to SEK 170.5 billion (160.8). In the • Order bookings per quarter Construction business stream, revenue rose in SEK by 5 percent. SEK 22.2 billion (22.8) of revenue in Construction, equivalent to Order bookings 14 percent (15), was generated by the Group’s Project Development Order bookings amounted to SEK 151.7 billion (151.8) (decreased operations. Of the SEK 10,739 M (13,237) in Residential Develop3 percent in local currency). Order bookings in SEK were 4 percent ment revenue, SEK 160 M (875) is from joint ventures and this has lower than revenue in 2018, compared to 1 percent higher order been included line by line according to the proportional method in bookings than revenue last year. Overall, order bookings were good, segment reporting. and particularly strong in the Nordic operations. Operating income Order bookings and order backlog SEK M 2018 2017 Order bookings Order backlog Operating income by business stream according SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 to segment reporting Nordic countries 65,239 54,720 61,639 53,779 Construction 1,099 1,205 of which Sweden 35,922 33,317 35,388 34,954 Residential Development 1,505 1,716 Europe 30,557 32,401 34,941 38,158 Commercial Property Development 3,069 2,714 USA 55,923 64,690 95,462 96,474 Infrastructure Development 31 925 Total 151,719 151,811 192,042 188,411 Central –811 –944 Eliminations –66 –112 Operating income according to segment reporting 4,827 5,504 Order backlog Difference in accounting principles 820 –926 The order backlog increased by 2 percent and at the end of the year Operating income according to IFRS 5,647 4,578 amounted to SEK 192.0 billion (188.4). The order backlog is equivalent to 14 (15) months of production. The US, Nordic and European operations accounted for 50, 32 and 18 percent respectively of the Operating income according to IFRS increased by 23 percent order backlog. (increased 21 percent in local currency) to SEK 5,647 M (4,578). Operating income according to segment reporting amounted to Segment and IFRS Reporting SEK 4,827 M (5,504). The Group reports its Residential Development and Commercial Impairment losses on current and non-current assets were Property Development segments according to a method described charged to operating income in the amount of SEK –677 M (–875), in Note 1. The differences between the two methods of reporting mainly attributable to intangible assets in the Construction busirevenue and operating income are summarized in the tables to the ness stream. right. Construction In the Construction business stream, operating income decreased by 9 percent to SEK 1,099 M (1,205). The operating margin was also lower than in the previous year and amounted to 0.7 percent (0.8). Operating income was affected by impairment losses on goodwill, 96 Financial analysis / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 project write-downs and restructuring charges of SEK 2.8 billion Investments/Divestments in total. Project write-downs of SEK 1.4 billion in total, relate to the SEK M 2018 2017 US operations. A goodwill impairment charge of SEK 0.4 billion Operations investments are associated with the process of exiting the US power sector. The Intangible assets –225 –255 European construction operations were affected by restructuring Property, plant and equipment –2,351 –1,876 charges of SEK 0.4 billion as well as project write-downs in the Polish operations of SEK 0.6 billion. Claim resolutions in the US civil operAssets in Infrastructure Development –62 –449 ations and effects of pension curtailments in the UK had a positive Shares –37 –154 impact of SEK 0.5 billion in total. The performance in the Nordic Current-asset properties –21,849 –21,451 was strong and stable, mainly driven by Sweden and Finland. Of which Residential Development –10,449 –10,801 Of which Commercial Property Development –11,400 –10,650 Residential Development Operations investments –24,524 –24,185 Operating income in the Residential Development business stream amounted to SEK 1,505 M (1,716) and the operating margin of Strategic investments the business stream increased to 14.0 (13.0) percent. The operating Investments of businesses –16 income includes a positive effect from release of provisions as well Strategic investments –16 0 as land divestment gains of SEK 0.5 billion in total. Excluding the release of provisions and land divestments the o ­ perating margin Total investments –24,540 –24,185 was 10 percent. Impairment losses on current assets in R ­ esidential Development were charged to earnings in the amount of Operations divestments SEK –72 M (–14). Intangible assets 6 1 Property, plant and equipment 420 213 Commercial Property Development Assets in Infrastructure Development 80 1,950 Operating income in the Commercial Property Development busiShares 12 458 ness stream amounted to SEK 3,069 M (2,714). Properties were sold Current-asset properties 27,322 20,477 during the year for a value of SEK 15,720 M (10,867), generating capital gains of SEK 4,005 M (2,879). During the year there were Of which Residential Development 12,068 11,767 impairment losses of SEK–107 M (–6). Of which Commercial Property Development 15,254 8,710 Operations – divestments 27,840 23,099 Infrastructure Development Infrastructure Development will be concentrating on securing Total net divestments (+)/investments (–) 3,300 –1,086 and managing the value in Skanska’s existing PPP-assets and realDepreciation/amortization, non-current assets –1,780 –1,587 izing these development gains over time. Consequently, as of 2019, Infrastructure Development is no longer a business stream and is reported in Central on a separate line. The Group’s investments totaled SEK –24,540 M (–24,185). DivestOperating income in the Infrastructure Development business ments amounted to SEK 27,840 M (23,099) and the Group’s net stream totaled SEK 31 M (925) and includes restructuring charges divestments amounted to SEK 3,330 M (–1,086). Net divestments of SEK 120 M. The comparable period contains the divestment in current–asset properties amounted to SEK 5,473 M (–974). In of the investment in the A1 motorway project in Poland. ImpairResidential Development investments in current–asset properment losses were charged to earnings in 2018 in the amount of ties amounted to SEK –10,449 M (–10,801), of which SEK –1,599 M SEK –9 M (–11). (–2,437) was for land, equivalent to 3,333 (7,215) in building rights. Homes were handed over for a volume of SEK 12,068 M (11,767). Central Net divestment of current–asset properties in Residential DevelopCentral expenses amounted to SEK –811 M (–944), including ment amounted to SEK 1,619 M (966). restructuring charges of SEK 100 M. In Commercial Property Development investments in current– asset properties amounted to SEK –11,400 M (–10,650), of which Elimination of intra-Group profits SEK –994 M (–1,386) was for land. Divestments of current–asset Eliminations of intra-Group profits amounted to SEK –66 M (–112). properties amounted to SEK 15,254 M (8,710). Net divestment of At the Group level, this included elimination of profits relating to current–asset properties in Commercial Property Development property projects in the Construction business stream. Eliminaamounted to SEK 3,854 M (–1,940). tions are reversed when the projects are divested. Return on equity and capital employed according to segment reporting Return on equity according to segment reporting amounted to 14.1 percent (18.6) and return on capital employed in project development operations amounted to 13.0 percent (14.5) according to segment reporting. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Financial analysis 97 Consolidated operating cash flow At the end of the year, equity attributable to equity holders amountSEK M 2018 2017 ed to SEK 29,250 M (27,064). Apart from comprehensive income for Cash flow from business operations 394 1,057 the year of SEK 5,517 M, the change in equity is mainly explained by dividends of SEK –3,373 M and repurchases of shares totaling Change in working capital 4,040 3,866 SEK –72 M, as well as share-based payments in connection with Net investments (–)/divestments (+) 3,316 –1,086 long-term employee ownership programs (Seop) totaling SEK 254 M. Accrual adjustments –39 –243 Return on equity increased to 16,4 percent (15.5). Capital Taxes paid in business operations –443 –892 employed at year-end amounted to SEK 46,187 M (44,111). Return Cash flow from business operations including on capital employed amounted to 13.0 percent (11.1). taxes paid 7,268 2,702 Equity/assets ratio Net interest items and other financial items 156 253 The net debt/equity ratio amounted to –0.1 (0.0) and the equity/ Taxes paid in financing activities –47 –76 assets ratio amounted to 25.2 percent (24.8). Cash flow from financing activities 109 177 For financial position in 2018 see Note 6 and Note 14. Cash flow from operations 7,377 2,879 Parent Company Strategic net divestments (+) / investments (–) –16 0 The Parent Company carries out administrative tasks and includes Dividend etc1 –3,472 –3,879 the Group Leadership Team and group functions. Profit for the year amounted to SEK 3,970 M (4,321) and mainly consisted of dividends Cash flow before change in interest-bearing receivables and liabilities 3,889 –1,000 from subsidiaries. The average number of employees was 118 (124). Change in interest-bearing receivables and liabilities –311 2,619 Remuneration to senior executives Cash flow for the year 3,578 1,619 For information about the most recently approved guidelines for determining salaries and other remuneration for the President and Cash and cash equivalents, January 1 6,998 5,430 CEO and other senior executives, see Note 37. In March 2019, the Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 146 –51 Board will present a proposal to the Annual General Meeting to retain the current guidelines for salaries and other remuneration of Cash and cash equivalents, December 31 10,722 6,998 senior executives. 1 Of which repurchases of shares –72 –440 The Board’s proposal for salaries and Cash % flow for the year amounted to SEK 3,578 M (1,619). other remuneration to senior executives for approval 30 Cash flow from operations amounted to SEK 7,377 M (2,879). by the 2019 Annual General Meeting The increased cash flow is related to increased divestments in Remuneration to the senior executives in Skanska AB (publ) shall 25 Commercial Property Development and change in working capital consist of fixed salary, possible variable remuneration, other cusin 20 Construction. Taxes paid in business operations amounted to tomary benefits and pension. The senior executives include the SEK –443 M (–892). CEO and the other members of the Group Leadership Team. The 15 Cash flow for the year of SEK 3,578 M (1,619) combined with combined remuneration for each executive must be market-related translation 10 differences of SEK 146 M (–51) increased cash and cash and competitive in the labor market in which the executive is equivalents, which amounted to SEK 10,722 M (6,998). placed, and distinguished performance should be reflected in the 5 Commercial Property Development assets sold but not yet total remuneration. transferred 0 as of December 31, 2018 will have a positive effect Fixed salary and variable remuneration shall be related to the on cash2014flow of SEK 5.5 2015 billion, of 2016 which SEK 2.6 billion will2018 2017 be senior executive’s responsibility and authority. The variable • Avkastning received duringpå2019. eget kapital • Avkastning påwill The remainder impact sysselsatt cash flow during kapital remuneration shall be payable in cash and/or shares and it shall 2020–2021. be capped and related to the fixed salary. Distribution of shares For financial position in 2018, see Note 6 and Note 14. shall have a vesting period of three years and be part of a long-term incentive program. The variable remuneration must be based on Return on equity and capital employed results in relation to established targets and be designed to increase the alignment between the shareholders and executives of the com% pany. The terms for variable remuneration should be structured so 30 that the Board, if exceptional economic conditions prevail, has the 25 possibility to limit or refrain from paying variable remuneration if such a payment is considered unreasonable and incompatible 20 with the company’s responsibility in general to the shareholders, employees and other stakeholders. For annual bonus there should 15 be a possibility to limit or refrain from paying variable remuneration 10 if the Board considers that this is appropriate for other reasons. To the extent that a Board member performs work for the company, 5 besides the Board membership, consultant fee and other remunera0 tion may be granted for such work. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 • Return on equity • Return on capital employed 98 Financial analysis / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 In the event of employment termination by the company, the normal Research partnerships period of notice is six months, combined with severance pay corIn several countries, Skanska is involved in large national research responding to a maximum of 18 months of fixed salary or, alternaprograms. In Sweden, Skanska is involved with five such programs tively, a period of notice of maximum 12 months combined with totaling SEK 1.3 billion in funding over multiple years. Among severance pay corresponding to a maximum of 12 months of fixed these are Smart Built Environment, a strategic innovation program salary. focused on how the built environment can contribute to Sweden’s Pension benefits should be either defined-benefit or definedjourney to the global forefront of digitalization. Skanska is part of contribution schemes, or a combination of these, and should entitle the Smart Built Environment governing board. Another research the executive to the right to receive a pension from the age of 65. project is GrowSmarter, which demonstrates “smart city solutions” However, a pension at age of earliest 60 years may be granted in in energy, infrastructure and transport to help achieve a smart, susindividual cases. For defined benefit plans years of service required tainable Europe. for fully earned benefits shall normally correspond to the years of Also, the Group actively participates in research projects funded service required for general pension plans in the same jurisdiction. by leading industry organizations, including the Swedish ConstrucVariable salary shall not be included in pensionable salary except tion Industry Development Fund (SBUF). For example, many of when it follows from rules under a general pension plan (like the Skanska Sweden’s 125 ongoing research projects are supported by Swedish ITP plan). The Board may under special c­ ircumstances SBUF. deviate from these principles in individual cases. Skanska actively collaborates with universities in the Group’s Matters related to remuneration to the CEO is prepared by the home markets. In Sweden, for example, Skanska supports about Compensation Committee and decided by the Board. Matters 20 PhD students and employs about 50 people with a PhD or other related to remuneration to other senior executives are decided research degree. Skanska’s adjunct professors advance learning by by the Compensation Committee. sharing their professional experiences in such areas as construction automation, energy and concrete. In Norway, Skanska participates in several significant research Skanska employee ownership program (Seop) and development projects, such as Zero Emission Neighborhoods in The purpose of the Seop is to strengthen the Group’s ability to Smart Cities and Climate 2050, aimed at reducing the societal risks retain and recruit qualified employees and to align those more associated with climate changes and enhanced precipitation and closely to the company and its shareholders. flood water exposure within the built environment. The program provides employees with the opportunity to invest in Skanska shares while receiving incentives in the form of possible Additional research examples allotment of additional shares. This allotment is predominantly Further examples of current research and development initiatives performance-based. Shares are only allotted after a three-year across the Group include: ­vesting period. To be able to earn matching shares and performance • Achieving smart, digitally connected building sites, with associshares, a person must be employed during the entire lock-up period ated smart supply chains, to shorten construction times, increase and have retained the shares purchased within the framework of the productivity and reduce costs, safety risks and climate impacts. program. In 2018, costs related to the Seop program amounted to This collaboration with Linköping University, Luleå University SEK 254 M, see further Note 26 and 37. of Technology, the Swedish innovation agency Vinnova and other The accounting principles applied for the employee ownership partners also aims to create the conditions for new business models programs can be found in Note 1 IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. and increased profitability for construction companies. • Electrifying and automating quarry operations through collaboResearch and Development rations with Volvo Construction Equipment, the Swedish Energy Innovation is crucial for Skanska to retain a leading market position, Agency and two universities, Linköping and Mälardalen. The aim enabling the Group to provide the solutions needed by c­ ustomers, of this initiative, called Electric Site, is to achieve up to a 25 pernow and well into the future. Through innovation, Skanska idencent reduction in total operating costs, up to 95 percent lower cartifies, develops and apply new technical products, services and bon emissions, and a safer and healthier work environment. Also, processes, increasingly working with external partners. This Skanska is collaborating with other partners – including Oslo focus – part of the 2020 business plan’s Operational Excellence Municipality and Nasta AS – to develop a 30-ton excavator to be aspect – generates enhanced value for Skanska’s shareholders and fueled by batteries, hydrogen fuel cells or a combination, making customers. it mobile on sites. As part of Skanska’s work during 2018 to strengthen the Group’s • E xploring how “smart building” systems can improve buildings’ decentralized structure, responsibility for research and development operating performance and tenant functionality. For example, was fully transferred from Skanska Group Headquarters to the Connected by Skanska is an operating system developed by the business units. This supports greater speed and agility in leveraging Group that uniquely integrates such building functions as parkresearch and development to meet business needs. Various internal ing and guest check-in with users’ mobile devices. This unified networks and communications platforms facilitate sharing know­ offering eliminates traditional building access cards, increasing ledge across the Group. Research and development priority areas convenience and safety. include sustainability – including green and health and safety – and digitalization. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Financial analysis 99 • Implementing a new technique developed by Skanska to renew The Board’s justification for its proposed dividend roads with less carbon emissions. By using a plant-based oil that The nature and scale of Skanska’s operations are described in the enables the reuse of up to 80 percent of used asphalt pavement, Articles of Association and this Annual Report. The operations carthis circular approach minimizes the need for new petroleumried out within the Group do not pose any risks beyond those that based binder while maintaining road safety and quality. Together occur or can be assumed to occur in the industry, or the risks that with using renewable fuels to power the asphalt plants, these are otherwise associated with conducting business activities. methods reduce carbon emissions by up to 75 percent. The Group’s dependence on the general economic situation does • C ollaborating with the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), not deviate from what is otherwise the case in the industry. The the organization behind the international LEED green building Group’s equity/assets ratio amounts to 25.2 percent (24.8). The prorating system, to develop a digital platform called the Market posed dividend does not jeopardize the investments that are conInsight Tool. This tool harnesses USGBC’s database of LEED sidered necessary or investments to support the Group’s continued projects to provide property owners with insights on whether a development. The Group’s financial position does not give rise to green investment decision could make a building project environany conclusion other than that the Group can continue to develop mentally future-proof, or be a risk to their long-term investment. its operations and that the company can be expected to meet its Skanska is piloting this tool, and with the USGBC plan to make it short-term and long-term obligations. openly available in fall 2019. With reference to the above and what has otherwise come to the Board’s attention, the Board has concluded that the dividend is jusInformation on shares tified based on what is required in terms of the size of the company’s In order to ensure allotment of shares to the participants in and the Group’s equity and the Group’s consolidation requirements, ­Skanska’s employee ownership programs, the 2018 Annual General liquidity and position in general, based on the nature and scale of Meeting authorized the Board to repurchase shares in own custody. the Group’s operations. Future profits are expected to cover both According to this decision the company may buy a maximum of the growth of business operations and the growth of the regular 3,000,000 Series B shares to ensure allotment of shares to particidividend. pants in Seop 4. During the year, Skanska repurchased a total of 435,000 shares at an average price of SEK 165.71. The average price of all repurchased shares is SEK 137.54. The quota value of the repurchased shares is SEK 3.00 per share, totaling SEK 1.3 M, and the shares represent 0.1 percent of the total share capital. The cost of acquiring these shares amounted to SEK 72 M. During the year 1,400,394 shares were allotted to the employees participating in the employee ownership program. The quota value of the repurchased shares is SEK 3.00 per share, totaling SEK 4.2 M, and the shares represent 0.3 percent of the total share capital. The number of shares in own custody held as of December 31, 2018 amounted to 10,224,634. The quota value of these shares is SEK 3.00 per share, totaling SEK 30.7 M, and the shares represent 2.4 percent of the total share capital. The cost of acquiring the shares amounted to SEK 1.4 billion. Proposed dividend The Board proposes a regular dividend of SEK 6.00 (8.25) per share. The proposal is equivalent to a regular dividend totaling SEK 2,458 M (3,373). The Board proposes April 1, 2019 as the record date for the dividend. No dividend is paid for the Parent Company’s holding of Series B treasury shares. The total dividend amount may change by the record date, depending on repurchases of shares and the transfer of shares to participants in long-term employee ownership programs. 100 Consolidated income statement Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Consolidated income statement SEK M Note 2018 2017 Revenue 8, 9 171,730 157,877 Costs of sales 9 –157,465 –145,103 Gross income 14,265 12,774 Selling and administrative expenses 11 –9,473 –9,851 Income from joint ventures and associated companies, 20 855 1,655 Operating income 10, 12, 13, 22, 36, 38, 40 5,647 4,578 Financial income 192 170 Financial expense –153 –125 Financial items 14 39 45 Income after financial items 15 5,686 4,623 Taxes 16 –1,092 –512 Profit for the year 4,594 4,111 Proﬁt for the year attributable to Equity holders 4,571 4,095 Non-controlling interests 23 16 Earnings per share, SEK 26, 43 11.17 10.00 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 26, 43 11.11 9.94 Proposed regular dividend per share, SEK 6.00 8.25 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 101 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M 2018 2017 Profit for the year 4,594 4,111 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss Remeasurement of defined-benefit plans 1 –478 –399 Tax related to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 59 69 –419 –330 Items that have been or will be reclassified to profit and loss Translation differences attributable to equity holders 1,299 –599 Translation differences attributable to non-controlling interests 3 8 Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations –183 –125 Effects of cash flow hedges –30 138 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associated companies 272 83 Tax related to items that have been or will be reclassified to proﬁt and loss 7 –25 1,368 –520 Other comprehensive income after tax 949 –850 Comprehensive income for the year 5,543 3,261 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to Equity holders 5,517 3,237 Non-controlling interests 26 24 1 Effects of social insurance contributions including special employer’s contribution are included –207 –65 See also Note 26. 102 Consolidated statement of financial position Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Consolidated statement of financial position Restated SEK M Note Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 17, 40 7,645 6,874 Goodwill 18 4,324 4,554 Other intangible assets 19 975 962 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 20 3,288 3,314 Financial non-current assets 21 2,345 2,276 Deferred tax assets 16 1,933 1,757 Total non-current assets 20,510 19,737 Current assets Current-asset properties 22 42,391 39,010 Inventories 23 1,256 1,058 Financial current assets 21 7,117 6,671 Tax assets 16 396 1,188 Contract assets 9 6,661 6,997 Trade and other receivables 24 27,243 27,778 Cash 25 10,722 6,998 Total current assets 95,786 89,700 ASSETS 32 116,296 109,437 of which interest-bearing financial non-current assets 31 2,302 2,228 of which interest-bearing current assets 31 17,769 13,572 20,071 15,800 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Consolidated statement of financial position 103 Consolidated statement of financial position Restated SEK M Note Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 EQUITY 26 Share capital 1,260 1,260 Paid-in capital 2,782 2,528 Reserves 2,509 1,144 Retained earnings 22,699 22,132 Equity attributable to equity holders 29,250 27,064 Non-controlling interests 97 121 TOTAL EQUITY 29,347 27,185 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Financial non-current liabilities 27 3,912 3,857 Pensions 28 5,669 5,603 Deferred tax liabilities 16 711 1,235 Total non-current liabilities 10,292 10,695 Current liabilities Financial current liabilities 27 7,310 7,624 Tax liabilities 16 615 312 Current provisions 29 9,922 9,131 Contract liabilities 9 20,738 16,266 Trade and other payables 30 38,072 38,224 Total current liabilities 76,657 71,557 TOTAL LIABILITIES 86,949 82,252 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 32 116,296 109,437 of which interest-bearing financial liabilities 31 11,171 11,323 of which interest-bearing pensions and provisions 31 5,669 5,603 16,840 16 926 Information on the Group’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities can be found in Note 33. 104 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to equity holders Cash flow NonShare Paid-in Translation reserve Retained controlling Total SEK M capital capital reserve hedge earnings Total interests equity Equity, January 1, 2017 1,260 2,231 2,483 –811 22,187 27,350 156 27,506 Profit for the year 4,095 4,095 16 4,111 Other comprehensive income for the year –724 196 –330 –858 8 –850 Dividend paid –3,380 –3,380 –59 –3,439 Repurchase of 2,350,000 Series B shares –440 –440 –440 Change in share-based payments 297 297 297 Equity, December 31 2017 1,260 2,528 1,759 –615 22,132 27,064 121 27,185 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 –140 –140 –140 Adjusted equity, January 1, 2018 1,260 2,528 1,759 –615 21,992 26,924 121 27,045 Profit for the year 4,571 4,571 23 4,594 Other comprehensive income for the year 1,116 249 –419 946 3 949 Dividend paid –3,373 –3,373 –27 –3,400 Change in Group composition 0 –23 –23 Repurchase of 435,000 Series B shares –72 –72 –72 Change in sharebased payments 254 254 254 Equity, December 31, 2018 1,260 2,782 2,875 –366 22,699 29,250 97 29,347 See also Note 26. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Consolidated cash flow statement 105 Consolidated cash flow statement SEK M 2018 2017 Change in interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities Operating activities SEK M 2018 2017 Operating income 5,647 4,578 Interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities, Adjustments for items not included in cash flow –5,253 –3,521 January 1 –1,126 1,219 Income tax paid –414 –860 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 –30 Cash flow from operating activities before –20 197 Adjusted opening balance –1,156 1,219 change in working capital Cash flow from operating activities 9,454 2,846 Cash flow from investing activities excluding Cash flow from change in working capital change in interest-bearing receivables –2,202 –144 Investments in current-asset properties –21,647 –20,792 Cash flow from financing activities excluding Divestments of current-asset properties 27,081 19,575 change in interest-bearing liabilities –3,363 –3,702 Change in inventories and operating receivables 2,434 370 Remeasurement of pension liabilities –271 –334 Change in operating liabilities 1,606 3,496 Net receivable/net liability acquired/divested –7 Cash flow from change in working capital 9,474 2,649 Translation differences 282 –941 Other 494 –70 Cash flow from operating activities 9,454 2,846 Interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities, December 31 3,231 –1,126 Investing activities Acquisition of business –16 See also note 35. Investments in intangible assets –225 –255 Investments in property, plant and equipment –2,351 –1,876 Investments in Infrastructure Development –62 –449 Investments in shares –37 –154 Increase in interest-bearing receivables –1,394 –1,052 Divestments of intangible assets 6 1 Divestments of property, plant and equipment 420 213 Divestments of Infrastructure Development assets 80 1,950 Divestments of shares 12 458 Decrease in interest-bearing receivables 1,229 2,786 Income tax paid –29 –32 Cash flow from investing activities –2,367 1,590 Financing activities Net interest items 134 80 Other financial income and expense 22 173 Borrowings 1,419 2,677 Repayment of debt –1,565 –1,792 Dividend paid –3,373 –3,380 Shares repurchased –72 –440 Dividend to non-controlling interests –27 –59 Income tax paid –47 –76 Cash flow from financing activities –3,509 –2,817 Cash flow for the year 3,578 1,619 Cash and cash equivalents, January 1 6,998 5,430 Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents 146 –51 Cash and cash equivalents, December 31 10,722 6,998 106 Consolidated cash flow statement, specification Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Consolidated cash flow statement, specification Consolidated operating cash-flow statement and change in interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities SEK M 2018 2017 SEK M 2018 2017 Construction Taxes paid in business operations –443 –892 Cash flow from business operations 2,755 3,735 Cash flow from business operations Change in working capital 2,600 226 including taxes paid 7,268 2,702 Net divestments (+)/investments (–) –2,080 –1,825 Net interest items and other not Total Construction 3,275 2,136 financial items 156 253 Taxes paid in financing operations –47 –76 Residential Development Cash flow from financing activities 109 177 Cash flow from business operations –476 –692 Operating cash flow from operations 7,377 2,879 Change in working capital 26 1,008 Net divestments (+)/investments (–) 1,604 680 Net strategic divestments(+)/ Cash flow adjustments 1 233 investments(–) –16 Total Residential Development 1,154 1,229 Dividend etc. 2 –3,472 –3,879 Cash flow before change in interestCommercial Property Development bearing receivables and liabilities 3,889 –1,000 Cash flow from business operations –1,193 –868 Change in interest-bearing receivables Change in working capital 1,393 –400 and liabilities –311 2,619 Net divestments (+)/investments (–) 3,823 –1,375 Cash flow for the period 3,578 1,619 Cash flow adjustments 1 –39 –476 Cash and cash equivalents, January 1 6,998 5,430 Total Commercial Property 3,984 –3,119 Translation differences in cash and Development cash equivalents 146 –51 Cash and cash equivalents, 10,722 6,998 Infrastructure Development December 31 Cash flow from business operations 86 –261 Change in working capital –22 2,856 1 Refers to payments made during the reporting year related to divestments/investments in prior years, and unpaid divestments/investments Net divestments (+)/investments (–) 17 1,501 related to the reporting year. Total Infrastructure Development 81 4,096 2 Of which shares repurchased –72 –440 Central and eliminations Cash flow from business operations –778 –857 Change in working capital 43 176 Net divestments (+)/investments (–) –48 –67 Total central and eliminations –783 –748 Total cash flow from business operations 394 1,057 Total change in working capital 4,040 3,866 Total net divestments (+)/ investments (–) 3,316 –1,086 Total cash flow adjustments 1 –39 –243 Total cash flow from business operations before taxes paid 7,711 3,594 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Parent company income statement 107 Parent company income statement SEK M Note 2018 2017 Revenue 46 739 698 Gross income 739 698 Selling and administrative expenses –697 –791 Operating income 49, 50, 62 42 –93 Income from holdings in Group companies 47 3,982 4,466 Interest expense and similar items 47 –51 –63 Income after financial items 3,973 4,310 Tax on profit for the year 48 –3 11 Profit for the year 1 3,970 4,321 1 Coincides with comprehensive income for the year. 108 Parent company balance sheet Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Parent company balance sheet SEK M Note Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 SEK M Note Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Intangible non-current assets 49 13 16 Equity 55 Property, plant and equipment 50 Share capital 1,260 1,260 Plant and equipment 1 2 Restricted reserves 598 598 Total property, plant and equipment 1 2 Restricted equity 1,858 1,858 Non-current financial assets 51 Retained earnings 2,168 1,034 Holdings in Group companies 52 11,283 11,206 Profit for the year 3,970 4,321 Holdings in joint arrangements 53 3 2 Unrestricted equity 6,138 5,355 Receivables in Group companies 63 301 247 Deferred tax assets 48 74 77 Total equity 7,996 7,213 Other non-current receivables 51 107 107 Provisions 56 Total non-current financial assets 11,768 11,639 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 57 176 174 Total non-current assets 11,782 11,657 Other provisions 139 133 Current receivables Total provisions 315 307 Current receivables in Group companies 63 12 18 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 58 Tax assets 14 8 Liabilities to Group companies 63 3,500 4,177 Other current receivables 116 124 Total non-current interest-bearing 3,500 4,177 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 54 7 13 liabilities Total current receivables 149 163 Current liabilities 58 Total current assets 149 163 Trade accounts payable 18 20 Liabilities to Group companies 63 26 26 ASSETS 59 11,931 11,820 Other liabilities 6 5 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 70 72 Total current liabilities 120 123 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 59 11,931 11,820 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Parent company statement of changes in equity 109 Parent company statement of changes in equity Statutory Unrestricted SEK M Share capital reserve equity Total equity Equity, January 1, 2017 1,260 598 4,502 6,360 Repurchases of 2,350,000 Series B shares –440 –440 Compensation from subsidiaries for shares issued under employee ownership programs 55 55 Dividend paid –3,380 –3,380 Share-based payments 297 297 Profit for 2017 1 4,321 4,321 Equity, December 31, 2017 Equity, January 1, 2018 1,260 598 5,355 7,213 Repurchases of 435,000 Series B shares –72 –72 Compensation from subsidiaries for shares issued under employee ownership programs 4 4 Dividend paid –3,373 –3,373 Share-based payments 254 254 Profit for 2018 1 3,970 3,970 Equity, December 31, 2018 1,260 598 6,138 7,996 1 Coincides with comprehensive income for the year. See also Note 55. 110 Parent company cash flow statement Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Parent company cash flow statement SEK M 2018 2017 Operating activities Operating income 42 –93 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 20 25 Income tax paid –17 –14 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 45 –82 Cash flow from change in working capital Change in operating receivables 20 –3 Change in operating liabilities 5 17 Cash flow from change in working capital 25 14 Cash flow from operating activities 70 –68 Investing activities Increase in interest–bearing receivables –54 –12 Decrease in interest–bearing receivables 6 Cash flow from investing activities –54 –6 Financing activities Net interest items –51 –63 Dividends received 3,982 4 466 Repayment of debt –677 –741 Dividend paid –3,373 –3 380 Repurchase of shares –72 –440 Income tax paid 11 14 Payments from subsidiaries for employee ownership programs 164 218 Cash flow from financing activities –16 74 Cash flow for the year 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents, January 1 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents, December 31 0 0 See also Note 61. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 111 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Amounts in millions of Swedish kronor (SEK M) unless otherwise speciﬁed. Income is reported in positive ﬁgures and expense in negative ﬁgures. Both assets and liabilities are reported in positive ﬁgures. Interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities are reported in positive figures if they are receivables and negative figures if they are liabilities. Accumulated depreciation/amortization and accumulated impairment losses are reported in negative ﬁgures. Table of contents, notes Group Page Group Page Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles 112 Note 33 Assets pledged, contingent liabilities and contingent Note 2 Key estimates and judgments 125 assets 166 Note 3 Effects of changes in accounting principles 126 Note 34 Foreign exchange rates and effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 167 Note 4 Operating segments 126 Note 35 Cash flow statement 169 Note 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 129 Note 36 Personnel 171 Note 6 Financial instruments and financial risk management 130 Note 37 Senior executive remuneration and Board fees 172 Note 7 Business combinations 139 Note 38 Fees and other remuneration to auditors 176 Note 8 Revenue 139 Note 39 Related party disclosures 176 Note 9 Contract assets and contract liabilities 140 Note 40 Leases 176 Note 10 Operating expenses by category of expense 140 Note 41 Events after the reporting period 177 Note 11 Selling and administrative expenses 141 Note 42 Five-year Group financial summary 178 Note 12 Depreciation/amortization 141 Note 43 Definitions 182 Note 13 Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses 142 Note 44 Definitions – Non IFRS financial measures 183 Note 14 Financial items 143 Parent Company Page Note 15 Borrowing costs 143 Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles 124 Note 16 Income taxes 143 Note 45 Financial instruments 188 Note 17 Property, plant and equipment 146 Note 46 Revenue 188 Note 18 Goodwill 147 Note 47 Financial items 188 Note 19 Intangible assets 148 Note 48 Income taxes 189 Note 20 A Subsidiaries 149 Note 49 Intangible assets 189 Note 20 B Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 150 Note 50 Property, plant and equipment 189 Note 20 C Joint operations 153 Note 51 Non-current financial assets 190 Note 21 Financial assets 154 Note 52 Holdings in Group companies 190 Note 22 Current-asset properties/Project development 155 Note 53 Holdings in joint arrangements 191 Note 23 Inventories etc. 156 Note 54 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 191 Note 24 Trade and other receivables 156 Note 55 Equity 191 Note 25 Cash and bank balances 156 Note 56 Provisions 191 Note 26 Equity/earnings per share 157 Note 57 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 192 Note 27 Financial liabilities 159 Note 58 Liabilities 192 Note 28 Pensions 159 Note 59 Expected recovery periods for assets, provisions Note 29 Provisions 163 and liabilities 193 Note 30 Trade and other payables 163 Note 60 Assets pledged and contingent liabilities 194 Note 31 Specification of interest-bearing net receivables/ Note 61 Cash flow statement 194 net liabilities per asset and liability 164 Note 62 Personnel 195 Note 32 Expected recovery periods of assets and liabilities 165 Note 63 Related party disclosures 195 Note 64 Disclosures in compliance with the Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 6, Section 2 a 196 Note 65 Supplementary information 196 Note 66 Events after the reporting period 196 Note 67 Allocation of earnings 197 112 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 1. Consolidated accounting and valuation principles Conformity with laws and standards New standards and interpretations In compliance with the ordinance approved by the European Union (EU) on the Two new standards IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 are effective from January 1, 2018. The application of international accounting standards, the consolidated financial standard IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers mainly concerns how statements have been prepared according to the International Financial ­Reporting revenue from contracts with customers, excluding leases, is to be reported and Standards (IFRS) and International Accounting Standards (IAS) issued by the how payment from customers is to be measured. See the more detailed description International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as well as the interpretations of IFRS 15 later in this note, and a description of its effects in Note 3. by the IFRS Interpretations Committee and its predecessor, the Standing InterpreThe standard IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: tations Committee (SIC), to the extent these standards and interpretations have Recognition and Measurement. The new standard is more principle-based and been approved by the EU. In addition, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s contains new principles for classification and measurement of financial instruments, Recommendation RFR 1 “Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups” has been a forward-looking impairment model for financial instruments and a revised applied, as have the Statements of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. approach to hedge accounting. See the more detailed description of IFRS 9 later in The Parent Company applies the same accounting principles as the Group, this note, and a description of its effects in Note 3. For the principles according to except in the cases indicated below in the section “Parent Company accounting IAS 39, see Note 1 in the Annual Report for 2017. and valuation principles.” From this year the joint ventures’ and associated companies’ taxes are included The Parent Company’s annual accounts and the consolidated annual accounts in “Income from joint ventures and associated companies.” were approved for issuance by the Board of Directors on February 7, 2019. The IASB has issued changes to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment regarding classification Parent Company income statement and balance sheet and the consolidated and measurement of share-based payment transactions, to IAS 28 investments income statement and statement of ﬁnancial position, will be subject to adoption in joint ventures regarding when not using the equity method, and to IAS 19 by the Annual General Meeting on March 28, 2019. Employee Benefits regarding plan amendment, curtailment or settlement. None In 2018 Nasdaq Stockholm AB (the Exchange) performed a sweeping analysis of these changes has had any impact on Skanska’s accounting. of the differences in accounting practices applied under IFRS with respect to the timing of revenue recognition and consolidation linked to cooperative housing Early adoption of new or revised IFRS and interpretations associations. The analysis looked at the accounting principles applied by all large There has been no early adoption of new or revised IFRS or interpretations. construction development and property development companies in Sweden. In December 2018 the Exchange announced its opinion on how these accounting New standards that have not yet begun to be applied matters are to be handled. Skanska is following the Exchange’s guidelines for In January 2016 the IASB published the new standard IFRS 16 Leases, which was both the timing of revenue recognition and the consolidation of cooperative adopted by the EU in November 2017 and will be applied with effect from financial housing associations. Clarified accounting principles can be found under IFRS 15 year 2019. In contrast to the present IAS 17 Leases, under the new standard in this note. Skanska, as the lessee in operating leases as well, must recognize operating leases in the statement of financial position, except for low value or short term leases. Conditions when preparing the Group’s financial reports Skanska has chosen to implement the standard retroactively with cumulative The functional currency of the Parent Company is Swedish crowns or kronor (SEK), effect, i.e. without restating the comparison periods and to apply the standard which is also the reporting currency of the Parent Company and of the Group. to contracts that were previously identified as leases under IAS 17. Lines will The ﬁnancial reports are therefore presented in Swedish kronor. All amounts are be added to the balance sheet for property, plant and equipment right-of-use rounded off to the nearest million, unless otherwise stated. assets, current-asset properties right-of-use assets as well as interest-bearing Preparing the ﬁnancial reports in compliance with IFRS requires management lease liabilities. Right-of-use assets are depreciated over the term of the lease, to make judgments and estimates, and to make assumptions that affect the except for current-asset property right-of-use assets, which are recognized in the application of the accounting principles and the recognized amounts of assets, liasame way as current-asset properties. The lease payments are divided up into an bilities, revenue and expenses. Actual outcomes may deviate from these estimates interest portion and an amortization portion. Operating income will increase and and judgments. financial items will decrease. Cash flow from operating activities will increase and Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly. Changes in estimates are cash flow from financing activities will decrease. recognized in the period the change is made if the change only affects this period, Upon transition to IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019, the assets will increase by or in the period the change is made and future periods if the change affects both SEK 7.6 billion in right-of-use assets, which break down as follows: offices the period in question and future periods. SEK 3.3 billion, vehicles SEK 0.5 billion, machinery SEK 0.8 billion, non-current Judgments made by management when applying IFRS with a substantial right-of-use assets SEK 0.1 billion and current-asset property right-of-use assets impact on the ﬁnancial reports and estimates that may lead to signiﬁcant adjustSEK 2.9 billion. The interest-bearing lease liabilities are SEK 7.8 billion and equity ments in the ﬁnancial reports of subsequent years are described in more detail in is impacted in the amount of SEK –0.1 billion. Finance leases which, under IAS 17, Note 2. are recognized as non-current assets, are moved down to the corresponding The accounting principles for the Group described below have been applied use-of-right assets in the amount of SEK 0.3 billion. See table next page: consistently for all periods that are presented in the Group’s ﬁnancial reports, unless otherwise indicated below. The accounting principles for the Group have been applied consistently in reporting and consolidation of the Parent Company, subsidiaries, associated companies and joint arrangements. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 113 Transition effect, January 1, 2019. Balance sheet Central including Residential Commercial Infrastructure Skanska SEK M Construction Development Development Development Group Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment –282 –282 Total property, plant and equipment –282 0 0 0 –282 Property, plant and equipment right-of-use assets Property ground lease 153 153 Offices 3,196 1 20 80 3,297 Cars 524 1 14 3 542 Machinery 649 649 Other 57 64 121 Total property, plant and equipment right-of-use assets 4,579 66 34 83 4,762 Current assets Current asset properties right-of-use land (ground leases) 128 2,737 2,865 Total current asset properties right-of-use land (ground leases) 0 128 2,737 0 2,865 Total right-of-use assets 4,579 194 2,771 83 7,627 Financial receivable 18 18 Deferred tax asset 14 1 15 Trade and other receivables –46 –3 –49 Total other current assets –14 –3 1 0 –16 Total assets 4,283 191 2,772 83 7,329 Equity –60 –7 –67 Total equity –60 0 –7 0 –67 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities –280 –280 Lease liabilities 4,715 191 2,779 84 7,769 Total liabilities non-current 4,435 191 2,779 84 7,489 Current liabilites Financial liablities –2 –2 Trade and other payables –90 –1 –91 Total liabilities current –92 0 0 –1 –93 Total equity and liabilities 4,283 191 2,772 83 7,329 114 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 The transition from operating leases according to IAS 17 to lease liabilities according IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements to IFRS 16 is shown below. The important difference between undertakings for Income statement operating leases of SEK 22.0 billion and future discounted minimum lease payments Items recognized as revenue are: project revenue, compensation for other services of SEK 8.6 billion is primarily due to real property right-of-use assets. These types performed, divestment of current-asset properties, deliveries of materials and of right-of-use assets often have a longer term, which means there is a significant merchandise, rental income and other operating revenue. Revenue from the sale difference between the nominal amount and the discounted present value. of machinery, equipment, non-current-asset properties and intangible assets is not included, but is instead recognized on a net basis among operating expenses Transition from operating leases according to IAS 17 to lease liabilities against the carrying amounts of the assets. See Note 10. according to IFRS 16, SEK billion Items reported as cost of production include: direct and indirect manufacturing 2018 expenses, loss risk provisions, the carrying amounts of divested current-asset properties, bad debt losses and warranty expenses. Also included is depreciation Future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases, discounted 21,981 on property, plant and equipment used in construction and property management. Changes in the fair value of derivatives related to operations are recognized Minus short-term leases 8,626 in operating income. Minus leases where the underlying asset has a low value –549 Selling and administrative expenses include customary administrative expenses, Minus leases reclassified as service agreements –458 technical expenses and selling expenses, as well as depreciation of machinery and Plus finance leases reclassified –344 equipment that have been used in selling and administration processes. Goodwill Plus leases with a purchase option that is certain to be exercised 282 impairment losses are also reported as selling and administrative expenses. Profit/loss from joint ventures and associated companies, after tax, is recogMinus/plus leases with an extension option or termination option that is certain to be exercised 1 nized separately in the income statement and is included in operating income. Financial income and expense are recognized divided into two items: “Financial Minus/plus leases with variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate 219 income” and “Financial expenses.” Among items recognized under ﬁnancial income are interest income, dividends and other ﬁnancial items. Financial Minus/plus amounts (not) expected to be payable under residual value guarantees –8 expenses include interest expense and other ﬁnancial items. Changes in the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments, primarily derivatives linked to ﬁnancing activities, Lease liabilities according to IFRS 16 7,769 are recognized as a separate sub-item allocated between ﬁnancial income and ﬁnancial expenses. The net amount of exchange-rate differences and gains/losses Skanska’s expected interest rates on loans used upon transition to IFRS 16, on divestments of shares are recognized either as financial income or financial broken down by currency and lease, are as follows: expenses. Financial income and expenses are described in more detail in Note 6 and in Note 14. Country (currency) Discount rate, % 1 2 3 5 10 15 30 Comprehensive income Lease term year years years years years years years Aside from proﬁt for the year, the consolidated statement of comprehensive inCzech Republic (CZK) 3.4 3.6 3.6 3.7 4.0 4.4 4.9 come includes the items that are included under “Other comprehensive income.” – Czech Republic (EUR) 1 0.9 1.1 1.2 1.5 2.4 3.0 3.7 These include translation differences, hedging of exchange rate risks in foreign Denmark (DKK) 0.8 0.9 1.1 1.4 2.3 2.9 3.7 operations, remeasurement related to pension-linked assets and liabilities, effects Finland (EUR) 0.8 1.0 1.1 1.4 2.3 2.9 3.6 of cash ﬂow hedges and tax on these items. Hungary (HUF) 2.3 2.8 3.1 3.6 4.8 5.6 6.3 Statement of ﬁnancial position – Hungary (EUR) 1 1.0 1.2 1.3 1.6 2.5 3.1 3.8 Assets Norway (NOK) 2.4 2.6 2.7 3.0 3.6 3.9 4.6 Assets are allocated between current assets and non-current assets. An asset is Poland (PLN) 3.0 3.1 3.4 3.7 4.4 4.9 5.5 regarded as a current asset if it is expected to be realized within 12 months from – Poland (EUR) 1 0.9 1.1 1.2 1.5 2.4 3.0 3.7 the closing day or within the company’s operating cycle. The operating cycle is the period from the signing of a contract until the company receives cash payment Romania (RON) 4.6 4.9 5.1 5.4 6.1 6.8 7.5 following a ﬁnal inspection or delivery of goods (including properties). Since the – Romania (EUR) 1 1.0 1.2 1.3 1.6 2.5 3.1 3.8 Group executes large contracting projects and project development, the operatSweden (SEK) 0.9 1.1 1.3 1.7 2.6 3.2 3.9 ing cycle criterion means that many more assets are designated as current assets UK (GBP) 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.6 3.1 3.4 4.0 than if the only criterion were within 12 months. USA (USD) 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.3 4.7 5.0 5.4 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and immediately available deposits at banks and equivalent institutions, plus short-term liquid investments with a ma1 If the functional currency is EUR. turity from the acquisition date of less than three months that are subject to only an insignificant risk of fluctuation in value. Checks that have been issued reduce See also Note 40 on (non-discounted) future minimum lease payments for liquid assets only when cashed. Cash and cash equivalents that cannot be used non-cancellable operating leases. See the more detailed description of IFRS 16 freely are reported as current assets (current receivables) if the restriction will later in this note. cease within 12 months from the closing day. In other cases, cash and cash equivIFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments is effective alents are reported as non-current assets. Cash and cash equivalents belonging from January 1, 2019. The interpretation provides guidance on the recognition of to joint operations are cash and cash equivalents with restrictions if they are only uncertain tax positions and whether separate disclosures are to be made. Skanska permitted to be used to settle the joint operations’ debts. has determined that the interpretation accords with the principles previously Assets that meet the requirements in IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale applied by the Group. and Discontinued Operations are accounted for as a separate item among current assets. Note 31 shows the allocation between interest-bearing and non-interestbearing assets. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 115 In Note 32, assets are allocated between amounts for assets that are expected to IFRS 3 Business Combinations be recovered within 12 months of the closing day and assets that are expected to This accounting standard deals with business combinations, which are mergers be recovered later than 12 months from the closing day. The allocation between of separate entities or operations. If the acquisition does not relate to business non-current non-ﬁnancial assets is based on expected annual depreciation. The operations, as is normally the case when acquiring properties, IFRS 3 is not applied. division for current-asset properties is mainly based on outcomes during the past In such cases, the acquisition cost is instead allocated among the individual three years. This division is even more uncertain than for other assets, since the identifiable assets and liabilities based on their fair values on the acquisition date, outcome during the coming year is strongly influenced by the dates when large without recognizing goodwill and any deferred tax assets/tax liability resulting individual properties are handed over. from the acquisition. Acquisitions of businesses, regardless of whether the acquisitions are of Equity holdings in another company or a direct acquisition of assets and liabilities, are The Group’s equity is allocated between “Share capital,” “Paid-in capital,” recognized according to the purchase method of accounting. If the acquisition “Reserves,” “Retained earnings” and “Non-controlling interests.” is of holdings in a company, the method involves regarding the acquisition as a Acquisitions of treasury shares are recognized as a deduction from equity. transaction through which the Group indirectly acquires the assets of the subsidiary Proceeds from the divestment of shares are recognized as an increase in equity. and assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The cost of the acquisition Any transaction costs are recognized directly in equity. recognized in the consolidated accounts is determined by means of an acquisition Dividends are recognized as a liability once the Annual General Meeting has analysis in conjunction with the business combination transaction. The analysis approved the dividend. establishes both the cost of the holdings or the business and the fair value of A description of equity, the year’s changes and disclosures concerning capital ­acquired identiﬁable assets plus the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed. management are provided in Note 26. The difference between the cost of acquiring holdings in a subsidiary and the net fair value of acquired assets and of the liabilities and contingent liabilities Liabilities assumed is goodwill on consolidation. If non-controlling interests remain after Liabilities are allocated between current liabilities and non-current liabilities. the acquisition, the calculation of goodwill is normally carried out based only on Recognized as current liabilities are liabilities that are either supposed to be paid the Group’s stake in the acquired business. within 12 months of the closing day or – in the case of business-related liabilities Transaction costs relating to business combinations are expensed immediately. only – are expected to be paid within the operating cycle. Since the operating In the case of step acquisitions, previous holdings are remeasured at fair value and cycle is taken into account, no non-interest-bearing liabilities, such as trade recognized in proﬁt or loss when a controlling interest is achieved. Contingent accounts payable and accrued employee expenses, are recognized as non-­ consideration is recognized on the acquisition date at fair value. If the amount of current. Liabilities that are recognized as interest-bearing due to discounting are the contingent consideration changes in subsequent ﬁnancial statements, the included among current liabilities, since they are paid within the operating cycle. change is recognized in proﬁt or loss. Interest-bearing liabilities can be recognized as non-current even if they fall due Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is for payment within 12 months of the closing day if the original maturity was allocated among cash-generating units and subject to annual impairment testing longer than 12 months and the company reaches an agreement on long-term in compliance with IAS 36. reﬁnancing of the obligation before the end of the reporting period. Information In the case of business combinations where the cost of acquisition is below the on liabilities is provided in Notes 27 and 30. net value of acquired assets and the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, In Note 32, liabilities are allocated between amounts for liabilities to be paid the difference is recognized directly in proﬁt or loss. within 12 months of the closing day and liabilities to be paid later than 12 months from the closing day. Note 31 also provides information about the allocation IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates between interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing liabilities. Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are translated into an entity’s functional currency IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements at the exchange rate in effect on the transaction date. Monetary assets and The consolidated ﬁnancial statements cover the accounts of the Parent Company liabilities in foreign currency are translated to the functional currency at the and the companies in which the Parent Company has a direct or indirect conexchange rate in effect on the closing day. Exchange rate differences that arise trolling interest. Under IFRS 10 a controlling interest exists when the investor has in remeasurement are recognized in proﬁt or loss. Non-monetary assets and power over the business, or when it has rights to or is exposed to variable returns liabilities recognized at historic cost are translated at the exchange rate in effect from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns on the transaction date. through its power over the investee. If, on the acquisition date, a subsidiary meets Functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment the conditions to be classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, it is where the companies in the Group conduct their business. reported according to that accounting standard. The sale of a portion of a subsidiary is recognized as a separate equity transaction Financial statements of foreign operations when the transaction does not result in a loss of controlling interest. If control of Assets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and other consolan operating Group company ceases, any remaining holding is to be recognized at idated surpluses and deﬁcits, are translated to Swedish kronor at the exchange fair value. Non-controlling interests may be recognized as a negative amount if a rate in effect on the closing day. Revenue and expenses in foreign operations are partly-owned subsidiary is operating at a loss. translated to Swedish kronor at the average exchange rate. Acquired companies are consolidated from the quarter within which the acquisition takes place. In a corresponding manner, divested companies are consolidated Net investment in foreign operations up to and including the ﬁnal quarter before the divestment date. Translation differences that arise in connection with translation of a foreign net Intra-Group receivables, liabilities, revenue and expenses are eliminated in investment are recognized under “Other comprehensive income.” Foreign currency their entirety when the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are prepared. loans and currency derivatives for hedging of translation exposure are carried at Gains that arise from intra-Group transactions and that are unrealized from the exchange rate on the closing day. Exchange rate differences are recognized, the standpoint of the Group on the closing day are eliminated in their entirety. taking into account the tax effect, under “Other comprehensive income.” Unrealized losses on intra-Group transactions are also eliminated in the same Hedging of translation exposure reduces the exchange rate effect when transway as unrealized gains, to the extent that the loss does not correspond to an lating the ﬁnancial statements of foreign operations to SEK. Any forward contract impairment loss. premium is accrued until maturity and is recognized as interest income or interest Goodwill attributable to foreign operations is expressed in local currency. expense. Translation to SEK is in accordance with IAS 21. Information on goodwill is provided in Note 18. 116 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 When divesting a foreign operation, the related accumulated translation differElimination of intra-Group proﬁts ences and accumulated exchange rate differences from any currency hedges are When proﬁts arise from transactions between the Group and an associated transferred to the Group’s proﬁt or loss. ­company or a joint venture, the portion equivalent to the Group’s share of ownership is eliminated. If the carrying amount of the Group’s holding in the associated IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations company is less than the elimination of internal proﬁt, the excess portion of the Discontinued operations constitute a portion of an entity’s operations that elimination is recognized as prepaid income. If a loss arises from a transaction represent a separate line of business or major operations in a geographical area between the Group and an associated company or a joint venture, the loss is elimiand which are part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate line of nated only if it does not correspond to an impairment loss on the asset. business or major operations in a geographical area, or constitute a subsidiary If a proﬁt or loss has arisen in the associated company or in a joint venture, the acquired exclusively with a view to resale. elimination affects the income for the transaction year recognized under “Income Classiﬁcation as discontinued operations occurs upon divestment, or at an earlier from joint ventures and associated companies.” The elimination of the internal date when the operations meet the criteria to be classiﬁed as held for sale. A disposal proﬁt is reversed in later ﬁnancial statements based on how the asset is used or group that is to be shut down can also qualify as discontinued operations if it when it is divested. meets the above criteria. The equity method is applied until the date when the signiﬁcant inﬂuence in an If a non-current asset or disposal group is to be classiﬁed as held for sale, the associated company or the joint controlling interest in a joint venture ceases. The asset (disposal group) must be available for sale in its present condition. It must sale of an interest in an associated company or in a joint venture is recognized on also be highly probable that the sale will occur. In order for a sale to be highly the date that the Group no longer has control over the holding. probable, a decision must have been made at management level, and active Note 20 B provides information about associated companies and joint ventures. efforts to locate a buyer and complete the plan must have been initiated. The asset or disposal group must also be actively marketed at a price that is reasonable in IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements relation to its fair value, and it must be probable that the sale will occur within A joint arrangement exists when the co-owners are bound by a contractual one year. Skanska also applies the principle that with regard to a single non­arrangement, and the contractual arrangement gives those parties joint control current asset, its value must exceed EUR 100 M. of the arrangement. The joint arrangement may be either a joint operation or No depreciation or amortization of a non-current asset takes place as long as it a joint venture. A joint operation exists where the co-owners have rights to the is classiﬁed as held for sale. assets of the arrangement and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement. Non-current assets classiﬁed as held for sale as well as disposal groups and A joint arrangement that is not structured through the formation of a separate liabilities attributable to them and discontinued operations are recognized sepacompany is a joint operation. Contracting projects executed in cooperation with rately in the statement of ﬁnancial position. outside contracting companies, with joint and several liability, are reported by Skanska as joint operations. If the joint arrangement is a separate company but IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures the vast majority of the company’s production is acquired by the co-owners and Companies in which the Skanska Group exercises a signiﬁcant but not a controlling there is no obstacle to its sale to an external party, the joint arrangement is often inﬂuence, which is presumed to be the case when the Group’s holding is between considered to be a joint operation. In other cases the arrangement is a joint ven20 and 50 percent of the voting power, are reported as associates. In addition, it is ture. If the co-owners of the joint arrangement only have rights to the net assets presumed that this ownership is one element of a long-term connection and that of the arrangement, it is a joint venture. Classiﬁcation of a joint arrangement the holding will not be reported as a joint arrangement. requires a determination of its legal form, the terms of the contractual arrangement Associated companies are recognized according to the equity method, as are between the co-owners and other circumstances. joint ventures. See IFRS 11 on joint ventures. For joint operations the revenue, costs, assets and liabilities of the joint operation are included line by line in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements according to The equity method Skanska’s interest in the joint operation. Joint operations are described in Note 20 C. From the date when Skanska gains a signiﬁcant inﬂuence in an associated company, The equity method is used for joint ventures when preparing the consolidated or a joint controlling interest in a joint venture, holdings in associated companies ﬁnancial statements. This method is described under the heading IAS 28. and joint ventures are recognized in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements according In connection with infrastructure projects, the Group’s investment may include to the equity method. Any difference upon acquisition between the cost of the either holdings in or subordinated loans to a joint venture. Both are treated in the holding and Skanska’s share of the net fair value of the associated company’s or accounts as shares in joint ventures. joint venture’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and assumed contingent liabilities is Note 20 B provides information about joint ventures and a speciﬁcation of recognized in compliance with IFRS 3. Under the equity method, the recognized signiﬁcant holdings in joint operations is given in Note 20 C. carrying amount of the Group’s interest in associated companies and joint ventures is equivalent to the Group’s share of the associated company’s share capital, IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements as well as goodwill on consolidation and any other remaining consolidated IFRIC 12, which affects Skanska Infrastructure Development’s joint ventures, deals surpluses and deductions of internal proﬁts. The Group’s share of the associated with the question of how the operator of a service concession should account for company’s or joint venture’s income after tax is recognized as “Income from joint the infrastructure, as well as the rights it receives and the obligations it underventures and associated companies” in the income statement. Any depreciation, takes under the agreement. The operator constructs or upgrades infrastructure amortization and impairment losses on acquired surpluses have been taken into (construction or upgrade services) used to provide a public service and maintains account. Dividends received from an associated company or joint venture reduce the infrastructure (operation services) for a speciﬁed period of time. Construction the carrying amount of the investment. or upgrade services and operation services are reported in compliance with IFRS When the Group’s share of recognized losses in an associated company or joint 15. The consideration may be rights to a ﬁnancial asset or an intangible asset. If venture exceeds the carrying amount of the holdings in the consolidated ﬁnancial the operator has an unconditional right in speciﬁed or determinable amounts (the statements, the value of the holding is reduced to zero. Settlement of losses also consideration model is based on availability through the provision of, for example, occurs against long-term unsecured ﬁnancial assets (subordinated loans), which, a hospital or an airport), a ﬁnancial asset is recognized. IFRS 9 requires interest to in substance, form part of Skanska’s net investment in the associated company be calculated on this financial receivable. The client does not pay until the facility or joint venture and are thus recognized as shares. Continued losses are only is put into operation, and the payment received is then reported as a reduction in recognized if the Group has provided guarantees to cover losses arising in the the financial receivable. If the operator is instead entitled to charge the user of the associated company or joint venture, and then as a provision. public service (the consideration model is based on market risk through, for example, road tolls) an intangible asset is recognized, which is amortized over the life cycle of the project. The road tolls received in payment are recognized as revenue. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 117 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers or enhance resources that will be used to fulﬁll the performance obligation in Under IFRS 15 revenue is recognized based on a ﬁve-step model. Step one involves the future and that are also expected to be recovered. These “Assets arising from identifying the contract with a customer. If two or more contracts are entered into expenses to obtain or complete a contract with a customer” are included in the with a customer at the same time and the price of one contract is dependent on line item “Contract assets” and are reported in Note 9. the other contract, the contracts are combined. A contract modiﬁcation involves Contract assets and contract liabilities are recognized net of revenue recognized a change to the scope or price (or both) of a contract that has been approved by and invoiced amounts per project. Construction contracts often allow for invoicing the contracting parties. A contract modiﬁcation exists when the parties approve a in advance. Once an amount has been invoiced, a trade account receivable is change that either creates new or changes existing rights and responsibilities for recognized. the contracting parties. A contract modiﬁcation is treated as a separate contract Loss contracts are expensed immediately and provisions for losses are made for when the scope of the contract increases due to the addition of promised goods the remaining work to be done and recognized according to IAS 37. or services which are distinct and where the price of the contract is raised by an (As stated under the heading “Segment reporting compared with IFRS amount reﬂecting the company’s stand-alone selling price for the additional reporting”, a different principle is used to establish when revenue is recognized goods or services promised. If the parties have not approved a contract modiﬁcation in segment reporting for the Residential Development and Commercial Property the entity is to continue applying the standard for the existing contract until such Development business streams.) time as the contract modiﬁcation is approved. The Construction business stream builds and renovates buildings, industrial Step two involves identifying the separate performance obligations in the facilities and infrastructure. It also executes service-related assignments, in areas contract. A performance obligation is a promise to the customer to transfer goods such as construction services and facility operations and maintenance. This business or services that are distinct, or a series of distinct goods or services that are essenserves both public and private clients. tially the same and follow the same model for transfer to the customer. Goods or A combination of contracts happens rarely, but contract modifications, such as services are distinct if the customer can benefit from the goods or services either those related to additional orders, are common. In most cases the added goods or on their own or in combination with other resources that are readily available services are not distinct and therefore form part of a single performance obligation to the customer and if the entity’s promise to transfer the goods or services to that is partially met at the time of the contract modification and is reported as the customer is separately identifiable from the other promises in the contract. being a part of the existing contract. Skanska’s client contracts are usually of the type that do not require categorization Most often the contracts, within this business stream, contain only one into two or more performance obligations. performance obligation. Performance obligations in the construction stream In step three the transaction price is determined. This determination involves are the construction contract or the service that is to be delivered, for example establishing a ﬁxed agreed price, variable consideration, any contingent considthe construction of a building on the customer’s land or the maintenance of erations, bonuses and penalties. If there is variable consideration, an estimate is existing facilities, such as roads. If an agreement involves operations in different made of the highest amount of revenue that will likely not require a reversal of geographic locations, delivered during different time periods or with different risk accumulated revenue in later reporting periods. If the contract includes a signiﬁcant exposures, the breakdown of several performance obligations may be relevant. ﬁnancing component, the transaction price is to be adjusted for the effect of the If there is a right to variable remuneration, such as incentive agreements, this time value of the money. Changes to and supplementary orders in contracts that is taken into account to the extent that it is highly unlikely it will be reversed at a have not yet been approved by the client do not require an increase in the transaction later date. price in the project’s estimated income upon completion. Revenue is recognized over time in the construction stream, when the Where there is a non-cash consideration, this is measured at fair value. If a cuscustomer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided through tomer defers goods or services, an assessment is made as to whether it has gained the entity’s performance or when Skanska creates or enhances an asset that the control of these; if this is the case, they are recognized as non-cash revenue customer controls. received from the customer. Revenue is recognized over time, determined each quarter, on the basis of The revenue/transaction price is allocated in step four over the separate perforaccumulated project expenses in relation to estimated accumulated project mance obligations in the contract if more than one obligation exists. The allocatexpenses upon completion. ed transaction price for each individual obligation is to reﬂect the consideration The Residential Development business stream develops and sells new residential that the company is expecting to have the right to in exchange for the transfer of units. Its customers consist almost exclusively of private persons. The reason the promised goods or services to the customer, based on a relative, stand-alone for recognizing revenue is usually an agreement to sell a specific unit, such as a selling price. residential apartment. Contract modifications are rare, but are included in the Revenue is recognized in step ﬁve when the performance obligation is satisﬁed, original contract if they do occur. either over time or at a point in time, and when the customer obtains control of The performance obligation in the Residential Development business stream the asset. Revenue is recognized over time when the customer simultaneously is the handing over of an apartment that is ready for occupation. The transaction receives and consumes the beneﬁts provided through the entity’s performance, price is a fixed price according to the terms of the sales agreement. when the entity’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer Revenue is recognized at the point in time when the keys to the home are controls, or when the entity’s performance does not create an asset with an handed over to the individual buyer. In other words, it is recognized when the buyer alternative use for the entity and the entity also has the right to payment for its has taken possession of the apartment and has full control over it as the owner. performance completed to date. If a performance obligation is not satisfied over This is based on Skanska being deemed not to be entitled to full payment until time as stated above, the entity fulfills the obligation at a certain point in time. fulfillment of its contract obligation. Even if a certain advance payment is made by This takes place at the point when the customer gains control of the promised the buyer, Skanska is not entitled to full payment for the work completed to date. asset. Indicators for determining control can be that the entity has the right to This is due to the fact that sales contracts contain clauses that allow the buyer ­receive payment for the asset, the customer has the legal right of ownership of in certain situations to withdraw from the contract during construction without the asset, the entity has transferred the physical possession of the asset, the cusreimbursing Skanska in the manner required for the recognition of revenue over tomer has the material risks and rewards associated with ownership of the asset time. or the customer has accepted the asset. Skanska initiates and enters into agreements with newly formed Swedish Costs relating to obtaining a contract, i.e., costs the entity would have had if it cooperative housing associations or Finnish housing corporations for the had not won the contract, are recognized as an asset only if the entity is expecting construction of homes. Under the terms in these agreements Skanska has a conto have those expenses covered. Expenses to complete a contract that does not trolling influence and thus consolidates the cooperative housing associations and fall under a standard other than IFRS 15 are recognized as an asset if the expenses housing corporations during the construction period and until the end-customer have a direct link to a contract or to an expected contract, if the expenses create takes possession, at which point Skanska no longer has a controlling influence. Homes not yet transferred are recognized as current-asset properties. 118 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 In the Commercial Property Development stream Skanska initiates, invests in, IFRS 16 Leases – Applies to the financial year beginning on develops, and leases commercial properties that it sells to real estate investors. January 1, 2019 The combination of contracts rarely occurs. Leases, with the exception of leases with a term of less than 12 months and leases Within this business stream the performance obligation to the customer (the where the underlying asset is of low value are recognized in the statement of property investor) is to deliver an investment holding in the form of a commerﬁnancial position as property, plant and equipment right-of-use assets, currentcial property, usually with tenants. If land is sold prior to the commencement of asset properties right-of-use assets as well as interest-bearing lease liabilities. construction work, the sale of land is a performance obligation on its own, which A contract is a lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an identified means that the construction work becomes a separate performance obligation asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Non-lease components in within the construction stream. a contract, such as servicing costs, are separated out and not included in the calThe development of commercial projects is a continuous process with a culation of the value of the right-of-use where it is possible to separate such costs. number of clearly defined phases. The average development cycle from the initial Contracts with subcontractors are generally considered to be service agreements project idea to its completion is five to seven years. Divestment normally occurs since Skanska is requesting a service and the contract does not give Skanska at the end of the cycle, when a project is completed. The performance obligation control over a specific asset. Hire of tower cranes and scaffolding, which in large is to hand over a fully developed property that usually becomes an investment construction projects are generally hired for a long period, is reported as leases. holding of the customer. When assessing whether an asset is of low value, the asset is grouped with assets In some cases, Skanska also assists the investor with renting the property, an on which it is heavily dependent or with which it is linked. undertaking that may be a separate performance obligation. Where the asset can be substituted by the supplier and it is practically possible The transaction price is usually a fixed price according to the terms of the to do so, a lease is not considered to exist since Skanska does not have control contract. over the specific asset. When the contract with the customer is signed, there is no alternative use for The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease, taking into considthe property. If Skanska is entitled to payment for any work performed to date, eration any extension or termination option for the contract and whether it is this would depend on the contractual terms and conditions and on the applicable reasonably certain that this option will be exercised. Current-asset properties legislation. Skanska’s assessment is, however, that it usually assumes this right right-of-use assets which are in practice always extended are considered to be only when fulfilling a contract obligation. Prior to the completion of a project, perpetual rights of use and the lease term is then set at 100 years. Skanska normally only has the right to an indemnity not equal to work performed Rights of use of property, plant and equipment are depreciated over the lease to date. Revenue is therefore recognized at a point in time when the property is term except in the case of perpetual rights of use of land, which are not depreciated handed over to the customer. at all since the remaining lease term is always a constant 100 years. Rights of use It is considered appropriate to recognize the sale of properties through divestfor current-asset properties – both those considered to be perpetual and those ment of companies according to IFRS 15 and not as divested companies under with a fixed lease term – are not depreciated at all since they are reported in IFRS 10 as it is an asset that is being divested, not a company with a business. accordance with IAS 2. The Infrastructure Development business stream develops hospitals, airports, When making payments on a lease, the payment is divided between interest roads and other necessary social structures. The accounting of the stream’s expense and reduction of the outstanding liability. Payments relating to rights of projects complies with IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements, which in turn use that are not depreciated are recognized entirely as interest expense, since – as accounts for revenue according to IFRS 15. mentioned earlier – the liability is unchanged. The interest expense is capitalized during the construction period in the case of current-asset properties right of-use IAS 17 Leases assets. The accounting standard distinguishes between ﬁnance and operating leases. In the case of sale and leaseback transactions, the seller only recognizes the A ﬁnance lease is characterized by the fact that the economic risks and rewards gain that relates to the rights transferred to the buyer, while a right of use is incidental to ownership of the asset have substantially been transferred to the recognized for the rights retained. lessee. If this is not the case, the agreement is regarded as an operating lease. IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment Finance leases Property, plant and equipment are recognized as assets if it is probable that future Assets that are leased under a finance lease, as a lessee, are recognized as assets. economic beneﬁts from them will flow to the Group and the cost of the assets can The obligation to make future lease payments is recognized as a non-current or be reliably calculated. Property, plant and equipment are recognized at cost minus current liability. The leased assets are depreciated during their respective useful accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost includes the purchase lives. When making payments on a ﬁnance lease, the minimum lease payment is price plus expenses directly attributable to the asset in order to bring it to the divided between interest expense and reduction of the outstanding liability. Inlocation and condition to be used in the intended manner. Examples of directly terest expense is allocated over the lease period in such a way that each reporting attributable expenses are delivery and handling costs, installation, ownership period is charged an amount equivalent to a ﬁxed interest rate for the liability recdocuments, consultant fees and legal services. Borrowing costs are included in the ognized during each respective period. Variable payments are recognized among cost of property, plant and equipment produced by the Group. Impairment losses expenses in the periods when they arise. are applied in compliance with IAS 36. Assets leased under ﬁnance leases, as a lessor, are not recognized as property, The cost of property, plant and equipment produced by the Group includes plant and equipment, since the risks incidental to ownership have been transexpenditures for materials and remuneration to employees, plus other applicable ferred to the lessee. Instead a ﬁnancial receivable is recognized for the future manufacturing costs that are considered attributable to the asset. minimum lease payments. Further expenditures are added to cost only if it is probable that the Group will derive future economic beneﬁts from the asset and the cost can be reliably calOperating leases culated. All other further expenditures are recognized as expenses in the period As for operating leases, the lease payment is recognized as an expense/as revenue when they arise. over the lease term on the basis of utilization, and taking into account the The decisive factor in determining when a further expenditure is added to cost beneﬁts that have been provided or received when signing the lease. is whether the expenditure is related to replacement of identiﬁed components, or The Commercial Property Development business stream carries out operating parts thereof, at which time such expenditures are capitalized. In cases where a lease transactions. Information on future minimum lease payments (rents) is new component is created, this expenditure is also added to cost. Any undepreprovided in Note 40, which also contains other information about leases. ciated carrying amounts for replaced components, or parts thereof, are disposed of and recognized as an expense at the time of replacement. If the cost of the removed component cannot be determined directly, its cost may be estimated Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 119 as the cost of the new component adjusted by a suitable price index to take into other assets, the recovery value is calculated for the cash-generating unit to which account inﬂation. Repairs are recognized as expenses on a continuous basis. the asset belongs. A cash-generating unit is the smallest group of assets that Property, plant and equipment that consist of parts with different useful generates cash inﬂows that are independent of other assets or groups of assets. lives are treated as separate components of property, plant and equipment. For goodwill, the cash-generating unit is mainly the same as the Group’s business Depreciation occurs on a straight-line basis during the estimated useful life, or unit or other unit reporting to the Parent Company. If the business unit operates based on degree of use, taking into account any residual value at the end of the in more than one business stream, the cash-generating unit is no larger than the period. Ofﬁce buildings are divided into foundation and frame, with a depreciation identified business stream to which goodwill has been allocated. Operations that period of 50 years, installations of 35 years, and non-weight-bearing parts of are not integrated into the business unit’s other operations are exempted from 15 years. In general, industrial buildings are depreciated over a 20-year period the main rule. without allocation into different parts. Stone crushing and asphalt plants as well In Construction and Residential Development, the recoverable amount of as concrete mixing plants are depreciated over 10 to 25 years depending on their goodwill is based on value in use, which is calculated by discounting expected condition when acquired and without being divided into different parts. For other future cash ﬂows. The discounting factor is the weighted average cost of capital buildings and equipment, division into different components occurs only if major (WACC) applicable to the operation. See Note 18. components with different useful lives can be identiﬁed. For other machinery and Impairment of assets attributable to a cash-generating unit is allocated mainly equipment, the depreciation period is normally between ﬁve and 10 years. Minor to goodwill. After that, a proportionate impairment loss is applied to other assets equipment is recognized as an expense immediately. Gravel pits and stone quarries included in the unit. are depreciated as materials are removed. Land is not depreciated. Assessments Goodwill impairment is not reversed. A goodwill-related impairment loss of an asset’s residual value and period of service are performed annually. recognized in a previous interim report is not reversed in a later full-year report or The carrying amount of a property, plant and equipment item is removed from interim report. the statement of ﬁnancial position when it is disposed of or divested, or when no Impairment losses on other assets are reversed if there has been a change in further economic beneﬁts are expected from the use or divestment of the asset. the assumptions on which the estimate of the recoverable amount was based. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the carrying amount of IAS 38 Intangible Assets the asset after the reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that the asset This accounting standard deals with intangible assets. Goodwill that arises upon would have had if no impairment loss had occurred, taking into account the amoracquisition of companies is recognized in accordance with the rules in IFRS 3. tization that would then have occurred. An intangible asset is an identiﬁable non-monetary asset without physical substance that is used for producing or supplying goods or services or for leasing IAS 23 Borrowing Costs and administration. To be recognized as an asset, it is necessary both that it be Borrowing costs are capitalized provided that it is probable that they will result probable that future economic beneﬁts attributable to the asset will ﬂow to the in future economic beneﬁts and the costs can be measured reliably. Generally entity and that the cost can be reliably calculated. It is especially worth noting that speaking, capitalization of borrowing costs is limited to assets that take a substantial expenditures recognized directly in prior annual or interim reporting periods may period of time for completion, which in the Group’s case mainly means the not subsequently be recognized as an asset. construction of current-asset properties and properties for the Group’s own use Research expenses are recognized in the income statement as they arise. Devel(non-current-asset properties). Capitalization occurs when expenditures included opment expenses, which are expenses for designing new or improved materials, in acquisition cost have arisen and activities to complete the building have begun. structures, products, processes, systems and services by applying research ﬁndings Capitalization ceases when the building is completed. Borrowing costs during an or other knowledge, are recognized as assets if it is probable that the asset will extended period when work to complete the building is interrupted are not capigenerate future revenue. Other development expenses are expensed directly. talized. If separate borrowing has occurred for the project, the actual borrowing Expenses for regular maintenance and modiﬁcations of existing products, cost is used. In other cases, the cost of the loan is calculated on the basis of the processes and systems are not recognized as development expenses. Nor is work Group’s borrowing cost. performed on behalf of a customer recognized as development expenses. Intangible assets other than goodwill are recognized at cost minus accumuIAS 12 Income Taxes lated amortization and impairment losses. Impairment losses are applied in Income taxes consist of current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes are recognized compliance with IAS 36. in the income statement except when the underlying transaction is recognized Amortization is recognized in the income statement on a straight-line basis, or directly under “Other comprehensive income,” in which case the accompanying based on the degree of use, over the useful life of intangible assets, to the extent tax effect is also recognized there. Current tax is tax to be paid or received that is such a period can be determined. Consideration is given to any residual value at related to the year in question, applying the tax rates that have been decided or the end of the period. Acquired customer contracts are amortized at the pace have effectively been decided as of the closing day; this also includes adjustment of completion and patents are amortized over 10 years. Investments in major of current tax attributable to earlier periods. computer systems are amortized over a maximum of seven years. Deferred tax is calculated according to the balance sheet method based on Further expenditures for capitalized intangible assets are recognized as an temporary differences arising between reported and ﬁscal values of assets and asset only when they increase the future economic beneﬁts of the speciﬁc asset to liabilities. The amounts are calculated based on how the temporary differences which they are attributable. are expected to be settled and by applying the tax rates and tax rules that have been decided or announced as of the closing day. The following temporary differIAS 36 Impairment of Assets ences are not taken into account: for a temporary difference that has arisen upon Assets covered by IAS 36 are tested on every closing day for indications of initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets and liabilities that impairment. Exempted assets, for example inventories (including current-asset are not business combinations and which, on the transaction date, affect neither properties), assets arising when construction contracts are carried out and ﬁnanrecognized proﬁt nor taxable proﬁt. Also not taken into account are temporary cial assets included within the scope of IAS 39, are measured according to the differences attributable to shares in subsidiaries and associated companies that respective accounting standard. are not expected to be reversed in the foreseeable future. Offsetting of deferred Impairment losses are determined on the basis of the recoverable amount of tax assets against deferred tax liabilities occurs when there is a right to settle assets, which is the higher of fair value less cost to sell and value in use. In calculating current taxes between companies. value in use, future cash ﬂows are discounted using a discounting factor that takes Deferred tax assets related to deductible temporary differences and loss carryinto account risk-free interest and the risk associated with the asset. Estimated forwards are recognized only to the extent it is likely that they can be utilized. The residual value at the end of the asset’s useful life is included as part of value in value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer considered probable use. For assets that do not generate cash ﬂows that are essentially independent of that they can be utilized. 120 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 IAS 2 Inventories upon its approval in a ﬁnal inspection. If the guarantee covers all or most of the Aside from customary inventories of goods, the Group’s current-asset properties contract sum, the amount of the contingent liability is calculated as the contract are also encompassed by this accounting standard. Both current-asset properties sum minus the value of the portion performed. In cases where the guarantee and inventories of goods are measured item by item in accordance with the lowest only covers a small portion of the contract sum, the guarantee amount remains cost principle, which means that a property or item is measured either by its acquiunchanged until the contracted work is handed over to the customer. The guarsition cost or net realizable value, whichever is lower. Net realizable value is the antee amount is not reduced by being offset against payments not yet received estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated cost of from the customer. Guarantees that have been received from subcontractors and completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. suppliers of materials are not taken into account, either. If the Group receives When item-by-item measurement cannot be applied, the cost of inventories is reciprocal guarantees related to external consortium members’ share of joint and assigned by using the ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst-out (FIFO) formula and includes expenditures several liability, these are not taken into account. Tax cases, court proceedings and that have arisen from acquisition of inventory assets and from bringing them to arbitration are not included in contingent liability amounts. Instead, a separate their present location and condition. For manufactured goods, cost includes a description is provided. reasonable share of indirect costs based on normal capacity utilization. Materials In connection with contracting assignments, security is often provided in the not yet installed at construction sites are not recognized as inventories, but are form of a completion guarantee from a bank or insurance institution. The issuer included among project expenses. of the guarantee, in turn, normally receives an indemnity from the contracting Except for properties that are used in Skanska’s own business, the Group’s company or other Group company. Such indemnities related to the Group’s own property holdings are reported as current assets, since these holdings are included contracting assignments are not reported as contingent liabilities, since they do in the Group’s operating cycle. The operating cycle for current-asset properties is not involve any increased liability compared to the contracting assignment. around three to ﬁve years. Note 33 presents information about contingent liabilities. Acquisitions of properties are recognized in their entirety only upon the transfer of legal ownership, which normally occurs on completion of the purchase. Property Contingent assets acquisitions through purchases of property-owning companies are recognized Contingent assets are possible assets arising from past events and whose exiswhen the shares have been taken over by Skanska. tence will be conﬁrmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more Current-asset properties are divided up between Commercial Property Develuncertain future events not wholly within the control of the company. opment and Residential Development. They are also categorized as “Development In the Group’s construction operations, claims for additional compensation properties,” “Properties under construction” or “Completed properties.” Note 22 from the customer are not uncommon. If the right to additional compensation provides information about these properties. is conﬁrmed, this affects the valuation of the project when reporting according Before impairment losses, properties both completed and under construction to IFRS 15. As for claims that have not yet been conﬁrmed, it is not practicable to are valued based on costs paid directly, a reasonable proportion of indirect costs provide information about these, unless there is an individual claim of substantial and interest expenses during the construction period. Information on market importance to the Group. appraisal of properties is provided at the end of this note. Information on customary inventories of goods is found in Note 23. Assets pledged Shares in joint ventures within the Infrastructure Development business stream IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets are reported as assets pledged when the shares in the project company, which Provisions may be directly owned by Skanska or owned via an intermediate holding comA provision is recognized when the Group has a legal or informal obligation as a pany, are pledged as collateral for loans from banks or lenders other than the result of a past event, and it is probable that an outﬂow of economic resources co-owners. will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can Note 33 provides information about assets pledged. be made. Skanska makes provisions for future expenses relating to warranty obligations IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts according to construction contracts that involve a liability for the contractor to This accounting standard makes a distinction between deﬁned-contribution and remedy errors and omissions that are discovered within a certain period after the deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans. Deﬁned-contribution pension plans are deﬁned as contractor has handed over the property to the client. Such obligations may also plans in which the company pays ﬁxed contributions into a separate legal entity be required by law. and has no obligation to pay further contributions, even if the legal entity does Loss contracts are recognized in the form of a provision for the remaining work not have sufﬁcient assets to pay all employee beneﬁts relating to their service to be done. until the closing day. Other pension plans are deﬁned-beneﬁt plans. Calculation A provision is made for disputes related to completed projects if it is probable of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans according to IAS 19 is carried out in a way that that a dispute will result in an outﬂow of resources from the Group. often deviates from local rules in each country. Obligations and costs are to Provisions for restructuring charges are recognized when a detailed restrucbe calculated according to the projected unit credit method. The purpose is to turing plan has been adopted and the restructuring has either begun or been recognize expected future pension disbursements as expenses in a way that yields publicly announced. more uniform expenses over the employee’s period of employment. Actuarial When accounting for interests in joint ventures and associated companies, a assumptions about the discount rate, wage or salary increases, inﬂation and life provision is made when a loss exceeds the carrying amount of the holding and the expectancy are taken into account in the calculation. Pension obligations for Group has a payment obligation. post-employment beneﬁts are discounted to present value. Discounts are calculated for all three countries where Skanska has deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans Contingent liabilities using an interest rate based on the market return on high quality corporate bonds Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events and whose including mortgage bonds, with maturities matching the pension obligations. existence will be conﬁrmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or Pension plan assets are recognized at fair value on the closing day. In the statemore future events not wholly within the control of the company. Also reported ment of ﬁnancial position, the present value of pension obligations is recognized as contingent liabilities are obligations arising from past events that have not after subtracting the fair value of plan assets. The pension expense and the return been recognized as a liability because it is not likely that an outﬂow of resources on plan assets recognized in the income statement refer to the pension expense will be required to settle the obligation, or the size of the obligation cannot be and return estimated on January 1. The return on plan assets is calculated using estimated with sufﬁcient reliability. the same interest rate as is used to discount the pension obligations. Any differThe amounts of contract fulﬁllment guarantees are included until the ences compared to actual pension expense and actual return, as well as effects contracted work has been transferred to the customer, which normally occurs of changed assumptions, together constitute remeasurement and are reported in “Other comprehensive income.” Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 121 If the terms of a deﬁned-beneﬁt plan are signiﬁcantly amended, or the number not conform to the structure speciﬁed in the standard. The operating cash ﬂow of employees covered by a plan is signiﬁcantly reduced, a curtailment occurs. statement was prepared on the basis of the operations that the different business Obligations are recalculated according to the new conditions. The effect of the streams carry out. curtailment is recognized in proﬁt or loss. When there is a difference between how pension expense is determined in a IAS 33 Earnings per Share legal entity and the Group, a provision or receivable is recognized for the difference Earnings per share are reported directly below the consolidated income statement for taxes and social insurance contributions based on the company’s pension and are calculated by dividing the portion of proﬁt for the year that is attributable expenses. The provision or receivable is not calculated at present value, since it is to the Parent Company’s equity holders (shareholders) by the average number of based on present-value ﬁgures. shares outstanding during the period. Deferred taxes and social insurance contributions on remeasurements are For Seop 3 and Seop 4 employee ownership programs, the dilution effect is recognized under “Other comprehensive income.” calculated by adding potential ordinary shares to the number of ordinary shares Obligations related to contributions to deﬁned-contribution plans are recognized before dilution. The calculation of potential ordinary shares occurs in two stages. as expenses in the income statement as they arise. First there is an assessment of the number of shares that may be issued when The Group’s net obligation related to other long-term employee beneﬁts, established targets are reached. The number of shares for the respective program aside from pensions, amounts to the value of future beneﬁts that employees have year is then determined the following year, provided that the condition of continearned as compensation for the services they have performed during the current ued employment is met. In the next step, the number of potential ordinary shares and prior periods. The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit is reduced by the value of the consideration that Skanska is expected to receive, method and is discounted to present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is divided by the average market price of a share during the period. subtracted. The discount rate is again based on the yield on high quality corporate bonds including mortgage bonds, or government bonds, with a maturity matchIAS 24 Related Party Disclosures ing the maturity of the obligations. According to this accounting standard, information must be provided about A provision is recognized in connection with termination of employees’ transactions and agreements with related companies and physical persons. In employment only if the company is obligated through its own detailed formal the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, intra-Group transactions fall outside this termination plan – and there is no realistic possibility of annulling the plan – to ­reporting requirement. Notes 36, 37 and 39 provide disclosures in accordance with end employment before the normal date, or when benefits are offered in order the accounting standard. With respect to the Parent Company, this information is to encourage voluntary resignation. In cases where the company terminates provided in Notes 62 and 63. ­employees’ employment, the provision is calculated on the basis of a detailed plan that includes at least the location, function and approximate number of employees IAS 40 Investment Property affected, as well as the beneﬁts for each job category or position and the time at Skanska is not reporting any investment properties. Properties that are used in which the plan will be implemented. the Group’s own operations are reported in compliance with IAS 16. The Group’s Only an insigniﬁcant percentage of the Group’s deﬁned-beneﬁt pension obliholdings of current-asset properties are covered by IAS 2 and thus fall outside the gations were ﬁnanced by premiums to the retirement insurance company Alecta. application of IAS 40. Since the required figures cannot be obtained from Alecta, these pension obligations are reported as a defined-contribution plan. Since the same conditions apply IFRS 8 Operating Segments to the AFP plan in Norway, this is also reported as a deﬁned-contribution plan. According to this standard, an operating segment is a component of the Group carrying out business operations whose operating income is evaluated regularly IFRS 2 Share-based Payment by the highest executive decision-maker and about which separate ﬁnancial The Seop 3 and Seop 4 employee ownership programs are recognized as shareinformation is available. based payment settled with equity instruments, in compliance with IFRS 2. This Skanska’s operating segments consist of its business streams: Construction, means that the fair value is calculated on the basis of market value at the time of Residential Development, Commercial Property Development and Infrastructure investment and expected fulﬁllment of targets. This value is allocated over the Development. respective vesting period. After the fair value is established, there is no reappraisal The Group Leadership Team is the Group’s highest executive decision-maker. during the remainder of the vesting period, except in the case of changes in the The principle for segment reporting of Residential Development and Comnumber of shares because the condition of continued employment during the mercial Property Development in the income statement deviates from IFRS on vesting period is no longer met. two points. In segment reporting, a divestment gain is recognized on the date a sales contract is signed. In segment reporting joint ventures are recognized within Social insurance contributions Residential Development line by line according to the proportional method of Social insurance contributions that are payable in connection with share-based accounting. This means that Construction’s revenue from joint ventures within payments are reported in compliance with statement UFR 7 from the Swedish Residential Development operations is eliminated in segment reporting. Note 4 Financial Reporting Board. The cost of social insurance contributions is allocated presents a reconciliation between segment reporting and the income statement over the period when the services are performed. The provision that arises is in compliance with IFRS. reappraised on each ﬁnancial reporting date to correspond to the estimated Note 4 provides information about operating segments. Financial reporting contributions that are due at the end of the vesting period. to the Group Leadership Team focuses on the areas for which each respective operating segment is operationally responsible: operating income in the income IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows statement and capital employed. For each respective operating segment, the In preparing its cash ﬂow statement, Skanska applies the indirect method in note thus reports external and internal revenue, cost of production, selling compliance with the accounting standard. Aside from cash and bank balance and administrative expenses and capital employed. Capital employed refers to ﬂows, cash and cash equivalents are to include short-term investments whose total assets minus tax assets and receivables invested in Skanska’s treasury unit conversion into bank balances may occur in an amount most of which is known (“internal bank”) less non-interest-bearing liabilities excluding tax liabilities. In the in advance. Short-term investments with maturities of less than three months calculation of capital employed, a capitalized interest expense is removed from are regarded as cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents that are total assets for the R ­ esidential Development and Commercial Property Development subject to restrictions are reported either as current receivables or as non-current segments. Acquisition goodwill has been reported in the operating segment to receivables. which it relates. In addition to the cash ﬂow statement prepared in compliance with the standard, In transactions between operating segments, pricing occurs on market terms. the Report of the Directors presents an operating cash ﬂow statement that does 122 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Certain parts of the Group do not belong to any operating segment. These are All ﬁnancial assets are measured at amortized cost with the exception of: reported in Note 4 under the heading “Central and eliminations.” Operating sega) fi  nancial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss (such liabilities, ment income includes intra-Group proﬁts and, consequently, these are eliminated including derivatives that are liabilities, are thereafter to be measured at fair during reconciliation with the consolidated income statement and the consolidatvalue); ed statement of ﬁnancial position. b) ﬁnancial liabilities arising when a transfer of a ﬁnancial asset does not meet In addition to information about operating segments, Note 4 provides disclothe criteria for derecognition from the statement of ﬁnancial position or sures on external revenue for the entire Group and disclosures on the allocation where a continued commitment is appropriate; of certain assets divided by countries with more than ten percent of the Group’s c) ﬁnancial guarantee contracts; total items. d) a loan commitment with interest that is below the market interest rate; and e) a contingent consideration acknowledged by an acquiring party in conIAS 10 Events After the Reporting Period nection with a business combination covered by IFRS 3 (such contingent Events after the end of the reporting period may, in certain cases, conﬁrm a situaconsideration is thereafter measured at fair value with changes recognized tion that existed on the closing day. Such events are taken into account when the through proﬁt or loss). ﬁnancial reports are prepared. Information is provided about other events that An entity is only entitled to reclassify all relevant ﬁnancial assets when the occur after the closing day and before the ﬁnancial report is signed if the omission entity changes its business model for managing ﬁnancial assets. Reclassiﬁcation of such information would affect the ability of a reader to make an accurate of ﬁnancial liabilities is not permitted. assessment and a sound investment decision. Financial assets and liabilities are initially measured at fair value plus or minus Such information is provided in Note 41. transaction costs upon acquisition of a ﬁnancial asset or ﬁnancial liability for a ﬁnancial asset or ﬁnancial liability that is not measured at fair value through proﬁt IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation or loss. Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component Offsetting of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities occurs when an entity has are measured upon initial recognition at their transaction price (as defined in a legal right to offset items against each other and intends to either settle these IFRS 15). After initial recognition, ﬁnancial assets are measured at amortized cost, items on a net basis or simultaneously divest the asset and settle the liability. fair value through other comprehensive income or fair value through proﬁt or Prepaid income and expenses are not ﬁnancial instruments. Accrued income loss. Subsequent measurement of ﬁnancial liabilities is at amortized cost or fair and expenses that are related to the business are not recognized as ﬁnancial value through proﬁt or loss. instruments. Thus, contract assets and contract liabilities are not included under An entity is to apply the impairment requirement to expected credit losses on financial instruments. Obligations for employee beneﬁt plans in compliance ﬁnancial assets and a loss provision for these is to be recognized as a deduction with IAS 19, such as pension plans, are exempt from IAS 32 and are thus not from the asset. On every closing day the loss provision is to be equivalent to an recognized as ﬁnancial instruments. Assets and liabilities that are not based on amount reﬂecting the expected credit losses for the remaining time until maturity contracts, such as income taxes, are not considered ﬁnancial instruments. if the credit risk has increased signiﬁcantly since it was initially recognized. If the Information in compliance with the accounting standard is provided mainly in credit risk has not increased signiﬁcantly since it was ﬁrst recognized, the loss proNotes 6, 21 and 27. vision is to be equivalent to 12 months of expected credit losses. For trade receivables, contractual assets and lease receivables, the loss provision is always to be at IFRS 9 Financial Instruments an amount equivalent to the remaining time to maturity. An entity is to measure IFRS 9 Financial Instruments addresses the recognition of ﬁnancial assets and liaexpected credit losses taking into account an objective and probability-weighted bilities. Categories exempt from application according to IFRS 9 include holdings amount, the time value of money, reasonable and supportable information about in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures, leases, rights under empast events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. ployment contracts, treasury shares, financial instruments as described in IFRS 2, The purpose of hedge accounting is so that, in its ﬁnancial statements, an and rights and responsibilities within IFRS 15 except for the rights in IFRS 15 where entity can report the effect of its risk management where ﬁnancial instruments an impairment requirement according to IFRS 9 applies. All ﬁnancial instruments, are used to manage exposure from speciﬁc risks that would impact results. A including derivatives, are recognized as a ﬁnancial asset or ﬁnancial liability in the derivative that is measured at fair value through profit or loss can be identified statement of ﬁnancial position when the entity becomes a party to the contractual as a hedging instrument. A financial asset or liability that is not a derivative meaprovisions of the instrument. A regular way purchase or sale of a ﬁnancial asset sured at fair value through profit or loss can be identified as a hedging instrument is recognized in and derecognized from the statement of ﬁnancial position using unless it is a financial liability identified as measured at fair value through profit trade date accounting. A ﬁnancial asset is derecognized from the statement of or loss for which the amount of the change in fair value arising from changes in ﬁnancial position when the contractual rights to cash ﬂows from the ﬁnancial asset credit risk for the liability is recognized in other comprehensive income. In hedge expire or when the entity transfers the contractual rights to receive cash ﬂows accounting, only contracts with an external party outside the Group can be from the ﬁnancial asset or retains the contractual rights to receive cash ﬂows, but identiﬁed as hedging instruments. A hedged item may be a recognized asset or assumes a contractual obligation to pay cash ﬂows to one or more recipients. liability, an unrecognized binding commitment, a highly likely forecast transA ﬁnancial liability is derecognized from the statement of ﬁnancial position only action or a net investment in foreign operations. A hedging relationship only when the contractual obligation is fulﬁlled, cancelled or expires. qualifies for hedge accounting when the following criteria have been met: the Presentation of ﬁnancial assets is based on the entity’s business model and the hedging relationship consists only of eligible hedging instruments and eligible contractual cash ﬂows of the asset. hedged items, where there is a formal designation and documentation for the A ﬁnancial asset is measured at amortized cost if the asset is held within the hedging ­relationship and the entity’s risk management objective and strategy for framework of a business model the objective of which is to hold ﬁnancial assets in undertaking the hedge, and where the effectiveness requirement for the hedges order to collect contractual cash ﬂows, and the cash ﬂows on speciﬁed dates are has been met. The effectiveness requirement is met when there is an economic solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, the effect of A ﬁnancial asset is measured at fair value through other comprehensive income credit risk does not dominate the value changes that result from the economic if the asset is held according to a business model the objective of which can be relationship, and the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as the achieved both by collecting contractual cash ﬂows and selling ﬁnancial assets, ratio between the quantity of the hedged item that the entity actually hedges and and the cash ﬂows are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal the quantity that the entity actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged items. amount outstanding. A ﬁnancial asset is measured at fair value though proﬁt or Skanska uses hedge accounting for cash ﬂow hedging and hedging of net loss if it is not measured at amortized cost or at fair value through other compreinvestment in foreign operations. Hedge accounting is used for cash ﬂow hedges hensive income. when a future cash ﬂow is attributable to a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable future transaction. Hedge accounting for hedging of net investments in foreign operations is applied when the net investment is in line with IAS 21. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 123 A cash ﬂow hedge is recognized as follows: The Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation a) t he separate component in equity, cash flow hedge reserve, which is linked RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups to the hedged item is to be adjusted to the lower of the following: the cumuThe recommendation speciﬁes what further disclosures must be provided in lative gains or losses from the hedging instrument from the date the hedge order for the annual accounts to comply with Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act. was entered into or the cumulative change in fair value for the hedged item The additional information mainly relates to disclosures on employees. from the date the hedge was entered into; Disclosures on the number of employees, gender distribution and distribution b) the portion of the gain or loss for a hedging instrument that has been deteramong countries are provided in Note 36. The number of employees during the mined to be an effective hedge is recognized in other comprehensive income; year was calculated as an average of the average number of employees during c) the remaining gain or loss for the hedge instrument is hedging ineffectiveness the quarters in the year. In this calculation, part-time employment is equivalent to that is to be recognized through proﬁt or loss; 60 percent of full-time employment. Employees belonging to operations divested d) t he amount accumulated in cash flow hedge reserve derived from the cash during the year are included up until the date of divestment. Employees of acquired ﬂow hedged in accordance with a) is to be recognized as follows: companies are included from the date of acquisition. i) if a hedged forecast transaction subsequently leads to recognition of Information on the gender distribution among senior executives refers to the a non-ﬁnancial asset or liability, or a hedged forecast transaction for a situation on the closing day. “Senior executives” in the various subsidiaries refers non-ﬁnancial asset or liability becomes a binding commitment for which to the members of the management teams of the respective business units. This hedge accounting of fair value is used, the entity is to deduct this from the information is provided in Notes 36 and 37. reserve originating from the cash ﬂow hedge and include it directly in the In addition to Board members and the President and CEO, all other persons in initial cost or other recognized value for the asset or liability; the Group Leadership Team must be included in the group for which a separate ii) for all cash ﬂow hedges except those covered by i) this amount is to be account is to be provided of the total amounts of salaries and other remuneration, reclassiﬁed from the reserve originating from the cash ﬂow hedge to as well as expenses and obligations related to pensions and similar beneﬁts. proﬁt or loss as a reclassiﬁcation adjustment in the same period or periods Furthermore, the same disclosures must be provided individually for each of the during which the hedged expected future cash ﬂows affect proﬁt or loss; Board members and for the President and CEO, as well as individuals previously iii) if this amount is a loss and an entity is expecting all or part of the loss holding these positions. Employee representatives are exempted. not to be recovered during one or more future periods, the amount not Note 36 provides information about loans, assets pledged and contingent liaexpected to be recovered is to be immediately reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss bilities on behalf of Board members and of Presidents and CEOs within the Group. as a reclassiﬁcation adjustment. Information must also be provided on fees to auditors and the accounting ﬁrms Hedging of net investments in foreign operations, including a hedge of a where the auditors work. See Note 38. monetary item that is recognized as part of a net investment, is to be recognized in a similar way to cash ﬂow hedges: the portion of the gain or loss for the hedging Order bookings and order backlog instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is to be recognized In contracting assignments, an order booking refers to a written order conﬁrmation through other comprehensive income, and the remainder is to be recognized or signed contract, provided that ﬁnancing has been arranged and construction through profit or loss. The cumulative gain or loss for the hedging instrument that is expected to commence within 12 months. If a previously received order is canis attributable to the effective portion of the hedge and that has accumulated in celed in a subsequent quarter, the cancellation is recognized as a negative item the currency translation reserve is to be reclassiﬁed from equity to proﬁt or loss when reporting order bookings for the quarter when the cancellation occurs. upon disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operations. Reported order bookings also include orders from Residential Development and Commercial Property Development, which presupposes that building permits are IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures in place and construction is expected to begin within three months. For services The company provides disclosures that enable the evaluation of the signiﬁcance related to ﬁxed-price work, the order booking is recorded when the contract is of ﬁnancial instruments for the entity’s ﬁnancial position and performance. The signed, and for services related to cost-plus work, the order booking corresponds disclosures also enable an evaluation of the nature of ﬁnancial instruments and to revenue. For service agreements, a maximum of 24 months of future revenue risks associated with them to which the company has been exposed during the is included. period and is exposed to at the end of the reporting period. These disclosures also No order bookings are reported in Residential Development and Commercial provide a basis for assessing how these risks are managed by the company. This Property Development. standard supplements the principles for recognizing, measuring and classifying Order backlog refers to the difference between order bookings for a period ﬁnancial assets and liabilities in IAS 32 and IFRS 9. and accrued revenue (accrued project expenses plus accrued project revenue The standard applies to all types of ﬁnancial instruments, with the primary adjusted for loss provisions) plus order backlog at the beginning of the period. exception of holdings in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures, The order backlog in the accounts of acquired subsidiaries on the date of acquias well as obligations for employee beneﬁt plans in compliance with IAS 19, such sition is not reported as order bookings, but is included in order backlog amounts. as pension plans. The disclosures that are provided thus include accrued interest income, deposits and accrued interest expense. Accrued income relating to conMarket appraisal tracting assignments is not a ﬁnancial instrument. Commercial Property Development The disclosures provided are supplemented by reconciliation with other items Note 22 provides the estimated market value of Skanska’s current-asset p ­ roperties. in the income statement and in the statement of ﬁnancial position. For completed commercial properties and for development properties, the Disclosures in compliance with this accounting standard are presented in Note 6. market value for the majority of properties has been calculated in cooperation with external appraisers. The value of ongoing projects is measured internally. IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of GovernThe calculated market value of ongoing projects refers to each property once it is ment Assistance completed and fully occupied. “Government assistance” refers to action by the government designed to provide an economic beneﬁt speciﬁc to one company or a category of companies that Residential Development qualify based on certain criteria. Government grants are assistance from the In appraising properties in Residential Development, market value is calculated government in the form of transfers of resources to a company in return for past taking into account the value that can be obtained within the usual economic or future compliance with certain conditions relating to its operations. cycle and refers to properties once they are completed. Government grants are recognized as prepaid income or a reduction of an investment when there is reasonable assurance that the grants will be received and that the Group will meet the criteria for receiving the grant. 124 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 1. Continued Note 1. Parent Company accounting and valuation principles Infrastructure Development The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in compliance with the Skanska obtains an estimated value for infrastructure projects by discounting Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s Recommenestimated future cash ﬂows in the form of dividends and repayments of loans dation RFR 2, “Accounting for Legal Entities.” According to RFR 2, the annual and equity by a discount rate based on country, risk model and project phase for accounts of the legal entity must apply the International Financial Reporting the various projects. The discount rate chosen is applied to all future cash ﬂows Standards (IFRS) and International Accounting Standards (IAS) issued by the starting on the appraisal date. This is based on the most recently updated ﬁnancial International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), to the extent these have been model. This ﬁnancial model describes all cash ﬂows in the project and serves as approved by the EU, as well as the interpretations by the IFRS Interpretations the ultimate basis for ﬁnancing, which is carried out with full project risk and Committee and its predecessor the Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC), as without guarantees from Skanska. far as this is possible within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and taking An estimated value is stated solely for projects that have reached contractual into account the connection between accounting and taxation. A presentation and ﬁnancial close. All ﬂows are appraised: investments in the project (equity and of the various accounting standards can be found in the Group Note 1. The statesubordinated debenture loans), interest on repayments of subordinated loans, as ments of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board must also be applied. well as dividends to and from the project company. Today all investments except In accordance with RFR 2, IFRS 9 is not applied to ﬁnancial guarantee agreeNew Karolinska Solna are denominated in currencies other than Swedish kronor, ments beneﬁting subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures. Instead, and there is thus also an exchange rate risk. IAS 37 is applied, which normally means that provisions for these measures are Estimated values have in part been calculated in cooperation with external not recognized since it is unlikely that an outﬂow of resources will be required appraisers and are stated in Note 20 B. to settle the obligation. No reserves for future credit losses, under IFRS 9, are made as the Parent Company’s trade accounts receivable – with only one small exception – are Group company receivables over which Skanska AB exercises control. The credit risk is therefore minimal. Group contributions are recognized in accordance with the general rule in RFR 2. The Seop 3 and Seop 4 employee ownership programs are recognized as share-based payment settled with equity instruments, in compliance with IFRS 2. The portion of the Group’s expense for these employee ownership programs that relates to employees of subsidiaries is recognized in the Parent Company as an i­ncrease in the carrying amount of holdings in subsidiaries and an increase in ­equity. When the amount to be debited to the subsidiary is established, a transfer is made to “Receivables from subsidiaries.” Where compensation from subsidiaries for shares that have been allocated deviates from the previously reported increase in the carrying amount of holdings in subsidiaries, the carrying amount of holdings in subsidiaries is reduced to the portion of the amount that does not exceed the previously reported increase. Any remaining portion of the compensation is recognized directly in equity. Important differences compared to consolidated accounting principles The income statement and balance sheet conform to the presentation formats in the Annual Accounts Act. Deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans are reported according to the regulations in the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Pension obligations secured by assets in pension funds are not recognized in the balance sheet. Similar to holdings in subsidiaries, holdings in associated companies and joint arrangements are also carried at cost before any impairment losses. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 125 Note 2. Key estimates and judgments Key estimates and judgments Investments in Infrastructure Development The Group Leadership Team has discussed with the Board and the Audit ComThe estimated investment amounts are provided in Note 20 B. Estimated market mittee the developments and disclosures relating to the Group’s important value is based on discounting anticipated cash ﬂows for each respective investaccounting principles and estimates, as well as the application of these principles ment. Estimated yield requirements on investments of this type have been used and estimates. as discount rates. Changes in anticipated cash ﬂows, which in a number of cases Some important accounting-related estimates that were made when applying extend 20 to 30 years into the future, and/or changes in yield requirements, may the Group’s accounting principles are described below. materially affect both estimated values and carrying amounts for each investment. Goodwill impairment testing Current-asset properties When calculating the recoverable amount of cash-generating units to determine The stated combined market value in Note 22 is calculated on the basis of prevailing if there is any goodwill impairment, several assumptions about future conditions price levels in the respective location of the individual properties. Changes in the and estimates of parameters have been made. These are presented in Note 18. As supply of similar properties, as well as changes in demand due to changed yield understood from the description in this note, important changes in the basis for requirements, may materially affect both estimated market values and carrying these assumptions and estimates might have a substantial effect on the value of amounts for each property. goodwill. In Commercial Property Development, the estimated market value for ongoing projects is assessed for each property once it is completed and fully occupied. Pension assumptions In Residential Development the supply of capital and the price of capital for Skanska has deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans in a number of countries. The plans ﬁnancing home buyers’ investments are critical factors. The market value assessed are recognized according to IAS 19, which means that pension commitments here too is the value of the properties once they are completed and taking into are calculated using actuarial assumptions and that plan assets are measured at account the value that may be added in a normal economic cycle. market value on the closing day. The effects of changed actuarial assumptions and changes in the market value of plan assets are recognized as remeasurements Prices of goods and services in other comprehensive income. The remeasurements impact interest-bearing In the Skanska Group’s operations there are many different forms of contractual pension liabilities and equity. mechanisms. The degree of risk associated with the price of goods and services The assumptions and prerequisites that provide the basis for recognition of varies greatly depending on the contract type. pension liability, including a sensitivity analysis, are presented in Note 28. Sharp increases in material prices may pose a risk, particularly to long-term projects with ﬁxed-price commitments. A shortage of human resources and certain Revenue recognition over time input goods may also adversely impact operations. Delays in the design phase or Skanska applies revenue recognition over time in the construction stream. On changes in design are other circumstances that may adversely affect projects. the basis of an estimated final outcome of the project, revenue and costs are recognized over time during the duration of the project based on the stage of completion. In order to do this, the amount of project revenue and project expenses must be able to be reliably ­determined. This in turn requires that the Group has efficient, coordinated systems for calculation, forecasting and revenue/expense reporting. The method also requires consistent assessment (forecasts) of the ﬁnal outcome of the project, including analysis of deviations from earlier assessments. This critical assessment is performed at least once every quarter. However, actual future project outcomes may deviate, either positively or negatively, from this assessment. Disputes Although management’s best judgment is used in reporting disputed amounts, the actual future outcomes may deviate from the judgment made. See Note 33 and Note 29. 126 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 3. Effects of changes in accounting principles Note 4. Operating segments As of January 1, 2018 the IFRS accounting rules have changed for revenue recogSkanska’s business streams – Construction, Residential Development, Commercial nition (IFRS 15 replaces the previous IAS 11, IAS 18 and IFRIC 15) and recognition Property Development and Infrastructure Development – are recognized as of financial assets and liabilities (IFRS 9 replaces the previous IAS 39). operating segments. These business streams coincide with Skanska’s operational For Skanska, IFRS 15 involves a reclassification from contract liabilities and organization, used by the Group Leadership Team to monitor operations. The from other operating liabilities to provisions for losses, on the line “Current Group Leadership Team is also Skanska’s “chief operating decision maker.” provisions.” This standard will not require any change in segment reporting for Each business stream carries out distinct types of operations with different Residential Development and Commercial Property Development. IFRS 9 requires risks. Construction includes both building construction and civil construction. a new impairment model for anticipated credit losses due to the possible future Residential Development develops residential projects for immediate sale. inability of customers to pay. Homes are adapted for selected customer categories. The units in this segment The change in the accounting principles was made in compliance with the are responsible for planning and selling projects. The construction assignments transition rules. are performed by construction units in the Construction business stream in each respective market. Commercial Property Development initiates, develops, leases IFRS 15 and divests commercial property projects. Project development focuses on office IFRS 15 has been implemented with full retrospective effect, i.e. the consolidated buildings, retail and logistics properties. Construction assignments are performed financial statements have been restated for 2017 due to the implementation of in most markets by Skanska’s Construction segment. Infrastructure Development IFRS 15. specializes in identifying, developing and investing in privately financed infrastrucThe effects on the opening balance for 2017 are presented in the following ture projects, such as highways, hospitals and airports. The business stream focuses table. on creating new potential projects, mainly in the markets where the Group has operations. Construction assignments are performed by the construction Effect on the Group, January 1, 2017 units where Skanska has construction operations. Intra-Group pricing between Before the After the operating segments occurs on market terms. Central Segment includes the cost of change Change change Group headquarters, earnings of central companies and operations that are being Contract liabilities (Gross amount due to discontinued. Eliminations consist mainly of profits in Construction operations customers for contract work) 18,473 –151 18,322 related to property projects. See also note 1. Trade and other payables 36,080 –236 35,844 Revenue and expenses by operating segment Current provisions 7,227 387 7,614 Each business stream has operating responsibility for its income statement down through “operating income.” IFRS 9 The effects of IFRS 9 were reported upon its implementation on January 1, 2018 and are presented in the following table. Assets and liabilities by operating segment Each business stream has operating responsibility for its capital employed. The capital employed by each business stream consists of its total assets minus tax Effect on the Group, January 1, 2018 assets and intra-Group receivables invested in Skanska’s treasury unit (“internal Before the After the bank”) less non-interest-bearing liabilities excluding tax liabilities. In the calcuchange Change change lation of capital employed, a capitalized interest expense is removed from total Deferred tax assets 1,757 40 1,797 assets for the Residential Development and Commercial Property Development Current financial assets 6,671 –30 6,641 segments. Trade and other receivables 27,778 –150 27,628 Acquisition goodwill has been reported in the business stream to which it Equity 27,185 –140 27,045 belongs. Cash flow by segment is presented as a separate statement: Consolidated operating cash flow statement and change in interest-bearing net receivables. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 127 Note 4. Continued Commercial InfrastrucDifference Residential Property ture Total in ConstrucDevelopDevelopDevelopoperating Total accounting Total 2018 tion ment ment ment segments Central Eliminations segments principles IFRS External revenue 143,264 10,739 16,248 105 170,356 138 170,494 1,236 171,730 Revenue from internal customers 14,630 23 14,653 412 –15,065 0 0 Total revenue 157,894 10,739 16,271 105 185,009 550 –15,065 170,494 1,236 171,730 Cost of sales –149,849 –8,558 –12,335 –139 –170,881 –605 14,994 –156,492 –973 –157,465 Gross income 8,045 2,181 3,936 –34 14,128 –55 –71 14,002 263 14,265 Selling and administrative expenses –6,998 –676 –928 –116 –8,718 –756 –9,474 1 –9,473 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 52 61 181 294 5 299 556 855 Operating income 1,099 1,505 3,069 31 5,704 –811 –66 4,827 820 5,647 of which depreciation/amortization –1,700 –1 –6 –2 –1,709 –71 –1,780 –1,780 of which impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses Goodwill –393 –393 –393 –393 Other assets –102 –72 –107 –9 –290 6 –284 –284 of which gains from sale of commercial properties 4,005 4,005 321 4,326 150 4,476 of which gains from sale of infrastructure projects 58 58 58 58 Employees 37,006 542 414 61 38,023 627 38,650 Gross margin, % 5,1 20,3 Selling and administrative expenses, % –4,4 –6,3 Operating margin, % 0,7 14,0 Assets, of which Property, plant and equipment 7,570 7 20 1 7,598 60 –13 7,645 7,645 Intangible assets 4,598 421 9 5,028 271 5,299 5,299 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 244 470 337 2,248 3,299 4 –15 3,288 3,288 Current-asset properties 11 16,712 26,301 43,024 –633 42,391 42,391 Capital employed –6,148 13,605 26,672 2,234 36,363 9,824 46,187 46,187 Investments –2,526 –10,542 –11,452 –63 –24,583 –48 91 –24,540 –24,540 Divestments 430 12,146 15,275 80 27,931 88 –179 27,840 27,840 Net investments –2,096 1,604 3,823 17 3,348 40 –88 3,300 0 3,300 Reconciliation from segment reporting to IFRS Revenue according to segment reporting – upon signing of contracts 157,894 10,739 16,271 105 185,009 550 –15,065 170,494 Plus properties sold before the period 14,646 5,116 19,762 19,762 Less properties not yet occupied by the buyer on closing day –13,247 –5,708 –18,955 –79 –19,034 Plus revenue of joint ventures in Residential Development –160 –160 303 143 Exchange-rate differences 228 137 365 365 Revenue according to IFRS – handover 157,894 12,206 15,816 105 186,021 550 –14,841 171,730 Operating income according to segment reporting – upon signing of contracts 1,099 1,505 3,069 31 5,704 –811 –66 4,827 Plus properties sold before the period 2,315 950 3,265 12 3,277 Less properties not yet occupied by the buyer on closing day –2,012 –888 –2,900 –43 –2,943 Plus operating income of joint ventures in Residential Development 36 324 360 18 378 New intra-Group proﬁts 27 27 Exchange-rate differences 33 48 81 81 Operating income according to IFRS – handover 1,099 1,877 3,503 31 6,510 –811 –52 5,647 128 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 4. Continued Commercial InfrastrucDifference Residential Property ture Total in ConstrucDevelopDevelopDevelopoperating Total accounting Total 2017 tion ment ment ment segments Central Eliminations segments principles IFRS External revenue 135,997 13,158 11,255 81 160,491 332 160,823 –2,946 157,877 Revenue from internal customers 14,053 79 185 14,317 1,032 –15,349 0 0 Total revenue 150,050 13,237 11,440 81 174,808 1,364 –15,349 160,823 –2,946 157,877 Cost of sales –141,751 –10,855 –8,451 –177 –161,234 –1,275 15,209 –147,300 2,197 –145,103 Gross income 8,299 2,382 2,989 –96 13,574 89 –140 13,523 –749 12,774 Selling and administrative expenses –7,132 –666 –899 –121 –8,818 –1,033 –9,851 –9,851 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 38 624 1,142 1,804 28 1,832 –177 1,655 Operating income 1,205 1,716 2,714 925 6,560 –944 –112 5,504 –926 4,578 of which depreciation/amortization –1,478 –1 –6 –3 –1,488 –99 –1,587 –1,587 of which impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses Goodwill –592 –592 –592 –592 Other assets –265 –14 –6 –11 –296 13 –283 –283 of which gains from sale of commercial properties 2,879 2,879 197 3,076 –370 2,706 of which gains from sale of infrastructure projects 985 985 985 985 Employees 39,002 482 389 94 39,967 792 40,759 Gross margin, % 5,5 18,0 Selling and administrative expenses, % –4,8 –5,0 Operating margin, % 0,8 13,0 Assets, of which Property, plant and equipment 6,771 5 19 9 6,804 86 –16 6,874 6,874 Intangible assets 4,770 409 7 5,186 330 5,516 5,516 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 218 527 658 1,944 3,347 3 –36 3,314 3,314 Current-asset properties 11 15,505 24,043 39,559 –549 39,010 39,010 Capital employed –2,761 12,652 24,481 1,809 36,181 7,930 44,111 44,111 Investments –2,062 –11,093 –10,716 –449 –24,320 –67 202 –24,185 –24,185 Divestments 237 11,773 9,341 1,950 23,301 112 –314 23,099 23,099 Net investments –1,825 680 –1,375 1,501 –1,019 45 –112 –1,086 0 –1,086 Reconciliation from segment reporting to IFRS Revenue according to segment reporting – upon signing of contracts 150,050 13,237 11,440 81 174,808 1,364 –15,349 160,823 Plus properties sold before the period 14,070 3,120 17,190 17,190 Less properties not yet occupied by the buyer on closing day –14,646 –5,116 –19,762 79 –19,683 Plus revenue of joint ventures in Residential Development –875 –875 313 –562 Exchange-rate differences 37 72 109 109 Revenue according to IFRS – handover 150,050 11,823 9,516 81 171,470 1,364 –14,957 157,877 Operating income according to segment reporting – upon signing of contracts 1,205 1,716 2,714 925 6,560 –944 –112 5,504 Plus properties sold before the period 2,237 627 2,864 2 2,866 Less properties not yet occupied by the buyer on closing day –2,316 –951 –3,267 –12 –3,279 Plus operating income of joint ventures in Residential Development –78 –338 –416 –18 –434 New intra-Group proﬁts 0 –47 –47 Exchange-rate differences –51 15 –36 1 3 –32 Operating income according to IFRS – handover 1,205 1,508 2,067 925 5,705 –943 –184 4,578 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 129 Note 4. Continued External revenue according to IFRS by geographical area Sweden UK USA Other items 1) Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Construction 29,932 27,801 22,161 19,568 61,936 58,781 29,538 30,160 143,567 136,310 Residential Development 6,684 7,291 5,443 4,533 12,127 11,824 Commercial Property Development 3,845 5,010 1,082 4,301 103 7,648 3,136 15,794 9,331 Infrastructure Development 13 12 22 28 38 41 32 105 81 Central and eliminations 4 133 331 137 331 Total operating segments 40,478 40,114 22,183 20,678 66,275 58,925 42,794 38,160 171,730 157,877 1 No geographical area with revenue accounting for 10 percent or more of the Group's revenue is included. The Group has no customers that account for 10 percent or more of its revenue. Non-current assets and current-asset properties by geographic area Investments in joint ventures Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets and associated companies Current-asset-properties 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Norway 1,496 235 1,379 4 156 4,034 5,824 Poland 327 2,084 13 635 1,312 5,884 12,704 Sweden 2,326 1,054 668 1,344 1,392 159 12,609 3,426 UK 205 224 1,503 1,503 65 418 284 USA 2,362 2,320 653 984 1,588 1,765 9,543 7,383 Other 1) 938 957 1,083 1,046 87 78 9,903 9,389 7,654 6,874 5,299 5,516 3,288 3,314 42,391 39,010 1 No geographical area with revenue accounting for 10 percent or more of the Group's total items is included. Note 5. Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations are recognized in compliance with IFRS 5, see Note 1. No operations were recognized as discontinued in 2018 or 2017. At the end of 2018, there were no non-current assets that were recognized in compliance with IFRS 5 as current assets and specified as assets held for sale. Nor were there any such non-current assets in 2017. 130 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 6. Financial instruments and financial risk management Financial instruments are reported in compliance with IFRS 9 Financial InstruWhen investing in surplus funds the objective is to always achieve good risk ments,IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IFRS 7 Financial Instrudiversiﬁcation. As of the end of the year the surplus funds were primarily invested ments: Disclosures. with larger banks with a global presence, mainly from the Nordic region, Europe, Skanska’s contract assets and contract liabilties are not recognized as a financial USA and Japan. Skanska currently uses around 10 banks for derivative transactions. instrument and the risk associated with these receivables and liabilities is thus not Maximum exposure is equivalent to the fair value of the assets and amounts to reported in this note. SEK 19,272 M (15,212). The average maturity of interest-bearing assets amounted Risks in partly-owned joint venture companies in Infrastructure Development to 0.3 (0.3) years as of December 31, 2018. are managed within each respective joint venture company. Skanska’s aim is The Group’s financial interest-bearing assets as of December 31, 2018, primarto ensure that financial risk management within these companies is equivalent ily consisting of bank balances and investments in short-term debt instruments, to that which applies to the Group’s wholly owned companies. Management were still considered to have a low credit risk as of the closing day as the assets of the interest rate risk in financing is essential in each respective joint venture have a high credit rating and thus the lost provision for the assets is based on company, because the contract period in many cases amounts to decades. This 12 months of expected credit losses. risk is managed with the help of long-term interest rate swaps. These holdings are reported according to the equity method of accounting. As a result, the Interest-bearing assets and derivatives Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 financial instruments in each joint venture company are included under the item Maximum exposure in outstanding receivables 19,272 15,903 “Income from joint ventures and associated companies.” Disclosures on ﬁnancial instruments in joint ventures and associated companies are not included in the of which derivatives 72 103 following disclosures. Less adjustment from fair value –8 Loss provision for expected credit losses accordFinancial risk management ing to IFRS 9 –25 Through its operations, aside from business risk, Skanska is exposed to various Carrying amount 19,239 15,903 financial risks such as credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. These risks are associated with the Group’s reported financial instruments such as cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing receivables, trade accounts receivable, trade Change in impairment losses on interest-bearing assets accounts payable, borrowings and derivatives. and derivatives 2018 2017 January 1 0 0 Objectives and policy Changed accounting principle, Note 3 30 The Group endeavors to achieve a systematic assessment of both financial and Adjusted amount at beginning of year 30 0 business risks. To do this a common risk management model is used. The risk management model does not involve avoidance of risk, but is instead aimed at Adjustment loss provision according to IFRS 9 –5 identifying and managing the risks. December 31 25 0 Through the Group’s Financial Policy, each year the Board establishes guidelines, objectives and limits for financial management and administration Customer credit risk – risk in trade accounts receivable of financial risk within the Group. The Financial Policy stipulates the division of Customer credit risk is managed using the Skanska Group’s common procedures responsibility between Skanska’s Board of Directors, Skanska’s Group Leadership for identifying and managing risks: the Skanska Tender Approval Procedure Team, Skanska Financial Services (SFS) and thebusiness units. (STAP) and Project Scrutiny and Approval Procedure (PSAP). Within the Group, SFS has operational respons­ibility for securing Group Skanska’s credit risk with regard to trade accounts receivable has a high degree financing and for managing liquidity, financial assets and financial liabilities. of risk diversification, due to the large number of projects of varying sizes and A centralized financial unit enables Skanska to take types with numerous different customer categories, of which a big part in the advantage of economies of scale and synergies. public sector, in a large number of geographical markets. The objectives and policy for each type of risk are described in the respective The portion of Skanska’s operations related to construction projects extends sections below. only limited credit, since projects are invoiced in advance as much as possible. In other operations, the extension of credit is limited to customary invoicing periods. Credit risk The impairment loss on trade accounts receivable amounts to SEK 447 M (435), Credit risk describes the Group’s risk from financial assets and arises if a counterof which SEK 150 M (0) is for the loss provision for expected credit losses according party does not fulfill its contractual payment obligations to Skanska. Credit risk to IFRS 9. is divided into ﬁnancial credit risk, which is risk associated with interest-bearing assets and derivatives, and customer credit risk, which refers to the risk from trade Trade accounts receivable Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 accounts receivable. Outstanding receivables 20,726 20,684 Impairment losses –447 –435 Financial credit risk – risk in interest-bearing assets and derivatives Financial credit risk is the risk that the Group is exposed to in its relationships with Carrying amount 20,279 20,249 financial counterparties when investing surplus funds and with respect to bank account balances and investments in financial assets. Credit risk in the form of counterparty risk also arises when using derivatives and is the risk that a potential Change in impairment losses, trade accounts receivable 2018 2017 gain will not be realized if the counterparty does not fulfill its part of the contract. January 1 435 545 According to the policy, Skanska must limit its exposure to financial counterChanged accounting principle, Note 3 150 parties by using banks and financial institutions assigned a high credit rating by Adjusted amount at beginning of year 585 545 rating agencies Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch. The permitted exposure volume per counterparty is dependent on the counterparty’s credit rating and Impairment losses for the year 40 172 the maturity of the exposure. To reduce the credit risk associated with derivative Reversals of impairment losses –3 –2 instruments, the Group has also signed standardized netting agreements (ISDA Impairment losses settled –189 –287 agreements) with all ﬁnancial counterparties with whom Skanska has entered Exchange-rate differences 14 7 into derivative contracts. December 31 447 435 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 131 Note 6. Continued Risk in other operating receivables including shares Financing Other financial operating receivables consist of receivables for properties divested, Skanska has several borrowing programs, both committed bank credit facilities accrued interest income, deposits etc. and market funding programs, which provide good preparedness for temporary On the closing day no operating receivables were past due and there were no fluctuations in the Group’s short-term liquidity requirements and ensure longimpairment losses. term funding. Holdings with less than 20 percent of voting power in a company are reported In 2018 Skanska issued green bonds for the second time under the Medium as shares. Their carrying amount is SEK 41 M (42). Term Note (MTN) program for a total of SEK 1,000 M, of which SEK 500 M will Other ﬁnancial operating receivables are reported by time interval with respect mature in 2.5 years and SEK 500 M in 5 years. to when the amounts fall due in the future. Skanska also exercised its option in the syndicated credit facilities – both of which were negotiated in 2017 – of a one-year extension after the end of the first 2018 2017 year. Short-term liquidity requirements due to seasonal variations in cash flow were Due within 30 days 57 22 covered during the year by short-term bank loans in SEK and USD. Due in over 30 days but within one year 147 1,028 At the end of the year the central debt portfolio amounted to SEK 4.3 (4.6) bilDue after one year 151 14 lion. The unutilized credit facilities of just over SEK 8.6 M (8.3) in combination with Total 355 1,064 the operating financial net assets of SEK 14.2 (9.7) billion ensure that the Group has sufficient financial capacity. Liquidity and refinancing risk Liquidity and financing risk is defined as the risk of Skanska not being able to meet its payment obligations due to lack of liquidity or due to difficulties in obtaining or rolling over external loans. The Group uses liquidity forecasting as a means of identifying and managing the ﬂuctuations in short-term liquidity. Surplus liquidity is, if possible, to be used primarily to repay the principal on loan liabilities. 2018 2017 Limit in Maturity Currency currency Limit in SEK Utilized Limit in SEK Utilized Market funding programs Commercial paper (CP) program, maturities 0–1 years SEK/EUR SEK 6,000 M 6,000 6,000 Medium-term note (MTN) program, maturities 1–10 years SEK/EUR SEK 8,000 M 8,000 1,852 8,000 2,350 14,000 1,852 14,000 2,350 Committed credit facilities Green syndicated bank loan 2020 SEK/EUR/USD EUR 200 M 2,051 1,967 Syndicated bank loan 2023 SEK/EUR/USD EUR 600 M 6,152 5,901 Bilateral loan agreement 2020 EUR EUR 60 M 615 615 590 590 Bilateral loan agreements 2023/2024 USD USD 200 M 1,786 1,786 1,638 1,638 Other credit facilities 428 17 413 11,031 2,418 10,509 2,228 At year-end 2018, the Group’s unutilized confirmed credit facilities totaled SEK 8,613 M (8,281). 132 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 6. Continued Liquidity reserve and maturity structure The objective is to have a liquidity reserve of at least SEK 4 billion available within one week in the form of cash liquidity or unutlized confirmed credit facilities. At year-end, cash and cash equivalents and unutlized confirmed credit facilities amounted to SEK 19 (15) billion, of which SEK 14 (12) billion is, or is expected to be, available within one week. The Group’s policy is for the central borrowing portfolio’s maturity structure to be distributed over time and for the portfolio to have a weighted average residual term of three years, including unutilized committed credit facilities, with authorization to deviate within a two to four year interval. On December 31, 2018 the average maturity of the borrowing portfolio was 3.6 (3.5) years, if unutilized credit facilities are taken into account. Including interest payments, the maturity structure of the Group’s financial interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives is distributed over the next few years according to the following table. 2018 Maturity Future Carrying payment Within After 3 months After 1 year Maturity period amount amount 3 months within 1 year within 5 years After 5 years Interest-bearing ﬁnancial liabilities 11,744 12,238 70 7,381 3,152 1,635 Derivatives: Currency forward contracts 39 39 39 Derivatives: Interest rate swaps 12 12 2 10 Trace accounts payable 16,262 16,262 16,262 Other operating liabilities 322 322 311 9 2 Total 28,379 28,873 16,684 7,400 3,154 1,635 2017 Maturity Future Carrying payment Within After 3 months After 1 year Maturity period amount amount 3 months within 1 year within 5 years After 5 years Interest-bearing ﬁnancial liabilities 12,161 12,638 1,300 6,743 2,752 1,843 Derivatives: Currency forward contracts 100 100 96 4 Derivatives: Interest rate swaps 58 58 24 29 5 Trade accounts payable 15,638 15,638 15,638 Other operating liabilities 496 496 494 2 Total 28,453 28,930 17,552 6,776 2,759 1,843 The average maturity of interest-bearing liabilities amounted to 1.7 (1.8) years. Market risk Market risk is the Group’s risk that the fair value of financial instruments or future cash flows from financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market prices. The main market risks in the consolidated accounts are interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 133 Note 6. Continued Interest rate risk Foreign exchange rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates will adversely affect the Foreign exchange rate risk is defined as the risk of a negative impact on the Group’s financial items and cash flow (cash flow risk) or the fair value of financial Group’s income statement and statement of financial position due to exchange assets and liabilities (fair value interest risk). rate fluctuations. This risk can be divided into transaction exposure, i.e. net operIn 2018 the Board adopted a new strategy and policy for risk management ating and financial (interest/principal payment) flows, and translation exposure involving a transition to management of net debt instead of using duration related to net investments in foreign subsidiaries. measurement for borrowing at the central level. As a consequence of the policy change, interest rate swaps that matured in 2018 were not extended. Transaction exposure To limit the risk, the interest-rate maturities for financial assets and ­liabilities Transaction exposure arises in a local unit when the unit’s inflows and outflows are to match to the greatest extent possible in the respective borrowing of foreign currencies are not matched. ­currencies. When calculating the Group’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates, Although the Group has a large international presence, its operations are all ­interest-bearing assets, liabilities and derivatives are included, with the mainly of a local nature in terms of foreign exchange rate risks, because project exception of pensions and taxes. The analysis is based on the assumption that the revenue and costs are mainly denominated in the same currency. If this is not the position as of December 31, 2018 will remain the same in terms of the size of net case, the objective is for each respective Business Unit to hedge its exposure in debt, the ratio of fixed and variable interest rates, and the percentage of financial contracted cash flows against its functional currency in order to minimize the efinstruments in foreign currencies. fect on earnings caused by shifts in exchange rates. The main tool for this purpose Fair value sensitivity is measured using three different scenarios: a base scenario is currency forward contracts. with an interest rate increase of one percentage point across all maturities, or an The foreign exchange rate risk for the Group may amount to a total of SEK 50 M, increase or decrease in the base scenario rate of one half of a percentage point with risk calculated as the effect on earnings of a 5 percentage point shift in over all maturities. According to this policy, the change in fair value may not exchange rates. As of December 31, 2018 foreign exchange rate risk accounted exceed SEK 150 M in any of these interest scenarios. for SEK 29 M (35) of transaction exposure before tax, which would affect other As of December 31, 2018 the change in fair value estimated using the scenarios comprehensive income in the amount of SEK 23 M (27) after tax. above would impact net financial items in the range of SEK 35–56 M (20–24) and Contracted net flows in currencies that are foreign to the respective Group other comprehensive income in the range of SEK 5–7 M (18–37) where hedge company, and hedges relating to these, are distributed among currencies and accounting is applied. All amounts are stated before tax. Equity would thus be maturities as follows. affected by SEK 28–45 M (30–48) taking tax into account. The Group’s cash flow risk must not exceed SEK 150 M over a 12-month period The Group’s contracted net in the event of an increase of one percentage point in market interest rates. Assuming Dec 31, 2018 foreign currency ﬂows Hedging of foreign currency flows the volume and fixed interest period are the same at year-end, an average 2021 increase in the market interest rate of one percentage point from the level at the and 2021 SEK M 1 2019 2020 later 2019 2020 and later end of the year would result in an estimated positive effect on the Group’s financial items of around SEK 38 M (41) for 2018. PLN –3,768 –165 PLN 3,202 281 0 The deviation of cash flow risk, fair value interest rate risk and the fixed interest EUR –992 –102 1 EUR 1,008 84 1 period are all within the authorized limits for the Group as of December 31, 2018. CZK –331 –109 CZK 370 53 The average ﬁxed interest period for all of the Group’s interest-bearing assets HUF –193 –44 HUF 197 51 was 0.1 (0.1) years, taking derivatives into account. The interest rate for these was RON –17 –1 RON 0.83 (0.63) percent at year-end. Of the Group’s total interest-bearing financial assets, 43 (23) percent carry fixed interest rates and 57 (77) percent variable GBP –2 GBP 2 interest rates. USD 37 0 USD –26 The average ﬁxed interest period for all interest-bearing liabilities, taking into Other Other account derivatives but excluding pension liabilities, was 0.3 (0.5) years. currencies 3 1 currencies The interest rate for interest-bearing liabilities amounted to 1.52 (1.43) percent Total Total at year-end. Taking into account derivatives, the interest rate was 1.59 (1.75) equivalent equivalent percent. value –5,262 –421 1 value 4,753 469 1 Of total interest-bearing financial liabilities, after taking into account derivatives, 17 (33) percent carry fixed interest rates and 83 (67) percent variable interest rates. The Group’s net foreign Dec 31, 2017 currency ﬂows Hedging of foreign currency flows As of December 31, 2018 there were outstanding interest rate swap contracts amounting to a nominal SEK 1,610 M (3,585). All of the contracts were entered 2020 and 2021 into in order to swap the Group’s borrowing from variable to ﬁxed interest. SEK M 1 2018 2019 later 2019 2020 and later Hedge accounting is applied for interest rate swaps with terms that match the PLN –2,729 –102 PLN 2,052 578 hedged loan with respect to nominal amounts, reference interest rate, date of EUR –504 –135 19 EUR 506 133 17 maturity, and the payment and interest rate adjustment date. The efficiency is evaluated when the hedging relationship is entered into and on an ongoing basis. CZK –308 –82 CZK 313 58 Inefficiency may arise if the creditworthiness of the contracting party affects fair USD –19 –6 USD 27 5 value changes to the hedge and the hedged loan differently. RON –10 –9 RON As of December 31, 2018 Skanska is applying hedge accounting for three HUF 123 HUF interest rate swaps in a nominal amount of SEK 810 M. These meet the efficiency GBP 225 –1 GBP –225 1 criteria. The fair value of these hedges amounts to SEK –8 M (–36) and this is recognized in other comprehensive income. Other Other The fair value of interest rate swaps for which hedge accounting is not applied currencies –8 4 currencies 32 –9 totaled SEK –4 M (–22) on December 31, 2018. For these interest rate swaps, Total changes in fair value are recognized through profit or loss. equivalent value –3,231 –332 19 2,705 765 17 There were also interest rate swap contracts in partly owned joint venture companies, for which hedge accounting is applied for all of them. 1) Flows in PLN, CZK, HUF and RON are mainly in the form of property development project costs. Flows in EUR are mainly attributable to construction operations in Sweden, Norway and Poland. 134 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 6. Continued Skanska hedges foreign currency flows by matching critical terms such as nominal amount, currency and maturity date. A qualitative evaluation of the relationship’s efficiency is made in this way. The efficiency of a hedge is evaluated when the hedging relationship is entered into and on an ongoing basis. A currency hedge may become inefficient if the timing of the transaction differs from that which was initially estimated and if the credit risk associated with the derivative counterparty is changed. Skanska mainly uses hedge accounting to hedge expenses in currencies other than the EUR in its European property development operations. The fair value of these hedges totaled SEK 15 M (70) on December 31, 2018. The hedges fulﬁll effectiveness requirements, which means that unrealized gains or losses are recognized under “Other comprehensive income.” The fair value of currency hedges for which hedge accounting is not applied totaled SEK 4 M (31) on December 31, 2018, including the fair value of embedded derivatives. Changes in fair value are recognized through proﬁt or loss. Information on the changes recognized in the consolidated income statement and in other comprehensive income during the period can be found in the table “Impact of financial instruments on the consolidated income statement, other comprehensive income and equity” below. Translation exposure Skanska’s policy stipulates that net investments in Commercial Property Development and Infrastructure Development are to be currency-hedged since the intention is to sell these assets over time. These hedges consist of forward currency contracts and foreign currency loans. The positive fair value of the forward currency contracts amounted to SEK 6 M (14) and their negative fair value amounted to SEK 0 M (0). The fair value of foreign currency loans is SEK 626 M (607). Net investments in other foreign subsidiaries are not normally hedged, unless the Board of Skanska AB decides otherwise. In 2018 the Infrastructure Development business stream was restructured and hedge accounting in GBP for assets in PPP projects in the UK was therefore discontinued. At year-end 2018, 5 (19) percent of equity was currency hedged. A change in the exchange rate where the Swedish krona falls/rises by 10 percent against other currencies would have an effect of SEK +/–2.2 (2,2) billion on other comprehensive income after tax and taking and hedges into account. Hedging of net investments outside Sweden 2018 2017 Net Net Hedged Net investNet investNet Hedged investNet investCurrency investments Hedges 1 portion, % ments 2 ments % 2 investments Hedges 1 portion, % ments 2 ments % 2 CZK 2,292 0 2,292 8 2,505 2,505 9 DKK 882 0 882 3 531 531 2 EUR 4,602 –966 21 3,636 12 6,868 –4,324 63 2,544 9 GBP 1,628 –90 6 1,538 5 1,679 –255 15 1,424 5 NOK 4,447 0 4,447 15 4,149 4,149 15 PLN –516 0 –516 –2 615 615 2 USD 9,127 0 9,127 31 8,912 –204 2 8,708 32 Other foreign 63 0 63 0 82 82 Total foreign currencies 22,525 –1,056 5 21,469 73 25,341 –4,783 19 20,558 76 SEK and eliminations 7,781 27 6,506 24 Total 29,250 100 27,064 100 1 Hedged amount before subtracting tax portion. 2 After subtracting hedged portion. Hedge accounting is applied in those cases net investments outside Sweden are Information on the changes recognized in the consolidated income statement hedged. The hedges fulﬁll effectiveness requirements, which means that unrealand in “Other comprehensive income” during the period can be found in the table ized gains or losses are recognized under other comprehensive income until the “Impact of ﬁnancial instruments on the consolidated income statement, other hedged transaction takes place, at which point the accumulated change in value is comprehensive income and equity” below. transferred to the income statement. See also Note 34. The efficiency of the hedge is evaluated on an ongoing basis to ensure that the relationship meets the criteria. Inefficiency may arise in connection with a change in net investments and if the credit risk associated with the derivative counterparty is changed. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 135 Note 6. Continued The significance of financial instruments to the group’s financial position and income Financial instruments in the statement of financial position The table below shows the carrying amount and fair value of financial instruments by category, as well as a reconciliation with total assets and liabilities in the statement of ﬁnancial position. See also Note 21, Note 24, Note 27 and Note 30. Fair value relating to hedged transaction exposure is reported under Contract assets/contract liabilities or under “Other operating receivables/liabilities.” Fair value There are three different levels for establishing fair value. The first level uses the official price quotation in an active market. The second level, which is used when a price quotation in an active market does not exist, calculates fair value by remeasuring at observable exchange rates and discounting future cash ﬂows based on observable market interest rates for each respective maturity and currency. The third level uses substantial elements of input data that are not observable in the market. All fair value items in the table below have been calculated at the second level above , except a portion of the liabilities for the contingent considerations which are measured at fair value according to level three. See footnote 1 under the table for financial liabilities below. In calculating fair value in the borrowing portfolio, Skanska takes into account current market interest rates, which include the credit risk premium that Skanska is estimated to pay for its borrowing. The fair value of ﬁnancial instruments with option elements is calculated using the Black-Scholes model. As of December 31, 2018, Skanska had no instruments with option elements. For financial instruments recognized at amortized cost; cash, shares, trade accounts receivable, other operating receivables, trade accounts payable and other operating liabilities, the fair value is considered the same as the carrying amount. At fair value in At fair value other comprehensive Total carrying Assets Measurement level through profit/loss income At amortized cost amount Total fair value 2018 Financial instruments Interest-bearing assets and derivatives Financial assets 1 2 72 8,445 8,517 8,550 Cash – 10,722 10,722 10,722 72 0 19,167 19,239 19,272 Trade accounts receivable 2 20,279 20,279 20,429 Other operating receivables including shares Shares recognized at fair value 3 – 41 41 41 Other operating receivables 2, 4 – 355 355 355 0 0 396 396 396 Total financial instruments 72 0 39,842 39,914 40,097 2017 Financial instruments Interest-bearing assets and derivatives Financial assets 1 2 103 8,109 8,212 8,214 Cash – 6,998 6,998 6,998 103 0 15,107 15,210 15,212 Trade accounts receivable 2 20,249 20,249 20,249 Other operating receivables including shares Shares 3 – 42 42 42 Other operating receivables 2, 4 1,064 1,064 1,064 0 0 1,106 1,106 1,106 Total financial instruments 103 0 36,462 36,565 36,567 1 The carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets excluding shares, totaling SEK 8,517 M (8,212), can be seen in Note 21. 2 See Note 24. 3 Shares are reported in the consolidated statement of financial position among financial assets. See also Note 21. 4 In the consolidated statement of financial position, SEK 27,243 M (27,778) was reported as other operating receivables. See Note 24. Of this amount, trade accounts receivable accounted for SEK 20,279 M (20,249). These were reported as financial instruments. The remaining amount is SEK 6,964 M (7,529) and breaks down as SEK 355 M (1,064) for financial instruments and SEK 6,609 M (6,465) for non-financial instruments. The amount reported as financial instruments includes accrued interest income, deposits etc. Amounts reported as non-financial instruments include, for example, interim items other than accrued interest, VAT receivables, pension-related receivables and other employee-related receivables. 136 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 6. Continued Reconciliation with statement of ﬁnancial position Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Assets Financial instruments according to the categories in IFRS 9 39 914 36 565 Other assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 12,944 12,390 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 3,288 3,314 Net assets in funded pension plans 904 693 Tax assets 2,329 2,945 Current-asset properties 42,391 39,010 Inventories 1,256 1,058 Contract assets 6,661 6,997 Other operating receivables 1 6,609 6,465 Total assets 116,296 109,437 1 In the consolidated statement of financial position, SEK 27,243 M (27,778) was reported as other operating receivables. See Note 24. Of this amount, trade accounts receivable accounted for SEK 20,279 M (20,249). These were reported as financial instruments. The remaining amount is SEK 6,964 M (7,529) and breaks down as SEK 355 M (1,064) for financial instruments and SEK 6,609 M (6,465) for non-financial instruments. The amount reported as financial instruments includes accrued interest income, deposits etc. Amounts reported as non-financial instruments include, for example, interim items other than accrued interest, VAT receivables, pension-related receivables and other employee-related receivables. At fair value At Total Mearurement through amortized carrying Liabilities level profit/loss cost amount Total fair value 2018 Financial instruments Interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives Financial liabilities 1 2, 3 391 11,404 11,795 11,825 391 11,404 11,795 11,825 Operating liabilities Trade accounts payable – 16,262 16,262 16,262 Other operating liabilities 2 – 322 322 322 0 16,584 16,584 16,584 Total financial instruments 391 27,988 28,379 28,409 2017 Financial instruments Interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives Financial liabilities 1 2, 3 763 11,556 12,319 12,401 763 11,556 12,319 12,401 Operating liabilities Trade accounts payable – 15,638 15,638 15,638 Other operating liabilities 2 – 496 496 496 0 16,134 16,134 16,134 Total financial instruments 763 27,690 28,453 28,535 1 T he carrying amount for financial liabilities totaling SEK 11,795 M (12,319) is reported in the statement of financial position along with financial liabilities of SEK 11,222 M (11,481) from Note 27 and contingent consideration of SEK 573 M (838) from Note 29. Contingent consideration is included in financial liabilities measured at fair value at SEK 340 M (605) and in financial liabilities measured at amortized cost at SEK 233 M (233). In 2018 SEK 263 M (9) of the contingent consideration was paid out and SEK 47 (49) accrued as interest expense, and an additional 9 (265) in contingent consideration was added and an adjustment has been made in the amount of SEK –58 M (0). 2 O ther financial operating liabilities, totaling SEK 16,584 M (16,134), are reported in the statement of financial position together with trade accounts payable of SEK 16,262 M (15,638) and other financial instruments of SEK 322 M (496). The total item in the statement of financial position amounts to SEK 38,072 M (38,224). See Note 30. Accrued interest expense, checks issued but not cashed, liabilities for unpaid properties etc. are recognized as other ﬁnancial operating liabilities. Other non-financial operating liabilities are, for example, interim items other than accrued interest, VAT liabilities, pension-related liabilities and other employee-related liabilities. Operating liabilities are measured at amortized cost. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 137 Note 6. Continued Restated Reconciliation with statement of ﬁnancial position Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Equity and liabilities Financial instruments 28,379 28,453 Other liabilities Equity 29,347 27,185 Pensions 5,669 5,603 Tax liabilities 1,326 1,547 Provisions 9,349 8,293 Contract liabilities 20,738 16,266 Other operating liabilities 1 21,488 22,090 Total equity and liabilities 116,296 109,437 2018 2017 Financial Financial Financial Financial Disclosures concerning offsetting of financial instruments assets liabilities assets liabilities Gross amounts 39,914 28,379 36,565 28,453 Recognized in balance sheet 39,914 28,379 36,565 28,453 Amounts covered by netting arrangements –42 -42 –53 –53 Net amount after netting arrangements 39,872 28,337 36,512 28,400 138 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 6. Continued Impact of financial instruments on the consolidated income statement, other comprehensive income and equity Revenue and expenses from financial instruments recognized in the income statement 2018 2017 Recognized in operating income Interest expense on financial liabilities at cost –1 Cash flow hedges removed from equity and recognized in the income statement 154 226 Total income and expenses in operating income 154 225 Recognized in financial items Interest income on assets measured at amortized cost 6 10 Interest income on cash and bank balances 138 79 Dividends 32 33 Changes in market value of financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 13 1 Changes in market value of financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss 5 25 Total income in financial items 194 148 Interest expense on ﬁnancial liabilities measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss –52 –47 Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortized cost –283 –219 Changes in market value of financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss –2 –2 Net exchange rate differences 23 Expenses for borrowing programs –14 –15 Bank-related expenses and other –26 2 Total expenses in financial items –377 –258 Net income and expenses from financial instruments recognized in the income statement –29 115 of which interest income on financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss 144 89 of which interest expenses on financial liabilities not measured at fair value through profit or loss –283 –220 Reconciliation with financial items 2018 2017 Total income from financial instruments in financial items 194 148 Total expense from financial instruments in financial items –377 –258 Net interest income on pensions –103 –102 Capitilized interest expense 325 257 Total financial items 39 45 See also Note 14. Income and expenses from ﬁnancial instruments recognized under other comprehensive income 2018 2017 Cash flow hedges recognized directly in equity 88 –5 Cash flow hedges removed from equity and recognized in the income statement 154 226 Translation differences 1,299 –599 Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations –183 –125 Total 1,358 –503 of which recognized in cash flow hedge reserve 242 221 of which recognized in translation reserve 1,116 –724 1,358 –503 Collateral The Group has provided collateral (assets pledged) in the form of financial receivables amounting to SEK 824 M (940). Also see Note 33. These assets may be utilized by customers if Skanska does not fulfill its obligations according to the respective construction contract. To a varying extent, the Group has obtained collateral for trade accounts receivable in the form of guarantees issued by banks and insurance companies and, in some cases, in the form of guarantees from the parent companies of customers. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 139 Note 7. Business combinations Note 8. Revenue Business combinations are reported in compliance with IFRS 3 Business CombinaRevenue is recognized according to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with tions, see Note 1. Customers and IAS 17 Leases, see Note 1. For revenue according to IFRS 15, see also Note 9. Acquisitions of Group companies/operations Revenue from contracts with customers amounted to SEK 171,201 M (157,326) On January 8, 2018, 60 percent of the shares in the Norwegian company LA Pukk and rental income from leases amounted to SEK 529 M (551). As for other types of AS, were acquired. According to IFRS 10 Skanska has a controlling influence over revenue, dividends and interest income are recognized in financial items. the company, see Note 1. Skanska will therefore consolidate the company as a See Note 14 . subsidiary into the consolidated accounts. The portion included in other shareholders’ holdings is recognized as a non-controlling interest. LA Pukk AS operates Revenue by business stream 2018 2017 a stone crushing company in Løiten, Norway. With this acquisition Skanska will Construction 157,894 150,050 strengthen it’s Norwegian mining materials operations. The acquisition is included in the Construction business stream. Residential Development 12,206 11,823 In connection with the acquisition SEK 21 million was allocated to intangible Commercial Property Development 15,816 9,516 assets in the form of withdrawal rights. No goodwill has been reported for Infrastructure Development 105 81 Skanska. The total investment was SEK 16 M, with a consideration of NOK 10 M Other and a contingent consideration of NOK 6 M. As of December 31, 2018 the entire Central 550 1,364 consideration of NOK 16 M had been paid. Eliminations, see below –14,841 –14,957 Acquired assets and liabilities on the acquisition date as well as Total 171,730 157,877 surplus values in SEK M Acquired Assets balance sheet Surplus value Total Reported as eliminations Intangible assets 21 21 2018 2017 Property, plant and equipment 7 7 Non-interest-bearing assets 1 1 Intra-Group construction for Construction –449 –317 Cash and cash equivalents 0 Residential Development –5,220 –5,817 Total 8 21 29 Commercial Property Development –8,479 –7,603 Liabilities Infrastructure Development 1 Interest-bearing liabilities 7 7 Intra-Group property divestments –91 –179 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 1 5 6 Other –602 –1,041 Total 8 5 13 –14,841 –14,957 Net assets 0 16 16 1 Construction includes SEK 8,173 M (9,405) in intra-Group construction for Infrastructure Development. Elimination does not occur since this revenue consists of invoices issued to The consolidated income statement for 2018 included net sales of SEK 26 M and joint ventures, which are recognized according to the equity method of accounting. net profit of SEK 2 M for LA Pukk AS. If the acquisition had occurred on January 1, the company’s net sales and net profits would have remained unchanged. Other Direct acquisition expenditures amounting to SEK 0.3 M, consisting of attorney For other transactions with related parties, see Note 39. and consultant expenses have been charged to selling and administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement. No acquisition was made during the comparative year. 140 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 9. Contract assets and contract liabilities Note 10. Operating expenses by category of expense Contract assets and contract liabilities are recognized according to IFRS 15 Revenue In 2018, revenue increased by SEK 13,853 M to SEK 171,730 M (157,877). Operating from Contracts with Customers, see Note 1. income increased by SEK 1,069 M to SEK 5,647 M (4,578). Personnel expenses for For risks in ongoing assignments, see Note 2 and the Report of the Directors. the year amounted to SEK –27,476 M (–27,933). Other operating expenses adjusted for current-asset properties divested and Information from the income statement income in joint ventures and associated companies amounted to SEK –118,144 M Revenue accrued during the year amounted to SEK 136,340 M (131,510). (–109,283). Restated 2018 2017 Information from the statement of financial position Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Revenue 171 730 157,877 Contract assets 6,661 6,997 Personnel expenses 1 –27 476 –27,933 Contract liabilities 20,738 16,266 Depreciation/amortization –1 780 –1,587 Impairment losses –677 –875 Carrying amount of current-asset properties Contract assets Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 divested –19 000 –15,276 January 1 6,997 5,751 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 855 1,655 Revenue accrued during the year, not yet invoiced 6,964 5,434 Income from property, plant and equipment sold 139 121 Revenue accrued during the year, invoiced during Other operating expenses 2 –118 144 –109,404 the year 35,892 28,376 Total expenses –166 083 –153,299 Invoiced –43,466 –32,416 Exchange rate differences for the year 274 –148 Operating income 5 647 4 578 Carrying amount, December 31 6,661 6,997 1 Personnel expenses include salaries and other remuneration of SEK 21,619 M (22,002), social insurance contributions of SEK 5,294 M (5,415) recognized according to Note 36, as well as non-monetary remuneration such as company car benefits and shares received Assets from contract costs are included in contract assets and amount to under Seop amounting to SEK 563 M (516). SEK 0 M (0). 2 Other operating expenses include purchased materials, machinery rentals and subcontractors. Depreciation amounted to SEK 0 M (0) and depreciation, which is charged to the project, to SEK 0 M (0). Contract liabilities 2018 Restated 2017 January 1 16,266 18,473 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 –151 Adjusted opening balance 16,266 18,322 Invoiced revenue 97,151 96,508 Revenue accrued during the year, invoiced during the year –83,348 –82,434 Revenue accrued during the year, invoiced in previous year –10,399 –15,393 Revenue adjustment 263 127 Exchange rate differences for the year 805 –864 Carrying amount, December 31 20,738 16,266 Future revenue for remaining performance obligations breaks down between the following years. Expected revenue recognition for remaining performance obligations 2019 2020 2021 2022 ≥2023 Total Construction 104,655 48,500 30,753 4,750 3,384 192,042 Residential Development 7,884 4,633 608 122 13,247 Commercial Property Development 2,900 628 2,180 5,708 Infrastructure Development 35 35 70 Total 115,474 53,796 33,541 4,872 3,384 211,067 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 141 Note 11. Selling expenses and administrative Selling and administrative expenses are recognized as one item, see Note 1. Selling and administrative expenses 2018 2017 Construction –6 998 –7,132 Residential Development –675 –666 Commercial Property Development –928 –899 Infrastructure Development –116 –121 Central expenses 1 –756 –1,033 Total –9 473 –9,851 1 Including eliminations. Note 12. Depreciation/amortization Depreciation and amortization are carried out in compliance with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, and IAS 38 Intangible Assets, see Note 1. Depreciation and amortization are presented below by business stream. For further information about depreciation and amortization, see Note 17 and Note 19. Commercial Depreciation/amortization by asset class and Residential Property Infrastructure Central and business stream Construction Development Development Development eliminations Total 2018 Intangible assets –150 –1 –58 –209 Property, plant and equipment Buildings and land –89 –1 –90 Plant and equipment –1,461 –1 –5 –2 –12 –1,481 Total –1,700 –1 –6 –2 –71 –1,780 2017 Intangible assets –103 –73 –176 Property, plant and equipment Buildings and land –88 –1 –89 Plant and equipment –1,287 –1 –6 –3 –25 –1,322 Total –1,478 –1 –6 –3 –99 –1,587 142 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 13. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses are recognized in compliance Impairment loss/reversals of impairment losses are presented below by with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, see Note 1. Impairment losses/reversals of business stream. impairment losses on current-asset properties are recognized in compliance with For further information on impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses, IAS 2 Inventories. see Note 17 Note 18, Note 19 and Note 22. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses by asset class and business stream Commercial Residential Property Infrastructure Central and Construction Development Development Development eliminations Total 2018 Recognized in operating income Intangible assets Goodwill –393 –393 Other intangible assets –45 –45 Property, plant and equipment Buildings and land 3 3 Plant and equipment –60 –60 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies –9 –9 Current-asset properties Commercial Property Development –107 6 –101 Residential Development –72 –72 Total –495 –72 –107 –9 6 –677 2017 Recognized in operating income Intangible assets Goodwill –592 –592 Other intangible assets –129 –129 Property, plant and equipment Buildings and land –106 –106 Plant and equipment –12 –12 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies –2 –6 –11 –19 Current-asset properties Commercial Property Development –16 13 –3 Residential Development –14 –14 Total –857 –14 –6 –11 13 –875 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 143 Note 14. Financial items Note 15. Borrowing costs 2018 2017 Borrowing costs related to investments that require a substantial period for completion are capitalized, see Note 1. Financial income In 2018 borrowing costs were capitalized at an interest rate of around Interest income 144 89 1.8 (1.7) percent. Income from sale of shares 2 Dividends 32 31 Total accumulated Capitalized interest during the year Change in fair value 11 25 during the year included in Net exchange rate differences 23 2018 2017 2018 2017 Reversal of possible future credit losses 5 Current-asset properties 325 257 391 366 192 170 Total 325 257 391 366 Financial expense Interest expense –335 –266 Net interest income on pensions –103 –102 Capitalized interest expense Change in fair value 325 257 –1 Note 16. Income taxes Other financial items –40 –13 Income taxes are reported in compliance with IAS 12 Income Taxes. See Note 1. –153 –125 Total 39 45 Tax expense 2018 2017 Current taxes –1,623 –537 Disclosures on how large a portion of income and expenses in financial items Deferred tax income/expenses from change in comes from financial instruments are presented in Note 6. temporary differences 276 –142 Deferred tax income from change in loss carryNet interest items forwards 155 68 Financial items amounted to SEK 39 M (45). Net interest items improved to Change in provision for tax risk 100 99 SEK 31 M (–22). Interest income increased to SEK 144 M (89), mainly due to higher market interest rates in the US market. Interest expense before capitalized interest Total –1,092 –512 decreased to SEK –335 M (–266), which is mainly explained by an increased share of borrowing in USD to finance increased investment in property development in the USA, and increased market interest rates on the USD loans. Tax items recognized under other comprehensive income 2018 2017 In 2018 Skanska capitalized interest expense of SEK 325 M (257) in ongoing projects for its own account. Deferred taxes attributable to cash flow hedges 7 –25 Interest income was received at an average interest rate of 0.94 percent (0.63). Deferred taxes attributable to pensions 1 59 69 Interest expense, excluding interest on pension liabilities, was paid at an Total 66 44 average interest rate of 1.47 percent (1.26) during the year. Taking into account 1 The amount for 2018 includes SEK –75 M for a change in the tax rate in Sweden. derivatives, the average interest rate was 1.82 percent (1.60). Net interest on pensions, which is the net amount of interest expense for Relationship between taxes calculated after aggregating nominal tax pension obligations calculated at the beginning of the year, based on the 2018 rates and recognized taxes outcome, and the expected return on plan assets, increased to SEK –103 M (–102), The Group’s recognized tax rate amounted to 19 percent (11). see also Note 28. The Group’s aggregated nominal tax rate was estimated at 21 percent (20). The Group had net interest items of SEK 0 M (–1) that were recognized in The average nominal tax rate in Skanska’s home markets in Europe amounted operating income. See accounting and valuation principles, Note 1. to 20 percent (21), and in the USA, to 27 percent (40), depending on the distribution of income between the different states. Change in fair value The relationship between taxes calculated after aggregating nominal tax rates The change in market value amounted to SEK 11 M (24) and the increase is mainly of 21 percent (20) and recognized taxes of 19 percent (11) is explained in the table due to positive change in the market value of interest rate swap contracts. below. Other financial items Other ﬁnancial items totaled SEK –40 M (–13) and mainly related to various fees for credit facilities and bank guarantees. 144 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 16. Continued 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Income after financial items 5 686 4,623 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Deferred tax assets according to the statement of Tax according to aggregation of nominal tax financial position 1 933 1,757 rates, 21 percent (20) –1 194 –925 Deferred tax liabilities according to the stateTax effect of: ment of financial position 711 1,235 Property divestments 1 522 663 Net deferred tax assets (+), deferred tax Divestment of infrastructure projects 2 12 219 liabilities (–) 1 222 522 Losses in Poland 3 –315 –190 Changed tax rate in Sweden 4 26 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Changed tax rate in Norway 5 23 Deferred tax assets for loss carryforwards 401 237 Changed tax rate in USA –121 Deferred tax assets for other assets 403 271 Other –166 –158 Deferred tax assets for provisions for pensions 1 311 1,297 Recognized tax expense –1 092 –512 Deferred tax assets for ongoing projects 805 713 1 In a number of the markets where Skanska operates, the sale of real estate projects via the divestment of companies is tax-free. Other deferred tax assets 1 266 1,253 2 In a number of the markets where Skanska operates, the sale of infrastructure projects via Total before net accounting 4 186 3,771 the divestment of companies is tax-free. 3 T he possibility of utilizing loss carryforwards in Poland is limited, as regards both amounts Net accounting of offsettable deferred tax and time. Since it is uncertain whether Skanska will be able to utilize the losses within the assets/liabilities –2 253 –2,014 construction operations in Poland, SEK –315 M (–190) has been charged to tax expense for the year. Deferred tax assets according to the statement 4 T he tax rate in Sweden has been changed to 21.4 percent for 2019 and 2020, and to of financial position 1 933 1,757 20.6 percent as of January 1, 2021. The net effect in the income statement of the adjusted carrying amount for deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities from the reduced tax rate amounts to SEK 26 M. 5 T he tax rate in Norway was changed to 22 percent as of January 1, 2019. The net effect in the income statement of the adjusted carrying amount from the reduced tax rate amounts Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 to SEK 23 M. Deferred tax liabilities for non-current assets 260 207 Deferred tax liabilities for ongoing projects 1 477 1,769 Income taxes paid in 2018 amounted to SEK 490 M (968). Deferred tax liabilities for other current assets 127 200 Income taxes paid can vary greatly from year to year for the countries where Other deferred tax liabilities 1 100 1,073 the Group operates. Income taxes are often calculated based on different principles Total before net accounting 2 964 3,249 to those that apply to the preparation of the consolidated income statement. If Net accounting of offsettable deferred tax the final income tax is less than the amount provisionally withdrawn in previous assets/liabilities –2 253 –2,014 years, income taxes paid for the year may be substantially reduced. Deferred tax liabilities according to the stateThe table below shows a breakdown by country of income taxes paid: ment of financial position 711 1,235 Income taxes paid 2018 2017 Change in net deferred tax assets (+), liabilities (–) Sweden 325 Sweden 736 2018 2017 Poland 132 Norway 140 Net deferred tax assets, January 1 522 158 Finland 109 Finland 57 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 40 Norway 97 Czech Republic 27 Adjusted net deferred tax assets, January 1 562 158 Czech Republic 33 UK 24 Acquisition of companies –5 Other 1 –206 Other –16 Divestments 9 Total 490 Total 968 Recognized under other comprehensive income 66 44 1 For 2018, mainly refers to USA. Deferred tax income/expenses 531 25 Reclassiﬁcations 10 290 Exchange-rate differences 49 5 Tax assets and tax liabilities Net deferred tax assets, December 31 1,222 522 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Tax assets 396 1,188 Tax liabilities 615 312 Net tax assets (+), tax liabilities (–) –219 876 Tax assets and tax liabilities refer to the difference between estimated income tax for the year and preliminary tax paid, as well as income taxes for prior years that have not yet been paid. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 145 Note 16. Continued Deferred tax assets other than for loss carryforwards refer to temporary differences between carrying amounts for tax purposes and carrying amounts recognized in the statement of financial position. These differences arise, for example, when the Group’s valuation principles deviate from those applied locally by a Group company. These deferred tax assets are mostly expected to be realized within five years. Deferred tax assets arise, for example, when a recognized depreciation/amortization/impairment loss on assets becomes tax-deductible only in a later period, when eliminating intra-Group profits, when there are differences with respect to provisions for defined-benefit pensions between local rules and IAS 19, when the required provisions become tax-deductible in a later period and when advance payments for ongoing projects are taxed on a cash basis. Deferred tax liabilities for other assets and other deferred tax liabilities refer to temporary differences between carrying amounts for tax purposes and carrying amounts in the statement of financial position. These differences arise, for example, when the Group’s valuation principles deviate from those applied locally by a Group company. For the most part, these deferred tax liabilities are expected to be realized within five years. For example, deferred tax liabilities arise when depreciation/amortization for tax purposes in the current period is larger than the required economic depreciation/amortization and when accrued profits in ongoing projects are taxed only when the project is completed. Temporary differences attributable to investments in Group companies, branches, associated companies and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities were not recognized amount to SEK 0 M (0). In Sweden and a number of other countries, divestments of holdings in limited companies are tax-exempt under certain circumstances. Temporary differences thus do not normally exist for the shareholdings of the Group’s companies in these countries. Deferred tax liabilities for future dividends from subsidiaries amount to SEK 0 M (0) because dividends from subsidiaries in the markets where Skanska is currently active do not have any consequences with respect to taxes. Temporary differences and loss carryforwards that are not recognized as deferred tax assets Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Loss carryforwards that expire within one year 52 1 Loss carryforwards that expire in more than one year but within three years 411 523 Loss carryforwards that expire in more than three years 3,092 2,241 Total 3,555 2,765 Skanska has loss carryforwards in a number of countries. In some of these countries the likelihood that a loss carryforward will be able to be used is difficult to assess, and therefore no deferred tax asset is reported. 146 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 17. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are reported in compliance with IAS 16 Property, Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses on property, plant Plant and Equipment. See Note 1. and equipment Office buildings and other buildings used in the Group’s operations are In 2018 net impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses in the amount of recognized as property, plant and equipment. Machinery and equipment are SEK –57 M (–118) were recognized. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment recognized as a single item. losses were recognized in Poland and the USA during the year. Impairment losses were recognized in the comparative year in Poland. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses were recognized as cost of production and management Property, plant and equipment by asset class in the amount of SEK –51 M and sales and administrative costs in the amount of Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 SEK –6 M. Buildings and land 1,594 1,610 Property Plant and equipment 5,921 5,126 Impairment losses/reversals (buildings and Plant and Property, plant and equipment under construcof impairment losses land) equipment Total tion 130 138 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total 7,645 6,874 Impairment losses –106 –75 –12 –75 –118 Reversals of impairment Depreciation of property, plant and equipment by asset class losses 3 15 18 0 and function Total 3 –106 –60 –12 –57 –118 Production and Selling and management administration Total Amount of impairment lossProperty 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 es/reversals of impairment (buildings and Plant and losses based on land) equipment Total Buildings and land –59 –57 –31 –32 –90 –89 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Plant and equipment –1,302 –1,176 –179 –146 –1,481 –1,322 Fair value less selling exTotal –1,361 –1,233 –210 –178 –1,571 –1,411 penses/costs of disposals 3 –106 –60 –12 –57 –118 Value in use 0 0 Total 3 –106 –60 –12 –57 –118 Information about cost, accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses Property, plant and equipment Buildings and land Plant and equipment under construction 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Accumulated cost January 1 3,633 3,597 23,208 21,472 138 117 Investments 83 27 2,221 1,764 47 85 Acquisitions of companies 7 Divestments –112 –51 –533 –97 –7 –11 Reclassiﬁcations –2 43 –38 323 –46 –58 Exchange rate differences for the year 132 17 580 –254 –2 5 3,734 3,633 25,445 23,208 130 138 Accumulated amortization according to plan January 1 –1,632 –1,458 –17,888 –16,424 Divestments and disposals 10 337 55 Reclassiﬁcations –59 156 –260 Depreciation for the year –90 –89 –1,481 –1,322 Exchange rate differences for the year –47 –26 –394 63 –1,759 –1,632 –19,270 –17,888 Accumulated impairment losses January 1 –391 –284 –194 –183 Divestments 14 12 2 Impairment losses for the year –106 –75 –12 Reversals of impairment losses 3 15 Exchange rate differences for the year –7 –13 –2 1 –381 –391 –254 –194 Carrying amount, December 31 1,594 1,610 5,921 5,126 130 138 Carrying amount, January 1 1,610 1,855 5,126 4,865 138 117 Other items Information about capitalized interest is presented in Note 15. For information Skanska did not receive any significant compensation from third parties for propon finance leases, see Note 40. Skanska has obligations to acquire property, plant erty, plant and equipment that was damaged or lost during the year or in and equipment in the amount of SEK 0 M (0). the comparative year. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 147 Note 18. Goodwill Goodwill is recognized in compliance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations. For key Goodwill amounted to SEK 4 324 M (4,554). In 2018 goodwill decreased by judgments, see Note 2. SEK 230 M net due to exchange rate differences and impairment losses. During the comparative year, goodwill decreased by SEK 716 M. Goodwill amounts by cash-generating units Of which Of which Change during impairment exchange rate Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 the year losses differences Construction Sweden 51 49 2 2 Norway 971 947 24 24 Finland 449 431 18 18 Czech Republic/Slovakia 537 519 18 18 UK 1 503 1 468 35 35 USA Building 363 333 30 30 USA Civil 32 400 –368 –393 25 Residential Development Norway 408 397 11 11 Finland 10 10 0 0 Total 4 324 4 554 –230 –393 163 The goodwill recoverable amount is based exclusively on value in use. The Czech amounts of goodwill together with other non-current assets, current-asset Norway Finland Republic UK properties and net working capital are tested annually. Recoverable amount, 100 100 100 100 100 Expected cash flows are based on forecasts for the development of the conCarrying amount 1 33 n.a 12 n.a struction investments and residential development in each market in the countries Carrying amount, previous year 49 21 24 7 where the Group has operations. The forecasts are based on the units’ two-year forecasts and the established five-year business plan. Future macroeconomic Interest rate, percent (WACC), development and changes in interest rates are also important variables. The before taxes 9 8 9 11 forecast period is 10 years, which is the period used in models for measurement Interest rate, percent (WACC), of other types of assets, for example commercial projects. Using 10-year models after taxes 8 7 8 8 it is easier to make assumptions concerning cycles, and there is less reliance on Expected growth, % 2 2 3 1 residual values. The growth rate used to extrapolate cash flow forecasts beyond the period Interest rate, percent (WACC), covered by the 10-year forecasts is the normal growth rate for the industry in each previous year (before taxes) 10 8 7 8 respective country. Interest rate, percent (WACC), Each business unit uses a unique discount factor based on weighted average previous year (after taxes) 8 7 7 7 cost of capital (WACC). Parameters that affect the WACC are interest rates for Expected growth, %, borrowing, market risks and the ratio between borrowed funds and equity. The previous year 2 2 3 2 WACC interest rate is stated both before and after taxes. Carrying amount in relation to The following table shows how the carrying amount relates to the recoverable recoverable amount, 100 in case amount for the respective business units for Skanska’s largest goodwill items. The of increase in interest rate by recoverable amount is expressed as 100. The tests are based on an assessment of + 1 percentage point 1 41 n.a 15 n.a anticipated development over the next 10-year period. + 5 percentage points 1 91 n.a 25 n.a Carrying amount, previous year, in relation to recoverable amount 100 in case of increase in interest rate by + 1 percentage point 61 26 29 8 + 5 percentage points 122 52 49 14 1 Value > 100 indicates that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount and an impairment loss needs to be recognized. For Skanska’s operations in Finland and the UK, the carrying amount was negative due to negative working capital exceeding the value of non-current assets. Goodwill impairment losses Changed market conditions for the operations in USA Civil have resulted in decisions on impairment of goodwill in the amount of SEK 393 M (592). 148 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 19. Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognized in compliance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets. Information about cost, accumulated depreciation and accumulated See Note 1. impairment losses Intangible assets, Intangible assets, Intangible assets and useful life applied externally acquired internally generated 1 Useful life 2018 2017 2018 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 applied Accumulated cost Intangible assets, externally January 1 1,577 1,594 683 552 generated 412 438 3–10 years Investments 96 131 129 124 Intangible assets, internally generated 563 524 3–7 years Acquisition of companies 21 Total 975 962 Divestments –12 –30 Reclassiﬁcations –78 –99 7 Internally generated intangible assets consist of business systems. Externally Exchange rate differences for acquired intangible assets include acquired software in the USA, Sweden and the year 70 –19 Finland, and licenses and right-of-use assets in Sweden. 1,674 1,577 812 683 Business systems are amortized over a maximum of seven years. Customer contracts are amortized as projects progress to completion and patents are Accumulated amortization amortized over 10 years. January 1 –953 –977 –159 –85 Divestments 6 29 Amortization of other intangible assets by function Depreciation for the year –119 –108 –90 –68 All intangible assets are amortized as they have a limited useful life. Reclassiﬁcations 78 97 –4 Exchange rate differences for Amortization by function 2018 2017 the year –43 6 –2 Production and management –97 –58 –1,031 –953 –249 –159 Selling and administration –112 –118 Accumulated impairment losses Total –209 –176 January 1 –186 –50 0 0 Impairment losses for the year –64 –129 Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses on other intangible Reversals of impairment losses 19 assets In 2018 impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses in the net amount of Exchange rate differences for the year –7 SEK –45 M (–129) were recognized. Impairment losses were applied in UK and Poland during the year. For the comparative year impairment losses were applied –231 –186 0 0 in Poland. Carrying amount, December 31 412 438 563 524 Carrying amount, January 1 438 567 524 467 1 Internally generated intangible assets consist of business systems. Other items Information about capitalized interest is presented in Note 15. Direct research and development expenses amounted to SEK 275 M (253). Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 149 Note 20 A. Subsidiaries The Parent Company Skanska AB holds 100 percent of the shares in Skanska All subsidiaries are independent limited companies, partnerships or equivalent Financial Services AB and Skanska Kraft AB. Skanska Kraft AB in turn directly or legal forms in each country. Regarding the companies’ domicile, see the Parent indirectly owns the subsidiaries in the countries in which Skanska has operations. Company notes, Note 52. Skanska’s Company Structure Skanska AB Skanska Kraft AB Skanska Financial Services Construction Residential Commercial Property Infrastructure Central Development Development Development Sweden Sweden Sweden Norway Norway Norway Finland Finland Finland Poland Poland Denmark Czech Republic Czech Republic Poland and Slovakia Czech Republic UK Hungary USA Building Romania USA Civil UK USA According to Note 26, there are only minor interests in non-controlling interests. 150 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 20 B. Investments in joint ventures and associated companies For all joint arrangements an assessment is made of their legal form, agreements between the owning parties and other circumstances. In compliance with IFRS 11, the joint arrangement is reported as a joint venture if the owning parties only have rights to the net assets. See also Note 1. Investments in joint ventures and associated companies are reported according to the equity method of accounting. Income from joint ventures and associated companies after tax is reported on a separate line in operating income. This income consists of the Group’s share of the income in joint ventures and associated companies after tax, adjusted for any impairment losses on consolidated goodwill and intra-Group profits. Income from joint ventures and associated companies is presented in the following table. 2018 2017 Share of income in joint ventures according to the equity method 822 386 Share of income in associated companies according to the equity method 2 Divestments of joint ventures 42 1,286 Impairment losses in joint ventures –9 –19 Total 855 1,655 The carrying amount according to the statement of financial position and the change that occurred can be seen in the following table: 2018 2017 Joint Associated Joint Associated ventures companies Total ventures companies Total January 1 3,291 23 3,314 4,137 23 4,160 New acquisitions 99 99 603 603 Divestments –56 –56 –1,019 –1,019 Reclassiﬁcations 152 152 –376 –376 Exchange rate differences for the year 160 160 –223 –1 –224 The year’s provision for intra-Group proﬁt on contracting work 0 –9 –9 Changes in fair value of derivatives 272 272 83 83 Impairment losses for the year –9 –9 –19 –19 The year’s change in share of income in joint ventures and associated companies after subtracting dividends received –642 –2 –644 114 1 115 Carrying amount, December 31 3,267 21 3,288 3,291 23 3,314 Joint ventures Joint ventures are recognized in compliance with IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, see Note 1. The Group has holdings in joint ventures with a carrying amount of SEK 3,267 M (3,291). Infrastructure Development includes carrying amounts in joint ventures totaling SEK 2,248 M (1,944). Income from joint ventures The share of income in joint ventures, after tax, is reported in operating income, because these holdings are an element of Skanska’s business. Share of income in joint ventures according to the equity method comes mainly from Infrastructure Development operations. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 151 Note 20 B.Continued Infrastructure Development Infrastructure Development specializes in identifying, developing and investing in The type of payment for the investments may either be based on market risk, privately financed infrastructure projects, such as highways, hospitals and airports for example road fees, or based on accessibility, see note 1, IFRIC 12. The conin the public sector. This business stream is focused on creating new project cession periods for current investments varies between 30 and 58 years and the opportunities, mainly in the markets where the Group already has operations. portions owned in the current portfolio are between 32 and 80 percent. At this Public-private partnerships (PPP) are a type of public procurement where a project time Infrastructure Development has investments in Sweden, the UK and USA. company owned by a private company has overall responsibility for developing, ﬁnancing, building, operating and maintaining public facilities. Specification of major holdings of shares and participations in joint ventures Consolidated carrying of which cash flow amount 1 hedges Percentage Percentage Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Type Country of capital of votes 2018 2017 2018 2017 Joint ventures in Infrastructure Development 2 Bristol LEP Ltd 3 Education UK 80 80 8 6 Elizabeth River Crossings LLC Highway/tunnel USA 50 50 Elizabeth River Crossings Holdco LLC Highway/tunnel USA 50 50 1,267 1,236 Essex LEP Ltd 3 Education UK 70 70 12 12 Hedmarksvegen AS Highway Norway 50 50 –17 I-4 Mobility Partners Holdco LLC Highway USA 50 50 78 –6 –22 NPH Healthcare (Holdings) Limited shares Healthcare UK 50 50 45 –27 –31 Swedish Hospital Partners Holding AB Healthcare Sweden 50 50 819 677 –233 –499 LaGuardia Gateway Partners LLC Airport USA 32 32 19 13 Total joint ventures in Infrastructure Development 2,248 1,944 –283 –552 AB Sydsten Construction Sweden 50 50 138 112 SKPR 1350 Boylston LP Commercial Property USA Development 50 50 224 210 SKPR Watermark Seaport Operating Company LLC Commercial Property USA Development 50 50 184 T-C/SK 400 Fairview Holding LLC Commercial Property USA Development 10 10 122 Tiedemannsbyen DA Residential Norway Development 50 50 57 79 Botkyrka Södra Porten Holding AB Construction Sweden 50 50 101 102 Nacka 13:79 JV AB Residential Sweden Development 50 50 162 98 Sjöstadsbo AB Residential Sweden Development 50 50 100 131 Järvastaden AB Residential Sweden Development 50 50 53 119 Other joint ventures 184 190 Total joint ventures, Group 3,267 3,291 –283 –552 1 Consolidated carrying amounts represent the Group’s share of the equity including results achieved, Group adjustments and deductions for dividends provided. 2 Carrying amounts for joint ventures in Infrastructure Development are affected by cash flow hedges. The value of these cash flow hedges amounts to –283 M (–552). When joint ventures where the carrying amount is affected by cash flow hedges are sold, the income from the sale will be affected as the effect of the cash flow hedges is rebooked against income. 3 For the companies Bristol LEP Ltd and Essex LEP Ltd shareholder agreements exist between the co-owners stating, among other things, that key issues such as budgets and investments must be determined jointly; Skanska has concluded that this means Skanska does not have a controlling interest, despite having a high percentage of the capital and voting rights. Unrealized development gain in Infrastructure Development SEK bn Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Present value of cash flow from projects 4.7 3.8 Present value of remaining investments –1.1 –0.8 Net present value of projects 3.6 3.0 Carrying amount before cash flow hedging –2.5 –2.5 Unrealized development gain 1.1 0.5 Cash flow hedge 0.3 0.6 Effect in unrealized equity 1 1.4 1.1 1 Tax effects not included. 152 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 20 B.Continued Details of Skanska’s joint ventures All significant joint ventures are within Infrastructure Development, and all are reported in compliance with IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements. Joint ventures are reported below. The amounts correspond to 100 percent of the joint venture’s income statement and statement of financial position. Infrastructure development Other Joint ventures Total all joint ventures Income statement 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Revenue 9,162 11,707 6,410 1,925 15,572 13,632 Depreciation/amortization –207 –62 –79 –269 –79 Impairment losses –572 –17 –572 –17 Other operating expenses –8,703 –11,503 –4,105 –1,446 –12,808 –12,949 Operating income 252 204 1,671 383 1,923 587 Interest income 1,428 1,293 6 41 1,434 1,334 Interest expense –1,413 –1,199 –56 –64 –1,469 –1,263 Financial items 3 5 3 5 Income after financial items 1 270 298 1,621 365 1,891 663 Taxes –20 –94 –13 –14 –33 –108 Profit for the year 250 204 1,608 351 1,858 555 Comprehensive income for the year 250 204 1,608 351 1,858 555 Statement of ﬁnancial position Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Non-current assets 51,029 27,111 1,511 4,614 52,540 31,725 Current assets 1,047 14,916 1,796 2,472 2,843 17,388 Cash 11,390 15,730 537 605 11,927 16,335 Total assets 63,466 57,757 3,844 7,691 67,310 65,448 Equity attributable to equity holders 2 4,493 4,119 1,612 4,300 6,105 8,419 Non-current financial liabilities 52,512 50,874 484 647 52,996 51,521 Other non-current liabilities 345 584 345 584 Current financial liabilities 6,223 842 1,528 7,065 1,528 Other current liabilities 238 2,764 561 632 799 3,396 Total equity and liabilities 63,466 57,757 3,844 7,691 67,310 65,448 Skanska received the following dividend 3 233 16 1,230 240 1,463 256 Equity attributable to the investors in joint ventures, 100% 4,493 4,119 1,612 4,300 6,105 8,419 Less equity attributable to investors other than Skanska –2,250 –2,213 –613 –2,920 –2,863 –5,133 Skanska’s portion of equity in joint ventures, adjusted for surplus value and goodwill 2,243 1,906 999 1,380 3,242 3,286 + Losses recognized as provisions 14 31 35 29 49 60 – Impairment losses –9 –11 –8 –9 –19 +/– Elimination of intra-Group profit –15 –36 –15 –36 Carrying amount of Skanska’s holdings 2,248 1,926 1,019 1,365 3,267 3,291 of which cash flow hedges –283 –552 –283 –552 1 The amount includes impairment losses in the consolidated accounts. 2 Equity includes subordinated loans from the owners. 3 Dividends include interest paid on the subordinated loans. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 153 Note 20 B.Continued Assets pledged Associated companies Shares in joint ventures pledged as collateral for loans and other obligations Associated companies are recognized in compliance with IAS 28 Investments in amount to SEK 2,229 M (1,925). Associates and Joint Ventures, see Note 1. The carrying amount of associated companies is SEK 21 M (23). Other items Information on the Group’s share of revenue, income, assets, liabilities and Skanska’s joint ventures are owned by Skanska and other investors. They are equity in associated companies financed in part by capital from the owning parties, but the majority are financed via banks or credit institutions. The assets of the respective joint ventures are used 2018 2017 as collateral for the liabilities. According to agreements with the banks, the ability Revenue 25 26 to access bank account funds from these joint ventures is restricted. Proﬁt/loss –2 2 Skanska’s portion of the total investment obligations of partly owned joint ventures amounts to SEK 2,878 M (2,677), of which Skanska has remaining obliAssets 26 25 gations to invest SEK 1,291 M (1,183) in Infrastructure Development in the form of equity holdings and loans. The remaining portion is expected to be financed Equity 1 21 23 mainly in the form of bank loans or bonds in the respective joint ventures and in Liabilities 5 2 the form of participations and loans from other co-owners. 26 25 Contingent liabilities for joint ventures amounted to SEK 747 M (814). 1 Reconciliation between equity and carrying amount of holdings, in accordance with the equity method of accounting. 2018 2017 Equity in associated companies 21 23 Carrying amount 21 23 Other items The associated companies have no liabilities or contingent liabilities which the Group may become responsible for paying. Nor are there any obligations for further investments. Note 20 C. Joint operations Skanska executes certain projects with a joint party without a separate legal Skanska also executes certain projects with a joint party where a separate comcompany being formed for the purpose. These projects are then classified as joint pany is formed for the purpose. These projects are classified as joint operations operations in compliance with IFRS 11. Joint operations without the formation of provided that the other criteria in IFRS 11 are fulfilled. a separate company are found mainly in the USA. Specification of significant holdings in joint operations, according to sales in current year Percentage Name of joint operation Type Country of capital Costain Skanska Balfour Beatty A14 Joint Venture Highway UK 34 Costain Skanska C405 Joint Venture Public transit UK 50 Costain Skanska C412 Joint Venture Public transit UK 50 Costain Skanska HS2 South EW Joint Venture Public transit UK 50 Mid-Coast Transit Constructors Public transit USA 33 Regional Connector Constructors Public transit USA 63 Skanska Gates Hospital USA 89 Skanska Koch Kiewit Highway/bridge USA 54 Skanska/Walsh Airport USA 70 Skanska-Traylor-Shea Public transit USA 50 SMB Joint Venture Water maintenance UK 33 tRIIO Gas maintenance UK 50 There are 120 other small joint operations in the above countries, as well as in Sweden, Norway and the Czech Republic. 154 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 21. Financial assets Financial investments, financial receivables and shareholdings where ownership is less than 20 percent and the Group has no significant influence are recognized as non-current financial assets. Financial investments and financial receivables are recognized as current financial assets. See also Note 6. Non-current financial assets Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Non-current financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss Derivatives 2 6 2 6 Non-current financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Shares 1 41 42 Non-current financial assets at amortized cost Receivables from joint ventures 121 98 Restricted cash 585 361 Other interest-bearing receivables 692 1,076 1,398 1,535 Net assets in funded pension plans 904 693 Total 2,345 2,276 of which interest-bearing non-current financial assets 2,302 2,228 of which non-interest-bearing non-current financial assets 43 48 Current financial assets Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Current financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss Derivatives 70 97 70 97 Current financial assets at amortized cost Restricted cash 5,356 4,748 Receivables from joint ventures 74 86 Other interest-bearing receivables 1,617 1,740 7,047 6,574 Total 7,117 6,671 of which interest-bearing current financial assets 7,047 6,574 of which non-interest-bearing current financial assets 70 97 Total carrying amount, financial assets 9,462 8,947 of which financial assets excluding shares and pensions 8,517 8,212 1 In 2018, shareholdings were affected by impairment losses of SEK 0 M (0). Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 155 Note 22. Current-asset properties/Project development Current-asset properties are recognized in compliance with IAS 2 Inventories. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses See Note 1. Current-asset properties are valued in compliance with IAS 2 Inventories, and The allocation of items in the statement of ﬁnancial position by business are thus carried at cost or net realizable value, whichever is lower. Adjustment stream is presented below. to net realizable value via an impairment loss is recognized, as are reversals of previous impairment losses, in the income statement under “Cost of production Business stream Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 and management.” Net realizable value is affected by the type and location of the property and by the yield requirement in the market. Commercial Property Development 25,829 23,615 Residential Development 16,562 15,395 Reversals of Total 42,391 39,010 Impairment impairment losses losses Total For a further description of the respective business streams, see Note 4. 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Current-asset properties are divided into completed properties, properties Commercial Property under construction and development properties. Development –101 –3 –101 –3 Residential Development –72 –14 –72 –14 Total –173 –17 0 0 –173 –17 Carrying amounts Completed properties Properties under construction Development properties Current-asset properties Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Commercial Property Development 2,127 3,255 16,247 13,097 7,455 7,263 25,829 23,615 Residential Development 903 655 8,213 7,750 7,446 6,990 16,562 15,395 Total 3,030 3,910 24,460 20,847 14,901 14,253 42,391 39,010 Commercial Property Development Residential Development Total current-asset properties 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Carrying amount January 1 23,615 19,728 15,395 13,950 39,010 33,678 Investments 11,401 10,650 10,449 10,801 21,850 21,451 Carrying amount sold properties –9,620 –5,862 –9,380 –9,414 –19,000 –15,276 Impairment losses –101 –3 –72 –14 –173 –17 Reversals of impairment losses The year’s provision for intra-Group profits in contracting work –423 –340 –121 –104 –544 –444 Reclassiﬁcations –148 –164 30 43 –118 –121 Exchange rate differences for the year 1,105 –394 261 133 1,366 –261 December 31 25,829 23,615 16,562 15,395 42,391 39,010 The carrying amount of current-asset properties is allocated between properties carried at cost and properties carried at net realizable value as shown in the following table. Cost Net realizable value Total Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Commercial Property Development 25,750 22,893 79 722 25,829 23,615 Residential Development 16,290 15,123 272 272 16,562 15,395 Total 42,040 38,016 351 994 42,391 39,010 156 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 22. Continued Note 24. Trade and other receivables Difference between fair value and carrying amount for current-asset Non-interest-bearing business receivables are reported as “Other operating properties receivables.” Other operating receivables are part of the Group’s operating cycle and are recognized as current assets. Surplus value Surplus value SEK bn Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Commercial Property Development Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Completed projects 0.2 0.8 Trade accounts receivable, others 20,279 20,249 Development properties 0.8 0.6 Other operating receivables 3,500 4,558 Ongoing projects 1 8.2 7.4 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 3,464 2,971 9.2 8.8 Total 27,243 27,778 Residential Development Of which ﬁnancial instruments reported Undeveloped land and development properties 4.0 3.6 in Note 6 Total 13.2 12.4 Trade accounts receivable 20,279 20,249 1 Estimated market value. Internal appraisal, with valuation on respective completion dates. Other operating receivables including accrued interest income 355 1,064 Assets pledged 20,634 21,313 Current-asset properties pledged as collateral for loans and other obligations Of which non-financial instruments 6,609 6,465 amount to SEK 0 M (0), see Note 33. Other items Note 25. Cash and bank balances Information about capitalized interest is presented in Note 15 Borrowing costs. Skanska has committed to investing SEK 1,807 M (1,330) in current-asset properties. “Cash and bank balance” consists of cash and available funds at banks and equivalent ﬁnancial institutions. Cash and bank balances totaled SEK 10,722 M (6,998). Note 23. Inventories etc. The Group had no short-term investments on the closing day, or on the previous year’s closing day. Inventories are reported in compliance with IAS 2 Inventories. Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Raw materials and supplies 467 392 Products being manufactured 126 114 Finished products and merchandise 663 552 Total 1,256 1,058 There are no significant differences between the carrying amount for inventories and their fair value. No portion of inventories was adjusted due to an increase in net realizable value. No merchandise was used as collateral for loans and other obligations. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 157 Note 26. Equity/earnings per share Equity is allocated between equity attributable to equity holders (shareholders) Equity attributable to equity holders is allocated as follows: and non-controlling interests (minority interests). Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Non-controlling interests account for 1 percent of total equity. Share capital 1,260 1,260 Equity changed during the year as follows: Paid-in capital 2,782 2,528 Reserves 2,509 1,144 2018 2017 Retained earnings 22,699 22,132 January 1 27,185 27,506 Total 29,250 27,064 of which non-controlling interests 121 156 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 –140 Paid-in capital Adjusted opening balance 27,045 27,506 Paid-in capital in excess of quota (par) value from historical issues of new shares is recognized as “Paid-in capital.” Comprehensive income for the year The change in 2018 and 2017 was attributable to share-based payments and Proﬁt for the year attributable to amounted to SEK 254 M (297). Equity holders 4,571 4,095 Non-controlling interests 23 16 Reserves Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Other comprehensive income Translation reserve 2,875 1,759 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or Cash ﬂow hedge reserve –366 –615 loss Total 2,509 1,144 Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension plans 1 –478 –399 Tax related to items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss 59 69 Reconciliation of reserves Total –419 –330 2018 2017 Translation reserve Items that have been or will be reclassified to January 1 1,759 2,483 profit or loss Translation differences attributable to equity Translation differences for the year 1,299 –599 holders 2 1,299 –599 Less hedging on foreign exchange rate risk in Translation differences attributable to nonoperations outside Sweden –183 –125 controlling interests 3 8 December 31 2,875 1,759 Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations 2 –183 –125 Effect of cash flow hedges 3 242 221 Cash ﬂow hedge reserve Tax related to items that have been or will be January 1 –615 –811 reclassified to profit or loss 7 –25 Cash ﬂow hedges recognized in other compreTotal 1,368 –520 hensive income Hedges for the year 88 –5 Other comprehensive income after tax 949 –850 Transferred to the income statement 154 226 Comprehensive income for the year 5,543 3,261 Taxes attributable to hedging for the year 7 –25 of which attributable to equity holders 5,517 3,237 December 31 –366 –615 of which attributable to non-controlling Total reserves 2,509 1,144 interests 26 24 Other changes in equity not included in total Translation reserve comprehensive income for the year The translation reserve consists of accumulated translation differences from the Dividend to shareholders –3,373 –3,380 translation of ﬁnancial reports for foreign operations. The translation reserve Dividend to non-controlling interests –27 –59 also includes exchange rate differences that have arisen when hedging net investments in foreign operations. The translation reserve was reset at zero upon the Change in Group composition –23 transition to IFRS on January 1, 2004. Effects of equity-settled share-based payments 254 297 Translation differences for the year amount to SEK 1,299 M (–599) and consist Shares repurchased –72 –440 of positive translation differences in USD and EUR. For currency abbreviations, Total –3,241 –3,582 see Note 34. In 2018 the translation reserve was affected by exchange rate differences Equity, December 31 29,347 27,185 of SEK –183 M (–125) due to currency hedging. The Group has currency hedges of which non-controlling interests 97 121 against net investments mainly in EUR. The accumulated translation reserve totaled SEK 2,875 M (1,759). 1 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans, SEK –478 M (–399), together with tax, SEK 59 M (69), totaling SEK –419 M (–330), constitutes the Group’s total effect on other comprehensive income of remeasurement of pensions recognized in compliance with IAS 19 and is recognized in retained earnings. 2 Translation differences attributable to equity holders, SEK 1,299 M (–599), plus hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations, SEK –183 M (–125), totaling SEK 1,116 M (–724), constitute the change in the Group’s in translation reserve. 3 Effect on cash flow hedges, SEK 242 M (221), together with taxes 7 M (–25), totaling SEK 249 M (196), constitutes a change in the Group’s cash flow hedge reserve. 158 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 26. Continued Cash ﬂow hedge reserve Shares Hedge accounting is applied mainly for Infrastructure Development. Unrealized Information on the number of shares as well as earnings and equity per share is gains and losses on hedging instruments are recognized in the cash flow hedge presented in the table below. reserve. The change during the year amounts to SEK 249 M (196), which is explained by changes in exchange rates where forward contracts have been entered into 2018 2017 for future transactions in foreign currencies and hedge accounting is applied, as Number of shares at year-end 419,903,072 419,903,072 well as the fact that interest rate swaps have matured and been realized, which of which Series A shares 19,725,759 19,755,414 to a certain extent is countered by changes in market interest rates. The reserve at year-end amounted to SEK –366 M (–615). of which Series B shares 400,177,313 400,147,658 Average price, repurchased shares, SEK 137.54 137,31 Retained earnings of which repurchased during the year 435,000 2,350,000 Retained earnings include the proﬁt for the year plus undistributed Group proﬁts Number of Series B treasury shares, December 31 10,224,634 11,190,028 earned in prior years. The Parent Company’s statutory reserve is part of retained earnings, along with remeasurements of pension liabilities, which in compliance Number of shares outstanding, December 31 409,678,438 408,713,044 with IAS 19 are recognized only under “Other comprehensive income.” Average number of shares outstanding 409,130,770 409,447,407 Remeasurement of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans Average number of shares outstanding after dilution 411,415,278 411,905,245 Equity was affected by remeasurement of deﬁned–beneﬁt plans in the amount of SEK –419 M (–330) after taking into account social insurance contributions and Average dilution, % 0.56 0.60 taxes. Remeasurement of pension commitments amounts to SEK –340 M (–1,024) Earnings per share, SEK 11.17 10.00 and is largely due to an increased discount rate for pension plans in Norway and Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 11.11 9.94 the UK, which was to some extent offset by a reduced discount rate for pension plans in Sweden. Remeasurement of plan assets during the year amounted to Equity per share, SEK 71.40 66.22 SEK –611 M (690), which is mainly due to the return on shares in 2018 being lower than the expected return. See also Note 28. Change in number of shares 2018 2017 2018 2017 Number on January 1 408,713,044 409,308,428 Remeasurement of pension liabilities 340 –1,024 Number of total Series B shares repurchased –435,000 -2,350,000 Difference between expected and actual return Number of shares transferred to employees 1,400,394 1,754,616 on plan assets –611 690 Number on December 31 409,678,438 408,713,044 Social insurance contributions including special payroll tax –207 –65 Dilution effect Taxes 59 69 In the employee ownership programs introduced in 2014 and 2017 the number of Total –419 –330 potential ordinary shares is calculated during the measurement period based on the estimated number of shares that will be issued upon fulfillment of the estabIFRS 2 Share-based payment lished targets. After the end of the measurement period, Skanska establishes the The share incentive programs introduced in 2014 and 2017 respectively are number of shares that may be issued, provided that the requirement of continued recognized as share-based payment, which is settled with an equity instrument in employment is fulfilled. The number of potential ordinary shares thus calculated compliance with IFRS 2. This means that fair value is calculated on the basis of is then reduced by the difference between the payment Skanska is expected to estimated fulfillment of established performance targets during the measurement receive and the average share price during the period. period. This value is allocated over the three-year vesting period. There is no Excluding social insurance contributions, the cost of both employee ownership reappraisal after fair value is established during the remainder of the vesting programs is estimated at a total of SEK 1,269 M, allocated over three years, equivperiod, aside from changes in the number of shares because the condition of alent to 7,303,011 shares. The maximum dilution at the end of the vesting period continued employment during the vesting period is no longer fulfilled. is estimated at 1.01 percent. In 2018 the cost of both programs amounted to SEK 254 M, excluding social Dividend paid insurance contributions. Share awards earned but not yet allocated by the end After the closing day, the Board of Directors proposed a regular dividend of of 2018 totaled 2,308,756 shares. The dilution effect up to and including 2018 SEK 6.00 (8.25) per share for the 2018 financial year. The dividend for 2018 totaled 0.57 percent. amounts to SEK 2,458 M (3,373). No dividend is paid for the Parent Company’s holding of Series B shares. The total dividend amount may change by the record Capital management date, depending on repurchases of shares and the transfer of Series B shares to Capital requirements vary between business streams. Skanska’s construction participants in Skanska’s long-term employee ownership programs. The dividend projects are mainly based on customer funding. As a result, in its Construction is subject to the approval of the Annual General Meeting on March 28, 2019. business stream, the company can operate with negative (free) working capital. The free working capital in the Construction business stream combined with the profits from the Group’s operations as well as the possibility of increasing borrowing through credit financing, make it possible for Skanska to finance investments in inhouse project development. In light of the Construction business stream’s large volumes with differentiated risk in various types of assignments and client demands for guarantees, such as performance guarantees in publicly procured projects in US market, the equity requirement is signiﬁcant. It is also necessary to take into account financing of goodwill and future investments in project development. A number of ﬁnancial targets have been established that are deemed to best reﬂect the profitability of the operations and best demonstrate the ﬁnancial Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 159 Note 26. Continued Note 28. Pensions scope for investments and growth. The return on equity and on capital employed Pension provisions are recognized in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts. is a measure of how well the capital provided by the shareholders and lenders is See Note 1. being used. The target for 2016–2020 is a return on the Group’s equity of at least 18 perPension liability according to the statement of financial position cent and a return on capital employed, calculated jointly for the business streams According to the statement of financial position, interest-bearing pension liabilwithin project development, of at least 10 percent. Skanska’s dividend policy is ities amounted to SEK 5,669 M (5,603) and interest-bearing pension receivables to pay out 40–70 percent of net profit for the year after tax to the shareholders, amounted to SEK 904 M (693). The net amount of interest-bearing pension liabiliprovided that the company’s overall financial situation is stable. ties and interest-bearing pension receivables was SEK 4,765 M (4,910). The Board has determined that the Group’s equity is at a reasonable level Skanska has deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans in Sweden, Norway and the UK. The based on what Skanska’s financial position and market circumstances require. pension in these plans is mainly based on final salary or average earnings during the term of employment. The plans include a large number of employees, but Skanska also has defined-contribution plans in these countries. Group companies in other countries have pension plans reported as defined-contribution plans. Note 27. Financial liabilities Defined-benefit plans The pension plans mainly consist of retirement pensions. Each respective employer usually has an obligation to pay a lifetime pension. Benefits are based on the Financial liabilities are allocated between non-current and current liabilities. number of years of employment. The employee must belong to the plan for a Normally, a maturity date within one year is required if a liability is to be treated certain number of years to earn a full retirement pension entitlement. For each as current. This does not apply to discounted operating liabilities, which are part year, the employee earns increased pension entitlements, which are reported as of Skanska’s operating cycle and are therefore recognized as current liabilities pension earned during the period plus an increase in pension obligation. regardless of their maturity date. Pension plans are funded by securing pension obligations with assets in pension For information on financial risks and financial policy, see Note 6. funds and provisions in the accounts. The plan assets in Sweden and the UK are smaller than the pension obligations. Non-current financial liabilities Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 The difference is therefore recognized as a liability in the statement of financial Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt position. The plan assets in Norway exceed the pension obligations. The difference or loss is therefore recognized as a receivable. The ceiling rule which, in some cases, Derivatives 3 21 limits the value of these assets in the accounts does not apply according to the existing pension foundation statutes, with the exception of one of the plans in Financial liabilities at amortized cost Norway and one of the smaller plans in the UK. The carrying amount of the plan Liabilities to credit institutions 2,401 2,265 assets was reduced by SEK 18 M (20) due to the limit in the ceiling rule. Other liabilities 1,508 1,571 On the closing day the pension obligations amounted to SEK 23,275 M Total 3,912 3,857 (23,271). The pension obligations were affected by remeasurements made during the year. The reduced discount rate for Sweden has increased the pension of which interest-bearing non-current financial obligations, while the raised discount rate for Norway and the UK has reduced the liabilities 3,909 3,836 pension obligations. The remeasurements are included in other comprehensive of which non-interest-bearing non-current income in a net amount of SEK 340 M (–1,024). The pension obligations were also financial liabilities 3 21 affected by the cost of vested pensions and interest expense exceeding pensions paid. The pension obligations were increased by higher exchange rates for the Current financial liabilities Norwegian krona (NOK) and British pound (GBP). This was offset by reductions mainly from the closure of the largest of the pension plans in the UK. Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss Plan assets amounted to SEK 18,510 M (18,361). The plan assets were affected Derivatives 48 137 during the year by remeasurements that were made mainly due to the actual return on equities being lower than the estimated return. The remeasurements are Financial liabilities at amortized cost included in other comprehensive income in the amount of SEK –611 M (690). The Construction loans, cooperative housing assoplan assets were also affected by the fact that the amount of paid benefits was ciations 6,242 5,961 higher than the amount of funds added. The plan assets increased due to higher Other liabilities 1,020 1,526 exchange rates for NOK and GBP. The return on plan assets recognized in the income statement amounted to Total 7,310 7,624 SEK 491 M (472), while the actual return amounted to SEK –120 M (1,162). The of which interest-bearing current financial return was lower for pension plans in all three countries. liabilities 7,262 7,487 The plan assets mainly consist of equities, interest-bearing securities, mutual of which non-interest-bearing current financial fund units and investments in properties and infrastructure projects. No assets are liabilities 48 137 used in Skanska’s operations. The number of directly owned shares in Skanska AB Total carrying amount for financial liabilities 11,222 11,481 totaled 0 (370,000) Series B shares. There is also an insignificant percentage of indirectly owned shares in Skanska AB via investments in various mutual funds. There are various types of risk inherent in the company’s defined-benefit pension plans. Pension obligations are mainly affected by the relevant discount rate, wage increases, inflation and life expectancy. The risk inherent in the plan assets is mainly market risk. Overall, these risks may result in volatility in the company’s equity and in increased future pension costs and higher than estimated pension disbursements. Skanska continually monitors changes in its pension obligations and updates the most important assumptions every quarter and other assumptions at least once a year. Pension commitments are calculated by independent 160 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 28. Continued actuaries. The company has prepared policy documents for the management of plan assets in the form of investment guidelines regulating permitted investments Interest-bearing pension liability, net and allocation frameworks for these. In addition, the company uses external 2018 2017 investment advisors who continually monitor development of the plan assets. Net pension liability, January 1 4,910 4,537 The long duration of the pension obligations is partly matched by long-term Pension expenses 632 861 investments in infrastructure projects and property investments, and investments Beneﬁts paid by employers –229 –226 in long-term interest-bearing securities. Funds contributed by employers –533 –571 The largest defined-benefit plan for Skanska in Sweden is the ITP 2 plan, in which pensions are based on final salary on retirement. ITP 2 covers salaried Remeasurements 1 271 334 employees born in 1978 or earlier. The pension obligations are secured through Curtailments and settlements –326 –49 assets in a pension foundation and through credit insurance with PRI Pensions­ Exchange-rate differences 40 24 garanti. The pension commitment is lifelong and sensitive to changes in the Net pension liability according to the statement discount rate, pay increases, inflation and life span. of financial position 4,765 4,910 A small portion of the ITP 2 plan is secured by insurance from the retirement 1 See also Note 26, which shows the tax portion and social insurance contributions recognized insurance company Alecta. This is a multi-employer insurance plan, and there is under in comprehensive income. insufficient information to report these obligations as a defined-benefit plan. Pensions secured by insurance from Alecta are therefore reported as deﬁned-contribution plans. Contributions paid in 2018 amounted to SEK 3 M (3). At the end of Pension obligations 2018, the collective consolidated level of defined-benefit plans in Alecta totaled a 2018 2017 preliminary 142 percent (154). The collective consolidated level consists of assets as a percentage of actuarial obligations. January 1 23,271 21,803 Within Skanska Norway, the largest deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plan is the Pensions earned during the year 535 768 Skanska Norge Pensionskassa pension fund. This plan covered almost all employees Interest on obligations 594 574 of Skanska in Norway and the pension is based on final salary and number of Beneﬁts paid by employers –229 –226 years of employment with Skanska. The pension obligations are secured through assets in the pension fund. The Skanska Norge Pensionskassa pension fund Beneﬁts paid from plan assets –622 –364 has been closed for new members since mid-2018. The pension commitment is Remeasurements: lifelong and sensitive to changes in the discount rate, pay increases, inflation and – Actuarial gains (–), losses (+) changed financial life span. assumptions –357 1,123 The largest of Skanska’s deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans in the UK is the Skanska – Actuarial gains (–), losses (+) changed demoPension Fund. The plan covers salaried employees and is based on average graphic assumptions 1 –279 –97 earnings over the period of employment. The pension is remeasured following – Experience-based changes 296 –2 changes in inflation (index-linked). The pension obligations are secured through Curtailments and settlements 2 –326 –49 assets in the pension fund. Skanska Pension Fund has been closed for vesting and Exchange-rate differences 392 –259 new members since end of the first quarter of 2018. The pension commitment is sensitive to changes in the discount rate, inflation and life span. Pension obligations, present value 23,275 23,271 1 For 2018, refers to changed life expectancy assumptions in the UK. 2 For 2018, refers to reductions in Sweden and the UK. Net liability related to employee benefits, defined-benefit plans 2018 2017 Pension obligations, funded plans, present value, December 31 23,275 23,271 Pension obligations and plan assets by country Sweden Norway UK Plan assets, fair value, December 31 –18,510 –18,361 2018 Net pension liability according to the statement of financial position 4,765 4,910 Active members’ portion of obligations 39% 47% 4% Dormant pension rights 25% 17% 57% Pension obligations and average duration by country Pensioners’ portion of obligations 36% 36% 39% Sweden Norway UK Total 2018 Weighted average duration 20 years 20 years 20 years Pension obligations 9,767 3,957 9,551 23,275 Plan assets –4,388 –4,861 –9,261 –18,510 2017 Net pension liability Active members’ portion of according to the stateobligations 37% 48% 17% ment of financial position 5,379 –904 290 4,765 Dormant pension rights 25% 11% 48% Pensioners’ portion of obliga2017 tions 38% 41% 35% Pension obligations 8,781 3,941 10,549 23,271 Weighted average duration 19 years 20 years 21 years Plan assets –4,392 –4,634 –9,335 –18,361 Net pension liability according to the statement of financial position 4,389 –693 1,214 4,910 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 161 Not 28. Continued Plan assets Total plan assets by asset class 2018 2017 2018 2017 January 1 18,361 17,266 Equities and mutual funds: Estimated return on plan assets 491 472 Swedish equities and mutual funds 381 408 Funds contributed by employers 533 571 Norwegian equities and mutual funds 697 692 Funds contributed by employees 6 9 UK equities and mutual funds 967 840 Benefits paid –622 –364 Global mutual funds 3,692 3,825 Difference between actual return and estimated Total equities and mutual funds 5,737 5,765 return –611 690 Exchange-rate differences 352 –283 Interest-bearing securities: Plan assets, fair value 18,510 18,361 Swedish bonds 1,090 925 Norwegian bonds 881 907 Amounts contributed are expected to total SEK 400 M in 2019. UK bonds 2,155 2,934 Bonds in other countries 2,710 2,197 Plan assets not included in carrying amount due to the limit in the Total interest-bearing securities 6,836 6,963 ceiling rule 2018 2017 Alternative investments: January 1 20 48 Hedge funds 322 385 Change for the year –2 –28 Property investments 1,666 1,573 Plan assets not included in carrying amount 18 20 Infrastructure projects 1,909 1,844 Other items 2,040 1,831 Total alternative investments 5,937 5,633 Plan assets and return by country Total plan assets 18,510 18,361 Sweden Norway UK 2018 Equities and mutual funds, interest-bearing securities and hedge funds were meaShares 27% 38% 29% sured at current market prices. Property investments and infrastructure projects Interest-bearing securities 32% 42% 37% were measured by discounting future cash flows. 75 percent of total plan assets Alternative investments 41% 20% 34% have a quoted price on an active market. Estimated return 2.50% 2.75% 2.50% Actual return 0.20% –1.00% –0.40% 2017 Shares 29% 39% 29% Interest-bearing securities 28% 42% 41% Alternative investments 43% 19% 30% Estimated return 2.50% 3.00% 2.75% Actual return 4.20% 9.40% 6.40% 162 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Not 28. Continued Actuarial assumptions Sensitivity of plan assets to deviations between estimated return Sweden Norway UK and actual return Sweden Norway UK Total 1 2018 Financial assumptions Plan assets, December 31, 2018 4,388 4,861 9,261 18,510 Discount rate, January 1 2.50% 2.75% 2.50% Return increase of 5% 220 240 460 920 Discount rate, December 31 2.25% 3.00% 2.75% Return decrease of 5% –220 –240 –460 –920 Estimated return on plan assets for 1 If actual return exceeds the estimated return by 5 percent, the gain upon remeasurement the period 2.50% 2.75% 2.50% is expected to amount to SEK 920 M. If actual return falls below the estimated return by 5 percent, the loss upon remeasurement is expected to amount to SEK 920 M. Expected pay increase, December 31 3.00% 2.25% 3.50% Expected inflation, December 31 2.00% 1.50% 3.25% The sensitivity analyses are based on existing circumstances, assumptions and populations. Application at other levels may produce different effects of changes. Demographic assumptions Life expectancy after age 65, men 23 years 21 year 23 year Deﬁned-contribution plans Life expectancy after age 65, women 25 year 24 year 25 year These plans mainly cover retirement pension, disability pension and family Life expectancy table PRI K2013 S2 2017 pension. The premiums are paid regularly during the year by the respective Group company to separate legal entities, for example insurance companies. The size of the premium is based on salary. The pension expense for the period is included in 2017 the income statement. Financial assumptions Discount rate, January 1 2.50% 3.00% 2.75% Total pension expenses in the income statement for defined-benefit Discount rate, December 31 2.50% 2.75% 2.50% plans and defined-contribution plans Estimated return on plan assets for 2018 2017 the period 2.50% 3.00% 2.75% Defined-benefit pensions vested during the year –535 –768 Expected pay increase, December 31 3.00% 2.25% 3.50% Less: Funds contributed by employees 6 9 Expected inflation, December 31 2.00% 1.75% 3.25% Interest on obligations –594 –574 Demographic assumptions Estimated return on plan assets 491 472 Life expectancy after age 65, men 23 years 21 years 24 years Curtailments and settlements 326 49 Life expectancy after age 65, women 25 years 24 years 25 years Pension expenses, defined-benefit plans –306 –812 Life expectancy table PRI K2013 S2 2015 Pension expenses, defined-contribution plans –1,673 –1,393 Social insurance contributions, defined-benefit All three countries where Skanska has defined-benefit plans have an extensive and defined-contribution plans 1 –145 –139 market for high-grade long-term corporate bonds, including mortgage bonds. Total pension expenses –2,124 –2,344 The discount rate is established on the basis of the market yield for these bonds on the closing day. 1 Refers to special payroll tax in Sweden and employer fee in Norway. Sensitivity of pension obligations to changes in assumptions Sweden Norway UK Total 1 Allocation of pension expenses in the income statement 2018 2017 Pension obligations, December 31, 2018 9,767 3,957 9,551 23,275 Cost of production and management –1,639 –1,731 Discount rate increase of 0.25% –475 –200 –475 –1,150 Selling and administrative expenses –382 –511 Discount rate decrease of 0.25% 475 200 475 1,150 Financial items –103 –102 Increase of 0.25% in expected Total pension expenses –2,124 –2,344 pay increase 125 75 0 200 Reduction of 0.25% in expected pay increase –125 –75 0 –200 Increase of 0.25% in expected inflation 350 125 325 800 Decrease of 0.25% in expected inflation –350 –125 –325 –800 Life expectancy increase of 1 year 400 175 300 875 1 Estimated change in pension obligation/pension liability if the assumption is increased or decreased for all three countries. If the pension liability is increased for all three countries the Group’s equity would be reduced by 90 percent of the increased pension liability, after taking into account deferred tax and social insurance contributions. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 163 Note 29. Provisions Provisions are reported in compliance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, see Note 1. Provisions are allocated in the statement of financial position between non-current liabilities and current liabilities. Provisions are both interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing. Provisions that are part of the operating cycleare recognized as current. Interest-bearing provisions that fall due within a year are treated as current. Restated Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Current provisions Non-interest-bearing 9,922 9,131 Total 9,922 9,131 The change in provisions broken down into reserve for legal disputes, provisions for warranty obligations and other provisions is presented in the following table. Provision for warranty Reserve for legal disputes obligations Other provisions Total 2018 2017 1 2018 2017 2018 2017 1 2018 2017 January 1 1,377 950 3,300 2,938 4,454 3,340 9,131 7,228 Changed accounting principle, Note 3 387 387 Adjusted opening balance 1,377 950 3,300 2,938 4,454 3,727 9,131 7,615 Provisions for the year 555 1,036 1,144 1,248 2,552 1,144 4,251 3,428 Provisions utilized –455 –394 –704 –660 –1,676 –380 –2,835 –1,434 Unutilized amounts that were eversed,change in value –140 –180 –446 –309 –353 –71 –939 –560 Exchange-rate differences 19 7 59 39 116 –5 194 41 Reclassiﬁcations –29 –42 –117 44 266 39 120 41 December 31 1,327 1,377 3,236 3,300 5,359 4,454 9,922 9,131 Specification of “Other provisions” 2018 2017 1 Employee-related provisions consist of items such as the cost of profit-sharing, certain bonus programs and other obligations to employees. Provisions for restructuring measures 579 603 Provisions for environmental obligations include the costs of restoring gravel Employee-related provisions 362 334 pits to their natural state in Swedish operations. Environmental obligations 106 108 Provision for social insurance contributions for pensions and share-based payments 1,246 1,086 Contingent considerations 2 573 838 Provisions for commitments in joint ventures Provisions for losses 49 1,366 60 574 Note 30. Trade and other payables Provisions for completed projects 504 254 Damage restoration 140 131 Non-interest-bearing liabilities in business operations are recognized as “Other operating liabilities.” Such liabilities are part of the Group’s operating cycle and Other provisions 434 466 are recognized as current liabilities. Total 5,359 4,454 1 Amounts for the comparative year are corrected for the categories “Reserve for legal disRestated putes” and “Other provisions.” The correction means that disputes other than those relating Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 to projects in the Contruction business stream will also be recognized under the heading “Reserve for legal disputes.” Trade accounts payable 16,262 15,638 2 Acquisitions of current-asset properties. These are reported as financial instruments. See Note 6. Other operating liabilities to associated companies 15 The normal cycle time for “Other provisions” is one to three years. Other operating liabilities 1 4,855 7,454 Provisions for legal disputes are provisions in the Construction business stream Accrued expenses and prepaid income 16,955 15,117 for projects that have been completed as well as other disputes. Total 38,072 38,224 Provisions for warranty obligations are for expenses that may arise during Of which financial instruments reported in the warranty period and for rent guarantees for properties in the Commercial Note 6 Financial instruments and financial risk Property Development business stream. Such provisions in Construction are based management on individual assessments of each project or average experience-based cost, Trade accounts payable 16,262 15,638 expressed as a percentage of sales during a five-year period. The expenses are Other operating liabilities including accrued charged to each project on a continuous basis. Provisions for warranty obligations interest expense 322 496 in other business streams are based on individual assessments of each projects. 16,584 16,134 The change in 2018 was mainly related to Construction. Of which non-financial instruments 21,488 22,090 Provisions for restructuring measures mainly consist of items related to Poland, Sweden and the discontinuation of operations in Latin America. 1 “Other operating liabilities” includes SEK 307 M (491) for checks issued but not yet cashed, mainly in the USA. See Note 1. 164 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 31. Specification of interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities per asset and liability Dec 31, 2018 Restated Dec 31, 2017 Non-interest Non-interest Interest-bearing bearing Total Interest-bearing bearing Total ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 7,645 7,645 6,874 6,874 Goodwill 4,324 4,324 4,554 4,554 Other intangible assets 975 975 962 962 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 3,288 3,288 3,314 3,314 Non-current financial assets 2,302 43 2,345 2,228 48 2,276 Deferred tax assets 1,933 1,933 1,757 1,757 Total non-current assets 2,302 18,208 20,510 2,228 17,509 19,737 Current assets Current-asset properties 42,391 42,391 39,010 39,010 Inventories 1,256 1,256 1,058 1,058 Current financial assets 7,047 70 7,117 6,574 97 6,671 Tax assets 396 396 1,188 1,188 Contract assets 6,661 6,661 6,997 6,997 Trade and other receivables 27,243 27,243 27,778 27,778 Cash 10,722 10,722 6,998 6,998 Total current assets 17,769 78,017 95,786 13,572 76,128 89,700 TOTAL ASSETS 20,071 96,225 116,296 15,800 93,637 109,437 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Non-current financial liabilities 3,909 3 3,912 3,836 21 3,857 Pensions 5,669 5,669 5,603 5,603 Deferred tax liabilities 711 711 1,235 1,235 Total non-current liabilities 9,578 714 10,292 9,439 1,256 10,695 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 7,262 48 7,310 7,487 137 7,624 Tax liabilities 615 615 312 312 Current provisions 9,922 9,922 9,131 9,131 Contract liabilities 20,738 20,738 16,266 16,266 Trade and other payables 38,072 38,072 38,224 38,224 Total current liabilities 7,262 69,395 76,657 7,487 64,070 71,557 TOTAL LIABILITIES 16,840 70,109 86,949 16,926 65,326 82,252 Total equity 29,347 27,185 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 116,296 109,437 Interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities 3,231 –1,126 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 165 Note 32. Expected recovery periods of assets and liabilities Dec 31, 2018 Restated Dec 31, 2017 Within After Within After Amounts expected to be recovered 12 months 12 months Total 12 months 12 months Total ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 1 1,571 6,074 7,645 1,415 5,459 6,874 Goodwill 4,324 4,324 4,554 4,554 Other intangible assets 1 209 766 975 175 787 962 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 2 3,288 3,288 3,314 3,314 Non-current financial assets 2,345 2,345 2,276 2,276 Deferred tax assets 3 1,933 1,933 1,757 1,757 Total non-current assets 1,780 18,730 20,510 1,590 18,147 19,737 Current assets Current-asset properties 4 19,900 22,491 42,391 19,000 20,010 39,010 Inventories 512 744 1,256 474 584 1,058 Current financial assets 7,065 52 7,117 6,671 6,671 Tax assets 396 396 1,188 1,188 Contract assets 5 6,145 516 6,661 5,909 1,088 6,997 Trade and other receivables 5 24,271 2,972 27,243 23,843 3,935 27,778 Cash 10,722 10,722 6,998 6,998 Total current assets 69,011 26,775 95,786 64,083 25,617 89,700 TOTAL ASSETS 70,791 45,505 116,296 65,673 43,764 109,437 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Non-current financial liabilities 3,912 3,912 180 3,677 3,857 Pensions 6 258 5,411 5,669 249 5,354 5,603 Deferred tax liabilities 711 711 1,235 1,235 Total non-current liabilities 258 10,034 10,292 429 10,266 10,695 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 4,527 2,783 7,310 5,636 1,988 7,624 Tax liabilities 615 615 312 312 Current provisions 3,908 6,014 9,922 3,983 5,148 9,131 Contract liabilities 18,018 2,720 20,738 13,817 2,449 16,266 Trade and other payables 36,367 1,705 38,072 36,718 1,506 38,224 Total current liabilities 63,435 13,222 76,657 60,466 11,091 71,557 TOTAL LIABILITIES 63,693 23,256 86,949 60,895 21,357 82,252 Total equity 29,347 27,185 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 116,296 109,437 1 In case of amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months, the expected annual depreciation/amortization has been recognized. 2 The breakdown cannot be estimated. 3 Deferred tax assets are expected to be recovered in their entirety after 12 months. 4 Recovery of current-asset properties within one year is based on a historical assessment from the past three years. 5 Current receivables that fall due in more than 12 months’ time are part of the operating cycle and are thus recognized as current. 6 “Within 12 months” refers to expected benefit payments (payments from funded plans are not included). 166 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 33. Assets pledged, contingent liabilities and contingent assets Assets pledged Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Shares and participations 2,229 1,925 Receivables 824 940 Total 3,053 2,865 Joint ventures within the Infrastructure Development business stream are reported as pledged assets when the holdings in the project company, which may be owned directly by Skanska or owned through intermediary holding companies, are provided as security for loans from banks or lenders other than the co-owners. Assets pledged for liabilities Shares and receivables Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Own obligations Other liabilities 824 940 Total own obligations 824 940 Other obligations 2,229 1,925 Total 3,053 2,865 Assets pledged for other liabilities, SEK 0.8 (1.0) billion, relate predominantly to financial instruments pledged as collateral to clients in conjunction with contracting work in the USA. Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are reported in compliance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. See Note 1. Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 A Skanska subsidiary in Finland has been prosecuted for a corporate fine in connection to a bribery investigation involving a former real estate manager in another Contingent liabilities related to joint operations within the Construction business stream 44,286 46,830 company. The judgement from the court is expected in 2019, but will likely be subject to appeals. Skanska consider such fine to be unjustified and a ruling will Contingent liabilities related to other joint operations 31 28 be made in a now on-going trial. A Skanska Finland manager is defendant in the case. Several Finnish companies and individuals are involved. Skanska has actively Contingent liabilities related to joint ventures 747 814 cooperated with the prosecutor and police since the start of the investigation. Other contingent liabilities 2,585 1,260 The Brazilian competition authority, the Administrative Council of Economic Total 47,649 48,932 Defense, (CADE) and the Ministry of Transparency Inspection and Control (MoT) initiated in the end of 2015 administrative procedures against Skanska Brazil in The Group’s contingent liabilities related to contracting work executed jointly relation to certain Petrobras projects. In June 2016 MoT decided that Skanska Brazil with other contractors totaled SEK 44.3 (46.8) billion. This amount refers to the shall be excluded from public tenders during no less than two years. Skanska portion of the joint and several liability relating to the obligations of the joint Brazil´s appeal is still pending. CADE has still to decide on the cartel case. Other operation in question that affect other participants in the joint operation. Such authorities have initiated procedures related to the same transactions. Skanska liability is often required by the customer. To the extent it is deemed likely that informed in April 2016 that the Attorney General of the Brazilian government Skanska will be subject to liability claims, the obligation is reported as a liability. (AGU) commenced a lawsuit against seven companies including Skanska Brazil. Contingent liabilities related to joint ventures refer mainly to guarantees issued The charges focused on claims of inappropriate payments by a joint venture for joint ventures belonging to the Residential Development and Commercial partner. Both courts of first and second instance have rejected the claim against Property Development business streams. Skanska Brazil. AGU has appealed to the Superior Court and this appeal is pending. In the Group’s other contingent liabilities, just over SEK 2.6 (1.3) billion related The Federal Audit Court (TCU) is an authority auditing public contract, including mainly to obligations attributable to residential projects. those of Petrobras, and Skanska Brazil has some contracts under TCU review. Skanska selectively forms joint operations and joint ventures when this is Early 2006 tax authorities in Argentina started investigating about 120 beneficial in view of project size and/or the type of commitments involved in the companies, including Skanska S.A in Argentina, for use of fake invoices. Skanska project. Combining expertise and resources with other construction companies is cooperated with the authorities and rectified its tax returns. The Appeal Court then a means of optimizing project planning and execution as well as managing found in 2011 no evidence of wrongdoings and no convictions were made. Howspeciﬁc project risks. “External partners in these arrangements are scrutinized ever, the lower court decided in October 2017 to once again indict a large number in accordance with the tender approval process. For more information regarding of individuals including 9 former Skanska employees. Trial is expected to begin joint operations and joint ventures, see Note 20 B and Note 20 C. “ 2019. Skanska sold its Argentine business 2015, but is managing the case due to In December 2016 Skanska received a claim from the Maltese government, an ongoing obligation to the buyer. which in July 2018 led to commencement of arbitration, regarding the Mater Dei hospital on Malta. The Government alleges defects in certain concrete works Contingent assets performed in 1996 and errors in seismic design. Skanska is contesting the claims The Group has no contingent assets of significant importance in assessing the on both formal and material grounds. The arbitration tribunal has decided that it position of the Group. See Note 1. during 2019 will decide on a partial award on the formal grounds. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 167 Note 34. Foreign exchange rates and effect of changes in foreign exchange rates Exchange rates are dealt with in compliance with IAS 21 The Effect of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. See Note 1. Exchange rates In 2018 the Swedish krona ﬂuctuated against currencies in countries in which the Group does business. Average exchange rate Change, % Currency Country 2018 2017 2016 2017–2018 2016–2017 CZK Czech Republic 0.400 0.366 0.350 9 5 DKK Denmark 1.377 1.296 1.272 6 2 EUR EU 10.260 9.638 9.468 6 2 GBP UK 11.597 11.002 11.587 5 –5 NOK Norway 1.068 1.033 1.019 3 1 PLN Poland 2.408 2.265 2.170 6 4 USD USA 8.696 8.549 8.559 2 Closing day exchange rate Change, % Currency Land 2018 2017 2016 2017–2018 2016–2017 CZK Czech Republic 0.398 0.384 0.354 3 9 DKK Denmark 1.373 1.321 1.287 4 3 EUR EU 10.253 9.834 9.571 4 3 GBP UK 11.352 11.081 11.150 2 –1 NOK Norway 1.027 1.000 1.053 3 –5 PLN Poland 2.383 2.355 2.168 1 9 USD USA 8.941 8.204 9.064 9 –9 Income statement In 2018 the average exchange rate of the SEK against the Group’s other currencies weakened against all currencies. The total exchange rate effect on the Group’s revenue was SEK 4,671 M (–198), equivalent to 3.0 (–0.1) percent. The total exchange rate effect on the Group’s operating income was SEK 114 M (–33), equivalent to 2.5 (–0.5) percent. See the table below. USD EUR GBP NOK CZK PLN Other Total 2018 Revenue 1,177 905 1,143 524 478 444 4 671 Operating income 13 98 29 23 6 –59 4 114 Income after ﬁnancial items 8 93 28 26 5 –60 5 105 Proﬁt for the year 4 70 27 22 3 –68 5 63 USD EUR GBP NOK CZK PLN Other Total 2017 Revenue –74 189 –1,113 196 235 370 –1 –198 Operating income 13 –12 8 4 –44 –2 –33 Income after ﬁnancial items 12 –13 9 4 –44 –1 –33 Proﬁt for the year 10 –11 7 –48 –1 –43 168 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 34. Continued Consolidated statement of financial position by functional currency Consolidated total assets increased by SEK 6.9 billion, from SEK 109.4 billion to SEK 116.3 billion. The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates was SEK 4.5 billion. The closing exchange rate of the Swedish krona weakened against all currencies all currencies the Group uses in its operations. Other foreign Hedges currenof foreign Dec 31, 2018, SEK bn USD GBP EUR NOK CZK PLN DKK cies 1 currency 2 SEK Total Assets Property, plant and equipment 2.4 0.2 0.5 1.5 0.5 0.3 –0.1 2.3 7.6 Intangible assets 0.7 1.5 0.5 1.4 0.6 –0.1 0.7 5.3 Shares and participations 1.6 0.1 0.2 0.1 –0.1 1.4 3.3 Interest-bearing receivables 21.8 2.4 3.8 4.2 1.0 1.3 –23.6 –1.6 9.3 Current-asset properties 9.5 0.4 11.6 4.0 1.8 1.1 1.2 0.2 12.6 42.4 Non-interest-bearing receivables 17.5 4.1 2.6 3.8 0.9 1.4 0.1 0.2 7.1 37.7 Cash and cash equivalents 1.4 0.1 1.3 0.3 0.1 7.5 10.7 Total 54.9 8.8 20.3 15.1 5.2 4.2 1.3 –23.5 0.0 30.0 116.3 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to equity holders 3 9.1 1.6 4.6 4.5 2.3 –0.5 0.9 –1.0 7.7 29.2 Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.1 Interest-bearing liabilities 16.7 0.9 8.9 3.0 0.8 1.1 0.1 –23.9 1.0 8.2 16.8 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 29.1 6.3 6.8 7.6 2.0 3.6 0.3 0.4 14.1 70.2 Total 54.9 8.8 20.3 15.1 5.2 4.2 1.3 –23.5 0.0 30.0 116.3 Other foreign Hedges currenof foreign Dec 31, 2017, SEK bn USD GBP EUR NOK CZK PLN DKK cies 1 currency 2 SEK Total Assets Property, plant and equipment 2.3 0.2 0.4 1.1 0.5 0.2 0.1 2.1 6.9 Intangible assets 1.0 1.5 0.5 1.3 0.5 0.1 0.6 5.5 Shares and participations 1.8 0.1 0.2 0.1 –0.2 1.3 3.3 Interest-bearing receivables 21.1 3.4 2.2 3.8 1.1 2.1 –26.8 –0.4 2.3 8.8 Current-asset properties 7.4 0.3 11.1 3.4 1.7 0.9 1.5 12.7 39.0 Non-interest-bearing receivables 17.3 4.9 2.5 4.0 1.2 2.1 0.4 6.5 38.9 Cash and cash equivalents 1.1 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.1 4.7 7.0 Total 52.0 10.3 16.9 13.9 5.8 5.4 1.6 –26.3 –0.4 30.2 109.4 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to equity holders 3 8.9 1.7 6.9 4.1 2.5 0.6 0.5 0.1 –4.8 6.6 27.1 Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.1 Interest-bearing liabilities 17.1 2.4 4.7 2.7 0.6 1.1 0.7 –26.8 4.4 10.0 16.9 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 26.0 6.2 5.3 7.1 2.6 3.7 0.4 0.4 13.6 65.3 Total 52.0 10.3 16.9 13.9 5.8 5.4 1.6 –26.3 –0.4 30.2 109.4 1 Including elimination of intra-Group receivables and liabilities. 2 Amount refers to hedges before tax deduction. Net investments abroad are currency-hedged to a certain extent through foreign currency loans and forward currency contracts. See also Note 6. Hedging of net investments through foreign currency loans mainly in EUR amounts to SEK 1.0 (4.4) billion. Hedging of net investments through foreign currency contracts amounts to SEK 0.0 (0.4) billion, which breaks down as USD 0.0 (0.2), and GBP 0.0 (0.2). 3 The respective currencies are calculated including goodwill on consolidation and the net amount of Group surpluses after deducting deferred taxes. Effect on the Group of a change in SEK against other currencies and of which SEK bn +/–10% USD +/–10% change in USD against SEK The following sensitivity analysis, based on the 2018 income statement and Revenue +/– 12.8 +/– 7.0 statement of financial position, shows the sensitivity of the Group to a unilateral Operating income +/– 0.3 +/– 0.1 10-percent change in the SEK against all currencies, as well as a unilateral 10-perEquity +/– 2.2 +/– 0.9 cent change in the USD against the SEK (+ indicates a weakening of the Swedish Net receivables/net liabilities +/– 0.6 +/– 0.7 krona, – indicates a strengthening of the Swedish krona). Other items For information on the change in the translation reserve in equity, see Note 26. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 169 Note 35. Cash flow statement Aside from the cash flow statement prepared in compliance with IAS 7 Statement Information about assets and liabilities in acquired Group companies/ of Cash Flows, Skanska prepares a cash flow statement based on the operations businesses carried out by the respective business streams. This cash flow statement is called 2018 2017 the “Consolidated operating cash flow statement.” The connection between the respective cash-ﬂow statements is explained below. Assets Intangible assets 21 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow Property, plant and equipment 7 2018 2017 Non-interest-bearing assets 1 Depreciation/amortization and impairment Total 29 0 losses/reversals of impairment losses 2,457 2,462 Income from divestments of non-current assets Liabilities and current-asset properties –8,479 –5,323 Interest-bearing liabilities 7 Income after ﬁnancial items from joint ventures Non-interest-bearing liabilities 6 and associated companies –821 –388 Total 13 0 Dividends from joint ventures and associated companies 1,465 256 Paid consideration –16 Provision for the year, intra-Group proﬁts on Effect on cash and cash equivalents, contracting work 543 452 acquisitions –16 0 Pensions recognized as expenses but not related to payments 203 710 Acquired Group companies/operations are described in Note 7. Pensions paid –851 –590 Cost of Seop, employee ownership programs 254 297 Connection between “Consolidated operating cash flow statement” and “Consolidated cash flow statement” Gain on joint ventures divested –42 –1,362 The difference between the consolidated operating cash flow statement and the Other items that have not affected cash flow consolidated cash flow statement in compliance with IAS 7 Statement of Cash from operating activities 18 –35 Flows is presented below. Total –5,253 –3,521 The consolidated cash flow statement prepared in compliance with IAS 7 recogTaxes paid nizes cash flow divided into: Taxes paid are divided into operating activities, investing activities and financing Cash flow from operating activities activities. Cash flow from investing activities Total taxes paid for the Group during the year amounted to SEK –490 M (–968). Cash flow from financing activities Information about interest and dividends The consolidated operating cash flow statement recognizes cash flow divided 2018 2017 into: Interest income received during the year 134 87 Cash flow from business operations Cash flow from financing activities Interest paid during the year 288 –237 Cash flow from strategic investments Dividend received during the year 1,497 287 Dividend etc. Change in interest-bearing receivables and liabilities Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the cash-ﬂow statement consist of cash and bank The consolidated operating cash flow statement refers to operating activities as balances as well as short-term investments. The definition of cash and bank “business operations.” Unlike the cash flow statement in compliance with IAS 7, balances in the statement of financial position can be found in Note 1. “business operations” also includes net investments, which are regarded as an The same rule that has been used in determining cash and cash equivalents in element of business operations, together with tax payments on these. Such net the statement of financial position has been used in determining cash and cash investments are net investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible equivalents according to the cash flow statement. Only amounts that can be used non-current assets as well as net investments in Infrastructure Development. without restrictions are recognized as cash and bank balances. Investments of a strategic nature are recognized under cash flow from strategic investments. 2018 2017 Under cash flow from financing activities, the operating cash flow statement Cash 10,722 6,998 recognizes only interest and other financial items as well as taxes paid on these. Total 10,722 6,998 Dividends are recognized separately. Loans provided and repayment of loans are also recognized separately along with changes in interest-bearing receivables at Other items the bottom of the operating cash flow statement, resulting in a subtotal in that At year-end, the Group’s unutilized credit facilities amounted to SEK 8,613 M statement that shows cash flow before changes in interest-bearing receivables (8,281). and liabilities. 170 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 35. Continued Cash flow for the year Relation between the Group’s investments in the cash flow statement 2018 2017 and investments in the operating cash flow statement Total net investments are recognized in the cash flow statement divided into Cash flow from business operations including taxes paid according to operating cash flow 7,268 2,702 operating activities and investing activities, taking into account the settlement of payments for investments and divestments. Less net investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 2,157 112 Purchases and sales of current-asset properties are recognized under operating activities, while other net investments are recognized under investing activities. Less tax payments on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets divested, and divestment of assets in Infrastructure Development 29 32 2018 2017 Cash flow from operating activities 9,454 2,846 Net investments in operating activities 5,434 –1,217 Net investments in investing activities –2,173 –112 Cash flow from strategic investments according to operating cash flow –16 3,261 –1,329 Net investments in property, plant and equipLess accrual adjustments, cash ﬂow effect of ment and intangible assets –2,157 –112 investments 39 243 Increase and decrease in interest-bearing Total net investments 3,300 –1,086 receivables –165 1,734 Taxes paid on property, plant and equipment The consolidated operating cash flow statement recognizes net investments dividand intangible assets and assets in Infrastructure ed into net investments in operations and strategic net investments as follows. Development –29 –32 Cash flow from investing activities –2,367 1,590 Investments/divestments Cash flow from financing activities according to 2018 2017 operating cash flow statement, including changOperations – investments es in interest-bearing receivables and liabilities –202 2,796 Intangible assets –225 –255 Increase and decrease in interest-bearing receivables 165 –1,734 Property, plant and equipment –2,351 –1,876 Dividend etc. 1 –3,472 –3,879 Assets in Infrastructure Development –62 –449 Cash flow from financing activities –3,509 –2,817 Shares –37 –154 Cash flow for the year 3,578 1,619 Current-asset properties –21,849 –21,451 of which Residential Development –10,449 –10,801 1 Of which shares repurchased –72 –440 of which Commercial Property Development –11,400 –10,650 –24,524 –24,185 Operations – divestments Intangible assets 6 1 Property, plant and equipment 420 213 Assets in Infrastructure Development 80 1,950 Shares 12 458 Current-asset properties 27,322 20,477 of which Residential Development 12,068 11,767 of which Commercial Property Development 15,254 8,710 27,840 23,099 Net investments in operations 3,316 –1,086 Strategic investments Business combinations –16 Net strategic investments –16 0 Total net investments 3,300 –1,086 The change in interest-bearing liabilities belonging to ﬁnancing activities is presented in the following table. Interest-bearing liabilities 2018 2017 January 1 11,323 10,172 Items affecting cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities –146 885 Acquisition of companies 7 Exchange-rate differences –13 266 December 31 11,171 11,323 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 171 Note 36. Personnel Wages, salaries, other remuneration and social insurance contributions 2018 2017 Wages, salaries and other remuneration Board members, Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents and other executive team members 1 551 554 of which variable remuneration 209 213 Other employees 21,068 21,448 Total wages, salary and other remuneration 21,619 22,002 Social insurance contributions 5,294 5,415 of which pension expenses 2,021 2,130 1 T he amount related to Board members, Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents and other executive team members includes remuneration to former Board members, Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents in all Group companies during the financial year. Of the Group’s total pension expenses, SEK 43 M (49) relates to the category “Board members, Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents and other executive team members.” The amount includes remuneration to former Board members, Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents. Average number of employees Personnel is calculated as the average number of employees, see Note 1. Of which Of which Of which Of which 2018 men % women % 2017 men % women % Sweden 9,458 7,328 77 2,130 23 9,304 7,500 81 1,804 19 Norway 3,855 3,474 90 381 10 3,867 3,472 90 395 10 Denmark 17 10 59 7 41 15 10 67 5 33 Finland 2,176 1,840 85 336 15 2,091 1,740 83 351 17 UK 5,650 4,364 77 1,286 23 5,813 4,586 79 1,227 21 Poland 4,306 3,278 76 1,028 24 5,598 4,378 78 1,220 22 Czech Republic 2,652 2,226 84 426 16 3,039 2,528 83 511 17 Slovakia 830 732 88 98 12 838 718 86 120 14 USA 8,957 7,653 85 1,304 15 9,350 7,975 85 1,375 15 Other countries 749 663 89 86 11 844 775 92 69 8 Total 38,650 31,568 82 7,082 18 40,759 33,682 83 7,077 17 The number of employees at the end of the years was 37,450 (40,400). Men and women on Boards of Directors and in executive teams on closing day 2018 2017 Of which men , % Of which women, % Of which men , % Of which women, % Number of Board members 82 18 84 16 Number of Presidents and members of executive teams of Business Units 77 23 77 23 Other items No loans, assets pledged or contingent liabilities have been provided for the beneﬁt of any Board member or President in the Group. 172 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 37. Remuneration to senior executives and Board members The Group Leadership Team consisted of the President and CEO and the five salary. To receive shares a three-year vesting period is required and the shares are Executive Vice Presidents. Of these six individuals at the end of 2018, two were to be part of a long-term incentive program. Variable remuneration is to be based women and four were men. on performance in relation to established targets and designed to achieve better Senior executives are deﬁned as the members of the Group Leadership Team. alignment between the interests of the executive and of the company’s shareholders. The terms of variable remuneration should be designed in such a way Preparation and decision-making processes that if exceptional economic conditions exist, the Board has the ability to limit or Principles for senior executive remuneration are established annually by the refrain from paying variable remuneration if such payment is deemed unreasonAnnual General Meeting. Salary and other beneﬁts for the President and CEO are able and incompatible with the company’s general responsibility to shareholders, established by the Board of Directors of Skanska AB following recommendations employees and other stakeholders. With respect to the annual bonus, the Board from the Board’s Compensation Committee. The Committee sets salaries, variable has the possibility of limiting or refraining from paying this variable remuneration remuneration and other beneﬁts for the senior executives. The President and CEO if it deems such action reasonable for other reasons. regularly informs the Compensation Committee about the salaries, variable remuIf a Board member performs work on behalf of the company in addition to his neration and other beneﬁts of the heads of group functions units and business or her Board duties, a consultant fee and other compensation for such work may units. In 2018 the Compensation Committee consisted of Hans Biörck, Chairman be payable. of the Board, and Board members Pär Boman and Jayne McGivern. The CompenIn case of termination, the normal notice period is six months combined with sation Committee met seven times during the year. The Annual General Meeting severance pay equivalent to a maximum of 18 months of fixed salary or, alternaapproves the directors’ fees and remuneration for committee work for members tively, a notice period of a maximum of 12 months combined with severance pay of the Board, following recommendations from the Nomination Committee. equivalent to a maximum of 12 months of fixed salary. Pension beneﬁts are to be either deﬁned-beneﬁt or deﬁned-contribution plans, Senior executive remuneration or a combination of both, and entitle the executive to receive an occupational Principles for remuneration pension from the age of 65. In individual cases, however, the retirement age may The 2018 Annual General Meeting approved the following guidelines for salaries be as low as 60. To earn full defined-benefit pension, the individual is required and other remuneration for senior executives: to have been employed for as long a period as is required under the company’s Remuneration for senior executives of Skanska AB is to consist of a ﬁxed salary, general pension plan in each respective country. possible variable remuneration, other customary beneﬁts and pension. The senior Variable remuneration is not pensionable except in cases where this is stipulatexecutives include the President and CEO and the other members of the Group ed in the rules for a general pension plan (e.g., Sweden’s ITP occupational pension Leadership Team. plan.) The combined remuneration for each executive must be market-based and The Board may deviate from these guidelines if there are special reasons to do competitive in the job market in which the executive works, and outstanding so in an individual case. performance should be reflected in the total remuneration package. The President and CEO’s salary and other remuneration are reviewed by the Fixed salary and variable remuneration are to be linked to the level of responCompensation Committee in preparation for decisions by the Board. The salary sibility and authority of the senior executive. The variable remuneration is to be and other remuneration for other senior executives are determined by the Compayable in cash and/or shares, and it is to have a ceiling and be related to the ﬁxed pensation Committee. Financial targets for variable salary components 2018 Measure of earnings Starting point Outperform Outcome Percentage fulfilled 2 Group Income after ﬁnancial items, SEK bn 1 4.2 6.7 4.9 29% Construction Operating income, SEK bn 2.6 4.2 1.1 44% Skanska Value Added, SEK bn 3 3.4 4.7 2.7 61% Residential Development Operating income, SEK bn 1.2 1.6 1.5 51% Return on capital employed, % 9 12 13 88% Units sold, thousands 4 1.8 2.2 1.8 16% Commercial Property Development Operating income, SEK bn 1.1 2.0 3.1 100% Return on capital employed, % 5 6 8 13 100% Leasing, thousands of sq m 6 146 371 456 100% 1 T he income excludes eliminations at the Group level. The outperform target at the Group level constitutes 95 percent of the business stream’s total outperform target and the starting point target constitutes 105 percent of the business stream’s total starting point target. 2 Percentage fulﬁlled is based on the outcomes for the respective business units, which are weighed together. As the amount fulﬁlled per business unit cannot be less than 0 percent, negative earnings from the business units may affect the comparison with the business stream’s total earnings. 3 T he Skanska Value Added (SVA) target corresponds to operating income less cost of capital employed. Cost of capital refers to the estimated cost of borrowed capital and equity before tax. 4 Encompasses the Residential Development business units in Central Europe and BoKlok. 5 Including unrealized development gains and changes in market value. Encompasses the Commercial Property Development business units in the Nordic region, Europe and the USA. 6 Encompasses the Commercial Property Development business units in the Nordic region, Europe and the USA. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 173 Note 37. Continued Targets and performance relating to variable remuneration an outcome of 22 percent of fixed annual salary, based on financial targets with Variable remuneration may consist of two parts: cash-based annual variable a target fulfillment of 29 percent. This calculation is preliminary insofar as any remuneration and the share incentive program, which provides compensation in deductions as a consequence of non-financial targets have not yet been taken the form of shares. into account. The Board will determine the ﬁnal outcome in the first quarter of The long-term share programs are described in the sections under the headings 2019 after reviewing operational performance. “Long-term share programs” and “Previous long-term share programs” in this note. The table below presents, by business stream, the starting point and outPension beneﬁts perform targets that were decided by the Board for the 2018 cash-based variable The retirement age for senior executives is 62 to 65 years. Employees in Sweden remuneration. are entitled to pension benefits according to the ITP occupational pension plan. In addition to the ﬁnancial performance targets, the senior executives have The ITP plan encompasses the defined-contribution ITP 1 pension system and the non-ﬁnancial targets that may reduce the outcome measured only according to deﬁned-beneﬁt ITP 2 pension system. Employees outside Sweden are covered by the ﬁnancial targets. The non-ﬁnancial targets mainly relate to strategic initiatives local pension plans. The ITP 1 contribution is 4.5 percent of gross cash salary up linked to the business plan. The outcome is reduced in cases where the operations to 7.5 base amounts of income per year and 30 percent of gross cash salary above for which the person is responsible have not reached the non-ﬁnancial targets. that. The deﬁned-beneﬁt ITP 2 plan guarantees a lifetime pension from age 55. Annual variable remuneration for the senior executives, excluding the President The pension amount is a certain percentage of the employee’s ﬁnal salary, and and CEO, is mainly tied to the Group targets and/or to the business units they are the service period to qualify for a full pension is 30 years. The pension entitlement is directly responsible for. The non-ﬁnancial targets are connected to the business 10 percent for salary components up to 7.5 base amounts, 65 percent for compounits and/or operations for which the senior executives are responsible. The nents between 7.5 and 20 base amounts and 32.5 percent for salary components preliminary outcome for the other senior executives averaged 34 percent (27) between 20 and 30 base amounts. For salary components exceeding 30 base of fixed annual salary. This calculation is preliminary insofar as any deductions amounts, this ITP 2 group is covered by a supplementary pension entitlement, as a consequence of non-financial targets have not yet been taken into account. with a premium of 20 percent. The Board will determine the final outcome of variable remuneration in the first quarter of 2019 after reviewing operational performance. Severance pay The notice period for the senior executives, in the case of termination by the comTargets and performance related to variable remuneration for the pany, is six months with retention of ﬁxed salary and beneﬁts, excluding variable President and CEO remuneration. After the notice period, severance pay is disbursed for 12 to 18 The ﬁnancial targets for the President and CEO were the same as the Group targets months. When payments are disbursed after the notice period other income must according to the table on the previous page. The Board has the option of reducing normally be subtracted from the amount payable. the ﬁnal outcome of variable remuneration measured solely on the ﬁnancial A mutual notice period of 12 months applies between Skanska and the targets by a maximum of 50 percent, based on the outcome of the Group’s President and CEO, with retention of fixed salary and benefits, excluding variable non-ﬁnancial targets. The preliminary outcome for the President and CEO’s remuneration. After the notice period, severance pay is disbursed for 12 months. variable remuneration (i.e., excluding the employee ownership program) shows When payments are disbursed after the notice period other income must normally be subtracted from the amount payable. Board of Directors Director’s fee Audit Committee Compensation Committee Project Review Committee Total SEK thousand 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Chairman of the Board Hans Biörck 2,040 2,040 158 158 110 110 205 205 2,513 2,513 Other Board members John Carrig – 680 – 158 – 105 – 205 – 1,148 Nina Linander 680 680 158 158 205 205 1,043 1,043 Fredrik Lundberg 680 680 205 205 885 885 Charlotte Strömberg 680 680 220 220 205 205 1,105 1,105 Pär Boman 680 680 158 158 105 105 205 205 1,148 1,148 Jayne McGivern 680 680 105 105 205 205 990 990 Catherine Marcus 680 680 205 205 885 885 Board of Directors 6,120 6,800 693 850 320 425 1,435 1,640 8,568 9,715 Remuneration and benefits recognized as expenses in 2018 Board members Directors’ fees Members of the Board did not receive any remuneration for their role as Board The 2018 Annual General Meeting resolved that fees would be paid to the Board members beyond their regular directors’ fees and remuneration for committee members elected by the Meeting totaling SEK 8,568 thousand (9,715), including a work. special allowance for committee work. See the table above. For Board members appointed by the employees, no disclosures are made concerning salaries and remuneration or pensions as they do not receive these Chairman of the Board in their capacity as Board members. For Board members who were employees During the 2018 ﬁnancial year the Chairman of the Board, Hans Biörck, received of the company before the beginning of the ﬁnancial year, disclosures are made a director’s fee totaling SEK 2,513 thousand (2,513), of which SEK 473 thousand concerning pension obligations in their former role as employees. (473) was for committee work. 174 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 37. Continued Group Leadership Team Allocated value of employee ownership Other remuneration Annual salary Variable remuneration 1 programs 2 and benefits 3 Pension expense Total SEK thousand 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 President and CEO Anders Danielsson 10,500 – 2,318 – – 375 – 3,675 – 16,868 – Johan Karlström – 12,670 – 628 – 1,532 – 84 – 6,335 – 21,248 Other senior executives (5 individuals) 4 26,419 40,854 8,990 10,224 583 4,166 1,126 42,914 5,899 17,018 43,017 115,176 Total 36,919 53,524 11,308 10,852 583 5,698 1,501 42,998 9,574 23,353 59,885 136,424 1 Variable remuneration relating to the 2018 financial year is preliminary and will be finally determined and disbursed after the outcome is established in the first quarter of 2019. The variable remuneration agreements include a general clause stipulating that the Board and the Compensation Committee are entitled to wholly or partly reduce variable remuneration. The amounts included under the heading “Variable remuneration” for 2017 in the table above refer to actual disbursements for the 2017 ﬁnancial year. 2 T he value stated refers to a preliminary allotment of matching shares and performance shares for 2018, at the share price on December 28, 2018 (SEK 141). The senior executives will receive an estimated 4,134 (6,445) matching shares and 0 (27,070) performance shares. The Board will determine the ﬁnal outcome in the first quarter of 2019 after reviewing operational performance. In order to receive matching shares and performance shares, an additional three years of service are required. The total cost has not yet been expensed as the cost is allocated over three years in accordance with IFRS 2. See the section under the heading “Long-term share programs.” The President and CEO as well as some other senior executives received remuneration related to the 2015 financial year. After a three-year lock-up period as part of the previous employee ownership program, Seop 3, the President and CEO received 12,683 shares, equivalent to SEK 1,788 thousand in 2018, for shares acquired for the financial year 2015. In 2018, as part of Seop 3, the other senior executives, after a three-year lock-up period, received 24,338 (80,403) Series B Skanska shares, equivalent to SEK 3,432 thousand (13,669), for shares allotted for the 2015 ﬁnancial year. The amounts stated for 2017 under the heading “Allocated value of employee ownership programs” in the table above have been calculated based on the actual outcome following reduction due to the cost limits for the employee ownership program being exceeded for 2017. 3 T he amount for 2017 includes the maximum cost of salaries during the notice period and severance pay for five individuals who left the company and the Senior Executive Team in 2017 and early 2018. These costs were charged to the accounts in 2017 but are being disbursed in 2018–2020. 4 During the period January 1 – January 16 this group consisted of six individuals. In 2017 other senior executives consisted of nine individuals during the period January 16 – May 31, and of eight individuals during the rest of the year. President and CEO except for SEK 10,948 thousand (10,739) to other senior executives, which was On January 1, 2018 Anders Danielsson took up the position of President and CEO. charged to other Group companies. In 2018 Anders Danielsson received a fixed salary of SEK 10,500,000 plus an estimated variable salary component of SEK 2,318,000 based on a preliminary figure Pension obligations to current and former senior executives of financial targets being 29 percent fulfilled. Variable remuneration is maximized In 2018, outstanding pension obligations to Presidents and CEOs, including at 75 percent of ﬁxed annual salary. The final outcome of variable remuneration former Presidents and CEOs, amounted to SEK 158,067 thousand (151,393). for the President and CEO will be established by the Board in the first quarter of Outstanding obligations to other current and former senior executives amounted 2019 following a review of operational performance. The preliminary outcome to SEK 107,411 thousand (109,782). was equivalent to 22 percent of ﬁxed annual salary. Disbursement normally occurs in May of the year following the performance year. Long-term share programs The President and CEO is also participating in the Group’s ongoing employee Share incentive program – Skanska employee ownership program, Seop 4 ownership program, Seop 4, which involves an allocation of matching shares and (2017–2019) performance shares. See the section under the heading “Long-term share programs” In 2016 the Annual General Meeting approved the introduction of the Seop 4 in this note. Within the framework of Seop 4, Anders Danielsson acquired long-term employee ownership program for employees of the Group. This is 6,486 Series B Skanska shares, which is not expected to result in the allocation ­essentially an extension of the earlier Seop 3 employee ownership program of matching shares. No performance shares are expected to be allocated since that ran from 2014–2016. The terms and conditions are the same in all material the outperform targets were preliminarily 0 percent fulfilled. The allocation of respects as those of the earlier Seop 3 program. matching and performance shares will be finally determined in the first quarter of The program is aimed at about 40,000 permanent employees of the Skanska 2019 after reviewing operational performance. Group, of whom some 2,000 are key employees and about 300 are executives, Annual pension provisions will total 35 percent of ﬁxed annual salary. The cost including the President and CEO and other senior executives. in 2018 amounted to SEK 3,675 thousand. The program offers employees, key employees and executives the opportunity – provided they have made their own investment in Series B Skanska shares during Other senior executives a given financial year – to receive Series B Skanska shares from Skanska free of In 2018 three individuals joined and four individuals left the Group Leadership charge. For each four Series B investment shares purchased, the employee will be Team. At the end of 2018 the other senior executives consisted of five individuals. entitled, after a three-year lock-up period, to receive one Series B Skanska share The senior executives received a ﬁxed salary and variable remuneration based free of charge. In addition, after the lock-up period, the employee will be able on the Group’s earnings and/or the earnings of the business units for which to receive additional Series B Skanska shares free of charge contingent upon the they are directly responsible. In addition, the senior executives were covered fulfillment of certain earnings-based performance criteria during the purchase by the Group’s ongoing employee ownership program, Seop 4, involving an period. allocation of matching shares and performance shares. See the section under The purchase period covers the years 2017–2019 and the lock-up period runs the heading “Long-term share programs” in this note. A total of 16,535 (18,851) for three years from the month in which the investment shares are acquired. Series B Skanska shares were purchased by the senior executives in 2018 under For each four investment shares purchased, employees may, in addition to one the Seop 4 program, which resulted in 4,134 (4,713) matching shares, equivalent matching share, receive a maximum of three performance shares. For each four to SEK 583 thousand (801). The amount stated is based on the share price on investment shares, key employees may, in addition to one matching share, receive December 28, 2018 (SEK 141). An estimated 0 (19,792) performance shares may be a maximum of seven performance shares. For each four investment shares, allocated, since the outperform targets were preliminarily 0 percent (18) fulfilled. executives (split into three subcategories) may, in addition to one matching share, Variable remuneration and the outcome of performance shares for 2018 are receive a maximum of 15, 19 or 23 performance shares. The maximum number of preliminary. The final outcome will be established in the first quarter of 2019 after investment shares that each employee participating in the program may acquire, a review of operational performance. Disbursement of the cash-based variable through monthly saving, depends on the employee’s salary and whether the remuneration normally occurs in May of the year following the performance year. employee is participating in the program as an employee, a key employee or an All above-mentioned remuneration and beneﬁts were charged to Skanska AB, executive. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 175 Note 37. Continued Financial targets for the employee ownership program, Seop 4, 2018 1 Measure of earnings Starting point Outperform Outcome Percentage fulfilled 2 Group Earnings per share, SEK 3 12.1 13.3 9.5 0% Construction Operating income, SEK bn 3.2 4.2 1.1 35% Residential Development Operating income, SEK bn 1.4 1.6 1.5 51% Return on capital employed, % 4 10 13 12 64% Commercial Property Development Operating income, SEK bn 1.4 2.0 3.1 100% Leasing, thousands of sq m2,5 146 371 456 100% 1 For further information, see the table “Financial targets for variable salary components” in Note 37 on page 172. 2 Percentage fulﬁlled is based on the outcomes for the respective business units, which are weighed together. As the amount fulfilled per business unit cannot be less than 0 percent, negative earnings from the business units may affect the comparison with the business stream’s total earnings. 3 Proﬁt for the period attributable to equity holders divided by the average number of outstanding shares during the year. 4 Encompasses the Residential Development business units in Central Europe and BoKlok. 5 Encompasses the Commercial Property Development business units in the Nordic region, Europe and the USA. Previous long-term share programs To qualify to receive matching and performance shares, a participant must be emShare incentive program – Skanska employee ownership program, Seop 3 ployed within the Group throughout the lock-up period and must have retained (2014–2016) his or her investment shares during this lock-up period. Shares for the previous Skanska employee ownership program, which ran from The program has two cost ceilings. The ﬁrst ceiling depends on the extent to 2014 to 2016, were distributed in 2018. These were shares that were earned in which ﬁnancial Seop-speciﬁc outperform targets are met, which limits Skanska’s 2015, which, after a three-year lock-up period, were distributed to those who total cost per year to SEK 208–655 M, related to fulﬁllment of the ﬁnancial Seophad been employed by the Group throughout the lock-up period and who had speciﬁc outperform targets at the Group level. The ﬁrst cost ceiling is adjusted retained their investment shares during this lock-up period. in accordance with the Consumer Price Index, with 2016 as the base year for Excluding social insurance contributions, the cost of Seop 3 is estimated to Seop 4. The other cost ceiling is that Skanska’s total cost per year may not exceed amount to SEK 843 M, of which SEK 654 M was expensed in 2014–2017, while 15 percent of earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) at the Group level. The the cost for 2017 amounts to SEK 143 M. The remaining cost of Seop 3 up to and actual cost ceiling will be the lower of these two cost ceilings. The cost for the including 2019 is estimated at SEK 46 M. outcomes of stock purchase programs from previous years is included in annually The dilution effect through 2018 for Seop 3 is estimated at 1,381,776 shares established performance targets. In addition to the cost ceilings, the number of or 0.34 percent of the number of Series B Skanska shares outstanding. The maxishares that may be repurchased as part of the three-year program is also limited mum dilution for the program at the end of the vesting period in 2019 is expected to 13,500,000 shares. A preliminary assessment of the outcome for 2018 indicates to be 4,915,418 shares or 0.43 percent. that the first cost ceiling was exceeded, which means that the allotment level will be preliminarily reduced proportionately for the program participants. The Local incentive programs outcome is finally established by the Board after reviewing the business in the first Salaries and other remuneration are established taking into account conditions quarter of 2019. prevailing in the rest of the construction industry and customary practices in each The table above shows Seop 4 target fulﬁllment in 2018 for each business local market. The Skanska Group applies a remuneration model for the relevant stream. executives and managers that consists of a ﬁxed annual salary plus variable remuIn the Skanska Group, a total of 34 (32) percent of permanent employees neration based on ﬁnancial targets reached. participated in Seop 4 in 2018. Excluding social insurance contributions, the cost of Seop 4 for investments in 2018 is preliminarily estimated at SEK 426 M, of which SEK 63 M was expensed in 2017 while this year’s cost is SEK 111 M. The remaining cost of Seop 4 up to and including 2022 is estimated at SEK 252 M. The dilution effect through 2018 of Seop 4 for the 2018 program is estimated at 926,980 shares or 0.23 percent of the number of Series B Skanska shares outstanding. Maximum dilution for the program in 2018 is expected to be 2,387,593 shares or 0.58 percent. The number of issued shares will not change; instead the matching and performance shares will be allocated from repurchased shares. Repurchasing is normally evenly distributed over time. There will therefore be essentially no dilution effect. 176 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 38. Fees auditors and other remuneration to Note 40. Leases Ernst & Young 2018 2017 Skanska is a lessee in both finance and operating leases. Audit assignments 50 49 When Skanska is a lessee, ﬁnance lease assets are recognized as a non-current asset in the statement of ﬁnancial position, while the future obligation to the Audit work in addition to the audit assignment 3 5 lessor is recognized as a liability in the statement of ﬁnancial position. Tax advisory services 2 1 Skanska is not a financial lessor. Other services 3 3 As an operating lessor, Skanska leases properties to tenants mainly via its Total 58 58 Commercial Property Development business stream. For the Parent Company, fees for audit assignments during the year amounted to A. Skanska as a lessee SEK 6 M and audit work in addition to the audit assignment amounted to SEK 1 M. Finance leases “Audit assignments” refers to the statutory audit of the annual accounts and Leased property, plant and equipment including buildings and land (“Property”) accounting documents as well as the administration of the company by the Board as well as machinery and equipment (“Plant and equipment”) are recognized in of Directors and the President and CEO, as well as audit and other review work the consolidated ﬁnancial statements as ﬁnance leases. conducted according to agreements or contracts. This includes other tasks that Of the amount in the statement of financial position for finance leases, most are incumbent upon the company’s auditors as well as advisory services or other relates to car leases in Sweden. assistance required as a result of observations made during such review work or Agreements with lease companies in other countries are operating leases. the completion of such other tasks. “Other services” refers to advisory services relating to accounting issues, Finance leases, carrying amount 2018 2017 advisory services concerning the divestment and acquisition of businesses and Property, plant and equipment advisory services relating to processes and internal control. Plant and equipment 282 274 Total 282 274 Acquisition cost 1,033 1,215 Note 39. Related party disclosures Depreciation for the year –82 –88 Accumulated depreciation, January 1 –669 –853 Carrying amount 282 274 Joint ventures and associated companies are companies related to Skanska. InforVariable fees for finance leases included in 2018 income amounted to SEK 0 M (0). mation on transactions with these is presented in the following tables. No property leased to Skanska has been subleased to others. Information on remuneration and transactions with senior executives is found Future minimum lease payments and their present value are presented in the in Note 36 and Note 37. following table. Transactions with joint ventures 2018 2017 Present value of Sales to joint ventures 8 249 9,454 Future minimum lease future minimum payments lease payments Purchases from joint ventures 85 38 Expenses, due date 2018 2017 2018 2017 Dividends from joint ventures 1 463 256 Within one year –66 –65 –65 –52 Receivables from joint ventures 194 184 Later than one year but within five Contingent liabilities for joint ventures 814 years –70 –209 –69 –163 Later than ﬁve years –2 –2 Total –138 –274 –136 –215 Transactions with associated companies 2018 2017 Liabilities to associated companies 15 Reconciliation, future minimum lease payments and their present L E Lundbergföretagen AB group has assigned Skanska to undertake five value 2018 2017 construction contracts for a total order backlog SEK 51 M (246). Sales in 2018 Future minimum lease payments –138 –274 amounted to SEK 245 M (236) and order bookings were SEK 50 M (17). Less interest charges 2 59 Skanska’s pension fund directly owns 0 (370,000) Series B shares in Skanska. Present value of future minimum lease payments –136 –215 There is an insignificant percentage of indirectly owned shares via investments in various mutual funds. In 2018 Skanska Norges Konsernpensjonskasse invested NOK 3 M in Skanska’s Rv3 project and NOK 72 M in Skanska’s Prost Stabels vei project, in addition to which Skanska received indemnification from the pension funds and billed for services performed by Skanska. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 177 Note 40. Continued Note 41. Events after the reporting period Operating leases There were no events after the end of the reporting period. Most of the amounts for future minimum lease payments are related to leased cars and office space in the UK, Poland and the USA. Also included are site leasehold agreements for land. The Group’s lease expenses related to operating leases in 2018 totaled SEK –2,464 M (–994), of which SEK –2,071 M (–967) relates to minimum lease payments and SEK –393 M (–27) to variable payments. The Group had SEK 16 M (12) in lease income related to subleasing of operating leases. The due dates of future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases break down as follows: Expenses, due date 2018 2017 1 Within one year –2,495 –2,404 Later than one year but within five years –3,178 –3,302 Later than ﬁve years –16,308 –15,803 Total –21,981 –21,509 1 The amounts for the comparative year are corrected due to the fact that several real property right-of-use-assets were identified upon implementation of IFRS 16. Of this amount, SEK 20 M (34) relates to properties that were subleased. B. Skanska as lessor Finance leases Skanska is not a financial lessor. Operating leases Operating leases in the form of property leases are mainly entered into by the Commercial Property Development business stream. These properties are recognized as current assets in the statement of financial position. See Note 4. Lease income for Commercial Property Development in 2018 amounted to SEK 494 M (510). The Group’s variable lease income related to operating leases amounted to SEK 161 M (88) during the year. The due dates of future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases break down as follows: Revenue, due date 2018 2017 Within one year 349 171 Later than one year but within five years 3,314 2,040 Later than ﬁve years 6,817 3,748 Total 10,480 5,959 Carrying amount for current-asset properties in Commercial Property Development amounted to SEK 25,829 M (23,615). 178 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 42. Five-year Group financial summary Income statements, in compliance with IFRS 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Revenue 171,730 157,877 145,365 153,049 143,325 Cost of sales –157,465 –145,103 –131,119 –139,160 –130,215 Gross income 14,265 12,774 14,246 13,889 13,110 Selling and administrative expenses –9,473 –9,851 –9,152 –8,869 –8,370 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 855 1,655 2,126 1,270 669 Operating income 5,647 4,578 7,220 6,290 5,409 Financial items 39 45 –119 –314 –280 Income after financial items 5,686 4,623 7,101 5,976 5,129 Taxes –1,092 –512 –1,366 –1,185 –1,279 Profit for the year 4,594 4,111 5,735 4,791 3,850 Proﬁt for the year attributable to Equity holders 4,571 4,095 5,722 4,780 3,843 Non-controlling interests 23 16 13 11 7 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans –478 –399 –1,127 785 –2,299 Tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss 59 69 189 –175 509 –419 –330 –938 610 –1,790 Items that have been or will be reclassified to profit or loss Translation differences attributable to equity holders 1,299 –599 1,165 71 1,817 Translation differences attributable to non-controlling interests 3 8 8 –3 6 Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations –183 –125 36 –21 –325 Effect of cash flow hedges –30 138 31 54 –75 Share of other comprehensive income for joint ventures and associated companies 272 83 855 281 –748 Tax related to items that have been or will be reclassified to proﬁt and loss 7 –25 –4 –15 23 1,368 –520 2,091 367 698 Other comprehensive income after tax 949 –850 1,153 977 –1,092 Comprehensive income for the year 5,543 3,261 6,888 5,768 2,758 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to Equity holders 5,517 3,237 6,867 5,760 2,745 Non-controlling interests 26 24 21 8 13 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities 9,454 2,846 –883 8,584 4,756 Cash flow from investing activities –2,367 1,590 –1,593 –1,385 238 Cash flow from financing activities –3,509 –2,817 –4,090 –4,544 –3,615 Cash flow for the year 3,578 1,619 –6,566 2,655 1,379 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 179 Note 42. Continued Income statement, in compliance with Segment Reporting 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Revenue Construction 157,894 150,050 138,001 140,648 128,663 Residential Development 10,739 13,237 13,264 12,298 9,558 Commercial Property Development 16,271 11,440 10,226 9,034 10,228 Infrastructure Development 105 81 237 106 163 Central and eliminations –14,515 –13,985 –10,421 –7,151 –3,583 Group 170,494 160,823 151,307 154,935 145,029 Operating income Construction 1,099 1,205 3,546 3,874 4,508 Residential Development 1,505 1,716 1,605 1,174 683 Commercial Property Development 3,069 2,714 2,336 1,947 1,700 Infrastructure Development 31 925 1,818 863 463 Central –811 –944 –1,140 –1,346 –1,604 Eliminations –66 –112 34 –51 16 Operating income 4,827 5,504 8,199 6,461 5,766 Financial items 36 45 –118 –313 –293 Income after financial items 4,863 5,549 8,081 6,148 5,473 Taxes –934 –615 –1,555 –1,219 –1,365 Profit for the year 3,929 4,934 6,526 4,929 4,108 Earnings per share, segment, SEK 9.55 12.01 15.89 11.96 9.98 Earnings per share after dilution, segment, SEK 9.49 11.94 15.80 11.87 9.88 180 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 42. Continued Statements of financial position Restated Restated Restated Dec 31, 2018 1 Jan, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 1 Jan, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 7 645 6,874 6,874 6,837 6,837 6,504 7,122 Goodwill 4 324 4,554 4,554 5,270 5,270 5,256 5,276 Intangible assets 975 962 962 1,034 1,034 754 464 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 3 288 3,314 3,314 4,160 4,160 2,852 2,618 Non-current financial assets 1, 3 2 345 2,276 2,276 1,016 1,016 1,357 1,302 Deferred tax assets 1 933 1,797 1,757 1,649 1,649 1,384 1,225 Total non-current assets 20 510 19,777 19,737 19,966 19,966 18,107 18,007 Current assets Current-asset properties 2 42 391 39,010 39,010 33,678 33,678 27,020 26,115 Inventories 1 256 1,058 1,058 1,042 1,042 944 1,017 Current financial assets 3 7 117 6,641 6,671 10,095 10,095 7,496 5,839 Tax assets 396 1,188 1,188 784 784 691 929 Contract assets 6 661 6,997 6,997 5,751 5,751 5,692 5,472 Trade and other recievables 27 243 27,628 27,778 29,759 29,759 25,877 26,288 Cash 10 722 6,998 6,998 5,430 5,430 11,840 9,107 Total current assets 95 786 89,520 89,700 86,539 86,539 79,560 74,767 TOTAL ASSETS 116 296 109,297 109,437 106,505 106,505 97,667 92,774 of which interest-bearing 20 071 15,770 15,800 16,318 16,318 20,511 16,049 EQUITY Equity attributable to equity holders 29 250 26,924 27,064 27,350 27,350 24,079 21,251 Non-controlling interests 97 121 121 156 156 127 154 Total equity 29 347 27,045 27,185 27,506 27,506 24,206 21,405 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Non-current financial liabilities 3 3 912 3,857 3,857 3,656 3,656 3,874 7,112 Pensions 5 669 5,603 5,603 4,901 4,901 3,969 4,655 Deferred tax liabilities 711 1,235 1,235 1,491 1,491 1,286 966 Non-current provisions 1 1 Total non-current liabilities 10 292 10,695 10,695 10,049 10,049 9,129 12,733 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 3 7 310 7,624 7,624 6,681 6,681 6,555 4,086 Tax liabilities 615 312 312 489 489 560 504 Current provisions 9 922 9,131 9,131 7,614 7,227 6,432 6,005 Contract liabilities 20 738 16,266 16,266 18,322 18,473 15,821 14,545 Trade and other payables 38 072 38,224 38,224 35,844 36,080 34,964 33,496 Total current liabilities 76 657 71,557 71,557 68,950 68,950 64,332 58,636 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 116 296 109,297 109,437 106,505 106,505 97,667 92,774 of which interest-bearing 16 840 16,926 16,926 15,099 15,099 14,194 15,351 1 Of which shares 41 42 42 44 44 61 35 2 Current-asset properties Commercial Property Development 25 829 23,615 23,615 19,728 19,728 16,650 14,956 Residential Development 16 562 15,395 15,395 13,950 13,950 10,370 11,159 42 391 39,010 39,010 33,678 33,678 27,020 26,115 3 Items related to non-interest-bearing unrealized changes in the value of derivatives/securities are included as follows: Non-current financial assets 2 6 6 2 2 1 Current financial assets 70 97 97 177 177 120 164 Non-current financial liabilities 3 21 21 116 116 173 202 Current financial liabilities 48 137 137 49 49 72 335 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 181 Note 42. Continued Financial ratios 4 Restated Restated Restated Dec 31, 2018 1 Jan, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 1 Jan, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 Order bookings 5 151,719 151,811 170,244 122,104 146,939 Order backlog 5 192,042 188,411 196,254 158,248 170,498 Average number of employees 38,650 42,903 42,903 48,470 57,858 Regular dividend per share, SEK 6 6.00 8.25 8.25 7.50 6.75 Earnings per share, SEK 11.17 10.00 10.00 13.96 13.96 11.63 9.35 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 11.11 9.94 9.94 13.88 13.88 11.53 9.25 Operating financial assets 14,238 9,715 9,745 10,595 13,818 8,356 Capital employed 46,187 43,971 44,111 42,605 38,400 36,756 Interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities 3,231 –1,156 –1,126 1,219 6,317 698 Equity per share, SEK 71.40 66.22 66.82 58.58 51.73 Equity/assets ratio, % 25.2 24.8 25.8 24.8 23.1 Debt/equity ratio -0.1 0.0 0.0 -0.3 0.0 Interest cover -245.8 288 88.7 57.9 59.5 Return on equity, % 16.4 15.5 24.9 21.9 18.8 Return on capital employed, % 13.0 11.1 19.2 17.4 15.5 Return on equity, segments, % 14.1 18.6 28.3 22.5 20.1 Return on capital employed in project development units, segments, % 13.0 14.5 18.4 14.9 10.4 Operating margin, % 3.3 2.9 5.0 4.1 3.8 Operating margin, Construction, % 0.7 0.8 2.6 2.8 3.5 Cash flow per share, SEK 9.51 –2.44 –10.16 11.90 2.20 Number of shares at year-end 419,903,072 419,903,072 419,903,072 419,903,072 419,903,072 of which Series A shares 19,725,759 19,755,414 19,793,202 19,859,200 19,901,355 of which Series B shares 400,177,313 400,147,658 400,109,870 400,043,872 400,001,717 Average price, repurchased shares 137.54 137.31 132.18 121.02 113.81 Number of Series B shares repurchased during the year 435,000 2,350,000 4,345,000 2,340,000 2,484,648 Number of Series B shares in Skanska's own custody, December 31 10,224,634 11,190,028 10,594,644 8,866,223 9,113,814 Number of shares outstanding, December 31 409,678,438 408,713,044 409,308,428 411,036,849 410,789,258 Average number of shares outstanding 409,130,770 409,447,407 409,896,419 411,059,056 411,088,591 Average number of shares outstanding after dilution 411,415,278 411,905,245 412,174,095 414,445,854 415,286,339 Average dilution, % 0.56 0.60 0.55 0.82 1.01 4 For definitions, see Note 43 and 44. 5 Refers to Construction. 6 Proposed by the Board of Directors: Regular dividend of SEK 6.00 per share. 182 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 43. Definitions Cash flow per share Cash flow before change in interest-bearing receivables and liabilities divided by the average number of shares outstanding. Comprehensive income Change in equity not attributable to transactions with owners. Consolidated return on capital employed Operating income plus financial income as a percentage of average capital employed. Earnings per share Proﬁt for the period attributable to equity holders divided by the average number of shares outstanding. Earnings per share after dilution Profit for the year attributable to equity holders divided by the average number of shares outstanding after dilution. Equity per share Visible equity attributable to equity holders divided by the number of shares outstanding at year-end. Interest cover Operating income and financial income plus depreciation/amortization divided by net interest items. Order backlog Contracting assignments: The difference between order bookings for the period and accrued revenue (accrued project costs plus accrued project income adjusted for loss provisions) plus order backlog at the beginning of the period. Order bookings Contracting assignments: Upon written order confirmation or signed contract, where financing has been arranged and construction is expected to begin within 12 months. If a previously received order is canceled in a subsequent quarter, the cancellation is recognized as a negative item when reporting order bookings for the quarter when the cancellation occurs. Reported order bookings also include orders from Residential Development and Commercial Property Development, which assumes that a building permit has been obtained and construction is expected to begin within three months. Services: For fixed-price assignments, upon signing of contract. For cost-plus assignments, order bookings coincide with revenue. For service agreements, a maximum of 24 months of future revenue is included. No order bookings are reported in Residential Development and Commercial Property Development. Other comprehensive income Comprehensive income minus profit according to the income statement. The item includes translation differences, hedging of exchange-rate risk in foreign operations, remeasurements of defined-benefit pension plans, effects of cash flow hedges and tax attributable to other comprehensive income. Return on equity Profit attributable to equity holders as a percentage of average visible equity attributable to equity holders. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 183 Note 44. Definitions – Non IFRS financial measures Non-IFRS financial measures Definition Reason for use The following financial measures are used as they are viewed as the best and most accurate ways to measure Skanska’s operations; reflecting its business model and strategy. Thus assisting investors and management in analyzing trends and performance in Skanska. Revenue, segments Revenue, segments, is the same as revenue IFRS in all streams Measures revenue generated in current market except for Residential Development and Commercial Property situation. Development, where revenue is recognized for when signing binding agreement for sale of homes and properties. As segment reporting of joint ventures in Residential Development applies the proportional method, revenue segment is affected byt his. Gross income Revenue minus cost of sales. Measures profit generated from projects. Gross margin Gross income as a percentage of revenue. Measures profitability in projects. Selling and administrative expenses, % Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue. Measures cost effectiveness in selling and administrative expenses. Operating income Revenue minus the cost of sales, selling and administrative expenses Measures profit generated from operations. and income from joint ventures and associated companies. Operating income, segments Revenue minus the cost of of sales, selling and administrative Measures profit generated from operations expenses and income from joint ventures and associated companies, in current market situation. according to segment reporting and where Residential Development uses the proportional method for joint ventures. Operating income, Revenue minus the cost of of sales, selling andadministrative expenses Measures profit generated from operations. rolling 12-month basis and income from joint ventures and associated companies, rolling 12-month basis. Operating margin Operating income as a percentage of revenue. Measures profitability in operations. Net financial items The net of interest income, financial net,pension cost, interest Measures total net for financial activities. expense,capitalized interest expense, change in fair value and other financial items. Income after financial items Operating income minus net financial items. Measures profit generated before taxes. Earnings per share, segments Proﬁt for the period, segments, attributable to equity holders dividMeasures earnings per share, segments. ed by average number of shares outstanding. Book-to-build rolling 12-month basis Order bookings divided by construction revenue, rolling 12-months. Measures to which extent new orders are replacing work put in place. Unrealized development gains, Market value minus investment value upon completion for ongoing Measures potential realization of future gains in Commercial Property Development projects, completed projects and land. Excluding projects sold Commercial Property Development. according to segment reporting. Consolidated capital employed Total assets minus non-interest-bearing liabilities. Measures capital usage and efficiency. Capital employed, business streams, Total assets less tax assets, deposits in Skanska’s treasury unit and Measures capital usage and efficiency markets and business/reporting units. pension receivable minus non-interest-bearing liabilities excluding in stream. tax liabilities. Capitalized interest expense is removed from total assets for the Residential Development and Commercial Property Development segments. 184 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 44. Continued Non-IFRS financial measures Definition Reason for use Total assets 20,813 Measures capital usage and efficiency Capital employed Residential Developin Residential Development. ment SEK M – tax assets –318 – deposits in internal bank –388 – pension receivables –28 –n on-interest-bearing liabilities –6,395 (excluding tax liabilities) – capitalized interest expense –79 13,605 Capital employed Commercial Total assets 30,782 Measures capital usage and efficiency Property Development SEK M in Commercial Property Development. – tax assets –362 – deposits in from internal bank –19 – pension receivables –n on-interest-bearing liabilities –3,417 (excluding tax liabilities) – capitalized interest expense –312 26,672 Capital employed Infrastructure Total assets 2,455 Measures capital usage and efficiency Development in Infrastructure Development. SEK M – tax assets –50 – deposits in from internal bank – pension receivables –n on-interest-bearing liabilities –171 (excluding tax liabilities) 2,234 Capital employed average Calculated on the basis of five measuring points, see below. Return on capital employed in ResiOperating income 1,505 Measures the performance (profitability and dential Development segment, rolling capital efficiency) in Residential Development. 12-month basis excluding Residential + capitalized interest expense 71 Development in the UK (as this is clos+/– financial income and other 22 ing down) SEK M financial items – interest income from the internal bank Adjusted profit 1,598 Average capital employed 1 13,972 Average capital employed in Residential Development 11,4% 1 Average capital employed Q4 2018 13,636 x,0.5 6,818 Q3 2018 14,693 14,693 Q2 2018 14,091 14,091 Q1 2018 13,942 13,942 Q4 2017 12,686 x,0.5 6,343 55,887 / 4 13,972 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 185 Note 44. Continued Non-IFRS financial measures Definition Reason for use Return on capital employed in For Commercial Property Development the profit is adjusted so that Measures the performance (profitability and Commercial Property Development change value of projects in progress and the difference between the capital efficiency) in Commercial Property segment, rolling 12-month basis SEK M market value and selling price for the year are reflected. Development. Starting January 1, 2019, return in ­Commercial Property Development Operating income 3,069 business stream will be based on yearly earnings and not on successive value +/– adjustments as mentioned 137 creation. above + capitalized interest expense 164 +/– financial income and other –2 financial items –interest income from the internal –1 bank Adjusted earnings 3,367 Capital employed average 1 26,364 Return on capital employed in Commercial Property Development 12.8% 1 Average capital employed Q4 2018 26,672 x,0.5 13,336 Q3 2018 27,116 27,116 Q2 2018 26,742 26,742 Q1 2018 26,021 26,021 Q4 2017 24,481 x,0.5 12,240 105,455 / 4 26,364 Return on capital employed in For Infrastructure Development the profit is adjusted so that the Measure the performance (profitability and Infrastructure Development segment, change in value of projects in progress and the difference between capital efficiency) in Infrastructure Development. rolling 12-month basis SEK M the market value and selling price for the year is reflected. Operating income 31 +/– adjustments according to the above 560 Adjusted profit 591 Capital employed average 1 2 041 +/– adjustments according to the above 358 Adjusted capital employed 2 399 Return on capital employed in Infrastructure Development 24.6% 1 Average capital employed Q4 2018 2,234 x 0.5 1,117 Q3 2018 2,156 2,156 Q2 2018 2,216 2,216 Q1 2018 1,770 1,770 Q4 2017 1,809 x 0.5 904 8,163 / 4 2,041 186 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 44. Continued Non-IFRS financial measures Definition Reason for use Return on capital employed in Project Is calculated as the summarized adjusted profit in Residential DeMeasures the performance (profitability and capidevelopment, segments SEK M velopment, Commercial Property Development and Infrastructure tal efficiency) in project development operations. Development divided by the summarized capital employed average Starting January 1, 2019, Infrastructure for Residential Development, Commercial Property Development Development will be excluded and and Infrastructure Development. return in Commercial Property DevelopThe total return on capital employed in Residential Development, ment business stream will be based on Commercial Property Development and Infrastructure Development yearly earnings and not on successive value creation Average Return on Adjusted capital capital profit employed employed Residential Development 1 598 13 972 11,4% Commercial Property Development 3 367 26 364 12,8% Infrastructure Development 591 2 399 24,6% 5 556 42 734 13,0% Return on equity, segments, rolling Profit attributable to equity holders as a percentage of average Measures profitability in invested capital. 12-month basis SEK M equity attributable to equity holders. 3,906 / 27,790 = 14.1% Equity average attributable to equity Calculated on the basis of five measuring points. holders SEK M Q4 2018 29,250 x 0.5 14,625 Q3 2018 27,943 27,943 Q2 2018 27,049 27,049 Q1 2018 28,011 28,011 Q4 2017 27,064 x 0.5 13,532 111,160 / 4 27,790 Cash flow from operations Cash flow from business operations including taxes paid Measures total cash flow generated in business and cash flow from financing activities. See Note 35. operations. Net divestments/investments Total investments minus total divestments. Measures the balance between investments and divestments. Free working capital Non-interest-bearing receivables less non-interest-bearing Measures the funding stemming from negative liabilities excluding taxes. working capital in Construction. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 187 Note 44. Continued Non-IFRS financial measures Definition Reason for use Average free working capital in Calculated on the basis of five measurement points. Measures financial capacity generated from Construction SEK M negative working capital in Construction. Q4 2018 –25,641 x 0.5 –12,821 Q3 2018 –23,209 –23,209 Q2 2018 –23,359 –23,359 Q1 2018 –23,211 –23,211 Q4 2017 –21,849 x 0.5 –10,924 –93,524 / 4 –23,381 Interest-bearing net receivables/net Interest-bearing assets minus interest-bearing liabilities. Measures financial position. liabilities Operating net financial assets/liabilities Interest-bearing net receivables/liabilities excluding construction Measures financial position and investment ca(ONFAL) loans by cooperative housing associations and interest-bearing net pacity. The latter is determined in a comparison pension liabilities. with ONFAL against limits set by the Board of Directors. Equity/assets ratio Equity including non-controlling interests as a percentage of total Measures financial position. assets. Net debt/equity ratio Interest-bearing net liabilities divided by equity including Measures leverage effect of financial position. non-controlling interests. Adjusted equity attributable to equity Equity attributable to equity holders 29.3 Measure financial position adjusted surplus holders SEK bn values in Project Development net of taxes. The Unrealized surplus value in land in standard corporate tax represents an approximaResidential Development 4.0 tion of the average corporate income tax within Unrealized development gains, group. Commercial Property Development 9.4 Effect on unrealized equity in Infrastructure Development 1.4 Less standard corporate tax, 10% –1.5 Adjusted equity 42.6 188 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Parent company notes Note 45. Financial instruments, Parent Company Financial instruments are presented in compliance with IFRS 7 Financial InstruRisks attributable to financial instruments ments: Disclosures. This note contains ﬁgures for the Parent Company’s financial The Parent Company holds financial instruments almost exclusively in the form instruments. See also Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, Accountof intra-Group receivables and liabilities. All external management of lending, ing and valuation principles, and Note 6 Financial instruments and financial risk borrowing, interest and currencies is handled by the Group’s treasury unit management. (internal bank), the subsidiary Skanska Financial Services AB. See also Note 6. Financial instruments in the balance sheet 2018 2017 Credit risk The carrying amount of ﬁnancial instruments, assets, corresponds to the maxiAssets mum credit exposure on the closing day. Non-current receivables in Group companies 301 247 There were no impairment losses on financial instruments as of the closing day. Current receivables in Group companies 12 18 No reserves for future credit losses under IFRS 9 are made as the Parent Total financial instruments, assets 313 265 Company’s trade accounts receivable, with only a few exceptions, are receivables from Group companies over which Skanska AB exercises control. The credit risk is Liabilities therefore minimal. Non-current liabilities to Group companies 3,500 4,177 Trade accounts payable and current liabilities to Group companies 44 46 Total financial instruments, liabilities 3,544 4,223 The fair value of the Parent Company’s financial instruments does not deviate ­significantly in any case from the carrying amount. All assets belong to the Note 46. Revenue, Parent Company category “Carried at amortized cost” No assets have been carried at fair value The Parent Company’s revenue consists mainly of amounts billed to Group through proﬁt or loss. All financial liabilities belong to the category “Carried at companies. amortized cost.” The amount includes SEK 736 M (693) in sales to subsidiaries. For other transactions with related parties, see Note 63. Reconciliation with the balance sheet 2018 2017 Assets Financial instruments 313 265 Other assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Holdings in Group companies, joint ventures and 14 18 Note 47. Financial items, Parent Company other securities 11,286 11,208 Earnings from Interest Other non-current receivables 107 107 holdings in expenses Group and similar Tax assets 88 85 companies items Total Other current receivables and accrued receivables 123 137 2018 Dividend paid 3,982 3,982 Total assets 11,931 11,820 Interest expense –51 –51 Total 3,982 –51 3,931 Equity and liabilities Financial instruments 3,544 4,223 2017 Other liabilities Dividend paid 4,466 4,466 Equity 7,996 7,213 Interest expense –63 –63 Provisions 315 307 Total 4,466 –63 4,403 Other current liabilities and accrued liabilities 76 77 Total equity and liabilities 11,931 11,820 Dividends The amount for dividends consists of dividends in accordance with a decision by the Annual General Meeting, SEK 4,400 M (4,400) and Group contributions Impact of financial instruments on the Parent Company received, SEK –18 M (66). income statement Financial income and expenses recognized in financial Net interest items items 2018 2017 Of interest expense, SEK –51 M (–63) relates to Group companies. Interest expense on ﬁnancial liabilities carried at amortized cost –51 –63 Total –51 –63 The Parent Company has no income or expense from ﬁnancial instruments that are recognized directly in equity. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 189 Note 48. Income taxes, Parent Company Note 49. Intangible Parent Company assets, 2018 2017 Intangible assets are recognized in compliance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets, see Note 1. Amortization of intangible assets for the year according to plan Current taxes amounts to SEK –3 M (–3) and is included in selling and administrative expenses. Tax due to changed taxation –6 In determining the amortization amount, the Parent Company has paid particular Deferred tax expenses/income from change in attention to estimated residual value at the end of useful life. temporary differences –3 17 Total –3 11 Intangible assets 2018 2017 The Swedish tax rate of 22.0 percent in relation to taxes recognized is explained in the table below. Accumulated cost January 1 27 27 2018 2017 27 27 Income after financial items 3 973 4,310 Accumulated amortization according to plan Tax at tax rate of 22.0 percent (22.0) –874 –948 January 1 –11 –8 Tax effect of: Amortization for the year –3 –3 Dividends from subsidiaries 880 968 –14 –11 Effect of changed corporate tax rate in Sweden Accumulated impairment losses on deferred tax assets –4 January 1 0 0 Non-deductible expenses –5 –9 0 0 Recognized tax expense/income –3 11 Carrying amount, December 31 13 16 Non-deductible expenses refers mainly to employee-related costs and costs for the Group’s foreign operations. Carrying amount, January 1 16 19 Deferred tax assets 2018 2017 Note 50. Property, plant and equipment, Deferred tax assets for employee-related provisions 74 78 Parent Company Minus deferred tax liabilities for holdings –1 Total 74 77 Property, plant and equipment are reported in compliance with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Change in deferred taxes in balance sheet 2018 2017 Machinery and equipment owned by the Parent Company are recognized as property, plant and equipment. Depreciation on property, plant and equipment Deferred tax assets, January 1 77 60 for the year according to plan amounts to SEK –1 M (0). Deferred tax expense/income –3 17 Deferred tax assets, December 31 74 77 Plant and equipment 2018 2017 The Parent Company expects to be able to utilize deferred tax assets to offset Group contributions from Swedish operating subsidiaries. Accumulated cost January 1 7 7 7 7 Accumulated amortization according to plan January 1 –5 –5 Amortization for the year –1 –6 –5 Carrying amount, December 31 1 2 Carrying amount, January 1 2 2 190 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 51. Non-current financial assets, Parent Company Holdings and receivables are reported as non-current financial assets. Holdings are allocated between holdings in Group companies and joint arrangements. See Note 52 Holdings in Group companies and Note 53 Holdings in joint arrangements. Receivables are allocated between receivables from Group companies, deferred tax assets and other non-current receivables. Tax assets are described in Note 48 Income taxes. All receivables except deferred tax assets are interestbearing. Other non-current Holdings in Group companies Holdings in joint arrangements holdings of securities Holdings 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Accumulated cost January 1 11,206 11,094 2 2 0 0 Share-based payments to employees of subsidiaries 1 77 112 Share of income 1 11,283 11,206 3 2 0 0 Accumulated impairment losses January 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Carrying amount, December 31 11,283 11,206 3 2 0 0 Carrying amount, January 1 11,206 11,094 2 2 0 0 1 Equivalent to the portion of the Group’s cost for Seop 3 and Seop 4 related to employees of subsidiaries and recognized in the Parent Company accounts as an increase in the carrying amount of holdings in Group companies and an increase in equity. If a decision is later made requiring a subsidiary to compensate the Parent Company for the value of the shares issued, receivables are transferred to the Group company. The amount for 2018 was thus reduced by SEK 160 M (163). Receivables from Other non-current receivables Group companies and deferred tax assets Receivables 2018 2017 2018 2017 Accumulated cost January 1 247 253 184 155 Receivables added/settled 54 –6 –2 29 301 247 182 184 Carrying amount, December 31 301 247 182 184 Carrying amount, January 1 247 253 184 155 Note 52. Holdings in Group companies, Parent Company Skanska AB owns shares in two subsidiaries. The subsidiary Skanska Kraft AB is a holding company that owns the Group’s shareholdings in Skanska Group operating companies. Skanska Financial Services AB is the Group’s treasury unit (internal bank). Registered Corp. ID No. office No. of shares Carrying amount Company 2018 2017 Swedish subsidiaries Skanska Financial Services AB 556106–3834 Stockholm 500,000 67 67 Skanska Kraft AB 556118–0943 Stockholm 4,000,000 11,216 11,139 Total 11,283 11,206 Both subsidiaries are 100-percent owned by the Parent Company. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 191 Note 53. Holdings in joint arrangements, Parent Company Holdings in joint arrangements are reported in compliance with IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements. See Note 1. Percentage Carrying amount Registered of capital Company Corp. ID No. office and votes 2018 2017 Swedish joint arrangements Sundlink Contractors HB 969620–7134 Malmö 37 3 2 Total 3 2 The company has no operations other than fulfilling guarantee undertakings. Note 54.Prepaid expenses and accrued income, Parent Company Not 56. Provisions, Parent Company The Parent Company has prepaid expenses and accrued income of SEK 7 M (13). Provisions are reported in compliance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent LiabiliThis amount consists of SEK 1 M (2) in prepaid insurance premiums and ties and Contingent Assets, see Note 1. SEK 6 M (11) in other accrued receivables. Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Other provisions Note 55. Equity, Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 January 1 174 172 133 111 Provisions for the year 15 15 102 95 Restricted and unrestricted equity Provisions utilized –13 –13 –96 –73 According to Swedish law, equity must be allocated between restricted and unreDecember 31 176 174 139 133 stricted equity. Share capital and the statutory reserve constitute restricted equity. Unrestricted equity consists of retained earnings and profit for the year. “Other provisions” consists of employee-related provisions. The equity of the Parent Company was allocated among SEK 1,260 M (1,260) The normal cycle time for “Other provisions” is about one to three years. in share capital, SEK 598 M (598) in the statutory reserve, SEK2,168 M (1,034) in Employee-related provisions includes such items as social insurance contriburetained earnings and SEK 3,970 M (4,321 ) in profit for the year. tions for share investment programs, bonus programs and other obligations to The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 6.00 (8.25) per share for the employees. 2018 financial year. The dividend for the year is expected to amount to SEK 2,458 M (3,372). No dividend is paid for the Parent Company’s holding of Series B shares. The total dividend amount may change by the record date, depending on repurchases of shares and the transfer of Series B shares to participants in Skanska employee ownership programs. Number of shares 2018 2017 Average number of shares outstanding after repurchases and conversion 409,130,770 409,447,407 after repurchases, conversion and dilution 411,415,278 411,905,245 Total number of shares 419,903,072 419,903,072 The number of shares amounted to 419,903,072 (419,903,072), divided into 19,725,759 (19,755,414) Series A shares and 400,177,313 (400,147,658) Series B shares. During the year 29,655 (37,788) ) Series A shares were converted into the same number of Series B shares. A total of 435,000 (2,350,000) Series B shares were repurchased. After distribution of 1,400,394 (1,754,616) shares, there were 10,224,634 (11,190,028) Series B treasury shares remaining. The quota value per share amounts to SEK 3.00 (3.00). All shares are fully paid up. Each Series A share carries 10 votes and each Series B share carries one vote. Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. According to the Articles of Association, Skanska’s share capital may not fall below SEK 1,200 M nor exceed SEK 4,800 M. 192 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 57. Provisions for pensions and similar obligations, Parent Company Provisions for pensions and similar obligations are reported in compliance with the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Pension liabilities according to the balance sheet 2018 2017 Interest-bearing pension liabilities 1 118 119 Other pension obligations 58 55 Total 176 174 1 Liabilities in compliance with the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. 2018 2017 The company’s total pension obligations 888 909 Less pension obligations secured through pension funds –712 –735 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 1 176 174 1 O f which SEK 11 M (12) is secured through credit insurance. Other pension obligations are largely secured through pledged endowment policies. Of the company’s total pension obligations SEK 638 M (657) is for ITP plans. No payments to pensions funds are expected to be made in 2019. Reconciliation, provisions for pensions 2018 2017 January 1 119 108 Pension expenses 23 15 Benefits paid –24 –4 Provisions for pensions according to the balance sheet 118 119 Note 58. Liabilities, Parent Company Liabilities are allocated between non-current and current liabilities in compliance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, see Note 1. Accrued expenses and prepaid income The Parent Company has accrued expenses and prepaid income of SEK 70 M (72). This relates to accrued vacation pay of SEK 26 M (30), accrued special payroll tax on pensions of SEK 22 M (22), accrued social insurance contributions of SEK 9 M (10) and other accrued expenses of SEK 13 M (10). Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 193 Note 59. Expected recovery period of assets, provisions and liabilities, Parent Company 2018 2017 After five After five Within After years Within After years Amounts expected to be recovered 12 months 12 months (liabilities) Total 12 months 12 months (liabilities) Total Intangible non-current assets 1 3 10 13 3 13 16 Property, plant and equipment 1 1 1 2 2 Non-current financial assets Holdings in Group companies and joint arrangements 2 11,286 11,286 11,208 11,208 Receivables in Group companies 3 301 301 247 247 Other non-current receivables 107 107 107 107 Deferred tax assets 74 74 77 77 0 11,768 0 11,768 0 11,639 0 11,639 Current receivables Current receivables in Group companies 12 12 18 18 Tax assets 14 14 8 8 Other current receivables 116 116 124 124 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 7 7 13 13 149 0 0 149 163 0 0 163 Total assets 152 11,779 0 11,931 166 11,654 0 11,820 2018 2017 After five After five Within After years Within After years Amounts expected to be paid 12 months 12 months (liabilities) Total 12 months 12 months (liabilities) Total Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 13 163 176 13 161 174 Other provisions 117 22 139 77 56 133 130 185 0 315 90 217 0 307 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Liabilities to Group companies 4 3,500 3,500 4,177 4,177 0 0 3,500 3,500 0 0 4,177 4,177 Current liabilities Trade accounts payable 16 16 20 20 Liabilities to Group companies 28 28 26 26 Tax liabilities 0 0 0 Other liabilities 6 6 5 5 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 70 70 72 72 120 0 0 120 123 0 0 123 Total liabilities and provisions 250 185 3,500 3,935 213 217 4,177 4,607 Total equity 7,996 7,213 Equity and liabilities 11,931 11,820 1 In case of amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months, expected annual depreciation/amortization has been recognized. 2 No portion of the amount is expected to be recovered within 12 months. 3 No portion of the amount is expected to be recovered within 12 months, since the lending is considered to be non-current. 4 Intra-Group non-current interest-bearing liabilities are treated as having a maturity of more than ﬁve years from the closing day. 194 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 60. Assets pledged and contingent liabilities, Parent Company Note 61. Cash flow statement, Parent Company Assets pledged Adjustments for items not included in cash flow Assets pledged by the Parent Company totaled SEK 107 M (107), which relates to 2018 2017 assets in the form of non-current receivables. These assets were pledged as collateral for some of the Parent Company’s Depreciation/amortization 4 3 pension obligations. Cost of Seop 16 22 Total 20 25 Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are reported in compliance with IAS 37 Provisions, ContinTax paid gent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. Note 1 Accounting and valuation princiTotal taxes paid in the Parent Company during the year amount to SEK –6 M (0). ples, section IAS 37, describes the accounting principles 2018 2017 Information about interest and dividends Contingent liabilities on behalf of Group com2018 2017 panies 144,033 129,318 Interest paid during the year 51 63 Other contingent liabilities 23,806 26,435 167,839 155,753 The change in interest-bearing liabilities belonging to ﬁnancing activities is shown in the following table. Of the Parent Company’s contingent liabilities on behalf of Group companies, almost SEK 121 (113) billion relates to obligations for construction operations, 2018 2017 mainly guarantees provided when Group companies were awarded contracts. The remaining contingent liabilities for Group companies relate to guarantees for January 1 4,177 4,918 borrowing by Group companies from credit institutions, guarantee undertakings Items affecting cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing in connection with divestment of properties by Group companies, guaranteeing activities –677 –741 Group company undertakings to supply capital to their joint ventures and guaranDecember 31 3,500 4,177 tees for Group company pension obligations. Of other contingent liabilities, SEK 14.6 (16.5) billion relates to liability for external entities’ portion of ongoing contracting work. Of the remaining SEK 9.2 (9.9) billion, SEK 0.6 (0.6) billion is attributable to guarantees provided for ﬁnancing of joint arrangements in which Group companies are co-owners and SEK 8.6 (9.3) billion is for guarantees in connection with ﬁnancing of residential projects in Sweden. The amounts in the table above include SEK 1 M (1) in Parent Company contingent liabilities relating to construction consortia. The company’s contingent liabilities relate entirely to guarantees originating from surety provided or responsibilities as a shareholder in companies. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 195 Note 62. Personnel, Parent Company Note 63. Related party disclosures, Parent Company Wages, salaries, other remuneration and social insurance Through its ownership and percentage of voting power, AB Industrivärden has a contributions signiﬁcant inﬂuence as deﬁned in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Information on personnel expenses is found in Note 62. For transactions with 2018 2017 senior executives, see Note 37. Salaries and Pension Salaries and Pension SEK M remuneration expenses remuneration expenses Total salaries and 2018 2017 remuneration, Board, Sales to Group companies 736 693 President and other senior executives 52.0 9.2 148.8 23.1 Purchases from Group companies –219 –241 of which variable Interest income from Group companies 0 remuneration 9.3 12.5 Interest expense for Group companies –51 –63 of which severance related compensation 50.5 Dividends from Group companies 3,982 4,466 Other employees 103.1 99.8 94.6 90.9 Non-current receivables in Group companies 301 247 Less indemniﬁcation Current receivables in Group companies 12 18 from pension fund –86.0 –99.0 Total 155.1 23.0 243.4 15.0 Non-current liabilities to Group companies 3,500 4,177 Current liabilities to Group companies 28 26 Social insurance contributions 79.0 102.0 Contingent liabilities on behalf of Group of which pension companies 144,033 129,318 expenses 23.0 15.0 For disclosures of individual remuneration to each Board member and the President and CEO, see Note 37. For Board members appointed by the employees, no disclosures are made concerning salaries and remuneration or pensions since they do not receive these in their capacity as Board members. For Board members who were employees of the company prior to the beginning of the ﬁnancial year, disclosures are made concerning pension obligations in their former role as employees. In 2018, bonuses paid to the President and CEO and other senior executives amounted to SEK 7.7 M (32.9). In 2018, an allotment of shares occurred under the employee ownership program, Seop 3. The value of shares allotted amounted to SEK 39.7 M (33.7), of which SEK 17.3 M (23.0) was for Board members, the President and CEO and other members of the Senior Executive Team. The Parent Company’s pension expenses are calculated in compliance with the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. In 2018, Skanska’s Swedish pension funds reimbursed Skanska AB in the amount of around SEK 86 M (99). The company’s outstanding pension obligations to Presidents and CEOs, including former Presidents and CEOs, amounted to SEK 159.2 M (152.7). The company’s outstanding pension obligations to Executive Vice Presidents, including former Executive Vice Presidents, amounted to SEK 88.0 M (89.8). The cost in 2018 for deﬁned-contribution pension plans was SEK 38.8 M (36.5 ) excluding indemnification. Average number of employees Personnel is calculated as the average number of employees. See Note 1. of of of which which which of which 2018 men women 2017 men women Sweden 118 45 73 124 52 72 Men and women on the Board of Directors and Group Leadership Team on closing day of of of which which which of which 2018 men women 2017 men women Number of Board members and deputy members 12 58% 42% 13 69% 31% President and CEO and other members of the Group Leadership Team 6 67% 33% 9 67% 33% 196 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Note 64. Disclosures in compliance with the Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 6, Section 2 a, Parent Company Note 65. Supplementary Parent Company information, Skanska AB, Swedish corporate identity number 556000-4615, is the Parent Due to the requirements in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 6, Section Company of the Group. 2 a, concerning disclosures on certain circumstances that may The company has its registered office in Stockholm, Sweden, and is a limited affect the possibility of a takeover of the company through a public takeover bid company in compliance with Swedish legislation. for the shares in the company, the following disclosures are hereby The company’s headquarters are located in Stockholm, Sweden. provided: 1. The total number of shares in the company on December 31, 2018 was Address: 419,903,072, of which 19,725,759 were Series A shares with 10 votes each and Skanska AB 400,177,313 Series B shares with one vote each. SE-112 74 STOCKHOLM 2. T  here are no restrictions on the transferability of shares due to provisions in the Tel: +46-10-448 00 00 law or the Articles of Association. Fax: +46-8-755 12 56 3. O f the company’s shareholders, only AB Industrivärden and Lundbergs directly www.skanska.se or indirectly have a shareholding that represents at least one tenth of the voting power of all shares in the company. On December 31, 2018, AB Industrivärden’s For questions concerning financial information, please contact holding amounted to 23.9 percent of total voting power in the company and Skanska AB, Investor Relations, SE-112 74 STOCKHOLM, Sweden Lundbergs’ holding to 12.8 percent of total voting power in the company. Tel: +46-10-448 00 00 4. Skanska’s pension fund does not own any shares in Skanska directly. There is E-mail: investor.relations@skanska.se however an insignificant percentage of indirectly owned shares via investments in various mutual funds. 5. T here are no restrictions on the number of votes each shareholder may cast at an Annual General Meeting. 6. The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the right to transfer shares. Note 66. Events after the reporting period 7. T  he Articles of Association state that the appointment of Board members is to take place at the Company’s Annual General Meeting. The Articles of AssociaThere are no material events to report for the Parent Company during the period. tion contain no stipulations on dismissal of Board members or on amendments to the Articles of Association. 8. The 2018 Annual General Meeting voted in favor of authorizing the company’s Board of Directors to decide on acquisitions of Skanska’s Series B treasury shares through a regulated market on the following conditions: A. Skanska Series B shares may only be acquired on Nasdaq Stockholm. B. T  he authorization may be used on one or more occasions until the 2019 Annual General Meeting. C. A  maximum of 3,000,000 Skanska Series B shares may be acquired to secure the allotment of shares to participants in the Skanska employee ownership program, Seop 4, and for subsequent transfer on a regulated market to cover certain costs associated with Seop 4. D. S kanska Series B shares on Nasdaq Stockholm may only be acquired at a price within the applicable price interval at any given time, meaning the interval between the highest purchase price and lowest selling price. 9. S kanska AB or its Group companies are not party to any material agreement that will go into effect, be amended or cease to apply if control over the company or Group companies changes as a consequence of a public takeover bid. 10. T  here are agreements between Skanska AB or its Group companies and employees that prescribe remuneration if employment is terminated without reasonable grounds. Such remuneration may not exceed 18 months’ ﬁxed salary after the end of the notice period or, in the case of the CEO, a maximum of 12 months’ severance pay and a maximum of 12 months’ fixed salary after the end of the notice period. There are no agreements prescribing termination of employment as a consequence of a public takeover bid for the shares in the company. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / Allocation of earnings 197 Note 67. Allocation of earnings The Board of Directors and the President and CEO propose that the proﬁt for 2018 SEK ,3,970,328,181, plus the retained earnings of SEK 2,167,502,398 carried forward from the previous year, totaling 6,137,830,579 be allocated as follows: A dividend to the shareholders of 1 SEK 6.00 per share 2,458,070,628 To be carried forward 3,679,759,951 Total 6,137,830,579 The consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts, respectively, have been prepared in compliance with the international accounting standards referred to in Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of July 19, 2002 on the application of IFRS and generally accepted accounting principles, and provide a true and fair view of the position and results of the Group and the Parent Company. The Report of the Directors for the Group and the Parent Company provides a true and fair view of the operations, ﬁnancial position and results of the Group and the Parent Company, and describes the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Parent Company and the companies included in the Group. Stockholm, February 7, 2019 Hans Biörck Chairman Pär Boman Charlotte Strömberg Fredrik Lundberg Catherine Marcus Board member Board member Board member Board member Jayne McGivern Nina Linander Board member Board member Richard Hörstedt Yvonne Stenman Ola Fält Board member Board member Board member Anders Danielsson President and Chief Executive Officer Our Auditor’s Report was submitted on March 5, 2019 Ernst & Young AB Hamish Mabon Jonas Svensson Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant 1 Based on the total number of shares outstanding on December 31, 2018. The total dividend amount may change by the record date, depending on repurchases of shares and the transfer of shares to participants in Skanska employee ownership programs. 198 Auditor´s report Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Auditor´s report This is a translation from the Swedish original. Basis for Opinions We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on To the general meeting of the shareholders of Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our Skanska AB (publ), corporate identity number responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Audi556000-4615 tor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Report on the annual accounts Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accorand consolidated accounts dance with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Opinions Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited comWe have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Skanspany or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies ka AB (publ) for the year 2018 except for the corporate governance statewithin the EU. ment on pages 56–69 and the statutory sustainability report on pages We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 70–93 and 210–213. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. the company are included on pages 20–24, 56–197 and 210–213 in this document. Key audit matters In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts the financial position of the parent company as of December 31st, 2018 and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereaccordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts on, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that of December 31st, 2018 and their financial performance and cash flow for context. the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responStandards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our sibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement on pages including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the 56-69 and the statutory sustainability report on pages 70-93 and 210-213. performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of annual accounts and consolidated accounts. our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accom­ adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company panying financial statements. and the income statement and the statement of financial position for the group. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Auditor´s report 199 Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter Revenue recognition over time in Construction contracts Our audit procedures include, among others, audit of material contracts From 2018 the Company has applied IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts including significant judgements relating to profit recognition and allowith Customers. The main portion of the company´s income relates cation of costs. We have audited material contracts to identify potential to construction contracts. For 2018 the revenues from construction penalties due to any delays in the projects. We also assessed the historical contracts amount to MSEK 143,567. Usually a performance obligation accuracy of management’s estimates of the final outcomes of projects is satisfied over time which means that revenue should be recognized and evaluated the adequacy of the Company’s disclosures included in over time by measuring the progress towards complete satisfaction Note 3 Effects of changes in accounting principles, Note 4 Operating of that performance obligation. Revenue is recognized on the basis Segments, Note 9 Contract assets and contract liabilities. of Skanska’s efforts to the satisfaction of a performance obligation relative to the total expected efforts. This requires the entity to be able to measure its progress towards complete satisfaction of the performance obligation and determine the transaction price. This in turn requires that the Group has effective, coordinated systems for cost estimation, forecasting and revenue/expense reporting. Also, a consistent process is required to assess the final outcome of the project, including analysis of differences compared with earlier assessment dates. This critical judgment is performed at least once per quarter. Valuation of Investments in project development Our audit procedures include assessing budgets and financial projections The book value of investments in property development projects and reviewing other financial input used to determine the value in use (current asset properties) amounts to MSEK 42,391 as shown in note models. We have also audited work performed by external appraisers. 22 Current-asset properties/Project development. The book value of We specifically focused on the sensitivity in the difference between the investments in property development projects through joint ventures net realizable value/estimated value and book values of the projects, amounts to MSEK 3,267 as shown in note 20 B Investments in joint where a reasonably possible change in assumptions could cause the ventures and associated companies in the annual report. carrying amount to exceed its estimated present value. We also assessed As shown in note 22 the current-asset properties are carried at cost or the historical accuracy of management’s estimates. We evaluated the net realizable value, whichever is lower, and the company therefore adequacy of the Company’s disclosures included in Note 20 B and makes calculations of the net realizable value. As outlined in Note Note 22. 20 B, the company determines an estimated value for infrastructure projects by discounting estimated future cash flows in the form of dividends and repayments of loans and equity. Potential impairment in development projects under construction and completed projects, which are directly owned or in a joint venture ownership structure, could have significant impact on Skanska´s net income. Changes in the supply of similar projects, as well as changes in demand may materially affect both estimated market values and carrying amounts for each project. These projects vary in size and the investment cycle could be either short or long. Claims and litigations We have gained an understanding of the claims and litigations through The provision for legal disputes amounts to MSEK 1,327. As outlined discussions with the responsible persons within the Company. We have in Note 29 “Provisions” of the Annual Report, the Company is exposed read the internal position papers prepared by the Company. We also to potential claims and disputes in the Construction business stream obtained lawyers’ letters to the extent considered necessary for our audit. for projects that have been completed. Claims and disputes including For all potentially material claims we tested the underlying facts and any provisions is a key audit matter to our audit because management circumstances considered relevant for the legal advisors to reach their judgement is required. The assessment process is complex and entails conclusions and assessed the best estimate of outflows as determined assessing future developments. In addition, some of the claims are in by the Company. countries where the legal proceedings can stretch out over an extended period of time. 200 Auditor´s report Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts • I dentify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, This document also contains other information than the annual accounts design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-19, 25-55, 204-219 and basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 214-217. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud for this other information. may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentaOur opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not tions, or the override of internal control. cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. • O  btain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above and effectiveness of the company’s internal control. consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess wheththe Board of Directors and the Managing Director. er the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, con•  onclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the C Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in preclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we paring the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also draw are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast Responsibilities of the Board of Directors significant doubt on the company’s and the group’s ability to continue and the Managing Director as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act accounts and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are future events or conditions may cause a company and a group to cease also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to to continue as a going concern. enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. • E valuate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent the of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair preof the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. sentation. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting • O  btain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group to is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are responsible intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We alternative but to do so. remain solely responsible for our opinions. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the comWe must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the pany’s financial reporting process. planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant deficiencies in Auditor’s responsibility internal control that we identified. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that we annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from matehave complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding indepenrial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s dence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with applicable, related safeguards. ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most important could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore the key audit taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgregulation precludes disclosure about the matter. ment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Auditor´s report 201 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess Opinions with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accorIn addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, dance with the Companies Act. we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee Managing Director of Skanska AB (publ) for the year 2018 and the prothat an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing posed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the be appropriated (loss be dealt with) in accordance with the proposal in company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain profinancial year. fessional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is Basis for opinions based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing performed are based on our professional judgment with starting point in standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are furrisk and materiality. This means that we focus the examination on such ther described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indepenactions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and dent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional where deviations and violations would have particular importance for the ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical company’s situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requireThe auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement ments which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, size and The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, constatement on pages 56-69 has been prepared in accordance with the solidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. Annual Accounts Act. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor´s examinathings continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial tion of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examinasituation and ensuring that the company’s organization is designed so that tion of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweshall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Direcden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis tors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures for our opinions. that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph Auditor’s responsibility the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess Accounts Act. with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: • h  as undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. 202 Auditor´s report Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustainability report on pages 70-93 and 210-213, and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, 103 99 Stockholm, was appointed auditor of Skanska AB by the general meeting of the shareholders on April 13th, 2018 and has been the company’s auditor since 2016. Stockholm March 5, 2019 Ernst & Young AB Hamish Mabon Jonas Svensson Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Auditor´s report 203 Independent Practitioner’s Review Report on Skanska AB’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. A limited assurance engagement undertaken in accordance with ISAE 3410 To Skanska AB involves assessing the suitability in the circumstances of Skanska’s use of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as the basis for the preparation of the We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the accompanyGreenhouse gas reporting, assessing the risks of material misstatement of ing Greenhouse gas reporting of Skanska AB for the year ended December the Greenhouse gas reporting whether due to fraud or error, responding 31, 2018, comprising the scope 1 and 2 emissions inventory, the scope 3 to the assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances, and evaluating the emissions inventory for Skanska Sweden and Skanska UK, and the explanaoverall presentation of the Greenhouse gas reporting. A limited assurance tory notes on pages 79-80 of the Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance 2018 (hereafter: “Greenhouse gas reporting”). engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in Skanska AB’s Responsibility for the Greenhouse gas reporting response to the assessed risks. Skanska AB is responsible for the preparation of the Greenhouse gas The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgreporting in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (published by ment and included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspecthe World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for tion of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness Sustainable Development (WBCSD)), applied as explained in the Greenof quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconcilhouse gas reporting section of the Sustainability report section on pages ing with underlying records. 70-91 of the Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018. This responThe procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary sibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of internal in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable control relevant to the preparation of a greenhouse gas reporting that is assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance As discussed in the Greenhouse gas emissions section of the Sustainabilthat would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance ity report, greenhouse gas quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions opinion about whether Skanska’s Greenhouse gas reporting has been factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases. prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol applied as explained in the Greenhouse gas emissions section of Our Independence and Quality Control the Sustainability report. We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the InternaConclusion tional Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on funBased on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have damental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. that Skanska’s Greenhouse gas reporting for the year ended December The firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1, ISQC 1, 31, 2018 is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Greenhouse Gas Protocol applied as explained in the Greenhouse gas Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements and emissions section of the Sustainability report. accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical Stockholm March 5, 2019 requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Ernst & Young AB Our Responsibility Hamish Mabon Jonas Svensson Ingrid Cornander Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Authorized Public Authorized Public Specialist, Greenhouse gas reporting based on the procedures we have performed Accountant Accountant Climate Change and and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance Sustainability Services engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (“ISAE 3410”), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. That standard requires that we plan and perform this engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Greenhouse gas reporting is free from material misstatement. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Major orders, investments and divestments 205 Construction Creating the world’s first emission-free quarry Electric Site Gothenburg, Sweden With 103 quarries across Sweden, Skanska is the country’s largest producer of crushed stone products, material essential for building cities. Yet those quarries – and the many others around the world – don’t operate much differently than they did decades before. Enter Electric Site, a research collaboration between Skanska, Volvo, the Swedish Energy Agency and two Swedish universities. It involves switching quarry equipment from diesel to electric power, including creating such new concepts as battery powered autonomous haulers, and developing smarter ways of working. And charging? It’s wireless. The project’s aim is threefold: up to 25 percent reduction in total operating costs; up to 95 percent lower carbon emissions; and a safer and healthier work environment. During fall 2018, this quarry hosted a full production test of Electric Site. Results exceeded expectations, including carbon emissions reduced by 98 percent, and discussions are underway on how to take this initia­ tive further. Such values-based partnerships are necessary for creating the innovative solutions needed for achieving a carbon neutral and injuryfree construction industry, and for providing the greatest value for customers. 206 Major orders, investments and divestments Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Major orders, investments and divestments Orders Q1 2018 Skanska builds a new hospital building in Skanska builds engineering school facility in Karlskrona, Sweden, for SEK 330 M. North Carolina, USA, for USD 85 M, about SEK 690 M. Skanska builds National Emergency Response Center in Ski Municipality, Norway, for Skanska builds medical school facility in Tampa, NOK 1.5 billion, about SEK 1.5 billion. Florida, USA, for USD 63 M, about SEK 510 M. Skanska builds engineering school facility in North Carolina, USA, for USD 106 M, about SEK 860 M. Skanska builds school facility in New Hampshire, USA, for USD 44 M, about SEK 360 M. Skanska improves office buildings in Redmond, Washington, USA, for USD 38 M, Skanska builds new acute care hospital b ­ uilding about SEK 310 M. in Hollywood, USA, for USD 188 M, about SEK 1.6 billion. Skanska builds multi-purpose building at the Skanska to build the Urban Environment Q2 2018 University of Turku campus for EUR 69 M, about House in Helsinki, Finland, for EUR 83 M, SEK 700 M. about SEK 800 M. Skanska builds production and storage facility in Gliwice, Poland, for PLN 128 M, Skanska builds the Vinsta interchange for the Skanska builds mixed-use development in about SEK 300 M. E4 Stockholm bypass, Sweden, for SEK 500 M. London, UK, for GBP 140 M, about SEK 1.6 billion. Skanska builds nursing home in Oslo, Norway, Skanska replaces elevators at subway stations for NOK 440 M, about SEK 460 M. in New York, USA, for USD 62 M, about Skanska reconstructs highway outside SEK 520 M. Prague, Czech Republic, for CZK 787 M, about SEK 300 M. Skanska improves office buildings in Redmond, Washington, USA, for USD 39 M, Skanska builds new electricity generating about SEK 320 M. facility in Northeast USA for USD 68 M, about SEK 550 M. Skanska builds new high school in Sherwood, USA, for USD 77 M, about SEK 640 M. Skanska builds new schools in Silverdale, USA, for USD 78 M, about SEK 630 M. Skanska builds metro station in Espoo, Finland, for EUR 51 M, about SEK 520 M. Skanska builds a new office building in Oslo, Norway, for NOK 418 M, about SEK 430 M. Skanska builds mixed-use development Skanska builds new commercial office building in London, UK, for GBP 141 M, about in Boston, USA, for USD 76 M, about SEK 630 M. SEK 1.6 billion. Skanska signs additional contract for mixed-use Skanska builds part of Lahti Southern Ring project in Nashville, USA, for USD 74 M, about Skanska signs contract extension for mixed-use Road, Finland, for about EUR 161 M, about SEK 620 M. project in Nashville, USA, for USD 163 M, about SEK 1.6 billion. Skanska renovates and expands manufacturing SEK 1.3 billion. Skanska builds education facilities for the facility in Massachusetts, USA, for USD 55 M, Skanska builds an office building in Helsinki, University of Bergen, Norway, for NOK 295 M, about SEK 460 M. Finland, for EUR 86 M, about SEK 860 M. about SEK 310 M. Skanska builds patient bed tower in North Skanska builds apartments in Jätkäsaari, Carolina, USA, for USD 189 M, about Finland, for EUR 41.5 M, about SEK 415 M. SEK 1.6 billion. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Major orders, investments and divestments 207 Orders Q3 2018 Q4 2018 Skanska awarded railway contract in Poland Skanska plans tunnel and station for the Skanska builds Fv. 659 Nordøyvegen in worth about PLN 132 M, about SEK 320 M. Swedish Transport Administration (Trafik­ Norway for NOK 3 billion, about SEK 3.2 billion. verket) for about SEK 300M. Skanska to renovate and expand Brookline Skanska develops and sells new office building High School in Massachusetts, USA, for in Jönköping, Sweden, for about SEK 500 M. USD 128 M, about SEK 1.1 billion. Skanska builds an office building in Warsaw, Skanska builds new high school in Milwaukie, Poland for PLN 353 M, about SEK 850 M. Oregon, USA, for USD 75 M, about SEK 670 M. Skanska to renovate and expand school in Massachusetts, USA, for USD 237 M, about SEK 2.2 billion. Skanska completes Croton-Harmon Shops and Yard project in New York, USA, for USD 365 M, about SEK 3.3 billion. Skanska builds new Children’s Eye Clinic in Portland, Oregon, USA, for USD 39 M, about SEK 350 M. Skanska builds ESS Campus in Lund, Sweden, Skanska to build tunnel in New York City, USA, for SEK 475 M. for USD 60 M, about SEK 535 M. Skanska builds four new schools in Harrison, Skanska upgrades PATH’s Exchange Place Ohio, USA, for USD 54 M, about SEK 495 M. and Newport Stations in New Jersey, USA, for USD 36 M, about SEK 320 M. Skanska to build residential block in Skanska builds the office project Citygate in Gothenburg, Sweden, for about SEK 500 M. Gothenburg, Sweden for SEK 1.5 billion. Skanska builds New Public Safety Center in Beaverton, Oregon, USA, for USD 36 M, about Skanska builds hydroelectric power plant in Skanska builds hydroelectric power plant in SEK 320 M. Norway for SEK 630 million. Norway for NOK 390 M, about SEK 424 M. Skanska to complete renovation of Post Office Skanska builds school facility in Pullman, Skanska awarded a contract to provide faciliin New York City, USA, for USD 339 M, about Washington, USA for USD 52 M, about ties management services to the Ministry of SEK 3 billion. SEK 470 M. Defence in Hertfordshire, UK for GBP 47 M, about SEK 550 M. Skanska signs additional contract for high Skanska to renovate academic facility in school in Sherwood, Oregon, USA, for Connecticut, USA, for USD 111 M, about USD 70 M, about SEK 620 M. SEK 1 billion. Skanska builds new Medical Center in Cincinnati, Skanska signs construction contract for new Ohio, USA, for USD 35 M, about SEK 310 M. college campus development in Texas, USA, for USD 131 million, about SEK 1.2 billion. Skanska renovates the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, USA, for USD 118 M, about SEK 1 billion. Skanska rehabilitates the Manhattan Bridge for the New York City Department of TransportaSkanska builds residential apartments in tion, for USD 76 M, about SEK 675 M. Aveny Vest in Lillestrøm, Norway, for NOK 304 M, about SEK 320 M. Skanska has signed an additional contract with USF Health Morsani College of Medicine and Skanska builds the second and third phase of Heart Inst in Tampa, USA for USD 36 M, about Campus 6 in Bucharest, Romania for EUR 46 M, SEK 320M. about SEK 470 M. Skanska signs additional contract for mixed-use Skanska to build new STEM school in Skanska rehabilitates Chelsea Viaduct Bridge project in Nashville, USA, for USD 59 M, about Cullowhee, North Carolina, USA, for USD 64 M, in Boston, MA, USA for USD 85 M, about SEK 534 M. about SEK 570 M. SEK 770 M. Skanska contracted by The Boeing Company, Skanska signs contract for new schools in Skanska builds campus Albano in Stockholm USA, for USD 70 M, about SEK 620 M, for conVancouver, Washington, USA, for USD 44 M, for SEK 1.3 billion. structions. about SEK 390 M. Skanska contracted to begin freeway expanSkanska builds two schools in Vancouver, sion in San Diego, USA, for USD 89 M, about Washington, USA for USD 34 M, about SEK 810 M. SEK 300 M. 208 Major orders, investments and divestments Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Investments Q1 2018 Q2 2018 Q4 2018 Skanska invests EUR 50 M, about SEK 480 M, Skanska invests in a new office building in in the second phase of an office project in Jönköping, Sweden. Warsaw, Poland. Skanska invests another SEK 250 M in Täby Park in Stockholm, Sweden. Skanska invests in land for housing in Gothenburg, Sweden, for SEK 290 M. Skanska invests SEK 560 M in the office building Skanska invests EUR 170 M, about Sthlm 04 in Stockholm, Sweden. SEK 1.8 billion, in third phase of an office project in Warsaw, Poland. Skanska invests EUR 36 M, about SEK 360 M, in a new office building in Kraków, Poland. Skanska invests USD 128 M, about SEK 1.1 billion, in a new office project in Boston, USA. Q3 2018 Skanska invests EUR 23 M, about SEK 230 M, in the second office building in a mixed-use Skanska invests EUR 52 M, about SEK 540 M, project in Poznań, Poland. in the first phase of an office project in Skanska invests EUR 41 M, about SEK 400 M, Wrocław, Poland. in the first phase of a new office project in Skanska invests EUR 44 M, about SEK 465 M, Gdańsk, Poland. in a new office development in Prague, Czech Skanska invests SEK 1.8 billion in office project Republic. Citygate in Gothenburg, Sweden. Skanska buys building plot in Oslo, Norway, for NOK 340 M, about SEK 370 million. Skanska invests EUR 24 M, about SEK 250 M, in the second phase of office project in Łódź, Poland Skanska invests EUR 76 M, about SEK 780 M, Skanska invests NOK 566 M, about SEK 580 M, in the second and third phase of Campus 6 in in a new office project in Oslo, Norway. Skanska invests EUR 29 M, about SEK 308 M, Bucharest, Romania. in office project in Budapest, Hungary. Skanska invests in land in Kraków, Poland, Skanska invests EUR 96 M, about SEK 960 M, in an office project in Helsinki, Finland. Skanska invests DKK 412 M, about SEK 570 M, for PLN 86 M, about SEK 210 M. in office project in Copenhagen, Denmark. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Major orders, investments and divestments 209 Divestments Q1 2018 Q2 2018 Q4 2018 Skanska sells office buildings in Gothenburg, Skanska sells office building in Solna, Sweden, Skanska sells office tower in Boston, USA, Sweden, for SEK 1 billion. for SEK 200 M. for USD 455M, about SEK 4 billion. Skanska sells hotel building in Jönköping, Skanska sells an apartment hotel in Oslo, Sweden, for SEK 430 M. Norway, for NOK 418 M, about SEK 430 M. Skanska sells office building in Lodz, Poland, Skanska sells pre-school and retirement home for EUR 52 M, about SEK 510 M. in Malmö, Sweden, for SEK 295 M. Skanska sells office building in Bucharest, Romania, for EUR 53 M, about SEK 530 M. Skanska sells commercial properties in Gothenburg and Mölndal, Sweden, for SEK 340 M. Skanska sells logistics facility in Arlandastad, Sweden, for SEK 230 M. Skanska sells retirement home and rental apartments in Älvängen, Sweden, for SEK 310 M. Skanska develops and sells new office building in Jönköping, Sweden, for SEK 500 M. Skanska sells two office buildings in Katowice, Poland, for EUR 59 M, about SEK 609 M Skanska sells Bergskvadraten development Skanska sells office building in Malmö, Sweden, project in Norrköping, Sweden, for SEK 490 M. for SEK 1 billion. Skanska sells retirement home in Växjö, Sweden, for SEK 240 M. Skanska sells office building in Helsinki, Finland, for EUR 53 M, about SEK 540 M. Skanska sells office building in Prague, Czech Republic, for EUR 68 M, about SEK 690 M. Q3 2018 Skanska divests remaining interest in 400 Fairview in Seattle, USA, for about USD 34 M, about SEK 304 M. Skanska divests hotel in Copenhagen, Denmark, for DKK 670 M, about SEK 920 M. Skanska sells office building in Wrocław, Poland, for EUR 51 M, about SEK 510 M. Skanska sells office project in Budapest, Hungary, for EUR 100 M, about SEK 1 billion. Skanska sells office building in Warsaw, Poland, for EUR 48 M, about SEK 510 M. 210 GRI Content Index / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Content Index Omission/ GRI Standard Disclosure Page Comments General Disclosures GRI 102: 102–1 Name of the organization Cover, General Disclosures Note 65 2016 102–2 Activities, brands, products, and services 34–53, Note 4 102–3 Location of headquarters Note 65 102–4 Location of operations 1, 29 102–5 Ownership and legal form 7–8, 56–57, Note 64–65 102–6 Markets served 1, 29, 40–41, 44–45, 48–49 102–7 Scale of the organization 1 102–8 Information on employees and The data is other workers not reported at Group level. 102–9 Supply chain 74 102–10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain – 102–11 Precautionary Principle or approach 72 102–12 External initiatives 72 102–13 Membership of associations 72 A selection of memberships are reported. 102–14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2–3 102–16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 3, 6, 10, 62–63, of behavior 70–91 102–18 Governance structure 56–64 102–40 List of stakeholder groups 71 102–41 Collective bargaining agreements The data is not reported at Group level. 102–42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 91 102–43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 91 102–44 Key topics and concerns raised 6, 10, 70–71, 91 102–45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 62 102–46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Content page, 91 102–47 List of material topics 71 102–48 Restatements of information – 102–49 Changes in reporting – 102–50 Reporting period 57 102–51 Date of most recent report March 12, 2018 102–52 Reporting cycle Annual 102–53 Contact point for questions regarding Lena Hök, SVP the report Sustainability 102–54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Content page 102–55 GRI content index 210–213 102–56 External assurance 200–201 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / GRI Content Index 211 Omission/ UN GRI Standard Disclosure Page Comments SDG Global Compact Material Topics Anti-corruption GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and 20–24, Management its Boundary 63, 73 Principle 10, Approach 2016 Anti-corruption: 103–2 The management approach and its 20–24, 62–64, Businesses should components 73, 90 work against corrup103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 64, 73 tion in all its forms, including extortion GRI 205: 205–2 Communication and training about and bribery. Anti-corruption 2016 anti-corruption policies and procedures 70, 73 205–3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and The number and actions taken 73 type of actions are not reported. Anti-competitive behavior GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and 20–24, Management its Boundary 63, 73 Approach 2016 103–2 The management approach and its 20–24, 62–64, components 73, 90 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 64, 73 GRI 206: 206–1 Legal actions for anti-competitive Anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly behavior 2016 practices 73 Safe and healthy work environment GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and 20–24, Management its Boundar 75–76 Approach 2016 103–2 The management approach and its 20–24, 62–64, components 75–76, 90 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 64, 75–76 GRI 403: 403–1 Occupational health and safety Management management system 75–76 Approach 2018 403–2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 75–76 403–3 Occupational health services 75 403–4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 75–76 403–5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 75–76 403–6 Promotion of worker health 75–76 403–7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 75–76 GRI 403: 403–8 Workers covered by an occupational Occupational health and safety management system 75–76 Health and Safety 403–9 Work-related injuries 76 The number of hours 2018 is not reported. 212 GRI Content Index / Report of the Directors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Omission/ UN GRI Standard Disclosure Page Comments SDG Global Compact Diversity, inclusiveness and non-discrimination GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic 14, 22–24, 88–89 Management and its Boundary Principle 6, Approach 2016 Labour: 103–2 The management approach 14, 20–24, 62–64, Businesses should and its components 88–90 uphold the elimina103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 14, 64, 74, 88–89 tion of discrimination in respect of employGRI 405: 405–1 Diversity of governance bodies The age groups ment and occupation. Diversity and Equal and employees Note 36 are note reported. Opportunity 2016 GRI 406: 406–1 Incidents of discrimination and The number and Non-discrimination corrective actions taken 74 type of actions are 2016 not reported. Fair and decent employment GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic 14, 22–24, 74, Management and its Boundary 88–89 Principle 3, Approach 2016 Labour: 103–2 The management approach 14, 20–24, 62–64, Businesses should and its components 74, 88–90 uphold the freedom 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 14, 64, 74, of association and the 88–89 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. GRI 401: 401–1 New employee hires and employee The age groups Principle 4, Employment 2016 turnover Note 36 and turnover are Labour: not gathered at Businesses should Group level. uphold the eliminaGRI 409: 409–1 Operations and suppliers at significant tion of all forms Forced or compulsory risk for incidents of forced or compulsory of forced and labor 2016 labor 74 compulsory labour. Responsible supply chain GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic 22–24, 62–63, Management and its Boundary 73–74 Principle 1, Approach 2016 Human rights: 103–2 The management approach and its 20–24, 62–64, Businesses should components 74,90 support and respect 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 64, 73–74 the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. GRI 308: 308–1 New suppliers that were screened Principle 2, Supplier using environmental criteria 74 Human rights: environmental Businesses should assessment 2016 make sure GRI 414: 414–1 New suppliers that were screened that they are not Supplier social using social criteria 74 complicit in human assessment 2016 rights abuses Principle 5, GRI 412: 412–2 Employee training on human rights The number of hours Human rights policies or procedures 70 is not reported. Labour: assessment 2016 Businesses should 412–3 Significant investment agreements The number and uphold the effective and contracts that include human rights definition is not abolition of child clauses or that underwent human rights reported. The labour. screening 74 disclosure refers to the Supplier Code of Conduct. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Report of the Directors / GRI Content Index 213 Omission/ UN GRI Standard Disclosure Page Comments SDG Global Compact Impact on climate change GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic 22–24, Management and its Boundary 77–80 Principle 7, Approach 2016 Environment: 103–2 The management approach and 20–24, 62–64, Businesses should its components 77–80, 90 support a precaution103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 64, ary approach to envi77–80 ronmental challenges. GRI 305: 305–1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 80 Principle 8, Emissions 2016 Environment: 305–2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 80 Businesses should 305–3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 80 undertake initiatives 305–4 GHG emissions intensity 80 to promote greater environmental 305–5 Reduction of GHG emissions 80 responsibility. Sustainable materials GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic 22–24, Management and its Boundary 77, 81 Principle 9, Approach 2016 Environment: 103–2 The management approach and 20–24, Businesses should its components 77, 81 encourage the devel103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 64, 77, 81 opment and diffusion of environmentally GRI 301: 301–1 Materials used by weight or volume 81 The data is friendly technologies. Materials 2016 not reported at Group level. Energy efficiency GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and 22–24, Management its Boundary 77–79 Principle 8, Approach 2016 Environment: 103–2 The management approach and its 20–24, 62–64, Businesses should components 77–79, 90 undertake initiatives 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 64,77–79 to promote greater environmental GRI 302: 302–1 Energy consumption within the responsibility. Energy 2016 organization 78 302–3 Energy intensity 78 302–4 Reduction of energy consumption 78 302–5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 78 Waste management GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and 22,24, Management its Boundary 77, 81 Approach 2016 103–2 The management approach and its 20–24, 62–64, components 77, 81, 90 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 64, 77,81 GRI 306: 306–2 Waste by type and disposal method 81 Hazardous waste Effluents and Waste is not reported. 2016 Sustainable industry GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and Management its Boundary 20–24, 84 Approach 2016 103–2 The management approach and its 62–64, components 77, 84–87 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 64, 77, 84–89 Skanskas SoD–1 Green revenue and green market value Own Disclosure from green projects, as defined by the Skanska Color Palette ™. Cover, 77 214 Consolidated quarterly results Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Consolidated quarterly results 2018 2017 In compliance with IFRS SEK M Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Order bookings 49,147 30,628 39,060 32,884 33,232 34,110 46,254 38,215 Income statement Revenue 50,478 43,084 43,502 34,666 45,302 38,868 40,094 33,613 Cost of sales –45,146 –40,028 –40,014 –32,277 –41,215 –35,762 –37,346 –30,780 Gross income 5,332 3,056 3,488 2,389 4,087 3,106 2,748 2,833 Selling and administrative expenses –2,446 –2,358 –2,164 –2,505 –3,097 –2,091 –2,390 –2,273 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 177 218 61 399 390 129 95 1,041 Operating income 3,063 916 1,385 283 1,380 1,144 453 1,601 Interest income 43 44 37 20 23 13 35 18 Interest expense –34 –24 –26 –29 –21 –20 –34 –36 Change in market value 4 3 4 4 6 5 9 Other financial items –25 21 8 –7 7 3 17 16 Financial items –16 45 22 –12 13 2 23 7 Income after financial items 3,047 961 1,407 271 1,393 1,146 476 1,608 Taxes –664 –128 –245 –55 –208 –108 29 –225 Profit for the period 2,383 833 1,162 216 1,185 1,038 505 1,383 Profit for the period attributable to Equity holders 2,376 824 1,156 215 1,181 1,031 500 1,383 Non-controlling interests 7 9 6 1 4 7 5 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss for the period Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension plans –1,058 217 279 84 595 355 –1 529 180 Tax related to items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss for the period 218 –34 –106 –19 –143 –78 328 –38 –840 183 173 65 452 277 –1 201 142 Items that have been or will be reclassified to profit and loss for the period Translation differences attributable to equity holders –275 –292 911 955 288 –284 –438 –165 Translation differences attributable to non-controlling interests –1 –3 7 4 2 3 –1 Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations 6 47 –49 –187 –91 –5 –32 3 Effect of cash flow hedges 28 62 –114 –6 98 –54 9 85 Share of other comprehensive income for joint ventures and associated companies –50 32 271 19 13 15 37 18 Tax related to items that have been or will be reclassified to proﬁt for the period –3 –12 19 3 –16 7 –3 –13 –295 –166 1,038 791 296 –319 –424 –73 Other comprehensive income after tax for the period –1,135 17 1,211 856 748 –42 –1,625 69 Comprehensive income for the period 1,248 850 2,373 1,072 1,933 996 –1,120 1,452 Comprehensive income for the period attributable to Equity holders 1,242 844 2,367 1,064 1,925 987 –1,128 1,453 Non-controlling interests 6 6 6 8 8 9 8 –1 Order backlog 192,042 186,328 197,552 190,933 188,411 194,743 202,214 200,792 Capital employed 46,187 45,591 44,511 44,247 44,111 42,589 41,594 42,773 Interest-bearing net receivables/net debt 3,231 –3,717 –4,041 –1,645 –1,126 –5,560 –4,323 2,917 Debt/equity ratio –0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.2 0.2 –0.1 Return on capital employed % 13.0 9.4 10.0 7.9 11.1 14.8 14.9 21.9 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities 7,911 748 1,044 –249 4,059 –568 –1,233 588 Cash flow from investing activities –568 –363 –1,031 –405 –809 726 –387 2,060 Cash flow from financing activities –879 385 –2,158 –857 –560 –107 –1,046 –1,104 Cash flow for the year 6,464 770 -2,145 -1,511 2,690 51 -2,666 1,544 Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Consolidated quarterly results 215 Consolidated quarterly results, continued Business streams 2018 2017 In compliance with IFRS SEK M Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Order bookings Construction 49,147 30,628 39,060 32,884 33,232 34,110 46,254 38,215 Total 49,147 30,628 39,060 32,884 33,232 34,110 46,254 38,215 Revenue Construction 42,580 40,261 40,422 34,631 41,074 38,208 38,681 32,087 Residential Development 4,580 2,632 2,502 2,492 3,422 2,167 3,633 2,601 Commercial Property Development 7,415 3,370 4,225 806 4,906 1,670 1,269 1,671 Infrastructure Development 19 52 18 16 22 20 18 21 Central and eliminations –4,116 –3,231 –3,665 –3,279 –4,122 –3,197 –3,507 –2,767 Total 50,478 43,084 43,502 34,666 45,302 38,868 40,094 33,613 Operating income Construction 868 –310 582 –41 –221 918 116 392 Residential Development 697 509 301 370 482 205 514 307 Commercial Property Development 1,639 782 684 398 1,441 304 139 183 Infrastructure Development 42 64 41 –116 40 –25 –29 939 Central –184 –173 –157 –298 –327 –200 –234 –182 Eliminations 1 44 –66 –30 –35 –58 –53 –38 Total 3,063 916 1,385 283 1,380 1,144 453 1,601 2018 2017 According to segment reporting, SEK M Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Order bookings Construction 49,147 30,628 39,060 32,884 33,232 34,110 46,254 38,215 Total 49,147 30,628 39,060 32,884 33,232 34,110 46,254 38,215 Revenue Construction 42,580 40,261 40,422 34,631 41,074 38,208 38,681 32,087 Residential Development 4,120 2,453 2,282 1,884 3,136 2,033 4,716 3,352 Commercial Property Development 7,082 1,879 3,530 3,780 3,685 1,074 5,119 1,562 Infrastructure Development 19 52 18 16 22 20 18 21 Central and eliminations –4,112 –3,308 –3,734 –3,361 –4,298 –3,249 –3,598 –2,840 Total 49,689 41,337 42,518 36,950 43,619 38,086 44,936 34,182 Operating income Construction 868 –310 582 –41 –221 918 116 392 Residential Development 383 504 398 220 394 219 665 438 Commercial Property Development 1,281 456 472 860 863 594 978 279 Infrastructure Development 42 64 41 –116 40 –25 –29 939 Central –183 –174 –155 –299 –328 –199 –235 –182 Eliminations –8 –33 –53 28 –10 –41 –44 –17 Total 2,383 507 1,285 652 738 1,466 1,451 1,849 216 Annual General Meeting, Investors Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Annual General Meeting Investors The Annual General Meeting of Skanska AB (publ) will be held Calendar at 10:00 a.m. on March 28, 2019, at the Stockholm Waterfront The Skanska Group’s interim reports will be published Congress Centre, Nils Ericsons Plan 4, Stockholm, Sweden. on the following dates: Notification and registration Three Month Report Shareholders who wish to participate in the Annual General Meeting April 26, 2019 must be listed in the register of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB, the Swedish central securities depository and clearing Six Month Report organization, on Friday, March 22, 2019 and must notify Skanska July 24, 2019 by March 22, 2019, preferably before 12 noon, of their intention to participate in the Meeting. Nine Month Report Shareholders whose shares have been registered in the name of a November 7, 2019 trustee must have requested re-registration in their own name in the register of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB to be Year-end Report entitled to participate in the Meeting. Such re-registration, which may February 7, 2020 be temporary, should be requested well in advance of, March 22, 2019, from the bank or brokerage house holding the shares in trust. Distribution and other information The interim reports and the Annual Report can Notification may be made in writing to: be read or downloaded from Skanska’s website Skanska AB (publ), Årsstämman www.group.skanska.com/investors. c/o Euroclear Sweden AB, Box 191, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden Telephone: +46 8 402 92 81 Those wishing to order the printed Annual Report can Website: www.group.skanska.com easily use the order form found on the above website, or contact Skanska AB, Investor Relations. The notification must always state the shareholder’s name, personal identification or corporate identity number, address and telephone number. For shareholders represented by proxy, a power of attorney The website also contains an archive should be sent to the company before the Meeting. Shareholders who of interim reports and Annual Reports. have duly notified the company of their participation will receive an admittance card, which should be brought and shown at the entrance to the Meeting venue. www.facebook.com/skanska Dividend The Board of Directors propose a dividend of SEK 6.00 (8.25) per share www.linkedin.com/company/skanska for the 2019 financial year. The proposal is equivalent to a regular www.twitter.com/skanskagroup dividend payout totalling SEK 2,458 M (3,373). The Board proposes April 1 as the record date for the dividend. Provided that the Meeting If you have questions, please contact: approves this proposal, the dividend is expected to be distributed by Skanska AB, Investor Relations Euroclear AB on April 4, 2019. SE-112 74 Stockholm, Sweden The total dividend amount may change by the record date, depending Telephone: +46 10 448 00 00 on repurchases of shares and transfers of shares to participants in the E-mail: investor.relations@skanska.se company’s long-term employee ownership programs. Skanska Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 Addresses 217 Addresses Skanska AB (publ) Skanska Poland Skanska USA Building Skanska Commercial Property SE 112 74 Stockholm Aleja “Solidarności” 173 389 Interpace Parkway, 5th floor Development USA Sweden PL-00-877 Warszawa Parsippany, NJ 07054 Empire State Building Street address: Poland USA 350 Fifth Avenue, 32nd floor Warfvinges väg 25 Tel: +48 22 561 30 00 Tel: +1 973 753 3500 New York Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 www.skanska.pl www.usa.skanska.com New York 10118 www.skanska.com USA Skanska Czech Republic Skanska USA Civil Tel: +1 917 438 4514 Skanska Sweden and Slovakia 75–20 Astoria Boulevard www.usa.skanska.com SE 112 74 Stockholm Křižíkova 682/34a Suite 200 Sweden 186 00 Prague 8, Karlín Queens, New York, N.Y. 11370 Skanska Financial Services Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Czech Republic USA SE 112 74 Stockholm Customer service: Phone: +420 267 095 111 Tel: +1 718 340 07 77 Sweden +46 20-30 30 40 www.skanska.cz www.usa.skanska.com Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 www.skanska.se www.skanska.sk www.skanska.com Skanska Commercial Property Skanska Norway Skanska UK Development Nordic For other addresses: Postboks 1175 Sentrum Maple Cross House SE 112 74 Stockholm www.skanska.com NO-0187 Oslo Denham Way Sweden Street address: Maple Cross Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Lakkegata 53 Rickmansworth, Hertfordshire www.skanska.com/property Norway WD3 9SW +47 40 00 64 00 United Kingdom Skanska Commercial Property www.skanska.no +44 (0) 1923 776666 Development Europe www.skanska.co.uk SE 112 74 Stockholm Skanska Finland Sweden PL 114 Skanska USA Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Nauvontie 18 Empire State Building www.skanska.com/property 00280 Helsinki 350 Fifth Avenue, 32nd floor Finland New York +358 20 719 211 New York 10118 www.skanska.fi USA Tel: +1 917 438 4500 www.usa.skanska.com More information about Skanska: www.group.skanska.com Annual and Sustainability Report production team: Skanska AB in collaboration with Addira. Text: Skanska AB Translation: Novoterm Print: Larsson Offsettryck Linköping Photos: Skanska 341 298 Åke E:son Lindman, page 72 Printed matter Kevin Scott, page 65 Larsson Offsettryck Skanska AB www.skanska.com Warfvinges väg 25 SE–112 74 Stockholm Sweden Tel: +46 10-448 00 00
