Mater COP 2019 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 1 Mater COP 2019 Mater COP 2019 Content RESPONSIBLE CSR PARTNER Statement on Continued Support 4 Andreas Schjølin — CSR Consult United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals 7 LAYOUT SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy 9 Malou Kayser SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth 11 ILLUSTRATIONS All The Way To Paris SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 13 SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production 17 PHOTOGRAPHY Anders Bøggild SDG 14: Life Below Water 19 Mater (All Rights Reserved) SDG 15: Life on Land 23 SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals 25 Head Office and Showroom Glentevej 47 DK-2400 Copenhagen NV +45 7026 4488 materdesign.com 2 3 Mater COP 2019 Mater COP 2019 What does Mater mean? Mater means Mother in Latin. choices made during design The name is the daily remindprocesses often have environer of our small contribution mental consequences. Howevto preventing the challenges er, as a manufacturer, we have Mother Earth faces. the opportunity to rethink Statement Design influences how we as dubious practices and create humans live our lives; it ethical and sustainable design shapes values, culture and that minimises adverse social society. Unfortunately, we are and environmental impacts. increasingly aware that the on continued support I am pleased to confirm that equally important to our comGlobal Compact its principles Mater reaffirms its support pany, but we do believe all of into our business strategy, culof the Ten Principles of the the Sustainable Development ture and daily operations. We United Nations Global ComGoals encompasses extremely also commit to share this inpact in the areas of Human important issues that needs to formation with our stakeholRights, Labour, Environment be dealt with. It is important ders using our primary chanand Anti-Corruption. Further for us as a company that our nels of communication. we have chosen to incorporasustainable strategy and busite elements of the Sustainable ness conduct is aligned and we Development Goals (SDG’s) acknowledge that focusing on in our Communication on the areas where we can make Progress report. To make sure a difference is how we best that our report is relevant, contribute to the global tasks and we can make a difference, that the SDG’s put forward. we have chosen to identify the In this annual CommunicaHenrik Marstrand most important SDG’s to Mation on Progress, we describe CEO & Founder of Mater ter and our stakeholders. We our actions to continually imdo not identify all the SDG’s prove the integration of the and their underlying goals as SDG’s and the United Nations 44 55 Mater COP 2019 Mater COP 2019 “Through aligning our CSR strategy and our production to the UN Global Goals United Nations 17 Sustainable we are now Development Goals contributing to At Mater we wish to make an and ligthing we have commited 7 key Sustainable impact in the designand business support the goal of Affordable industry, by aligning our commitand Clean Energy by only manments within our production ufacturing LED lighting (SDG 7) and our CSR strategy with the and supporting Responsible ConDevelopment UN Global Goals for sustainable sumption and Production (SDG development — a framework 12). We have also directly contribagreed by 193 nations organized uted to preserving Life Below Wain 17 Sustainable Development ter (SDG 14) with the recent deGoals (SDGs) to end poverty, sign by Nanna Ditzel in recycled Goals.” protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all, as part of a new sustainable development agenda. Through aligning our CSR fishnets collected from the oceans across the world. Responsible Consumption and Production (SDG 15) has been at heart from the strategy and our production very beginning and we keep to the UN Sustainable Depushing the boundaries for susvelopment Goals we are now tainability and aestethics by excontributing to five key sustainploring new production partners Henrik Marstrand able development goals. As a to join our mission with PartnerFounder and CEO manufacturer of both furniture ships for the Goals (SDG 17). 66 7 Mater COP 2019 Mater COP 2019 Affordable and Clean Energy All ligthing in the Mater CollecIt is Maters policy to conduct tion are made of materials that business in compliance with both has a sustainable touch – from national and international laws. recycled aluminium to certified Together with our core values wood. Common for all is that we complie with internationally the light sources are the newest recognized standards. We have a LED technology which is the zero tolerance towards corrupmost sustainable source of lighttion and are committed to work ing we have today. The LED we proactively to prevent bribes and use saves up to 85 percent energy eliminate facilitation payments. compared to old energy sources and can last up to twenty years. 88 9 Mater COP 2019 Mater COP 2019 Decent Work and Economic Growth Mater supports the Human engage in dialogue and we try Right in all its forms and recto teach them about the imporognizes its importance in an tance of safety and health. Furincreasingly globalized work enther it is important to Mater that vironment. We acknowledge the those who work on our designs potential risks for not focusing are paid a fair wage. This is partly on these important rights, both possible to ensure when we work for the company, suppliers and with smaller suppliers. employees. We wish to provide Through our Code of Conduct we all humans the rights and freemake sure that we work towards doms they deserve to enjoy. We better standards and more secure have developed a strategy where working environments and we people and the planet are in the believe that this is the best way center of all our actions. With to obtain results and help reach our suppliers we always try to set targets or SDG eight. 10 10 11 Mater COP 2019 Mater COP 2019 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Today all our products are close supplier relationships. in characterized by some sort of connection with SDG nine we sustainability. We work with wish to increase the access of new fast-growing wood sources small-scale industrial manufacand grasses. This applies to some tures. Hence many of our prodof our designs with upcycled ucts are made from small supmango wood, wicker made of pliers with local craftsmanship. cane – a strong grass species However, there are pros and cons which we use braided in daybeds of this ideology since we have and a new chair series. All our to accept that their production products that are produced in the facilities do not have the capacity EU and which are made of woodor resources to become certified en materials are certified accordto the extent we might wish. In ing to FSC, and all products can the end it is more important be traced back to its origin. Furto Mater to have transparency. ther the FSC scheme ensures that With every important supplier whatever wood is used will be we make time to them, and we replanted. Not all is and can be are shown the production sites, certified materials and it is more how the materials are being important that we work towards processed and sourced. 12 13 Mater COP 2019 Mater COP 2019 14 15 Mater COP 2019 Mater COP 2019 Responsible Consumption and Production All products being sold by security of supply has, and this tion. We want to reduce waste Mater and the furniture industry demands that business’ like sent to landfill and ensure that all as a whole is dependent on the ours and the design industry in our products are sustainable. We environment and the surroundgeneral thinks differently. At want to reduce the environmening society and communities Mater we want to showcase tal and social impact of our prodfrom where the materials are that sustainability and business ucts and develop designs that has sourced. Developed countries has goes hand in hand and that proa circular economy. We want to at least twice as heavy a footprint duction patterns needs to be preserve the eco system and the as developing countries and this more thought through and that biodiversity. We have a strong is associated to the material footresources can and should be more vision to create timeless and print. As the population grow sustainably chosen. This will beautiful designs that are based on a global scale it is a fact that enable the regeneration of on an ethical business strategy resources become scarcer and resources in the future. which combines exclusive and more constrained, we continuWe want to combine innovative high-end designs with working ously focus on SDG twelve. We solutions to prevent pollution methods that support people, believe that it is important to of the world’s oceans and the local craft traditions and the acknowledge the impact the remaining planet in our producenvironment. 16 16 17 Mater COP 2019 Mater COP 2019 Life Below Water As an example, we have made is a reissue and originally designed a chair of ocean plastic waste. in 1955 and realised in timber Together with the Danish veneer. We are proud that this cleantech company, Plastix. A product contributes to further company that strives to conclosing the material loops, reductribute to the sustainable deing landfilling, marine pollution velopment of society through and loss of valuable resources. manufacturing of sustainable Today the design in ocean plastic solutions, provision of innowaste complies to SDG fourteen, vative and quality products. twelve and seventeen. Plastix deliver the high quality recycled raw materials that we One Ocean Chair uses some 960g use for the chair. The materials of ocean plastic waste. are collected from input streams While 1 kilo of recycled plastics from the maritime industry. We raw material saves some 1.7 kilos call it “Ocean”. The chair combines of CO2, one single Ocean Chair innovative solutions to prevent saves 1.6 kilos CO2 emissions savpollution of the world’s oceans ings compared to virgin equivwith with one of the 20th alents — demonstrating a CO2 century’s most renowned emissions saving up to 82%. designers, Nanna Ditzel. “Ocean” 18 18 19 Mater COP 2019 Mater COP 2019 20 21 Mater COP 2019 Mater COP 2019 Life on Land Another example is the Nova ploitation of raw materials and Chair. Nova means ‘new’ and minimize the amount of waste refers to the innovative and in veneer production. The 3D sustainable technique of molding veneer allows for the design to 3D veneer. The chair is made of shape the wooden chair in a comrecycled excess pieces of beech fortable, light and organic shape. veneer, sliced and glued togethThe design also complies to goal er in a delicate and patented number 12, 14 and 17 under the process – thus creating a textual and UN Global Goals for Sustainable organic looking surface. The Development result ensures a beautiful ex22 23 Mater COP 2019 Mater COP 2019 Partnerships for the Goals All our suppliers undergo an Our mindset and business initial screening where we make model are structured around an assessment in regards of long-term perspectives focused relevant CSR-elements. When we on trust-based partnerships. This have established that the basics accounts for both suppliers and are in place in regards of Labour our design partners. We strive and Human Rights (working to find relations that share our conditions, safety, working hours, goals and thinking and who child labour etc.) we establish a desire to create long lasting, basis for remodeling their curbeautiful designs that are rent setups, so that we see progsustainable in materials and ress in regards of sustainability ideas. This mindset is also in acyear after year. cordance to SDG seventeen. 24 24 25 Mater COP 2019 Mater COP 2019 “All our products must be designed to address one or more of the sustainable development goals. If this is not possible we will not produce it. ” Henrik Marstrand Founder and CEO 26 26 27 Mater COP 2019 Considering the planet, its resources and its people. 28
