UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress November 2019 Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer As an organisation that has existed for more than a century, we are committed to contributing to the growth and sustainability of the communities in which we serve, as well as building strong relationships with our employees, customers stakeholders and regulators; an outlook which underpins our sustainability efforts. Citizenship, Sustainability and Innovation are central to our Bank’s core business and our commitment to the triple bottom line of responsible financial, environmental and socio-economic development. In this our second Communication on Progress To strengthen and reinforce our commitment to report, we highlight the efforts we have made in the United Nations Sustainable Development the past year to integrate the principles of the Goals, Union Bank of Nigeria subscribed to the UNGC in our business strategy, culture and daily United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2017. operations. The ten principles of the UNGC under these headings – Human Rights, Environment, Labour and Anti-Corruption – guide our business operations as well as our contributions to community development. We are proud to We are proud to be a member of the UNGC and be a member of we reaffirm our support and commitment to making the world a better place. the UNGC and we reaffirm our support Yours sincerely, and commitment to making the world a Emeka Emuwa Chief Executive Officer better place. 02 Communication on Progress | November 2019 and the principles concerning fundamental rights set out in the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Sustainable Banking Principles of 2012. These include, the right to life; right to legal recognition as a person; freedom of thought, conscience and religion; freedom of opinion and expression; freedom from torture; freedom from cruel, inhumane or degrading treatment; freedom from slavery and servitude, and freedom from retroactive penal legislation. • Union Bank is compliant with all relevant international and local legal obligations which support the fundamental principles of human rights across all our lines of business in Nigeria and the United Kingdom which are the countries where we operate. Our relationships with our employees, customers, clients and suppliers, and with the countries and communities in which we operate, are intended to reflect the principles and policies referred to in this Human Rights Statement. • Union Bank’s Human Rights policy aligns with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the International Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental • At Union Bank, we believe that respect for Principles and Rights at Work, where applicable to human rights is central to our sustainability business; and other applicable international journey and we are an active supporter of the principles. Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our commitment to upholding the rights of humans is • Our Human Rights policy, which guides all reflected in our internal processes, from our Union Bank’s operations and activities on the Human Resources (HR) policy to our subject of human rights, prohibit use of child & environmental and social risk policy as well as our forced labour, and discrimination on grounds of Core Values Framework. race, religion, age, gender or economic background. It helps enhance our ability to • Our Human Rights policy aligns with the identify and manage human rights issues in areas 1948 United Nations Universal Declaration of relevant to our business, to elaborate on our Human Rights (UDHR), the Nigerian Constitution, commitment to support human rights, build various Nigerian State and Federal laws, increased trust with our stakeholders and to International Bill of Human Rights (consisting of demonstrate good business practices, amongst the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the others. International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights) as well as all International treaties that Nigeria has acceded to Communication on Progress | November 2019 03 Human Rights Implementation • We have a Code of Conduct form, which all employees sign-off to document their acceptance of the Bank’s standard of behaviour for its employees. Any form of harassment or bullying is intolerable as Union Bank is committed to ensuring its employees are treated fairly and with respect. • We have an effective grievance mechanism process which includes an independent whistle blowing platform (a dedicated email, phone line and website) where employees can state their grievances and support prompt resolution of identified grievances. • Our human resource management • Our female employees are permitted to structure helps to facilitate effective interaction embark on fully paid maternity leave whether or between HR business partners and employees not they are confirmed. Maternity leave is not across the bank’s network. annual leave consuming i.e. female staff are allowed to take their annual leave and maternity • Our retired employees are entitled to leave in the same year. Female employees who benefits for their service with the Bank which adopt young babies (3 months and below) are includes free health plans and other benefits. also allowed to take a maximum of 6 weeks to Currently, over 10,000 retired employees and their cater for/bond with their new babies, subject to spouses are granted access to free health care. providing required documentation from relevant government agencies for adoption. In addition, • Current employees enjoy health care, for a period of 6 months from the end of the pension contributions, leave pay, feeding, 12-week Maternity Leave period, a nursing mother transportation and housing and education is entitled to two periods of half an hour daily off allowances. They also benefit from performance work for the purpose of nursing her child. bonuses based on the Bank’s annual profit and Alternatively, nursing mothers may elect to finish employee performance. at work one hour earlier than normal closing time, or start at work one hour later than the normal starting time. Currently, over 10,000 • Our suppliers, contractors and third-party service providers embark on a thorough retired employees and prequalification process (by an consultant) to determine and mitigate against external their spouses are possible Environmental & Social and human rights risks. In addition, services and contracts are granted access to awarded to Union Bank’s contractors without discrimination. A comprehensive screening free health care. process is carried out to determine who will be awarded the contract for service. To avoid bias, internal stakeholders are involved in the screening process. 04 Communication on Progress | November 2019 Human Rights Measurement of Outcomes ICSS We regularly carry out an Internal Customer Satisfaction Survey (ICSS) to obtain necessary feedback and identify areas with gaps, to ensure continuous growth and promote stronger relationships across different units and teams within the Bank. NPS We calculate our Customer Satisfaction Score (CSAT) and Net Promoter Score (NPS) to know our customers’ experience of the Union Bank brand and help us to improve our customer experience in order to deliver the best service every time. 39% Employees 39% of our employees are women; proportion of female 26% Management employees in management positions rose to 26% in 2019 from 21% Board of Directors 22% in 2018, and our Board of Directors comprises of 21% women. All our policies are gender inclusive and non-discriminatory. Union Bank is an equal opportunity employer and encourages female participation in our recruitment processes. 60 60 vendors went through the vendor prequalification process this year. All our credit transactions are assessed for human rights risks. zero We recorded zero incidents of human rights violation. Communication on Progress | November 2019 06 innovation and collaborative effort and to position the Management Trainees for future leadership roles in the Bank. It encompasses three main phases, which include: training school, job rotation and final posting. Since the commencement of this program, we have had four successful streams who have gone on to become high-flying employees in their various departments. In addition to our MT program, all employees are allowed to embark on training programmes. In the past year, over 90% of our employees participated in the Bank’s training initiatives. We have a retention framework to ensure that we retain key talent to sustain our business and build a leadership pipeline for the future. Implementation Assessment, Policy and Goals • Non-Discriminatory Policy We operate a • Union Bank respects the Nigerian and non-discriminatory policy in the consideration of International Labour Laws in its dealings with applications for employment, including those employees, suppliers and third-party contractors received from disabled persons. Our policy is that by ensuring that business is done with fairness the most qualified and experienced persons are and without discrimination. We strive to enable recruited for appropriate job levels, irrespective of the success of our employees and endeavour to an applicant’s state of origin, ethnicity, religion or demonstrate our commitment by creating an physical condition. In the event of any employee environment that allows for both their becoming disabled in the course of employment, professional and personal development. the Bank endeavours to arrange appropriate training to ensure the continuous employment of • As Nigeria’s most reliable and trusted such a person without subjecting him/her to any banking partner, our success is hinged on disadvantage in his/her career development. delivering against six strategic pillars, one of which is the quality of our talent. We strongly • Robust Retention Framework We have a believe that the talent we groom is a reflection of retention framework to ensure that we retain key who we are and the results we achieve. talent to sustain our business and build a leadership pipeline for the future. Our talent • Our Management Trainee (MT) program is management system provides a unique a comprehensive training program designed to competitive advantage as our employees are prepare high-performing young talents to flourish exposed to training, projects and stretch in a diverse working environment that drives assignments, with a strong reward system that 07 Communication on Progress | November 2019 Labour recognises high performers. This is supported by We refined our Employee Value Proposition a result driven performance management system. (EVP), which is hinged on five critical pillars: We also have leadership development and learning, career opportunities, entrepreneurship, management trainee programmes to develop the leadership and the work environment, and next generation of leaders. All these initiatives strengthened our EVP to drive talent attraction make our employees stand out when compared and retention. This helps to provide broad career with their peers. opportunities, groom ethical leaders, give room for entrepreneurship development, create a • Health and Safety Policy The Bank continuous learning environment and foster a maintains business premises designed with a view work community that excels in diversity and to guaranteeing the safety and healthy living thrives on mutual respect. conditions of its employees and customers. Employees are adequately insured against • Based on our refined value proposition, we occupational and other hazards. In addition, the improved our work environment, introduced Bank provides medical facilities to its employees flexible work hours, examination leave allowance, and their immediate families at its expense. Fire and an enhanced health management plan prevention and fire-fighting equipment are amongst others. This shows our commitment to installed in strategic locations within the Bank’s the needs of our employees and support of their premises. The Bank operates a Group Personal personal and professional aspirations. Accident Insurance Scheme in accordance with the provisions of the Employee Compensation Act • Fitfeb In February of each year, we for the benefit of its employees and also operates promote the culture of health and a contributory pension plan for the benefit of its fitness through our flagship employee health employees in line with the Pension Reform Act awareness programme, FitFeb. In 2019, our FitFeb 2014 as amended. event, themed “Productivity Boost”, featured a • Training As a policy, all employees of the bank are required to undergo a minimum of 60 hours of training for ongoing development and career planning. This usually will comprise of Based on our refined e-learning and classroom training tailored to help value proposition, all employees realize their full potential. we improved our work • In line with our objective of building an environment, introduced entrepreneurial mind-set in our employees, we equip our employees with learnings that are flexible work hours, applicable beyond the immediate workplace and can be applied in their work and life beyond Union examination leave allowance, Bank. These cut across leadership trainings, soft and an enhanced health skill trainings, finance and risk management, among others. management plan amongst others. • Employee Value Proposition Our employees’ success is of utmost importance to us and we are committed to creating an environment that addresses the rights of humans and allows for both professional and personal development. Communication on Progress | November 2019 08 Labour number of physical and non-physical stress relieving activities at our locations. This event has helped to promote a health-conscious lifestyle amongst our employees. • Union Bank Employee Assistance Progamme (UBEAP): The UBEAP was launched in 2019 as a free and confidential counselling service for employees who need support in dealing with the challenges of everyday living, work and health Excited students from our adopted schools at our Head Office related issues. Under this programme, employees during the 2019 Financial Literacy Day have access to free virtual and physical sessions with professional counsellors. • WeHub: The WeHub is an internal community for Union Bank women created to engage our communities through participation in women-focused initiatives such as International Women’s Day, health and wellness programs, mentoring and personal development sessions. Union Bank staff with students during our Financial Literacy and Mentoring Programme outreach Students of Community Secondary Commercial School, Ikot Excited students of All Saints Church School, Ibadan, after our Okubo, Uyo with staff of Union Bank during our 2019 Financial World Savings Day activity Literacy Day Students of All Saints Church School participating in the class Cross section of students who visited our Head Office during the activity during our visit to the school to commemorate World 2019 Financial Literacy Day Savings Day 09 Communication on Progress | November 2019 Labour Measurement of Outcomes Inclusion of volunteering in assessment – over 4800 hours were spent by our employees in voluntary activities to support students and communities. Our key volunteering activities in 2019 were 4800 Financial Literacy Day 2019, Employee Volunteer Day, UnionCares, World Environment Day, Management Trainee Volunteering Project as well as the Financial Literacy and Mentoring HRS Programme, etc. Union Bank does not discriminate against employees and/or customers with disabilities. Our branches are built in such a way as to allow physically challenged individuals access to transact their banking activities in the bank. 63% of our branches are friendly to 63% physically challenged individuals – they are fitted with key access points to enable easy entrance and exit (elevators, wheel chair ramps, etc.). In the course of the year, we organised two major stress management programmes for our employees UBEAP and UBEAP FitFeb. In addition, we organise a number of employee engagement activities including various sports tournaments and FITFEB onsite fitness classes which act as stress relievers. STRESS MANAGEMENT PROGRAMMES In 2019, we held a series of wehub masterclasses and hangouts for our female employees across three locations – Lagos, Abuja and Delta states. Communication on Progress | November 2019 10 Assessment, Policy and Goals • At Union Bank, we are committed to contributing towards the sustainable development of our host communities, creating long-term value, competitive advantage and sustainability leadership. We recognise that our operations result in some impact on the environment and we continuously aim to reduce the environmental impact of our business and operate in an environmentally responsible manner. • The global increase in greenhouse Implementation emissions and its consequences has galvanised a • All lending products and services are multi-stakeholder approach to ensure its underpinned by the Board approved reduction. As part of efforts to minimise our Environmental and Social (E&S) Risk policy which environmental footprint, we have made has brought about a cultural shift towards our significant progress in the following areas: E&S responsibility. As a result, our E&S risk assessment reviews the borrower activities and 1. Energy/Fuel Consumption their possible effects on the environment – 100% 2. Paper Use of our loans are screened for possible E&S risks. 3. Water Use We have also deployed innovative financial 4. Solid Waste Production products to promote financial inclusion and the empowerment of all Nigerians especially the 5. Company Fleet financially excluded and SMEs (Small and Medium 6. Air Travel scale Enterprises). • Our objective is to continuously increase • To date, 95% of our branches are our sustainable activities until all aspects of our sustainable. We are constantly reducing energy business operations are fully covered. This will in consumption by monitoring energy usage and turn, reduce our environmental footprint in order reducing our dependence on fuel. As a promoter to fulfil our environmental obligations and of clean energy, we deployed alternative energy commitments toward being a responsible solutions to our branches and ATMS – 120 Union corporate organisation. Bank ATMs and 95 branches are powered by solar energy. We are committed to this sustainable clean energy source and intend to increase the number of branches and ATMs using solar in the coming years. We employ sustainable building 11 Communication on Progress | November 2019 Environment materials (container buildings) in designing a number of our new infrastructural facilities. We • We reduced the number of vehicles in our also promote further energy efficiency with the fleet by 15% in 2019 thereby reducing vehicular installation of various energy saving equipment – CO2 emissions. Employee air travel has also heat sensor lighting, energy efficient reduced significantly as we encourage video air-conditioning systems and generators, heat conferencing for meetings instead of travels. sensor escalators. • In adherence to the environmental laws that govern our organisation, we obtain the We have successfully necessary Environmental Impact Assessment licence as well as environmental protection expanded our recycling permits. We conduct regular Health and Safety activities to cover five training for select employees and our Head of Security & Safety as well as our Head of states in Nigeria – Lagos, Occupational Risk who serves as our Environmental, Health and Safety manager. Abuja, Ogun, Edo and • In a bid to reduce our paper consumption, Kwara states with we are developing a platform to automate the processes that consume paper. We encourage the a total of 92 branches use of emails and electronic documentation and double-sided printing in order to reduce our currently recycling in the Bank’s network. paper consumption. We also introduced the use of recycled envelopes. • As part of Union Bank’s commitment to effective waste management, we have adopted the 3-R (reduce, reuse and recycle) approach towards prevention of pollution and disposal of waste, in line with best practices in environmental sustainability. We have successfully expanded our recycling activities to cover five states in Nigeria – Lagos, Abuja, Ogun, Edo and Kwara states with a total of 92 branches currently recycling in the Bank’s network. Our annual in-house recycling competition, Recyclemania is ongoing and total recyclable weight recorded so far for all branches is about 28,600 kg in 2019. • In keeping with our improved consciousness on efficient water usage, we installed self-closing push button taps, single flush urinals and water closets as well as water meters to measure and control our water use. In H1 2019, we have experienced a 37% reduction in water consumption per employee. Communication on Progress | November 2019 12 Environment Union Bank employees cleaning the street during our first Union Bank staff and janitors of Sabo, Yaba branch, winners of Employee Volunteer Day the 2018 Recyclemania Challenge Employees of Union Bank during the Employee Volunteer Day Kunle Sonola, Head, Commercial Banking; Ogochukwu activity Ekezie-Ekaidem, Head, Corporate Communications and Marketing; Nath Ude, Head, Service & Technology; Lolade Awogbade, Lead, Citizenship and Sustainability; and Mobolade Ojeahere, Head, Transaction Banking during the World Environment Day activity tagged “Beat Air Pollution” Janitorial staff of Yabo, Saba branch, winners of the 2018 Union Bank employees after sharing a bus ride to work for the Recyclemania Challenge, with their trophy and prize. 2019 World Environment Day 13 Communication on Progress | November 2019 Environment Measurement of Outcomes 95% of our branches are sustainability enabled with different tools to ensure water conservation, energy efficiency and sustainable waste disposal. Our recycling activities cover five states in Nigeria – Abuja, Ogun, 92 Edo, Kwara and Lagos. This makes it a total of 92 branches that are currently recycling in the Bank’s network. Since the inception of our recycling program, we have recycled a 100k total of 100,913.5kg across the three main areaspaper, plastic, and metal. kg Communication on Progress | November 2019 14 Environment We installed water meters in our bank locations to keep track of our water consumption. We also installed self-closing push button taps, single flush urinals and water closets to control water consumption. In H1 2019, there has been a 37% reduction in water consumption 37% per employee. We deployed alternative energy solutions to our branches and ATMs – 120 Union Bank ATMs and 95 branches are powered by 120 ATMs solar energy. Following the shift to solar energy in select branches and energy efficiency drive, electricity purchase reduced by 28% 95 Branches in H1 2019. We recorded a 39% reduction in the number of business trips 39% taken in H1 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 which resulted in a reduction in mileage and CO2 emissions. 15 Communication on Progress | November 2019 address, web portal and a Mobile App on Android and iOS devices to enable stakeholders, including employees, report all suspected breaches of the Bank’s Code of Corporate Governance. • Our employee disciplinary process is based on principles of integrity, equity and fair Assessment, Policy and Goals hearing. As such, all employees are given fair • Union Bank’s Code of Conduct prohibits hearing. We also use our whistle blowing channels employees from being involved with bribery, which allow staff to report issues discreetly under corruption and acceptance of gifts. the cover of anonymity. Our policy emphasises zero tolerance for bullying and all forms of • Our E&S risk policy also prohibits the Bank discrimination. from working with companies with corrupt practices, as stipulated in our exclusion list. • We conduct annual internal and external audit reviews to monitor the effectiveness of our E&S governance structures and assess our compliance with sustainable banking principles. We also use our whistle blowing channels which allow staff to Implementation report issues discreetly • We carry out extensive KYC (Know Your under the cover of anonymity. Customer) checks on clients before beginning banking relationships. Our relationship management procedure also ensures an ongoing KYC process to ensure our customers are not contravening the law. • In line with our commitment to instil the best corporate governance practices, we have an anonymous whistle-blowing channel that is independently managed by Deloitte and Touché. There is a toll-free hotline, a dedicated e-mail Communication on Progress | November 2019 16 Anti-Corruption Measurement of Outcomes Union Bank’s financial statements follow strict standards and are assured by external auditors. This serves as an avenue to flag any false transaction which could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour. We have a Board Audit Committee and a Statutory Audit Committee that ensure full oversight on the bank’s accounting and financial reporting functions, its internal controls and audit processes, the independence of external auditors, review of audited financial statements and overall compliance with necessary legal and regulatory requirements. Over 90% of our employees are trained on our anti-corruption 90% Employees policies and procedures. 17 Communication on Progress | November 2019 ©2019 Union Bank of Nigeria Plc. www.unionbankng.com customerservice@unionbankng.com Towards a simpler, smarter world.
