GEFCO Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Contents As an organisation, GEFCO’s choices and actions have a profound effect on our partners, our employees, and SUMMARY SECTION on the environment. We can help shape territories, 1. Introductory Message from Luc Nadal, CEO 4 2. About GEFCO 6 strengthen local economies, and make a positive 3. Major Trends in our Industry 10 difference throughout the world.” 4. GEFCO’s Approach to CSR 12 Luc Nadal 5. Infinite Proximity TM 14 CEO 6. Partners, unlimitedTM and CSR 16 THE MAIN REPORT 7. Materiality and Risk Analysis 18 8. Innovation22 i. Digitalisation26 ii. Clean and Connected Transport 27 iii. Flow Optimisation 28 iv. Multimodal Offer  28 9. People30 i. Health and Safety and Working Conditions 32 ii. Attractiveness, Loyalty, and Employee Engagement 34 iii. Respect for Human Rights and Duty of Care 38 10. Environment  42 i. Responsible Management of the Environment 44 ii. Fight against Climate Change at Transport Level 48 iii. Environmental Performance and Pollution Control at Transport Level 48 iv. Environmental Performance and Pollution Control at the Level of the Subcontracted Fleet 49 11. Governance50 i. Stakeholder Dialogue 52 ii. Business Ethics and Transparency 54 iii. Security of Computer Data 56 iv. Prevention of Social, Societal and Environmental Risks 57 12. Methodology58 13. Concordance table 62 14. Social, Societal and Environmental Indicators 66 15. Report of the Independent Third-Party Body 74 GEFCO.net 1 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 01Summary section 2 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 3 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group I am delighted and very proud to welcome you to our 2018 Report at the conclusion of a year that saw GEFCO deepen its CSR sophistication and policies, and at the same time accelerate its actions.” 1. Introductory Message Luc Nadal, CEO As a global supply chain expert responsible for the transport of 30 million tonnes of cargo Our independent external adjudicators were also consistent Some of the more significant changes we undertook with their ever more demanding appraisals, with the company and over 5 million cars every year, we take CSR and sustainability very seriously. attaining Gold level from EcoVadis, and a grade of B from CDP this year will take time to reach fruition... particularly in the field of innovation for which 2018 was a truly climate change. As we continue to develop our plans in the transformative period. Our position as a supply chain partner gives GEFCO significant Firstly, GEFCO achieved a 2% avoidance of carbon emissions coming years we expect to see these scores soon rise further. reach across industrial sectors, across continents, and across relating to transport thanks to specific actions undertaken in Finally I would like to reaffirm GEFCO’s commitment to the our customers’ value chains. The consequence of this is that as 2018. This is the second consecutive year that we have set Some of the more significant changes we undertook this year will United Nations Global Compact principles, to which we were an organisation, our choices and actions have a profound effect this challenging target and we are delighted to have reached take time to reach fruition as we put in place robust structures for first a signatory ten years ago, and which we continue to on our partners, our employees, and on the environment. it again. long-term improvement, particularly in the field of innovation for uphold today. We can help shape territories, strengthen local economies, which 2018 was a truly transformative period, and included the launch of GEFCO’s Innovation Factory – a new project specifically To all of our employees, customers and partners, I say thank and make a positive difference throughout the world. To broadly summarise our achievements, the company created for the cultivation of new ideas and initiatives. you for your continued commitment to our values, and for all succeeded in improving on the majority of its sustainable I am delighted and very proud to welcome you to our 2018 the hard work that has made these changes possible. reporting metrics compared to last year. Manufacturing supply chains have undergone enormous Report at the conclusion of a year that saw GEFCO deepen its CSR sophistication and policies, and at the same time I was very pleased with our second global employee survey change over the past decade in response to newly available accelerate its actions. which saw a 10-point uplift in engagement against 2016, technologies, and indeed all of the world’s technology receiving an impressive 82% participation rate and providing megatrends have implications in our industry: from big data, To broadly summarise our achievements, the company blockchain and the sharing economy, to climate change and insights that will help us continually improve our workplace. On succeeded in improving on the majority of its sustainable the shifting energy mix. Innovation has become an explicit the theme of employee engagement, we also saw the launch reporting metrics compared to last year. I hope you enjoy goal of the company, with machinery now in place to foster of GEFCO University, our ambitious internal learning and Luc Nadal exploring these in greater depth. A few highlights were of its growth at every level of the organisation. I am very excited development platform. CEO particular note, and worth drawing out here. to watch the growth of new, efficient and environmentally friendly ways for us to meet our customers’ needs. 4 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 5 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Founded in 2. About GEFCO 1949 GEFCO is the European leader in automotive logistics and one of the top 10 global players in multimodal supply chain solutions. Building on 70 years of expertise and our 13,000 employees, GEFCO designs innovative and flexible solutions to meet the most complex #1 supply chain challenges in all industry sectors. GEFCO’s goal is not solely to reduce its customers’ supply chain costs through network effects in European Finished and flow optimisation our primary objective is to help them become more efficient and more Vehicle Logistics resilient. The company’s ultimate role is to ensure its customers’ production and supply chains run smoothly under any and all circumstances. GEFCO is able to deliver on unexpected client requirements globally, through time-critical solutions leveraging the Group’s global, multimodal and integrated network. 5m+ vehicles delivered per year Global leader in industrial logistics €4.6bn turnover for 2018 GEFCO Footprint GEFCO Partners GEFCO Facilities Deep relationships Automotive Leader companies, dealers and importers, fleet GEFCO’s history as a PSA subsidiary 13,000 With 70 years of experience, GEFCO managers and auctioneers. positions us closer to our customers than is the world expert in all aspects of Applying expertise to other any other logistics provider. This deep automotive logistics. GEFCO Group business sectors understanding and cooperation allows is Europe’s leading mover of finished Direct presence in Covering 47 106 Logistics within the automotive sector is us to find solutions and processes that employees vehicles, with over 5 million vehicles amongst the most complex in the world create both savings and efficiencies, delivered around the world each year, with huge numbers of parts moving long turning a supply chain into a value chain. serving all major car manufacturing distances, and tight assembly schedules The benefit of these deep partnerships brands. This leading position has been with no room for error. Levering this is evidenced by the lengths of our cemented by our dedicated global expertise in managing such complex relationships with the average age of our countries, and countries, and network, ownership of Europe’s largest 93 5 314 supply chains, the company has global accounts being over ten years. specialised railcar fleet, and our full successfully expanded its competencies range of integrated services. In addition into other complex sectors such as to the above manufacturers GEFCO heavy industry, pharmaceuticals, works with a wide range of associated nationalities customers within the automotive sector engineering and technology. continents locations including: tier one suppliers, motorcycle 6 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 7 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Global, multimodal transport Governance and Structure GEFCO’s strategy to capture growth GEFCO’s transportation offering is centred around four core The Group’s growth strategy is focused on five pillars, which reflect a continuation of the approach that has proven successful freight solutions: Road, Rail, Air and Sea. Being multimodal, and GEFCO has two main shareholders: Russian Railways (75%) for driving the Group’s above market growth over recent years. adept at integration, GEFCO can find solutions to suit whatever and the PSA Group (25%). The company has a Supervisory time, cost, payload, or emissions requirements our customers Board composed of 13 members representing these two Become the global Expand auto inbound Further develop Grow nonContinue developing desire. shareholders, and 1 employee representative. leader in FVL and adjacent logistics second-hand vehicle auto verticals by new geographies and segments logistics and services leveraging existing trade lanes GEFCO’s network spans 300 destinations worldwide Below the Supervisory Board, GEFCO is governed by a The Group is Europe’s expertise supported by 113 automotive compounds, 185 air and sea Management Board (5 members) and an Executive Committee largest provider of The Group will Today, the Group’s The Group has offices and 57 rail terminals, operated either directly (47 (14 members) responsible for implementing Group strategy finished vehicle continue to leverage business is focused Since 2012 the Group historically expanded countries) or through relationships with local partners (59 and overseeing the quality and added value of our projects for logistics services and its leadership position primarily on logistics has leveraged the mostly through organic additional countries). customers, shareholders and employees. aims to expand this in FVL to expand flows for new vehicles, know-how developed means by following leadership position market share in ranging from finished while serving the its customers in the Asset-light Support functions such as finance, HR, IT, real estate, and by capitalising on the adjacent automotive vehicle delivery demanding and expansion of their The company is deliberately asset-light, choosing to own and compliance are managed at group level whilst the respective strength and breadth logistics segments, to dealerships, to complex automotive supply chains. New invest in strategically important assets (such as car compounds, international subsidiaries are responsible for operational of its capabilities, including inbound, inbound logistics industry, to expand countries and lanes railcars and IT) only when they convey a competitive advantage functions and commercial interface including project as well as through spare parts, reusable for components. into industries with have been opened and/or increase our flexibility. With this asset-light model, GEFCO development, supplies, and site management. effective utilisation packaging, etc. In this market, similarly complex when specific client has a small fixed-cost and a large variable-cost component of highly specialised revenue is generated supply chain and demands were making it more resilient over business cycles. Instead of owning The company’s operations are split into four operating The Group will assets such as predominantly from logistics requirements. expressed. The group all of its transportation assets, the company relies on flexible segments: continue to utilise compounds and transportation services, will continue expanding third-party carriers. On a daily basis, we have access to between existing relationships The Group utilises ■■ GEFCO Finished Vehicles Logistics (FVL) railcars. with the remainder internationally through up to 14,000 trucks despite only currently owning 850, and 314 to drive cross-selling expertise built in coming from valueboth, existing and facilities of which only 14% are owned. ■■ GEFCO Overland & Contract Logistics (OVL) The Group is unique in of outbound, inbound automotive supply added services. prospect customers, its ability to offer 3PL and value-added chains as well as the ■■ GEFCO Air & Sea especially in fastand 4PL capabilities, services, thereby In order to capture strong backbone growing countries ■■ GEFCO Industrial Services integrating both becoming more deeply a larger share of the provided by its network inbound and outbound embedded in the overall FVL market, to develop its nonsupply chains globally, customer value chain. the Group is taking automotive offerings Value Creation while also offering steps to broaden value added services. its services and FINANCIAL CAPITAL FINANCIAL CAPITAL Through leveraging capabilities beyond ■■ €291.7m Equity ■■ Recurring EBIT: €160m +15% Direct operations its assets, expertise the new vehicle ■■ GLT acquisition and deep customer market. Specifically, in 47 countries relationships with the Group is seeking some of the world’s to position itself as OPERATIONS CAPITAL OPERATIONS CAPITAL largest OEMs, as the key provider of ■■ €79m Capital Investment ■■ 2018: €4.6bn Sales well as expanding its services for the “Car as ■■ Top 10 Global customers: service offering and a Customer” market, €500m sales geographic presence, which includes (i) all ■■ PSA Provider of the year ■■ Launch of the Innovation Factory the Group endeavours secondary (used car) to become the global market transactions as HUMAN CAPITAL HUMAN CAPITAL leader in FVL while well as (ii) all services ■■ 13,000 Employees ■■ 2458 new hires, all permanent outperforming the provided to a car 3,000 Temps CUSTOMER ACT AS Happy trainees WorldWide ■■ TRUST ONE ■■ European market. during its life from the ■■ €533m Payroll label awarded ■■ 14% engineers and managers ■■ 82% of accidents and nearfirst owner to scrap. ■■ 15% of employees trained to missed analyzed Health & Safety ■■ PULSE 82% participation; +10% in engagement rate vs.2016 ■■ Launch of GEFCO University GROW AGILE AND TOGETHER INNOVATIVE ENVIRONMENT CAPITAL ENVIRONMENT CAPITAL ■■ 180m litres water consumption ■■ T 2 M CO2 (all scopes): 2% Consolidation platform for selective M&A Harness innovation as an accelerator ■■ 47m kwh electricity avoided every year The Group sees a clear opportunity to develop inorganically The Group understands that innovation will play a key role consumption ACCOUNTABLE ■■ CDP climate change ranking B thanks to its strong balance sheet, providing the financial in the success of logistics companies given the increasingly ■■ CDP Water ranking C COMMITTED capacity for such acquisitions. The Group has a two-pronged, rapid changes in customers’ supply chains and increasing (1st assessment) TO CO-CREATE ■■ Photovoltaic manufacture in selected approach to inorganic growth, the first being a specific demand for adaptability for logistics providers. To seize VALUE Switzerland: 5m kwh produced focus on FVL, where the Group will look at companies which new opportunities, GEFCO is partnering with Techstars, an ■■ 69% waste recovery make strategic sense and create value, the second being, on international accelerator to leverage new technologies with a more opportunistic basis, for other segments where the bright start-ups. In addition, the Group has set up a dedicated SOCIETAL CAPITAL SOCIETAL CAPITAL ■■ InLand: 2550 regular carriers ■■ 100% Managers trained in target brings either a new geography or a new technology or internal organisation focused on innovation with, an in-house with €1200m spent Partners, unlimited to build trust and design TM compliance and anti trust capability to the Group. incubator called GEFCO Innovation Factory. long lasting cooperations, managing end ■■ EcoVadis Gold level achieved 1478 carriers have signed the to end logistics and supply chain. ■■ charter (76% of regular flow spend) ■■ 55 Employees volunteering in Institut de l’Engagement, in France 8 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 9 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 3. Major Trends in our Industry Happily, the direction of change in both As a global supply chain partner with particular expertise in automotive logistics, GEFCO the logistics and automotive sectors is towards is at the confluence of two industries undergoing very significant changes. These changes a more environmentally sustainable future. are being driven from all sides, with push from regulators and governments alongside pull from customers and consumers. GEFCO is taking a proactive stance to anticipating these changes, turning potential risks into opportunities. Happily, the direction of change in both the logistics and automotive sectors is towards a more Consumer trends – Shared mobility, Autonomous vehicles Climate change and air quality regulation environmentally sustainable future. GEFCO sees its future at the heart of this new paradigm, Shared Mobility is already emerging as an offering and is With more than 20% of global CO2 emissions coming from a trend that we expect to continue. Lower rates of vehicle transport, strong regulation has helped to drive the industry and is adopting a strategic stance, alongside its partners and customers, to forge a successful ownership combined with higher rates of individual car usage towards better standards. On European roads, manufacturers new path. will have beneficial effects on the decarbonisation of the are expected to ensure that zero and low-emission vehicles transport sector. make up 20% of sales by 2030, with the first electrified Logistics – Digitalisation, AI, Multimodal Automotive technology – Hybrid vehicles, Electric trucks already entering the market. In the air, the CORSIA Looking further into the future, autonomous vehicles could Digitalisation has already made huge strides in the logistics vehicles, Connected vehicles (Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International change the way that customers take delivery of cars, with as industry, with routing, loading, and tracking systems making One of the biggest macro trends within the automotive sector Aviation) initiative for aviation will require industry growth to yet unknown logistical challenges and solutions. enormous savings in cost and carbon compared to a decade is towards new powertrains, as a result of consumer desires as be carbon neutral between 2027 and 2050. And at sea, the ago. More gains are approaching, some requiring further R&D well as regulatory demands. Every major manufacturer now This new era of personal vehicle usage will require significant IMO (International Maritime Organisation) has put in place or regulatory approval, and some entering the market already. offers electric vehicles, and many have announced plans to adjustments to the related servicing and upkeep of vehicles. regulation to achieve significant reductions in Sulphur emission phase out purely internal combustion engines. GEFCO is extremely well placed to support these major shifts in from the beginning of 2020. New technologies such as autonomous trucks and platooning the industry, and is already piloting schemes to ensure it plays systems (multiple trucks driven in close convoy) are in rapid Both hybrids and electric vehicles alter supply chains, Customers and climate a major role in this new paradigm. development and should yield significant emissions savings. with hybrid engines needing many additional components, Like GEFCO, our customers are themselves responding to the Other trends are closer to implementation such as the advent and electric engines requiring new components such as challenges of operating responsibility and the desires of their of “Supply Chain 4.0” where products are shipped before batteries which are often sourced from further away. The consumers. Alongside increases in the number of requests for an order is placed according to predictive algorithms, then ever-increasing connectivity of vehicles is also increasing GEFCO’s CSR credentials (EcoVadis, CDP (Carbon Disclosure rerouted in transit to the correct customer reducing delivery the complexity and diversity of suppliers. The sum effect Project)), we have also seen increased requests for GEFCO time to a few hours. is a logistical upheaval for the traditional major OEMs, who to assist in the lowering of our customers emissions by the are looking for efficient means to match their manufacturing streamlining of their supply chains. The Science Based Targets GEFCO integrates these tools into its offering as they mature. schedules. initiative (a partnership between CDP, UN Global Compact, WRI Our customers want and expect them: big data applied to (World Resources Institute) and WWF to advise companies on optimise flows, Internet of Things technology to trace their their emissions) has also gained significant traction in recent shipments, 3D printing for specific parts, and drones for years with 84 of our customers (representing 37% of GEFCO’s automatic warehouse stock checks. transport emissions) engaged with the project. 10 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 11 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Stephane Milhet Susan Marro Emmanuel Cheremetinksi Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, People & Change Communications FVL, Overland & Contract Logistics, Industrial Services 4. GEFCO Approach to CSR GEFCO has been working hard on developing its approach to sustainability for the past seven years. The last two years have seen a significant acceleration in that regard with concomitant engagement of the Executive Committee. In addition to our internal enthusiasm, we have seen increased interest from customers to better understand and improve their emissions and responsible operations. The company’s journey began in 2009 with the first signing External examination and recognition of GEFCO’s efforts of the United Nations Global Compact. CSR reporting began continued with CDP assessing GEFCO’s maturity on carbon in earnest in 2012, with our first stand-alone CSR report emissions management as level B, the second-highest of published in 2015. A CSR core team was established in four grades. In the separate EcoVadis maturity assessment, 2017 with the direct oversight of three Executive Committee focusing on labour and human rights, ethics, environment, and members: Stephane Milhet (Executive Vice-President, sustainable procurement, GEFCO achieved a Gold level, driven People & Change), Susan Marro (Executive Vice-President, by the improving scores in Environment and Sustainable Communications), and Emmanuel Cheremetinksi (Executive Procurement. Vice-President, FVL, Overland & Contract Logistics, Industrial Finally 2018 saw GEFCO undertake a feasibility study into Services). the possibility of a completely carbon neutral strategy, which The CSR core team brought together these board members, despite being some distance in the future, is a potentially under-board managers, and project managers from both momentous commitment for a logistics company. operational and support functions, with the goal of studying In summary this has been a transformative year for CSR at CSR opportunities and creating and presenting potential GEFCO. Building on the foundations laid last year, we are actions to the Executive Committee. This group is also directly continuing to accelerate our company’s competence and responsible for putting forward the company’s carbon strategy maturity in the area, we are bringing CSR matters into the in order to achieve the company’s transportation targets and central functions of the business, and we are pursuing our goal Building on the foundations laid last year, we are criteria for site emissions. of a leadership position in sustainability and responsibility. continuing to accelerate our company’s competence Once CSR policy is decided at the Executive Committee, the GEFCO Management System department is responsible and maturity in the area, we are bringing CSR matters for creating policy and guidelines for the business lines and into the central functions of the business, and we monitoring their implementation. This year saw the company’s first materiality and risk analysis are pursuing our goal of a leadership position in performed to analyse and prioritise the many risks facing sustainability and responsibility. GEFCO as well as its wider group of stakeholders social, societal, environmental, governance and innovation related. This comprehensive approach has been the foundation for a more structured approach to CSR. 12 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 13 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Infinite ProximityTM We pursue Infinite ProximityTM for growth and 5. Infinite ProximityTM long-term profitability. We achieve it by being a strong partner, with a Infinite ProximityTM is the core of GEFCO’s DNA as an organisation – the flexible and knowledgeable pool of people, a global shared values and unique mindset that make up our company culture. The network, with the ability to innovate and integrate concept was the outcome of an 18-month review of our company, which on demand. highlighted the importance GEFCO employees, partners and customers place on our close, caring and cooperative working relations. This allows us to increase trust, and design long Infinite ProximityTM is intrinsically linked with CSR – acting responsibly and lasting cooperations. sustainably is fundamentally aligned with who we are and how we operate. Infinite ProximityTM in practice… is encouraged to use the principles, and our To promote and reinforce this mindset, GEFCO’s managers are trained to empower teams towards 10 principles of Infinite ProximityTM guide our ever higher standards of service, as well as quality everyday decisions and actions — these range from of life through Infinite ProximityTM. innovating and exploring to increasing trust and committing to our global network. Every employee The ten principles INNOVATE INTEGRATE INCREASE DESIGN LASTING EXPLORE INFINITE GROWTH & STRONG FLEXIBLE & COMMITMENT ON DEMAND TRUST COOPERATIONS PROXIMITY™ LONG-TERM PARTNER KNOWLEDGEABLE TO A GLOBAL We believe that any We go out PROFITABILITY POOL OF PEOPLE NETWORK idea must be given We have a deep We care for our We are always one We multiply We develop a chance knowledge of ecosystem step ahead We invest time touchpoints (people We prioritize partners our partners We share knowledge With our diversity, we GEFCO’s capabilities & digital channels) sharing a win-win and to nurture excellence perform as a network We are equipped with We constantly The quickest way We experience long term approach We rely on innovative technologies We assemble our measure and improve is not the only way We create situations them to grow We enable professional We act as one enabling instantaneous resources to find the & experiences to We create long term development along with GEFCO team for global spreading solution for each client We nurture a true We maximize progress together value for us and our personal fulfillment each of our clients dialogue GEFCO’s presence OPEN OUR SPACE partners We implement NURTURE OUR We promote jointWe respect our creative frameworks ECOSYSTEM agility and co-building common culture to stimulate innovation PROVIDE THE BUILD CLOSE GEFCO SMART EARN TRUST CHALLENGE CONNECTIONS CO-CREATE VALUE SOLUTION EVERYDAY THE EASY WAY GROW TOGETHER ACT AS ONE BECOME NETWORK INNOVATION ENABLERS 14 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 15 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Our open-mindedness, combined with our ability to listen and learn from our partners, means we always go the extra mile. Our updated branding reflects this, with a new logo and signature. The new yellow box with our brand name represents a window onto the world, while our new signature, Partners, unlimited TM, expresses our ambition and reaffirms our commitment to our customers and partners.” Luc Nadal CEO 6. Partners, unlimitedTM and CSR Partners conveys the cooperative mindset in which GEFCO builds these relationships with all of its ecosystem based on proximity and shared growth. unlimited expresses the company’s aim of continually pushing back the boundaries in terms of expertise, geographical scope, sustainable growth, creativity, and innovation. From a CSR context, the Partners, unlimitedTM brand message illustrates GEFCO’s position in the community enables it to have a CSR impact far the role that GEFCO can play for all of beyond its own boundaries. our external partners whether suppliers Partners, unlimited TM. or customers. Not only are we a designer LOCAL CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES In 2018, GEFCO unveiled its and provider of 3PL and 4PL logistics STAKEHOLDERS solutions, but also a major global contractor of transport capacity allowing new corporate message – Partners, unlimitedTM. The the company to have a considerable PROFESSIONAL FEDERATIONS beneficial effect both up and down the supply chain. SERVICE PROVIDERS updated branding was the result Customers Our customers expect flow optimisation SCHOOLS & UNIVERSITIES of a company-wide project to and efficiencies as a core competence CARRIERS research its core culture, and from their logistics provider, and the more that GEFCO can streamline their to better understand what Carriers supply chain, the further their emissions makes the company unique will fall. As an asset-light logistics provider, given access to customised support. The GEFCO’s position as an integrating GEFCO is responsible for the contracting aim is to encourage all service providers to its customers and partners. provider of complex solutions, rather of 600,000 of tonnes of cargo capacity each week, capable of mobilising up to adopt a continuous improvement approach, to learn from each other, In terms of what sets us apart than an owner of transportation assets, means that our customer’s desire for to 14,000 trucks on any one day. copy successes from each other, and as a company, our customers We record and analyse the age, fuel to raise the overall sector’s handling of efficiency and emissions reductions consumption, loading rates, mileage for sustainable development issues. identified our determination to is aligned with our own – GEFCO’s commercial imperative is always to find these subcontracted fleets and build these considerations into our contract build long-lasting relationships, the best solution for our customer. decision-making. Subcontracted carriers earn trust and create value across with the most positive evaluations are the supply chain. 16 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 17 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 18 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 07 Materiality & Risk Analysis 19 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Materiality Matrix IMPORTANT ISSUES STRATEGIC ISSUES G2 G1 4 P1 I2 I3 I1 E3 G4 I4 P2 P3 E1 Impact on external stakeholders E2 G3 3 E4 2 GEFCO risks and materiality matrix 1 2 3 4 Risks for GEFCO In continuing to accelerate its sophistication and understanding, GEFCO this year undertook a major piece of long-term risk analysis looking at CSR issues not only from our own perspective, but from the perspective of our external stakeholders. The resulting INNOVATION PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE insight forms a basis for approaching and prioritising risks, and for better structuring the I1 Digitalisation P1 Health, safety and working E1 Responsible management of G1 Stakeholder dialogue I2 Clean and connected conditions the environment G2 Business ethics and company’s approach to CSR challenges. transport P2 Attractiveness, loyalty and E2 Fight against climate change transparency I3 Flow optimisation employee engagement at transport level G3 Security of computer data A comprehensive list of risks was assembled and assessed in With a holistic and quantified view of risk and materiality, I4 Multimodal offer P3 Respect for human rights E3 Environmental performance G4 Prevention of social, societal combination with significant internal and external dialogue. GEFCO is able to ensure sufficiently robust policies are in and duty of care and pollution control at and environmental risks The matrix to the right shows those risks indicated as most place to address each challenge and keep track of progress in transport level E4 Environmental performance relevant to GEFCO and its partners. A fuller description of the a meaningful way. and pollution control methodology as well as a full list of the stakeholders consulted at the level of the can be found at the end of this report. subcontracted fleet 20 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 21 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 08 Innovation 22 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 23 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Innovation at our core Ideas and invention inspire new journeys. Working with our partners, we are inventing solutions to create GEFCO operates in a rapidly changing environment, with new technologies long-term value for customers. Innovation is driving transforming both production processes and consumer trends. Turning these challenges the future of our business. into opportunities demands an innovative approach, and we have worked extremely hard to place innovation at the core of our company, fostering it at every level of the organisation. GEFCO’s Innovation stance has both internal and external After carrying out a proof of concept, participants are offered Innovation fields & Growth opportunities for GEFCO components and is overseen by the Innovation Committee paid leave from their regular job to fully focus on developing which includes members of the Executive Committee and other their ideas, and where applicable can join the Techstars GEFCO experts. programme to accelerate their work. I 2 3 Innovation Watch & BI Techstars IMMEDIATE CHALLENGES The Innovation Watch and Business Intelligence unit monitors In March 2018, GEFCO launched its partnership with Techstars, trend signals from both our customers’ industries and markets. a global accelerator program with an excellent track record of GEFCO’s area-specific expert teams identify innovative ideas supporting innovative and ambitious start-ups. Through this looking for potential overlap with our operational requirements. partnership GEFCO will be able to: GEFCO Asset and flow Production They then develop and test business cases and make ■■ collaborate with the most promising start-ups, driving major digitalisation optimisation centres recommendations for GEFCO’s future strategy. industry transformations, and working on concrete user The Innovation Factory cases and disruptive business models The Innovation Factory is responsible for nurturing innovation ■■ amplify our own innovation program and Group culture, throughout the company, exploring and supporting ideas. by incorporating startup methodologies to our workflows 4 5 6 7 Employees can submit their projects and pitch their innovative ideas at any time. ■■ access a network of talented entrepreneurs, industry and LONG-TERM innovation experts BETS These can apply to any area of GEFCO’s business and should follow three principles: GEFCO is aiming to incorporate at least two projects per year from the Techstars program. We will be integrating the best ■■ be aligned with GEFCO’s innovation axes Car as a New data Goods Logistic network teams, giving them access to and support from our global ■■ meet a customer need network, and supplying real-world use cases and challenges customer services and people inter-connecting from our customers. We are particularly focusing on: analytics mobility in in mega-cities ■■ be scalable across the company mega-cities for route optimisation; blockchain applications for paperless The Innovation Committee evaluates the best concepts based electronic services; and the Internet of Things and connected on these criteria. The selected teams are then invited to the sensors for tracking and operational efficiencies – all long-term Innovation Factory, where they benefit from internal expertise, growth areas for GEFCO. as well as the resources to successfully develop their project. 24 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 25 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group I1 Digitalisation Offering the most efficient and therefore competitive current services to our customers is impossible without the latest software and tracking solutions. As such, digitalisation is a core competence for the company. There are also considerable indirect risks to GEFCO in the medium and long term if the business were not taking such a proactive approach to digitalisation. By remaining at the forefront of digital innovation and readiness we greatly increase our attractiveness to potential and current employees, and our competence in the eyes of customers. Policy with external innovation hubs such as Techstars to ensure it GEFCO’s approach to innovation is holistic, indeed it is the first remains ahead of the competition. of our Infinite ProximityTM principles, and a culture of innovation Actions & 2018 Highlights is spread throughout the organisation with the Innovation As with other aspects of GEFCO’s Innovation strategy, the Factory at its core. company’s deliberate approach to digital innovation means I2 Clean and Connected Transport As regards the challenges of digitalisation, the company is that reporting on actions and results is not straightforward. adopting the latest and best off-the-shelf technologies where Successful projects might relate to future technologies not they cannot be improved, whilst designing its own solutions yet ready for deployment. Consequently we have given some where more appropriate. In recognition of the need to remain at examples of current initiatives in various stages. the cutting edge of digital capability, GEFCO is also partnering Incremental efficiency and emission gains have been a function of engineering successes throughout the history of logistics. The industry is currently on the cusp of some defining advances with major disruptive ideas such as electrification and platooning reaching fruition. Vehicle compound automation Award Winners Car compounds face a binary choice Customers are increasingly conscious of their emissions and whilst they are not yet demanding regarding the storage of vehicles in a parking lot – either spaced parking or carbon-neutral solutions, they have already asked GEFCO to be ready to provide them in the boxed parking. The former allows for future. Failure to work pro-actively on these challenges would be an enormous risk to the future easier access to vehicles, the latter allows My Car Is There competitiveness of the company. for better use of space with the cars My Car is There is a new consumer packed tightly together. service launched by GEFCO in 2018 Policy Dual trailers GEFCO is developing a hybrid concept, which won the Innovation Leader award at Automotive Logistics As mentioned above, GEFCO’s policy regarding Innovation is In Spain and the Czech Republic, GEFCO has begun services by using robots to rearrange the holistic, imbued throughout the company, and centred around using double-trailer trucks with lengths of between 25 and 30 Europe in June. To meet the needs box-parked cars overnight according of consumers increasingly used to the Innovation Factory. metres. These configurations increase loading capacity, and to the requirements of the next day’s ultra-personalised services, My Car productivity, and reduce CO2 emissions. shipments. The partnership with Stanley Is There allows end-customers to Actions & Results Robotics is currently in development, manage and track the door-to-door As stated before, the nature of GEFCO’s Innovation process Connected Trucks with testing ongoing at the company’s delivery of their vehicles through a means that presenting an exhaustive list of actions is In combination with Techstars, GEFCO has been developing mobile app. The technology has both impractical, with a stream of ideas at various stages of its Connected Truck programme throughout 2018 with trials Le Havre site. B2C and B2B applications, and could development at any one time. Similarly the results achieved by beginning in the Netherlands in November. The live routing 3D printing play a significant role in the used car the Innovation Factory will not always be easy to quantify, as software optimises complicated runsheets depending on 3D printing is likely to have a huge effect market as well as within FVL. the process of exploring and developing innovative products conditions and communicates in real time with the driver. on supply chains, and this has already necessarily involves trial and error. To the right are some The project increases visibility of assets and accuracy of begun. For tools that can be 3D printed, examples from GEFCO’s Innovation Factory this year, at arrival times, paving the way for responsive planning. The live implementation time and cost are different stages of development: adjustments also reduce kilometres driven and CO2 emissions. generally reduced by around 90%. Internet of Things Warehouse Tracking GEFCO received a 2018 World Platooning study The technology is also extremely Innovation award for its work on real Whilst platooning (2-3 semi-automated trucks travelling in beneficial for the environment, reducing time global tracking of boxes and convoy) should offer significant emissions savings, it faces a waste by limiting production to the exact pallets. The pilot study using Internet of number of technological and regulatory hurdles before it can quantities necessary, and cutting carbon Things technology allowed boxes to be be adopted. Nonetheless the GEFCO Innovation Factory is emissions because transport is only tracked globally whilst also indicating their precise position at a specific working in partnership with truck manufacturers to begin trials usually required for the final kilometre. in 2019. warehouse site. The technology is in the process of commercialisation for In total, the Innovation Factory has nine proof of concepts roll-out in 2019 already underway. 26 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 27 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group The development of new transport routes is an important component of optimisation as centres of global production I3 Flow optimisation & and consumption evolve. I4 Multimodal Offer Flow Optimisation and Multimodal offerings are core business competences for GEFCO with direct commercial implications for competitiveness. Our customers increasingly expect optimisation and multimodal thinking as a matter of course to cut shipping times and delays, and reduce CO2 emissions. In addition to the optimisation of existing routes, the process includes the examination and creation of possible new lines and geographies. The consequence of not constantly improving these services would be obvious and immediate – GEFCO would quickly lose competitiveness. Given the close proximity of the two identified risks, they are addressed together in this section. Policy Flow optimisation and multimodal offerings are central to 2018 Highlights GEFCO’s business and all aspects of the company’s operations are fundamentally involved. The potential inputs vary from Two projects were finalists in the 2018 technical improvements at the Innovation Factory to corporate Automotive Logistics awards: GEFCO’s acquisitions in order to open up new routes and capabilities. aforementioned Big Data and AI programme Actions for Overland route analysis; and a new Flow optimisation and multimodal are ongoing processes at generation of optimised rail-wagons with GEFCO and are the focus of work within multiple divisions. As such, the efforts undertaken in the year were substantial and flexible configurations to better cater to the varied. expanding SUV market. Big Data and AI are also heavily utilised by GEFCO’s engineers working in tandem with Microsoft to analyse 525 million Multimodal switches saved significant groupage lines over a period of 18 months. The process carbon emissions such as the transition identifies growing trade lanes in Europe and revealed the need of an automotive route from Italy to the UK for a direct corridor between Spain and Poland without transit through France. which moved from an overland model, to a combination of rail, road, and sea. The new Outside of software, GEFCO’s network of depots has been reviewed in order to designate hubs. Our aim is to create route reduced carbon emissions by almost corridors between the hubs making it possible to more 75%. efficiently group goods thus maximise fill rates. The development of new transport routes is an important In Slovakia and Slovenia, rail routes replacing component of optimisation as centres of global production and road routes have reduced carbon emissions consumption evolve. GEFCO’s newly established Rail Corporate by between 2.5 and 3 times. Team has been tasked with creating two new rail routes between Europe and Asia mirroring the development of China’s One Belt, One Road initiative. Rail is an important component in multimodal offerings, being ten times cheaper than air transport. Rail also generates only 20% of the emissions of equivalent sea transport and its planning lead times are half as long. 28 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 29 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 09 People 30 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 31 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Policy P1 Health, Safety Over the last ten years, GEFCO has worked hard on its safety 2018 Highlights culture. The Health & Safety policy was re-signed in 2017 by In the year to December 2018, GEFCO and Working all of the members of the Executive Committee, with the aim of achieving a zero occupational accident or illness rate. achieved a frequency rate of 6.55 vs target of 5.0, a Severity Rate of 0.27 vs target of Conditions Actions To achieve our ambitious safety targets, GEFCO focuses 0.3, and an accident analysis rate of 82 % vs on employee training, risk assessment and management target of 80%. The main source of the rise in involvement. Safety measures and messages are involved in The logistics industry has many inherent daily, weekly and monthly meetings, and more than 60% of frequency rates in 2018 came from Argentina risks in the workplace due to the nature of sites undertook new safety measures in 2018 with 80% of and was a result of local and economic these being successfully delivered. our operations. GEFCO’s employees are the conditions. Dedicated action plans were backbone of our offering, and their safety and In addition, GEFCO’s SMST (Occupational Safety Management set up during the year to actively manage the System) is deployed in 32 major subsidiaries and focuses wellbeing are of primary importance to us. management on three key principles: setting an example, situation. In addition to the specific risks of our industry constant vigilance, and responsiveness. The company is currently working on an upgrade of Health & Safety Through SMST, 127 H&S actions (safety such as road accidents, night shifts and Management System following ISO 45001 requirements. commitments) were decided within the Group: musculo-skeletal disorders, GEFCO is attentive As expanded upon in the Governance section of this report, 82% were completed or in progress (compare to a full range of other risks that it shares GEFCO has made risk assessment mandatory within the to 90% of 120 actions in 2017). with all organisations including stress and company. Occupational risk assessments must be conducted harassment. annually at each work site and for all activities, whether functional or operational. These risk assessments are based on Absenteeism average of 2% for 2018 a process and risk reference document established at Group (vs 2.5% end of 2017) level. In GEFCO France, occupational risk assessments are Zone 2017 2018 carried out with a dedicated IT tool (Winlassie) to meet French legal requirements. This tool is also deployed in Belgium, FRANCE 4.3% 2.9% Portugal and Switzerland. CORPORATE 2.8% 2.1% In addition to ensuring the safety of its employees, the AMLAT 1.2% 2.1% company also aims to safeguard the health of its employees. CEBAME 2.1% 2.1% Awareness-raising campaigns are run regularly to encourage EUROMED 1.8% 1.5% healthy lifestyles and provide information on the prevention of certain illnesses and to fight against addiction. 1520 1% 1.4% ASOR 0.6% 0.8% Severity rate: 2018 = 0.27 vs 2017 = 0.3 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0.47 0.38 0.25 0.34 0.49 0.37 0.31 0.36 0.30 0.43 0.30 0.27 Frequency rate: 2018 = 6.55 vs 2017 = 5.02 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 9.88 7.38 6.94 7.04 8.1 5.38 6.34 5.32 5.28 5.43 5.02 6.55 % of entities having implemented actions to preserve employees’ health Mandatory health checks for all required employees 82% Vaccination campaigns 23% Awareness campaigns to improve employees’ health 51% Other actions to improve employees’ health 40% 32 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 33 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Policy & Actions Employee engagement Listening to the feedback and needs of our employees is a key part of our Infinite ProximityTM culture and we have developed a range of tools for this purpose. Participation in our most recent “Pulse” employee engagement survey reached 82% of our workforce, with 8,417 of our Development & Training employees taking the time to answer. The analysis of the results Twenty years ago logistics could not be described as a showed a 10% increase in employees who are engaged vs. the fashionable industry. The situation has changed completely in previous survey conducted in 2016. In addition, the feedback the last decade as ambitious talents are drawn to the new highincluded considerable appreciation for the existence of such a paced world of logistics, enabled by a wave of digitalisation. periodic survey to collect ideas and opinions on how to make GEFCO’s ambition is to develop and enable our employees’ GEFCO an even better place to work. Based on these results, a lives by offering a personalised training path, and a career that number of action plans will be identified and carried out, at global, promotes their competences, creativity and entrepreneurship. local and team level, with the aim of continuously improving our workplace and reinforcing our Infinite ProximityTM culture. GEFCO University was launched in 2018 and is the centrepiece of our new approach to development. The platform will be Besides the Pulse survey, other formal engagement tools available to all employees worldwide by the end of 2019, include the active company intranet, regularly updated and offers a programme of blended learning with online, displays, and waterfall meetings extending to all geographies. classroom, and community activities. As a company we have We are also aiming to conduct appraisals for each employee also continued our commitment to spend a minimum of 3% of at least once per year: 2% more appraisals were conducted in annual budget on training and development, with more than 2018 than in 2017. 86,000 hours of training dispensed to 38% of our employees. GEFCO is building a culture of innovation which explicitly In addition to formalised training, GEFCO is also developing involves all employees. We are seeking to nurture and explore a comprehensive mentoring programme at all levels of the ideas however big or small, and wherever they originate company and encourages internal promotion, and international through the newly launched Innovation Factory – proper mobility in all of our divisions. engagement is a key foundation of this strategy. Reward and Recognition Talent acquisition GEFCO has an attractive reward and recognition framework Our philosophy about Talent Acquisition relies on 4 pillars: that reflects our performance-based culture underpinned by ■■ transparency: to enhance our employee experience and individual excellence and teamwork. develop internal mobility, we have to give our colleagues We aim to offer every employee a fair package based around access to all our open positions three Cs: P2 Attractiveness, ■■ visibility: to attract better talents, we have to be visible in the ■■ CARING job market on a regular basis Caring for our employees through a fair remuneration loyalty and employee ■■ efficiency: the candidate experience requires from us a very and benefits package in line with their competencies and professional candidate relationship performance engagement ■■ assertiveness: our employer branding is the combination ■■ CONTRIBUTION of all the above, and our ability to convince the market that Rewarding individuals and collective performance GEFCO is a great place to work. ■■ COMPETITIVENESS With the exception of its Finished Vehicle Logistics division, Throughout GEFCO, measures to promote our brand and Attracting and retaining talents through remuneration based attract talents have been implemented, especially through on responsibilities and competitive with local market rates GEFCO is a deliberately asset-light business, allowing it to participation at job fairs, implementation of more attractive Performance Management Program adapt quickly to the shifting logistics landscape, protecting working conditions (retirement plan, health insurance, flexible The Performance Management Program is a review process in against cyclical downturns, and allowing the company to schedule, home office), the Happy Trainees programme, the which GEFCO employees can reflect on their current and future promotion of GEFCO at universities, and via social networks. design our solutions around our customers. career position during a 1 on 1 meeting with their manager. A new intelligence tool for monitoring our recruitment process It addresses our employees’ wishes for career development: was initiated in September this year – VISION collates KPI data to satisfaction with work, adequate compensation, work-life Consequently our human capital is our biggest asset, and ensure that we are fulfilling our recruitment strategy, including: balance, training wishes, career plan, mobility requests. attracting and retaining the best staff is essential for our ■■ time to short-list Evaluation is based on IP principles (courage, engagement, business. We need the best minds, and want to develop trust, customer focused, innovative, driving vision, safe ■■ time to hire them to their full potential. Failure to attract and retain talent workplace...) and evaluates employee strengths and areas ■■ candidate acceptance rate for improvement. would fundamentally undermine our business model and source of hires our future prospects. ■■ ■■ % aged positions 34 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 35 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Inclusion and Diversity Gender equality (excluding internships) Male/Female headcount by socio-professional category 2018 Highlights Diversity is a basic for GEFCO: we promote gender diversity, 3500 Zone Female Male equal opportunities and we fight against discriminatory practices Job turnover: 7.1% Female ETAM 2,807 3,416 in recruitment, training and career development. We believe 3000 Male diversity provides both a rewarding working environment and a The percentage of our employees with Workers 471 4,031 competitive edge. Last year the company signed a binding 2500 Managers 520 1,209 disabilities was 7.6% in 2018 within GEFCO commitment to gender equality, bringing these principles into Total 3,798 8,656 force. France SAS, compared to 7.1% in 2017. Within 2000 GEFCO France Société par Actions Simplifiée (GEFCO France SAS) GEFCO SA, this percentage raised from 4.2% 1500 Male/Female recruitments by socio-professional category and GEFCO Société Anonyme (GEFCO SA) signed generation in 2017 to 5.1% in 2018. contracts ensuring the adaptation of roles for seniors, favouring 1000 Zone Female Male daytime schedules and training for operators in the use of office GEFCO University was successfully launched ETAM 469 576 tools. with 43% of the initial cohort connected to the 500 Workers 137 1,022 We proactively recruit and promote people with disabilities, and in platform at the end of 2018. 0 Managers 89 165 France GEFCO has had a specific disabilities strategy since 2008 CEBAME EUROMED FRANCE CORPORATE ASOR F-FWD 1520 LATAM Total 695 1,763 that has recently been extended to 2020 and beyond. Appraisal reviews performed increased by 2% compared to 2017. Resignations* Retirements* Redundancies* Breakdown of resignations by Breakdown of retirements by Breakdown of redundancies by Only permanent contracts geographical scope (%) geographical scope (%) geographical scope (%) Breakdown of recruitment by geographical zone (%) Recruitment by socio-professional category in 2018 (%) 5% 3% 2% 3% 2% 1% 11% 8% 35% 10% 27% 10% 30% 18% 12% 25% Workers 51% 52% 20% ETAM* 13% 19% 25% 25% 47% Managers 15% 43% 13% 10% CEBAME F-FWD CEBAME F-FWD CEBAME EUROMED 5% LATAM 1520 FRANCE CORPORATE LATAM F-FWD 0% FRANCE CORPORATE EUROMED FRANCE CORPORATE CEBAME F-FWD 1520 EURO CORP. FRANCE LATAM MED EUROMED 1520 * (excluding internships) Permanent & fixed-term contracts Distribution age Training hours results Breakdown of recruitments by geographical zone (%) Recruitment by socio-professional category in 2018 Male/Female (excluding internships) By percentage By number of people 30% 9.45% 284 25% Distribution of trainees per domain 20% Generic for Activities and Support Functions 41% 15% 42.51% 1277 Communication, Leadership and Management 10% 48.04% 1443 10% Internationalisation and Languages 2% 5% Health and Safety 15% Expertise for Activities and Support Functions 31% 0% CEBAME F-FWD 1520 EURO CORP. FRANCE LATAM ASTOR Workers Workers MED GEFCO IT systems 1% ETAM ETAM Managers Managers Sales and Customer relations 1% *ETAM: Employés, techniciens, agents de maîtrise – clerical, technical and supervisory staff * (Male: 15, Female: 3) 36 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 37 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group P3 Respect for Human Rights and For suppliers and sub-contractors Our supplier classification takes into account both financial concerning human rights and fundamental freedoms may be included in the audit, according to the risk level identified within Duty of Care and CSR data and scores the companies according to four categories of actions – expand, maintain, improve, reduce. At the subsidiary. Suppliers and subcontractors the end of 2018, around 2500 FVL and OVL carriers had been GEFCO’s policy towards suppliers is threefold: the Sustainable classified, representing almost 100% of suppliers on the panel. With 13,000 employees spread across the world in a range of different socio-political systems Procurement Charter, the sustainable development Of this group, currently 55% are on target, that is in expand or and legal jurisdictions, GEFCO must play close attention to Human Rights and its Duty of Care maintain categories. questionnaire, and regular audits. Our suppliers are defined as either Spot Streams (non-recurring one-off solutions) or obligations, not only for itself and its subsidiaries, but also for its subcontracted carriers and Assessment procedures Regular Flow (reaching a minimum transport flow per month). other suppliers. Internal Currently, only our Regular Flow carriers for road transport are Our subsidiaries are regularly evaluated according to the the target of these actions. Happily, our customers are increasingly diligent with Duty of Care requirements, so our own identified risks associated with them. As such, health and The Sustainable Procurement Charter is the cornerstone longstanding efforts are being rewarded. Nonetheless the associated risk of breaching these safety is monitored by SMST audits and safety audits which of our policy. It is a commitment from GEFCO to its carriers verify the deployment of the Group Management System obligations carries an increasing reputation toll to the business. within entities. In addition, some customers perform their (including fair supplier selection; business ethics; corruption; and conflict of interest), and a commitment from suppliers to own safety audits. The positive results of these audits reaffirm Policy a mechanism of whistleblowing and collection of GEFCO (including compliance with GEFCO’s code of ethics; ■■ the effectiveness of the SMST system. In line with French Law No. 2017-399 of 27 March 2017 on the information related to the existence or the realisation social rules such as basic human rights; health and safety; ‘Duty of Care of Parent Companies and Ordering Companies’ of risks, implemented with representative trade union Regarding the environment, audits are performed by the and preservation of environment). The charter also entails GEFCO put in place plans to identify risks and prevent serious organisations within the company subsidiary GMS managers and the GMS department in addition agreement to regular audits to ensure compliance. At the abuses of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the visits and operational audits conducted within the end of 2018, 1,478 service providers in Finished Vehicle ■■ a follow-up mechanism for the measures taken and subsidiaries. Logistics and Overland had signed the charter, representing promote the health and safety of persons and the environment. assessment of their efficiency. 76% of regular route flows spending and an increase of 378 This was communicated with and applied to subsidiaries, As a general rule, the Internal Audit Office conducts audits suppliers, service providers and subcontractors and included: Risk Mapping signatories compared to 2017. of the entities to ensure compliance with the standards and Internal regulations in force, covering the issues of remuneration, work Referenced suppliers meet GEFCO’s criteria in terms of ■■ a cartography of the risks designed to their identification, GEFCO’s risk mapping for subsidiaries follows the same organisation, forced labour and child labour, among others, price, quality, performance and needs alignment while also their analysis and their hierarchisation process as at Group level with global risk mapping reviewed where appropriate. complying with legislation and regulations (countries under ■■ procedures of regular assessment of the situation of the this year. Local level risk mapping takes place for environment, embargo, for example). Since 2012, they have been recorded in subsidiaries, subcontractors and suppliers with respect to health and safety, and follows QSE policy. For social dialogue When preparing the audits, the Audit Office initiates a CMS tool which lists all services. Carriers have access to this the risks’ cartography the Pulse survey is used to identify risks and the relevant discussions with the main local contact persons so as to tool and must contractually update their information regarding follow up is in line with local regulations. adapt the areas audited to the local situation. Where risks appropriate actions of risk mitigation and prevention of both the services they provide and proof of their compliance ■■ have been mapped, the Internal Audit Office incorporates the serious breaches with legislation. risk dimension into the choice of areas audited. Questions 38 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 39 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group The list of mandatory documents depends upon the service questionnaire, audits are carried out on service providers. Happily, our customers are The Ethics Committee, appointed by the Chairman of the Management Board, handles the alerts received. This provider’s country of origin. Example documents include the The auditing system includes the verification of data imported carrier’s turnover in order to determine its level of dependence into the CMS tool by the service provider, particularly data increasingly diligent with Committee is composed of two Executive Vice Presidents, on GEFCO, and the breakdown of its fleet in terms of environmental standards and the training levels of its drivers. regarding the age of its owned fleet, eco-driving training courses taken, ISO 14000 or ISO 50001 certifications, Duty of Care requirements, the Legal & Compliance Officer and the Compliance Advisor. Efficacy Assessment If a document is not up to date, a notification is sent to both consumption tracking and regular awareness-raising among so our own longstanding Internal GEFCO and the carrier. drivers, road safety rules, accident rate monitoring and the implementation of an anti-addiction policy. In 2018, 102 audits efforts are being rewarded. Corporate and local divisions, as well as prevention officers and The CMS tool currently ranks service providers according GMS officers verify the effectiveness of procedures and actions were performed with an objective of 72. to a range of criteria including financial. For road transport, in their day-to-day work. Pooling of best practices allows operational criteria such as the size of the owned fleet and the Actions to prevent risks and mitigate serious abuses for improvement and changes to existing processes where capacity to computerize processes are included along with two Internal of outcomes are possible ranging from prioritisation in tender necessary across the entire Company. In addition, efficacy is sustainable development criteria: one regarding Euro emission GEFCO’s Code of Ethics makes clear our commitment selection and reward fidelity program access, to carriers being monitored through frequent indicator reports, and the overall standards, and the other regarding the participation or lack to enforcing international conventions on human rights, banned in some extreme circumstances (such as fraud or success of the processes are evidenced by the good results thereof in the sustainable development questionnaire. particularly those concerning the fight against child labour, substantial quality issues). from the EcoVadis and CDP external reviews. forced labour, freedom of association and the right to collective The sustainable development questionnaire is the next step Whistleblowing mechanism Suppliers and subcontractors bargaining, as well as respect for the environment. These after the signature of the charter and is an important pillar At the end of 2016, the GEFCO Group introduced a professional For carriers, at least twice a year at purchase conventions, data commitments are also reflected in GEFCO’s membership of the of our responsible purchasing policy. It supplements the whistleblowing system initially deployed in France and is analysed, and action plans are set for the following year to United Nations Global Compact whose 10 principles concern information taken from the CMS tool and can be used to subsequently rolled out in other countries. The mechanism increase duty of care. In 2018, two meetings were held: in April human rights, international labour standards, the environment categorise service providers. It includes questions on possible is managed by an external service provider and allows in Paris and in Warsaw in October. and the fight against corruption. certification or labels (ISO 14001 and 50001, CO2 label), on fleet employees to anonymously (or otherwise) report any unethical composition, on fuel consumption and fuel alternative, on euro GEFCO’s governance entails processes across all of our behaviour that could impact the Group’s activity and have norms distribution, green tyres and deflectors, and also on the subsidiaries that allow necessary actions to be implemented far-reaching consequences on its accountability. The system supplier’s own responsible purchasing. to avoid breaches of guidelines. Employees are also invited encompasses a wide range of areas: to question the compliance of their actions with the GEFCO This year, the questionnaire was sent to 907 carriers finance, accounting, banking and the fight against Operating Guidelines, the laws and regulations in force, the ■■ representing €793m of transport spending. These suppliers corruption impacts on stakeholders and their reactions before taking were identified through a combination of turnover and by action. anti-competitive practices scoring below target in our supplier classification matrix. The ■■ questionnaire received a return rate of 26% or 234 suppliers Suppliers and subcontractors ■■ discrimination and harassment in the workplace representing a turnover of 255M € (compared to 155 suppliers Suppliers and subcontractors are required to regularly update in 2017 representing a turnover of 297M €). Duty of Care statuses in the CMS alongside audits and ■■ occupational health and safety business reviews. Depending on their performance a range and environmental protection. In parallel to the signing of the Charter and the sending of the ■■ 40 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 41 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 10 Environment 42 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 43 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group E1 Responsible In total, 16,424 tonnes of waste were generated by the company’s activities, 69% of which was Management recovered or recycled. of the Environment With 300 sites worldwide, GEFCO has significant responsibilities of stewardship in the regions in which it operates. Careful strategies are employed to proactively Policy Actions manage these sites and ensure that their impact on the Through its signing of the United Nations Global Compact Within the framework set out by the Quality and environment and on our neighbours is minimalised. in 2009, GEFCO has committed to applying a precautionary Environmental Policy guidelines, and signed by Luc Nadal approach to environmental risks, to promoting environmental (CEO), the business divisions are responsible for determining In addition to this operational optimisation, many of responsibility, and to developing and deploying the environmental requirements to be incorporated into their our sites and activities carry with them the risk of environmentally-friendly technology where applicable. respective processes, overseeing their implementation, and environmental accidents that would have damaging Accordingly, the company has developed a Quality and measuring results. At our various subsidiaries around the world Environmental Policy that sets out environmental guidelines GEFCO’s managers adopt the same policies and local liaison repercussions for the company in terms of customer alongside objectives to monitor progress. officers enforce the measures. These site level plans consider relationships, and regulatory penalties. local environmental regulations and, where relevant, the requirements of ISO 14001 certification. Education litres of water equating to 0.83 litres per gathered for 185 sites out of the 230 A distributed understanding amongst container. This was a reduction on the under waste management procedures. all employees of the importance of 0.93 litres per container in 2017. With regard to hazardous waste, the environmental protection was specifically GEFCO’s other water usage is primarily sites mainly produce wet sludge and identified in GEFCO’s guidelines. To fulfil due to domestic consumption with other types of hazardous waste not this need, the company has developed 180.3 million litres of water used in 2018. specifically identified. The main noneasily communicable practices, posters Overall there was an increase on last hazardous waste products generated and a hand-out guide for employees. year due to the incorporation of new by the sites are paper and cardboard, Individual sites run training courses sites into our reporting (India and BSM wood and pallets, and unsorted nonadapted to their specific challenges and Argentina). However use of water per hazardous waste. needs, with a particular focus this year employee fell from 19m3 to 17m3 in 2018. In total, 73% of non-hazardous waste is on waste sorting. 87% of the company’s total water usage recycled or recovered with almost 100% is drawn from the main system with the Water Management of bumpers and plastic waste, paper/ remaining 13% taken from ground water. GEFCO’s water consumption is cardboard and metal waste recycled largely for domestic purposes with the Waste Management or recovered. 86% of wood waste and exception of certain operations within Waste management procedures are pallets are recycled or recovered, while FVL and Reusable Packaging Solutions. drawn up by individual sites under the 63% of glass is recycled. Water consumption in the FVL division guidelines of GEFCO’s environmental The resale of waste with a view to its is primarily driven by vehicle washing policy. Where local regulations on waste recovery or recycling allows the GEFCO processes: either high-pressure management differ from GEFCO’s Group to reduce treatment costs by hand-held water jets operated by an guidelines (themselves based on French €188,000. As a result, eight of our sites employee, or automated washing decks regulations), the more stringent of the have a positive financial balance for which vehicles pass under to be cleaned. two is applied. waste management. Washing decks are installed at 25 sites, GEFCO’s innovative reusable packaging 9 of which report on the volumes of In total, 16,424 tonnes of waste were solutions alleviate much of the water used in washing. generated by the company’s activities, waste burden that would otherwise 69% of which was recovered or recycled. Within reusable packaging water is be generated, but nonetheless the primarily used for container washing company’s aim is to recover as much machines, with 4 of the company’s 5 waste as possible, either through machines reporting on water usage. In recycling or through other types of 2018 more than 6.5m containers were waste recovery such as incineration with washed using a total of just under 5.5m energy recovery. Information is currently 44 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 45 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Energy management Noise GEFCO collects data for energy usage on a site by site GEFCO is working hard to reduce the noise pollution at its basis, enabling comparison and identification of areas for sites with truck traffic and other activities (fork-lift trucks, improvement. The real estate team conducts the primary compressors, etc.) creating noise nuisances that are disturbing studies, before engaging an external third party to identify to our neighbours. The company conducts noise reduction energy savings. actions at sites, such as insulating noisy machinery and limiting delivery operations outside of normal working hours. 47 sites implemented various energy saving initiatives as outlined below. In addition, GEFCO is conducting a progressive Action to reduce noise at sites in 2018 Number of sites replacement of its diesel forklift fleet with electric or LPG Ensuring machinery, trucks and vehicles vehicles. A number of sites are also assessing the viability of meet noise standards 24 solar panel power generation, with Courgenay now producing Restricting or halting delivery operations its own electricity, with 5m kWh produced in 2018. outside of normal hours 10 Energy reduction initiatives carried out in 2018 Installation of acoustic doors 9 Low energy bulbs 23 Others 8 Monthly monitoring of energy consumption 19 Insulation to reduce neighbourhood noise levels 6 Improving quality of indoor heating equipment 7 Insulating compressors and other noisy Others 6 equipment 3 Automatic control systems of temperature or lighting 5 Presence sensor 3 Energy performance diagnostics 2 Water Management Tables Consumption of water per vehicle washed (in litres) Consumption of water per ‘equivalent 60L’ container Split of environmental training initiatives for 2018 (110 sites concerned) washed (in litres) Site 2017 2018 Site 2017 2018 Sorting of waste CASABLANCA TIT MELLIL 37.9 39.8 MADRID VILLAVERDE 9.0 9.6 WRP/RPS Environmental good practice / COURGENAY 42.1 35 SOCHAUX ETUPES FESCHES 0.6 0.6 reducing consumption KOLIN 189.8 193.1 TRNAVA ZAVAR WRP 5.3 2.3 Awareness of the new entrants to the environment MARCKOLSHEIM 352.1 VIGO MOS WRP/RPS 0.5 0.6 MERCURIO LIVOURNE 429.2 416.3 Storage of hazardous materials / Average 0.9 0.8 spill management / use of anti-pollution kit PARIS MARLY LA VILLE JAURES 183.3 201 SETUBAL PONTES FVL 24.1 23.5 European Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR) Average 162.0 201.4 Environmental Management System (ISO 14001) Waste Management Tables Others Recovery Year Disposal Recycling (excl. Recycling) Unknown Total 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 2018 (t) 3959 9597 1860 1006 16,424 2017 (t) 3453 8317 1849 968 14,588 2018 Highlights Other hazardous Gold level EcoVadis score of 64 for 2018, and 39 sites engaged in noise reduction activities. Year WEEE* Batteries Oils Wet sludge waste and toners Total above sector average. Total 2018 energy consumption of 90,838 2018 (t) 40 41 22 633 895 1631 2017 (t) 12 16 98 512 683 1320 CDP Climate change B grade for 2018, above MWh PCI compared to 2017 consumption of sector average. 86,405 MWh PCI. Consumption of new sites in 2018 was 6,902 MWh PCI. CDP Water C grade for 2018, the first year in Bumpers Other nonUnsorted Paper/ and other hazardous non-hazardous which the study was completed. 59 sites ISO 14001 certified. Year Metallic waste cardboard plastic waste Wood/pallets Glass waste waste Total 45% of GEFCO sites provided training for 2018 (t) 287 3818 476 3384 39 2406 4383 14,793 their teams on environmental issues, with an 2017 (t) 255 3373 581 3290 20 2472 3276 13,268 aggregate of 3,400 hours of training provided. *WEEE: Waste electrical and electronic equipment 46 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 47 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group E2 Fight Against Climate Change at Aside from planning and routing, GEFCO’s strategy works through three avenues to reduce emissions per kilometre driven: In addition to savings from the transport of customer loads, GEFCO also investigated its employee transport emissions Transport Level relating to commuting. This resulted in the creation of a ■■ Training in eco-driving techniques for its fleet drivers company mobility plan to reduce the work-related emissions of ■■ Replacement of less efficient trucks with newer models our employees. This strategy will be implemented in 2019. E3 Environmental Performance and meeting Euro 5 or 6 standards Improving its truck maintenance programmes Pollution Control at Transport Level ■■ 2018 Highlights Thanks in large part to these three initiatives, GEFCO’s owned fleet within FVL achieved fuel consumption rates of 32.6 litres GEFCO achieved its goal with 2% of emissions per 100km, against a figure of 36.6 litres per 100km in 2017 – avoided compared to 2017. As a global logistics provider, the emissions from our transport activities are a major focus for an 11% saving equating to 570 tonnes of CO2 for France alone. ourselves and our customers. Aside from the moral obligation to continue seeking to lower our GEFCO France has been working with the AFTRAL training carbon footprint, there is an increasing commercial imperative as our customers expand their organisation since 2016 to train its FVL drivers in eco-driving. own programmes of carbon reduction. Eco-driving creates a smoother driving experience, thereby reducing fuel consumption, and a safer driving style, reducing Many of the steps we take to increase efficiencies and reduce emissions also have the effect accident rates. Our goal is to train 100% of FVL drivers at the GEFCO France subsidiary. of reducing cost. Failing to take proactive steps to reduce carbon would create unacceptable medium and long-term risk for both the business and the environment. Policy GEFCO has calculated its CO2 footprint since 2011 using the Actions Flow Optimisation / Multimodal E4 Environmental Performance and company’s proprietary Castor software tool to track all of our emissions. The same tool is used to communicate CO2 emissions GEFCO’s technical engineering department works on optimising our network and routes primarily with the aim of shortening driven Pollution Control at the Level of the Subcontracted Fleet data to our customers for their own sustainability calculations. kilometres. Translating some road transport into train transport at increased load rates is one priority of this work. The teams As described in the Innovation section elsewhere in this report, also focus on reducing empty return runs for our truck fleet. The flow optimisation and the company’s multimodal offerings play a introduction of our proprietary CADIS OPTIM software tools has major role in reduction of emissions relating to transported goods. facilitated this process. One of GEFCO’s competitive advantages is its asset-light stance, allowing it to quickly adapt to Since 2017 GEFCO has tracked the impact of actions in terms of the changing nature of the logistics landscape. The company is therefore a major subcontractor CO2 reduction, building a ratio of avoided emissions versus the CO2 emission by scope (in %) to third-party carriers, particularly for road transport where it has the capability to deploy up to previous year. Both parts of the ratio are expressed in CO2 tons equivalent. Scope 2016 2017 2018 14,000 subcontracted trucks per day. Scope 1 (excl. transport) 0.8 0.9 0.8 ■■ Scope: CO2 emissions relating only to transport activities Scope 1 Transport 2 1.8 2.1 GEFCO must monitor the emissions status of our subcontractors carefully in order to properly (scopes 1 and 3) Scope 2 0.5 0.5 0.7 calculate carbon costs for ourselves and our customers, and to ensure they are operating ■■ Numerator: Avoided emissions in current year. These are safely. This interaction also enables the company to have a positive effect beyond its Scope 3 (excl. transport) 9.9 10.2 10.2 mainly gained by the re-engineering of logistics schemes (FVL and OVL engineering offices for transport activities, Sales Scope 3 Transport 86.7 86.6 86.1 organisational limits by encouraging third-party carriers to meet our own standards. engineering offices for specific customers, and Procurement requirements for subcontractors to optimise their own flows) Policy and the management of our own fleet as well as subcontracted tonne.kilometres by transport mode (in %) For the subcontracted fleet, environmental performance forms fleets. Fleet improvements include: fuel consumption Transport 2016 2017 2018 part of GEFCO’s supplier assessment. In our CSR questionnaire, reduction, fewer trucks on the road, reduction in mileage, suppliers must disclose the average age of the fleet, the Road 50.6 50.7 52.2 improvement of loading ratio, modal transfer Euro standards which they meet, as well as current fuel Sea 45.1 45.3 43.5 consumption, loading rates, and kilometres travelled. ■■ Denominator: CO2 emissions of previous year relating only to Rail 2.9 2.8 3.4 transport (scopes 1 and 3) Actions & Highlights Air 1.4 1.2 0.9 In 2018, questionnaires were sent to 907 carriers representing In 2018 GEFCO achieved a 2% ratio based on our total transport €793m of transport spending. These suppliers were identified emissions (including scope 3). If degradations occur during the through a combination of turnover and by scoring below target reporting year, they will increase the global emissions and trigger CO2 emissions by transport mode (in %) in our supplier classification matrix. The questionnaire received additional efforts the following year to meet at least the same Transport 2016 2017 2018 a return rate of 26% or 234 suppliers representing a turnover objective of avoided emissions. Road 71.1% 74.7% 77.7% of 255M € (compared to 155 suppliers in 2017). Lastly and very significantly, in 2018 GEFCO began a study to Sea 10.4% 9.6% 8.3% Alongside the questionnaire, GEFCO’s subcontracted carriers validate the feasibility of setting carbon neutrality as a mediumRail 0.4% 0.4% 0.9% are audited including the verification of data imported into the term goal of the company. CMS tool by the service provider. In 2018, 102 audits were Air 18.1% 15.3% 13.1% performed against an objective of 72. 48 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 49 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 11 Governance 50 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 51 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group The development of new transport routes is an important component of optimisation as centres of global production and consumption evolve. Policy GEFCO’s central mission statement of Infinite ProximityTM 2018 Highlights (outlined earlier in this report) aligns exactly with the goal of exceptional Stakeholder Dialogue. As a business, our 2nd company-wide Pulse survey sent to commercial goal is to become constantly closer to our all employees with a tenure of 3 months customers, integrating seamlessly to find and solve all of their or greater. The survey achieved an 82% supply chain challenges. response rate, 6% higher than the previous Actions survey in 2016. Within the framework of the new ISO 9001 and 14001 standards, GEFCO has mapped its stakeholders and analysed 2018 Satisfaction Survey sent to 3211 our modes of communication with each to ensure that proper dialogue exists with all of our partners. This gives the company customers with 245 respondents or an 8% better clarity as regards its level of understanding, and shows response rate and an 82% satisfaction rate. where we need to increase dialogue. Following this, we were able to produce a weighted materiality Local stakeholder complaints limited to one and risk analysis extending beyond the Company itself and incident of noise pollution in the Netherlands including all of its partners: from our employees and third-party for which an internal investigation to find a carriers, to our customers and the neighbours of our sites. This process frames our approach to CSR and enables GEFCO to long-term resolution is underway. see where its efforts will produce the best results for all of its stakeholders. Stakeholders EMPLOYEES LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS Pulse survey Local authority interactions Legal social dialogue and Residents interaction and collective agreements feedback/complaint loops Internal communication tools Complaint reporting Innovation Factory listening Local recruitment Annual appraisal interviews G1 Stakeholder Dialogue Group European Works Council Labour union participation OTHER SERVICE PROVIDERS AND SITE SUBCONTRACTORS CUSTOMERS Commercial reviews All businesses must communicate with their stakeholders but this Regular operational interaction Contractual clauses Commercial reviews Health & Safety prevention plans process is particularly important for a global logistics provider. Failure Innovation reviews Maintenance programme CSR strategy reviews in the short term will lead to mistakes and misunderstanding and Customer satisfaction survey disappointed customers with dwindling trust; failure in the long-term PROFESSIONAL FEDERATIONS would lead to missed opportunities for growth as the supply chain CARRIERS Transport Unions industry evolves. A focus on proper dialogue allows GEFCO to remain Responsible purchasing policy Sustainable development correctly positioned for the future of our rapidly evolving industry. questionnaire SCHOOLS AND UNIVERSITIES Carrier fleet analysis Outreach programmes and categorisation Recognition fidelity program 52 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 53 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Policy ■■ the dissemination to all employees of a guide to compliance GEFCO’s core ethical values are set out in the company’s with competition law. Code of Ethics: a set of commitments to prevent and identify Compliance with international embargoes conflicts of interest; to treat suppliers fairly; to prevent GEFCO purchases numerous goods and services as a transport insider trading; to promote and ensure we share our ethics agent with a worldwide presence. The services requested by its with contractors; to respect the international trade control customers require the creation of complex logistics plans that regulations; to exercise fair competition; and to fight corruption may involve the collaboration of several depots or subsidiaries. and money laundering. In addition to the Code of Ethics, GEFCO has developed a specific anti-corruption policy, and a These plans often involve transport across different regions formal framework for participation in professional associations. and countries with differing regulations. GEFCO has a duty to offer its customers reliable services and thus to comply Actions with legislation as well as possible sanctions applicable to Anti-Corruption commercial activities in countries under embargo or liable to GEFCO complies with anti-corruption laws and has conducted involve individuals under embargo. a corruption risk mapping analysis at group level to fine tune local risks in the many global regions in which it operates. Tier 1 The company has adopted an export control policy including suppliers are required to adhere to a sustainable procurement verification procedures for flows according to country, region, charter, and to the Group’s anti-corruption policy. transaction, risk concerned. Compliance with these procedures is controlled by the Legal & Compliance Division. GEFCO provides both e-learning and face-to-face training for its employees to identify potential risks, and operates a In addition, the Gral Denied Parties tool in which transactions are whistle-blowing programme in tandem with an overseeing recorded is regularly updated with all information concerning internal Ethics Committee. embargoes, sanctions and countries black-listed by the UN, the United States and the European Union. Primarily used by The company has adopted an anti-corruption policy that sets G2 Business Ethics and Overland, the tool automatically controls services and blocks out and illustrates the different types of behaviour that should suspicious transactions. These alerts are reported to the Group be prohibited as grounds for corruption or influence peddling. Legal & Compliance Division which investigates the validity of the Transparency This policy forms the cornerstone of its anti-corruption alert with the operational entities concerned. Depending on the compliance programme which also includes other tools results of the investigation, the information regarding the third provided for by French law such as the implementation of parties concerned is updated and the latter assigned to the ‘green accounting controls and third-party evaluation procedures. list’ or remain on the ‘red list’. In the event that a service is blocked, The Internal Audit Office ensures compliance with these GEFCO has a direct presence in 47 countries around the it is modified or cancelled. regulations during audits. world and operates in a further 59 countries indirectly GEFCO’s Operating Guidelines require that all transactions must via our partners, managing the flows of goods from comply with the local legislative and regulatory framework, thousands of suppliers to manufacturers and retailers. Not only must the company itself comply with the many particularly but not limited to European, American and UN 2018 Highlights regulations concerning the fight against money laundering jurisdictions within which it operates, it must also ensure and corruption. Every third party and transaction is analysed, All GEFCO Board members were signatories of that its customers act in accordance with regulations, and with compliance audits regularly conducted. In addition, some undertakings, due to their nature or amount, are subject to prior a new commitment to ensuring that all teams take reasonable steps to check that they are doing so. approval by certain bodies and entities (Supervisory Board, under their direct or indirect responsibility Without the reputation gained from a ceaseless Investment Committee). would strictly comply with the company’s commitment to these principles the company would not Fair competition Operating Guidelines. be able to operate, and would put its relationships with Within the framework of the decision issued by the French customers, regulators and governments at risk. Competition Authority (ADLC) in December 2015, GEFCO 230 staff began e-learning courses in Fair has undertaken a voluntary process to ensure compliance Competition policy. with competition regulations, and has reviewed its internal prevention mechanisms accordingly. 4 alerts have been reviewed by the Ethics As such, GEFCO’s competition law compliance program Committee in 2018. includes: ■■ the appointment of a ‘Compliance Officer’, assisted Implementation of anti-corruption policy, by a ‘Group Compliance Advisor’ and ‘Compliance code of ethics and whistleblowing programme advisors’ within the French subsidiary, tasked with the within the subsidiaries. implementation of the compliance program ■■ strict supervision of GEFCO personnel’s participation in professional associations ■■ mandatory training programs 54 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 55 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group G3 Security of Computer Data G4 Prevention of Social, Societal, and With a significant amount of data held regarding customers, third-party carriers, employees, and Environmental risks other stakeholders, GEFCO requires a comprehensive approach to its handling of Computer Data. With a workforce of over 13,000 people, and around 300 different sites as well as goods Corruption, cyberattack or other losses carry a number of significant risks for the company in transit, GEFCO must address risks to its employees and the regions in which it operates. including: interruption of transport activities; fraud against GEFCO or its customers; industrial These range from potential chemical spills during transportation to industrial action, and espionage; and tarnishing of the company’s reputation. As all of the company’s critical business human rights. Beyond these, GEFCO must also consider risks such as occupational illnesses processes are in some part digital, any significant disruption will affect the quality and cost of and psychosocial problems. our operations with detrimental effects to profitability and customer relationships. The effects of such accidents on the business could be widespread and long-lasting, damaging The advent of GDPR this year provided a framework for the protection of personal data, and our reputation and the confidence that our customers have in us as an operator. heightened the risk and potential impact of regulatory non-compliance. Also this year, China made its regulations over the protection of personal data applicable. Policy & Actions Societal risks GEFCO has a well-developed policy based around ISO 9001 and Risks due to suppliers are assessed and managed through Policy 2018 Data Privacy Policy includes: ISO 14001 standards, as well as provisions within its Ethical Code the sustainable procurement policy, increasing knowledge of With IT such an essential component of our offering, systems to mitigate these risks. These policies were reviewed in 2018 by carriers on environmental and social issues. These third parties ■■ the key principles of personal data processing by GEFCO the Legal Division in collaboration with the Internal Audit Office. must fulfil questionnaires assessing environmental factors availability is a top priority for the company, without which delays and increased costs are highly likely. GEFCO’s entire the types of personal data collected and why it is collected such as fleet age, and number of road accidents, as well as ■■ Environmental risk management IT system is resilient by design with several datacenters and societal factors such as labour policies and financial stability. ■■ the use that is made of your personal data Environmental risk management at site level relies upon risk redundant network links to mitigate risk and reduce occurrence analyses carried out according to a reference system developed % of entities having implemented the following and duration of any unavailability. ■■ the means of protection of your personal data at Group level by the GEFCO Management System department. SMST actions at managerial level Our customers, suppliers and partners often give us exclusive ■■ the ways to secure the transfer of data outside of the Depending on the typology of a particular site, a list of risks is Integrating safety measures in management processes 45.5% and confidential information. We act as a trusted partner European Union assembled in combination with assessment criteria to prioritise (daily briefings, weekly meetings, monthly meetings, in handling the confidential information of third parties in them. These risks include accidental pollution, industrial effluents site tour…) and in annual appraisal with employees ■■ how you may exercise your rights in relation to your and hazardous waste, unintentional releases and damage to accordance with their disclosure requirements and in strict Training management about their role and 40% personal data. biodiversity. compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Existing responsibility on safety matters IT policy, based on ISO 27002 which defines rules for asset The policy and its implementation are overseen by an IT A global building and equipment maintenance program is used Other safety actions oriented towards managers 25.5% management, access control, privileged accounts, network and security manager, a compliance advisor, together with a to check all installations that could generate accidental releases interconnections is updated each year. In addition, a charter of contact in each of the affected subsidiaries. into the water, air or soil. This programme assigns responsibilities use for IT and communication resources is signed and sets out the control and monitoring procedures for each piece 2018 Highlights by collaborators. 2018 Highlights of equipment or installation. The sites then implement mitigating In addition, GEFCO released its new GDPR compliant data procedures for each risk identified, which are then shared Environmental incidents rose to 285 in 2018, policy in 2018, with further details below. 5 sites in Turkey were ISO 27001 certified. between sites in order to disseminate best practices. vs 257 in 2017. Actions The number and duration of any major IT Social risk management Risks of accidents, occupational illnesses and psychosocial risks, 61% sites updated their occupational risk GEFCO’s IT risk mapping is reviewed annually with an associated risk matrix maintained and audited for ISO 9001 incidents is monitored by the company, are identified and assessed for all operational activities, both for assessment. compliance. Disaster recovery plans are also reviewed each including the number of security incidents. existing and upcoming projects. Beyond risks of on-site accidents year with specific scenarios being tested, and penetration tests and road accidents, the list of risks requiring an assessment 55% subsidiaries say they conducted are performed to limit the possibility of data leaks and denial of notably includes risk related to repetitive movements or strenuous occupational risk assessment when they launch service attacks. postures leading to musculo-skeletal problems, psychosocial risks, and risks related to the use of computer screens. Risks new operations (new customers, new sites). The company carries out regular communications campaigns associated with the working environment such as noise, air quality to promote the 10 IT security golden rules and warn about or exposure to strong chemical products must also be assessed as 39 sites were audited according to the present threats. part of our regular maintenance program. SMST referential. GEFCO released its new Data Privacy Policy in April 2018 in advance of the implementation of GDPR on May 25th 2018. Respect for privacy and the importance of protecting personal data is essential for building trust and strong relationships, and a key goal for the company. GEFCO’s new Data Privacy Policy adheres strictly to GDPR regulations and articulates our commitment to responsible use of data by ourselves, and our partners. 56 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 57 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 12 58 Methodology 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 59 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Risk and materiality analysis methodology In 2018, GEFCO decided to conduct a materiality and risks A stakeholder mapping exercise identified 13 key external analysis in order to identify significant environmental, societal stakeholders for the Company, including representatives and labour issues, in collaboration with its internal and external of the transportation sector (customers, carriers and stakeholders. professional organisation), other customers and suppliers. These stakeholders were interviewed to assess the impact of To this effect, GEFCO’s managers of operational and support the issues on their organisations. functions first carried out an internal analysis of the issues at stake. Based on this analysis, internal stakeholders This approach enabled GEFCO to bring its stakeholders’ Scope of environmental data and methodologies representing the various departments identified the financial societal, environmental and labour expectations into line with risks, business continuity risks, reputational/image risks and GEFCO’s performance drivers. GEFCO’s grasp of the issues was Scope are located in industrial areas. The impact on biodiversity is regulatory risks linked to these issues. also assessed by internal stakeholders. GEFCO thus identified GEFCO uses the ‘CSR Reporting’ questionnaire linked to the therefore reduced. Furthermore, the Group does not exploit its main risks and opportunities on which policies, actions and Tennaxia software to gather environmental data relating to all land or process food waste. Likewise, the fight against food monitoring should be implemented. of its activities. The Group’s sites are required to complete the waste is not relevant to the GEFCO Group. questionnaire on an annual basis. The Group’s risk management framework incorporates Reporting Methodology Scope of the group environmental reporting questionnaire environmental risks and enables such risks to be taken Exclusion criteria into account. Scope of social data The questionnaire automatically excludes sites that In 2018, the GEFCO Group’s consolidated accounts 2018 social data Indicators reported here may exclude answers of sites that are considered not to be representative of the Group’s covered companies of different origins. The Group’s social data, with the exception of data relating have not or ill-answered to the associated questions. The environmental impact, in accordance with the criteria outlined to occupational accidents, is monitored in Vision, its HR response rate to an indicator will therefore be specified, being GEFCO SA and the GEFCO subsidiaries and formalised in the reporting procedures. information system data regarding occupational accidents and higher or lower regarding the number of missing answers or The consolidated GEFCO subsidiaries are spread across six Operating life of the site: a site whose operating life non-corrected data. incidents is tracked in the Acciline application, linked to Vision. ■■ geographic zones, corresponding to eight structural zones for is less than 6 months in the reference period is excluded the processing of social data: The Chinese JVs GEFCO CHONGQING CO, LTD, DONGFENG Carbon Inventory GEFCO WUHAN LOGISTICS CO, LTD and SHENZHEN ■■ Activity of the site: a site whose activity is only ‘office’ GEFCO’s carbon inventory outlines the greenhouse gas ■■ CORPORATE: GEFCO SA, the parent company with a size of less than 5 persons is excluded emissions generated by the Group, whether they are MINSHENG GEFCO LOGISTICS (SMGL) CO, LTD not controlled ■■ France: GEFCO France S.A.S., the French subsidiary by the Group are not recorded in Vision and do not appear generated as a direct (Scope 1 and 2) or indirect consequence ■■ Modalities for the accounting if the site is at a third-party’s: including the GIS* and GAS* second-tier subsidiaries within the scope of the 2018 social data. In sum, and unless of its activities. some sites are located on, or juxtaposed to, a third-party site otherwise indicated, the 2018 social data solely concerns (customer, supplier, service provider, contractor or partner). The inventory is produced using the GHG Protocol method. ■■ 1520: Baltic states, Kazakhstan, Russia GEFCO SA and the Group’s GEFCO companies. If the utilities (water, electricity, gas, heating oil, urban ■■ LATAM (Latin America): Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico Emissions are calculated based on activity data (litres of diesel For HS data not linked to ACCILINE, scope excludes in 2018 heating, LPG, diesel, and waste management) provided by used, MWh LHV used, etc.) multiplied by emissions factors ■■ ASOR (East Asia): China, South Korea, Hong Kong the following FFWD subsidiaries with no operation activities the third party are not counted physically (using a meter) or (TEQ CO2/litre of diesel, TEQ CO2/MWh LHV of electricity, etc.). (F-FWD BELGIUM; F-FWD SWITZERLAND; F-FWD are partially, GEFCO does not take account of these figures ■■ CEBAME (Central Europe, Balkans, Middle East): Austria, usually consolidated by the third party. This data can then be used to assess the impact of Scopes 1 HONG KONG; F-FWD CHINA; F-FWD TAÏWAN;F-FWD Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, and 2. The gases taken into account are those relating to the Hungary, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, THAILAND;F-FWD SINGAPORE;F-FWD POLAND). 2018 coverage Kyoto Protocol divided by a tonne of CO2 equivalent (TEQ CO2) Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Ukraine The report covers the period from 1 November 2017 to through their global warming potential (GWP). 31 October 2018. For the purposes of this campaign, and ■■ EUROMED (Western Europe, Mediterranean): Algeria, in addition to the exclusion criteria outlined above, the Scope 3 emissions regarding sea, road, air and rail transport Benelux, Italy, Morocco, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland, questionnaire excluded the sites of the Iraq, GEFCO Automotive are calculated directly using the Group’s internal tool (CASTOR). Tunisia, the UK Services and GEFCO Industrial Services subsidiaries. Remaining Scope 3 emissions are calculated by exploiting ■■ F-FWD: F-FWD Corporate, F-FWD Australia, F-FWD All of the excluded sites therefore account for a turnover of data extracted from support operating systems. Hong Kong, F-FWD China, F-FWD Taiwan, F-FWD €543,658 equating to 10.8% of the Group’s consolidated Thailand, F-FWD Singapore, F-FWD Netherlands, F-FWD Within the GEFCO carbon inventory, emission factors are taken turnover for the period referred to above. 245 sites took part in Poland, F-FWD Czech Republic, F-FWD Germany, F-FWD from DEFRA (Department for Environment, Food and Rural the 2018 reporting campaign. Switzerland, F-FWD UK, F-FWD USA, GEFCO United Affairs 2012), from the Carbon Footprint (V8) and from the states, GEFCO F-FWD Belgium, GEFCO South Africa, As at 31 December 2018, the GEFCO Group had not been implementing decree governing the CO2 display of the means GEFCO South Korea, F-FWD France required to establish any provision or guarantee concerning of transport in question. a risk to the environment. GEFCO does not consume raw ■■ MERCURIO: Argentina, India, Italy, Slovakia materials in its activity and the majority of its operational sites *GAS: GEFCO Automotive Services *GIS: GEFCO Industrial Services 60 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 61 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 13 Concordance Table 62 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 63 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 13. Concordance Table Security of computer data 56 Non-financial performance declaration Prevention of social, societal and environmental risks 57; 68 All principles Specific disclosures Business model description Pages Global Compact Principles Climate change (contribution and adaptation) 48-49; 66 Activities and markets 6-8 Circular economy 45-46; 67-68 Business environment 6-8; 16 Fight against food waste Exclusion* Organisation and structure 8 Fight against food insecurity and respect for animal welfare Exclusion* and responsible, fair and sustainable food Objectives and strategies for creating value 8-9 Collective agreements concluded in the company and their 53; 73 impact on the economic performance of the company Main trends and factors that could 10-11 Actions to fight against discrimination influence GEFCO evolution in the future 36 and promote diversity Risks and opportunities (risk description, policies, actions and results) Measures taken for the benefit of disabled people 36 Methodology to identify risks 20-21 and opportunities Societal commitments for sustainable development 8; 13-17; 38-41; 76-77 Digitalisation 26 All principles Exclusion*: Given the nature of our activities (transport and warehousing services), we consider the these themes do not constitute major CSR risks and do not justify a development in this non-financial performance declaration. Clean and connected transport 27 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including Flow optimisation 28-29 extortion and bribery Multimodal offer 28-29 Health, safety and working conditions 32-33 Attractiveness, loyalty and employee engagement 34-37 Respect for human rights and duty of care 38-41 All principles Responsible management of the environment 44-47; 66-68 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Fight against climate change at transport level 48-49; 66 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Environmental performance 48-49; 66 and pollution control at transport level 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of Environmental performance and pollution control environmentally friendly technologies 49 at the level of the subcontracted fleet Stakeholder dialogue 52-53; 73 All principles 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including Business ethics and transparency 54-55 extortion and bribery 64 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 65 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Environment Unit 2016 2017 2018 14. Social, Societal and WATER Consumption of water per vehicle washed Environmental indicators CASABLANCA TIT MELLIL COURGENAY l/veh l/veh 39.8 26.6 37.9 42.1 39.8 35 KOLIN l/veh 189.8 193.1 Section MARCKOLSHEIM l/veh 85.4 352.1 MERCURIO LIVOURNE l/veh 1346.2 429.2 416.3 Environment Unit 2016 2017 2018 PARIS MARLY LA VILLE JAURES l/veh 183.3 201 CARBON EMISSIONS SETUBAL PONTES FVL l/veh 25.7 24.1 23.5 CO2 emission by transport mode Average l/veh 105.2 162.0 201.4 Road % 71.1 74.7 77.7 Consumption of water per “equivalent 60l” container washed Sea % 10.4 9.6 8.3 MADRID VILLAVERDE WRP/RPS l/cont 9.0 9.6 Rail % 0.4 0.4 0.9 SOCHAUX ETUPES FESCHES l/cont 0.9 0.6 0.6 Air % 18.1 15.3 13.1 TRNAVA ZAVAR WRP l/cont 5.7 5.3 2.3 t.km by transport mode (in %) VIGO MOS WRP/RPS l/cont 0.5 0.5 0.6 Road % 50.6 50.7 52.2 Average l/cont 1.1 0.9 0.8 Sea % 45.1 45.3 43.5 Type of water Rail % 2.9 2.8 3.4 Mains water m3 147,542 153,703 157,710 Air % 1.4 1.2 0.9 Underground water m 3 19,203 15,935 22,628 CO2 emission by scope (in %) Total m3 166,745 169,638 180,337 Scope 1 (excl. transport) % 0.8 0.9 0.8 WASTE Scope 1 Transport % 2.0 1.8 2.1 Waste per type of treatment Scope 2 % 0.5 0.5 0.7 Disposal t 1,651 3,453 3,959 Scope 3 Transport % 86.7 86.6 86.1 Recycling t 7,710 8,317 9,597 Scope 1 (excl. transport) % 9.9 10.2 10.2 Recovery (excl. Recycling) t 950 1,849 1,860 Unknown t 3,128 968 1,006 ENERGY Total t 13,439 14,588 16,424 Energy for buildings Non-hazardous waste distribution per activity Electricity MWh 47,565 48,011 47,402 4PL t 0.2 District heating MWh 771 1,406 1,518 C&T t 2 3 Heating Oil MWh 1,568 1,746 1,931 F-FWD t 74 250 436 LPG MWh 13,078 10,601 13,530 FVL t 2,350 2,555 2,484 Natural gas MWh 28,293 28,274 26,457 HQ t 187 467 275 Total MWh 91,275 90,038 90,838 OVL t 3,710 3,661 3,637 Forklift consumption RPS t 1,761 1,896 1,136 Natural gas MWh 11,208 9,543 9,041 WHS t 3,891 4,437 6,821 Diesel MWh 2,206 1,653 1,615 Hazardous waste distribution per activity LPG MWh 1,341 1,488 4PL t Total MWh 13,415 12,537 12,145 C&T t F-FWD t 0.1 FVL t 414 1,012 1,110 HQ t 6 6 3 OVL t 906 66 92 RPS t 111 197 399 WHS t 29 40 27 66 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 67 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Absolute Value Relative Value Environment Unit 2016 2017 2018 People 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 WASTE EMPLOYEES Breakdown of employees by geographical zone Waste per type 1520 571 563 534 5% 5% 4% Metallic Waste t 251 255 287 ASOR 175 93 82 2% 1% 1% Paper / Cardboard Waste t 2,817 3,373 3,818 CEBAME 2,205 2,425 2,784 21% 21% 22% Bumpers And Other Plastic Waste t 604 581 476 CORPORATE 586 576 585 5% 5% 5% Wood / Pallets Waste t 2,890 3,290 3,384 EUROMED 2,462 2,508 2,970 23% 22% 24% Glass Waste t 24 20 39 F-FWD 479 623 762 4% 5% 6% Other Non-Hazardous Waste t 2,498 2,472 2,406 FRANCE 2,910 2,977 3,153 27% 26% 25% Unsorted Non-Hazardous Waste t 2,889 3,276 4,383 LATAM 1,287 1,608 1,584 12% 14% 13% Total non-hazardous waste t 11,973 13,268 14,793 Total 10,699 11,373 12,454 WEEE* t 21 12 40 Batteries t 7 16 41 Breakdown of employees by socio-professional category Oils t 119 98 22 (F-FWD and Mercurio excluded from 2016 data and Mercurio Argentina excluded from 2017 data) Wet Sludge t 350 512 633 ETAM* 5,274 5,871 6,223 54% 52% 50% Other Hazardous Waste And Toners t 969 683 895 Managers 1,627 1,731 1,729 17% 15% 14% Total hazardous waste t 1,466 1,320 1,631 Workers 2,908 3,678 4,502 30% 33% 36% Recovered waste (recycling & other type of recovery) Waste recovered % 64 70 69 Breakdown of employees by socio-professional category per geographical zone (F-FWD and Mercurio excluded from 2016 data and Mercurio Argentina excluded from 2017 data) 1520 ETAM 400 422 411 70% 75% 77% Health and Safety Unit 2016 2017 2018 Objective Managers 120 85 71 21% 15% 13% ACCIDENTS Workers 51 56 52 9% 10% 10% Frequency rate* % 5.4 5.0 6.6 5 ASOR ETAM 100 40 35 57% 43% 43% Severity rate* % 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3 Managers 55 26 22 31% 28% 27% Analysis rate* % 86 86 82 80 Workers 20 27 25 11% 29% 30% CEBAME ETAM 1,291 1,358 1,504 59% 56% 54% Managers 241 291 285 11% 12% 10% ABSENTEEISM Workers 657 776 995 30% 32% 36% Unit 2016 2017 2018 CORPORATE ETAM 105 104 107 18% 18% 18% Geographic area Managers 481 472 478 82% 82% 82% 1520 % 1.0 1.0 1.4 Workers ASOR % 1.8 0.6 0.8 EUROMED ETAM 1,276 1,630 1,799 65% 65% 61% CEBAME % 2.3 2.1 2.1 Managers 255 251 212 10% 10% 7% CORPORATE % 2.8 2.8 2.1 Workers 649 627 959 25% 25% 32% EUROMED % 1.9 1.8 1.5 F-FWD ETAM na 430 551 na 69% 72% FRANCE % 4.9 4.3 2.9 Managers na 125 147 na 20% 19% LATAM % 1.9 1.2 2.1 Workers na 68 64 na 11% 8% Average % 2.9 2.5 2.0 FRANCE ETAM 1,539 1,488 1,354 53% 50% 43% Managers 436 447 464 15% 15% 15% Workers 929 1,042 1,335 32% 35% 42% LATAM ETAM 434 483 462 36% 30% 29% Managers 60 64 50 5% 4% 3% Workers 710 1,061 1,072 59% 66% 68% *WEEE: Waste electrical and electronic equipment *ETAM: Employés, techniciens, agents de maîtrise – clerical, technical and supervisory staff *Frequency rate: number of occupational accidents resulting in at least one day lost per million hours worked *Severity rate: number of days lost due to an occupational accident per thousand hours worked 68 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 69 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Absolute Value Relative Value Absolute Value Relative Value People 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 People 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 RECRUITMENTS (PERMANENT CONTRACTS) RETIREMENTS Breakdown of recruitments by geographical zone Breakdown of retirements by geographical zone 1520 121 154 97 8% 8% 4% 1520 0% 0% 0% ASOR 45 3% 0% ASOR 2 3 2% 2% 0% CEBAME 560 461 678 37% 24% 28% CEBAME 4 15 2 5% 9% 3% CORPORATE 61 38 66 4% 2% 3% CORPORATE 10 17 12 12% 10% 18% EUROMED 257 211 427 17% 11% 17% EUROMED 19 39 17 23% 24% 25% F-FWD 96 136 5% 6% F-FWD 5 2 0% 3% 3% FRANCE 212 480 773 14% 25% 31% FRANCE 48 81 34 57% 50% 51% LATAM 257 480 281 17% 25% 11% LATAM 1 2 1% 1% 0% Total 1,513 1,920 2,458 Total 84 162 67 Recruitments by socio-professional category Absolute Value Relative Value ETAM 876 806 1,045 58% 42% 43% Gender 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Managers 184 177 254 12% 9% 10% Gender equality Workers 453 937 1,159 30% 49% 47% (excluding internships + F-FWD and Mercurio excluded from 2016 data and Mercurio excluded from 2017 data) Turnover 6 7.1 1520 Female 254 233 231 44% 41% 43% Male 317 330 303 56% 59% 57% RESIGNATIONS ASOR Female 99 38 41 57% 41% 50% Breakdown of resignations by geographical zone Male 76 55 41 43% 59% 50% 1520 67 64 87 10% 9% 11% CEBAME Female 829 882 978 38% 37% 35% ASOR 62 4 9% 1% 0% Male 1,360 1,530 1,806 62% 63% 65% CEBAME 189 203 208 29% 29% 27% CORPORATE Female 217 228 223 37% 40% 38% CORPORATE 29 35 40 4% 5% 5% Male 369 348 362 63% 60% 62% EUROMED 150 140 143 23% 20% 19% EUROMED Female 622 631 768 29% 29% 26% F-FWD 91 92 13% 12% Male 1,558 1,576 2,202 71% 71% 74% FRANCE 90 97 103 14% 14% 13% F-FWD Female 304 400 49% 52% LATAM 72 70 100 11% 10% 13% Male 319 362 51% 48% Total 659 704 773 FRANCE Female 938 948 961 32% 32% 30% Male 1,966 2,029 2,192 68% 68% 70% REDUNDANCIES LATAM Female 199 203 196 17% 13% 12% Breakdown of redundancies by geographical zone Male 1,005 1,312 1,388 83% 87% 88% 1520 15 63 3 2% 10% 1% Total Female 3,158 3,467 3,798 32% 32% 30% ASOR 21 2 3% 0% 0% Male 6,651 7,499 8,656 68% 68% 70% CEBAME 47 100 46 7% 16% 8% CORPORATE 15 19 10 2% 3% 2% Male/Female headcount by socio-professional category (excluding internships + Mercurio Argentina excluded from 2017 data) EUROMED 79 89 61 12% 14% 10% ETAM Female 2,633 2,807 45% 45% F-FWD 13 16 0% 2% 3% Male 3,238 3,416 55% 55% FRANCE 319 223 309 50% 35% 52% Managers Female 501 520 29% 30% LATAM 137 126 147 22% 20% 25% Male 1,230 1,209 71% 70% Total 633 635 592 Workers Female 364 471 10% 10% Male 3314 4031 90% 90% 70 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 71 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group Absolute Value Relative Value Gender 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Training Unit 2016 2017 2018 Male/Female distribution age (F-FWD and Mercurio excluded from 2016 data and Mercurio excluded from 2017 data) Breakdown per type of training 60& + Female 56 57 49 21% 18% 16% Virtual classroom hours 190 402 Male 207 252 266 79% 82% 84% Learning paths hours 190 3,872 50-59 Female 545 608 584 29% 28% 26% Classroom based training hours 31,193 79,272 Male 1,363 1,599 1,703 71% 72% 74% VISION e-learning hours 6,467 2,704 40-49 Female 797 891 969 28% 28% 28% Total hours 38,040 86,250 Male 2,015 2,313 2,508 72% 72% 72% 30-39 Female 1,130 1,241 1,160 35% 34% 31% Average number of training hours per gender Male 2,081 2,395 2,586 65% 66% 69% Female hours 14.9 5.1 20-29 Female 622 671 645 39% 36% 34% Male hours 11.5 5.8 Male 973 1,180 1,247 61% 64% 66% <20 Female 8 30 3 40% 41% 17% Access rate per gender Male 12 43 15 60% 59% 83% Female % 30.4 44.4 Male % 25.4 34.9 Male/Female recruitments by socio-professional category (excluding internships) ETAM Female 323 469 40% 45% Average number of training hours per socio-professional category Male 483 576 60% 55% ETAM hours 12.3 5.8 Managers Female 56 89 32% 35% Managers hours 14.6 4.5 Male 121 165 68% 65% Workers hours 5.5 8.1 Workers Female 109 137 12% 12% Access rate per socio-professional category Male 828 1,022 88% 88% ETAM % 29.8 43.7 Total Female 488 695 25% 28% Managers % 44.5 67 Male 1,432 1,763 75% 72% Workers % 8.1 18.2 Male/Female recruitments by age and gender (excluding internships) WORKFORCE 60& + Female 1 0% 5% Turnover % 6 6.6 7.1 Male 14 19 100% 95% Average annual temporary workforce 1567 2153 3025 50-59 Female 35 39 29% 19% 16% Breakdown of employees by contract Male 145 212 71% 81% 84% Permanent 11555 40-49 Female 86 157 27% 19% 27% Fixed Term 899 Male 372 415 73% 81% 73% 30-39 Female 181 256 29% 26% 31% SOCIAL DIALOGUE Male 506 580 71% 74% 69% Collective agreements 20-29 Female 177 240 33% 32% 31% Agreements signed 45 28 33 Male 374 526 67% 68% 69% <20 Female 9 2 44% 30% 15% Male 21 11 56% 70% 85% 72 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 73 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 15. Report of the independent provides the information required (measures and outcomes) that we regulatory provisions and that the under article R. 225-105 II; considered the most important Information, taken as a whole, is not third-party body presented in Appendix 1; presented fairly, in accordance with ■■ We assessed the process used to the Criteria. select and validate the principal risks; ■■ We assessed the overall consistency of the Statement based on our Comments ■■ We asked about the existence of knowledge of the entity. internal control and risk management Without qualifying our conclusion above Independent third party’s report on the consolidated non-financial statement presented procedures the entity has put in place; We believe that the work carried out, and in accordance with article A. 225-3 in the management report ■■ We assessed the consistency of the based on our professional judgement, of the French Commercial Code, we have is sufficient to provide a basis for our the following comments: outcomes and the key performance To the Board of Directors, Responsibility of the independent The work that we conducted allows us to limited assurance conclusion; a higher indicators with respect to the principal ■■ the methodology used to determine In our quality as an independent third level of assurance would have required third party assess the compliance of the Statement risks and policies presented; the ratio of the CO2 emissions us to carry more extensive procedures. party, accredited by the COFRAC under On the basis of our work, our with regulatory provisions and the avoided, reported for the first year, number n° 3-1050 (whose scope is fairness of the Information: ■■ We verified that the Statement responsibility is to provide a report Means and resources remains to be completed and to be includes a clear and reasoned available at www.cofrac.fr), and as a expressing a limited assurance Our verification work mobilized the skills better documented; ■■ We took note of the activity of all the explanation for the absence of a member of the network of one of the conclusion on: of four people and took place between companies included in the scope of policy regarding one or more of those ■■ the actions plan related to the statutory auditors of your entity Gefco June 2018 and March 2019 on a total ■■ the compliance of the Statement with consolidation, the statement of the risks; sustainable procurement (charter, (hereafter “entity”), we hereby report to duration of intervention of about eight the provisions of article R. 225-105 of main social and environmental risks survey, audits), initiated in 2017, does you on the consolidated non-financial ■■ We verified that the Statement covers weeks. the French Commercial Code; related to this activity, and, where not have a performance indicator yet. statement for the year ended on the the consolidated scope, i.e. all the applicable, the impact of this activity We conducted about ten interviews 31st December 2018 (hereinafter ■■ the fairness of the information companies included in the scope Paris-La Défense, the 11th March 2019 on compliance with human rights with the persons responsible for the the “Statement”), included in the provided in accordance with of consolidation in accordance with and anti-corruption and tax evasion preparation of the Statement including French original signed by: management report pursuant to the article R. 225 105 I, 3° and II of the article L. 233-16, within limitations set legislation, as well as the resulting in particular the Risk Management, Independent Verifier legal and regulatory provisions of articles French Commercial Code, i.e., the out in the Statement; policies and their outcomes; Human Resources, Health and Safety, L. 225 102-1, R. 225-105 et R. 225-105-1 outcomes of the policies, including ERNST & YOUNG et Associés ■■ We assessed the data collection environment and purchasing. of the French Commercial code (Code de key performance indicators, and the ■■ We assessed the suitability of the process implemented by the entity to Director Sustainable Development commerce). measures implemented considering Criteria with respect to its relevance, Conclusion ensure the completeness and fairness Philippe Aubain the principal risks , hereinafter the completeness, reliability, neutrality Based on our work, nothing has come The entity’s responsibility of the Information; “Information”. and understandability by taking into to our attention that causes us to believe Partner Pursuant to legal and regulatory For the key performance indicators that the non-financial statement is not in Jean-François Bélorgey consideration with industry best ■■ requirements, the Board of Directors is However, it is not our responsibility and other quantitative outcomes accordance with the applicable practices, where appropriate; responsible for preparing the Statement to comment on: that we considered to be the most including a presentation of the business ■■ We verified that the Statement important presented in Appendix 1, ■■ the entity’s compliance with other model, a description of the principal includes each category of social and we implemented: applicable legal and regulatory non-financial risks, a presentation of the environmental information set out provisions, particularly the French – analytical procedures to verify policies implemented considering those in article L. 225-102-1 III , as well as duty of care law and anti-corruption the proper consolidation of the risks and the outcomes of said policies, information regarding human rights and tax evasion legislation; data collected and the consistency including key performance indicators. and the anti-corruption and tax of their evolutions; Quantitative Information Quantitative Information ■■ the compliance of products and evasion legislation; (including key performance indicators) (actions or results) The Statement has been prepared in services with the applicable – substantive tests using sampling accordance with the entity’s procedures ■■ We verified that the Statement Social Information regulations. techniques, in order to verify (hereinafter the “Criteria”), the main includes an explanation for the the proper application of the ■■ Turnover (%) ■■ Employee commitment elements of which are presented in the Nature and scope of the work absence of the information required ■■ Our work described below has definitions and procedures Statement (or which are available online by the 2nd paragraph of III of Article ■■ Participation rate to the commitment ■■ Remuneration and reconcile the data with the or on request... [e.g., from the entity’s been performed in accordance with L. 225-102-1 of the French survey (%) supporting documents. This work ■■ Health and safety (prevention head office]). the provisions of articles A. 225 1 Commercial Code; was carried out on a selection of ■■ Frequency rate, accident severity rate actions) et seq. of the French Commercial Independence and quality control ■■ We verified that the Statement contributing entities listed below: (Nb / million hours worked) Code determining the conditions in Our independence is defined by the presents the business model and the Gefco Argentina (one of which is Environmental Information which the independent third party provisions of article L. 822-11-3 of principal risks associated with the Malvinas), Gefco Poland (one of performs its engagement and with Share of hazardous / non-hazardous Circular economy the French Commercial code and the activity of all the entities included in which is Natolin), Gefco Italy (one ■■ ■■ the professional guidance of the waste recovered (%) (waste management), Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) the scope of consolidation; including of which is Pregnana), Mercurio French Institute of Statutory Auditors of our profession. In addition, we have where relevant and proportionate, Italy (one of which is San Polo ■■ Ratio of the CO2 emissions avoided (%) ■■ Climate change (significant emission (“CNCC”) applicable in France to implemented a system of quality control the risks associated with their Di Torrile) which cover between sources due to activity, reduction such engagements, as well as to the 10% and 20% of the consolidated system, including documented policies business relationships, their products objectives, adaptation measures) international ISAE standard 3000 data relating to these tests (16% and procedures regarding compliance or services, as well as their policies, with the ethical requirements, French – Assurance engagements other measures and outcomes, including of employees, 11% of energy professional guidance and applicable than audits or reviews of historical key performance indicators; consumption, etc.); Societal Information legal and regulatory requirements financial information. We consulted documentary — Subcontracting and suppliers ■■ We verified, where relevant with ■■ ■■ respect to the principal risks or the sources and conducted interviews to (environmental and social issues) policies presented, that the Statement corroborate the qualitative information 74 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 75 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 2018 BELGIUM NETHERLANDS GERMANY POLAND RUSSIA GEFCO — — — — — Sponsor of 4L Trophy Donor to Doctors Supports numerous Supports charity Supported the annual Russian Without Borders children’s charities Gajusz Foundation Railways Charity Race charitable GEFCO Belgium is sponsor of the 4L Trophy, a long-distance charity driving rally in which GEFCO in the Netherlands is a donor to the GEFCO in Germany supports a number of GEFCO Poland’s primary charity of support In tandem with its major shareholder, Russian students travel across the Moroccan desert Dutch division of Doctors Without Borders, children’s charities including a children’s is the Gajusz Foundation a charity providing Railways, GEFCO supported the annual work to deliver school supplies to children. and also handles all of the organisations hospice, a home for traumatised children, and hospice care for terminally ill children with Russian Railways Charity Race. GEFCO raised international logistics. the Mainz Child Protection Association. both stationary and mobile incapabilities. over €13,000 for a number of good causes. The company also supports a Polish charity crowdfunding platform, an orphanage, and two dog shelters. Selected country programs CZECH REPUBLIC SLOVAKIA UKRAINE — — — Logistics partner Continued sponsorship Supports the Foundation for 8 marathons of MiniTRNAVA for Disabled People GEFCO was the logistics partner of the GEFCO continued its sponsorship of GEFCO supports the Foundation for RunCzech running league, helping to MiniTRNAVA, an educational establishment Disabled People collecting distributing food organize 8 marathons across the country where children take on the roles of adults in and supplies to those in need, and also with up to 10,000 runners in each event. The a miniaturized model of Trnava city, helping contributes to the Nadezhda orphanage in company also made charitable donations to them to think about adult lives and careers Mokrets. The company encourages positive the Dobry Andel (Good Angel) foundation, and learn about their city. The company also activities from its individual employees, providing support for those with serious sponsored and was the logistics partner for including blood donations to the OHMATDET illness. GEFCO also supported the Lepsi Misto the Trnava city half marathon. children’s hospital, and organized clean-ups organization, improving living conditions and of local parks and playgrounds. schools in the Kolin region. BULGARIA ROMANIA HUNGARY — — — Supported Hope Donated €100,000 Supported the Forest for the Little One to Save the Children Saving non-profit In Bulgaria, GEFCO has been supporting the GEFCO Romania is a significant supporter GEFCO supported the Forest Saving nonHope for the Little Ones charity looking after of Save the Children, donating €100,000 in profit, cleaning the forests near Budapest and infants and toddlers who are abandoned 2018. It is also a major supporter of Parada, constructing hives for protected bee colonies. or otherwise separated from their parents. a large children’s charity based in Bucharest. The company also collects food, warm GEFCO contributions have covered the For the first time this year, the company also clothes, and comfort items for old people organisation’s building costs for 2018, and a began support of Robi, a Romanian charity living alone or in poverty, and developed a sponsored business run helped raised further helping disadvantaged rural communities. penpal system of communication to help the funds and awareness for the charity. old elderly feel less isolated. SPAIN UNITED KINGDOM FRANCE ITALY GREECE — — — — — Raised money for 52 members raised over Supports a range of charities Supports Italian WWF and Supports Drop in Save the Children €40,000 for Children in Need In France, GEFCO supports a range of SOS Villagi dei Bambini the Ocean charity GEFCO Spain supported a range of initiatives 52 members of GEFCO UK’s office cycled charities with its most significant involvement GEFCO in Italy supports both the Italian GEFCO Greece supports the Drop in the across the year, raising money for Save the 300 miles from Coventry in the English being with the Institut de l’Engagement, a WWF, and children’s charity SOS Villagi dei Ocean charity, an organisation supporting Children via a Christmas solidarity breakfast, midlands to GEFCO’s headquarters in Paris, French organisation that mentors, supports, Bambini. volunteers trying to help with the country’s and for Menudos Corazones on Valentines and raised over €40,000 for Children in and financially aids young people with refugee crisis. day – a foundation helping children with Need, one of the UK’s foremost charities specific civic projects that they would like to heart problems. The company also sponsors benefitting children around the world. The realise. GEFCO also supports Odyssea, an a basketball team for women over 50, and UK office also supports Transaid, a charity annual charity run for breast cancer. arranged for all employees to walk the supporting the development of safe and famous Camino de Santiago. sustainable transport around the world. 76 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group 77 2018 CSR Report GEFCO Group GEFCO 77/81 Rue des Lilas d’Espagne 92400 Courbevoie, France T +33 (0)1 49 05 21 21 GEFCO.net GEFCO.net
