Mandom Report 2019 Contents 02 MISSION Framework 04 Top Message Value Creation Story 12 History of Value Creation 14 Mandom Group Value Creation Model 20 Financial and Non-financial Highlights Growth Strategy 22 Growth Strategy 30 Brand Expansion 32 Business Domains Corporate Governance 36 Corporate Governance 42 Executives, Audit & Supervisory Board Members Sustainability 44 Business and Other Risks 46 Approach to CSR 54 CSR Efforts Financial and Non-financial Data 74 Analyses of Management and Finances 76 11-Year Consolidated Financial and Non-financial Highlights 78 Consolidated Financial Statements 98 Mandom Group Detailed History 100 Mandom Group Companies 101 Company Outline / Stock and Shareholder Information Editorial Policy Report Coverage Reference Guidelines The Mandom Group has been publishing the Mandom Report (integrated Mandom Corporation and its affiliated ● “International <IR> Framework” released by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) report) since 2018 to help our stakeholders understand our mediumto companies both inside and outside Japan ● “Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation” released by the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry long-term efforts at value creation. Mandom Report 2019 also integrates the *For details, please see p.100 “Mandom Group Companies.” ● “ISO 26000:2010̶Guidance on Social Responsibility” edited by Japanese Standards Association previously separate KohDoh Report (CSR report). This has been done as part ● “Environmental Reporting Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2018 Version)” released by Ministry of the of our work on providing integrated information as a company and to enhance Reporting Period Environment, Japan the non-financial information we provide. When editing this report, we put FY2018 (ended March 2019) ● “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and Standards” released by GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) ● Mandom and Group companies in Japan: together a brief summary focused on information that is highly important for April 1, 2018-March 31, 2019 Regarding Forward-Looking Statements improving Mandomʼs corporate value while referring to the “Guidance for This annual report contains forward-looking statements concerning Mandomʼs current plans, strategies, beliefs and ● Overseas Group companies: Collaborative Value Creation” released by the Ministry of Economy, Trade performance. These forward-looking statements include statements other than those based on historical fact and represent and Industry and other resources. Jan. 1, 2018-Dec. 31, 2018 the assumptions and beliefs of management based on information currently available. Mandom therefore wishes to caution *To the extent it is possible, the latest information at the time readers that actual results may differ materially from expectations, and that forward-looking statements are subject to a Visit our website for more detailed information. this report was written is included. number of foreseen and unforeseen risks and uncertainties. All amounts have been rounded down to the nearest whole unit. ● IR Information : https://www.mandom.co.jp/en/ir/ ● CSR Information：https://www.mandom.co.jp/en/csr/ Mandom Report 2019 01 02 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 03 In 2017, Mandom has revisited the origins of our business operations, explored and further advanced Mandom’s reason for existence that our predecessors have solidified, and rebuilt the framework of our mission by placing the concept of a“human-oriented”company at our core. In his message in Mandom Report 2018, President Motonobu Nishimura gave his thoughts on management based on his own personal experience and talked about the meaning behind the corporate mission. ̶ Mr. Nishimura, what have you learned from your MP meetings, many of which produced proposals which of our stock in 1988. Eight years had passed since I saw evolving in a way which ignores the needs of others and business experience? were quickly reflected in business operations. For the the Company nearly collapse. How the large gears started focuses solely on itself. In order to achieve that, individuals I joined Mandom in 1977 at a time when we were first two years of MP meetings, before we put our focus to turn, pushing us up to reach the point of our stock must acquire proper knowledge about new technologies launching a sales company and shifting focus to the realm on the market or consumers, we first had to strive to entering the over-the-counter market, was a very important and possess the ability to judge logically what the Earth and of direct sales. My first job was in sales, to shift distribution unify our vector within the Company, in order to restore experience to me. the people who live on it need using a strong moral code. through distributors to direct sales through the more than our profitability, of course, but more so to rebuild as an Ultimately, society requires heart. Human judgment is 70 sales offices of the sales company. However, we had organization. At first, most of the inputs from employees ̶ What is the significance of Mandomʼs Corporate the foundation for such a society. to abandon these manufacturer-centric, strong-armed were of what I would describe as “geocentric” beliefs. Mission? Even as we debate and reconstruct our corporate reforms after only two years because they did not receive However, further discussion of these issues would lead us A central pillar to our current mission is Dedication to mission, the tide of digitalization will not stop, as evolving the support of the market or our business partners. We to a more “heliocentric” understandings. For example, for Service (Oyakudachi) for consumers. AIs and forms of services will become more common. In were forced to liquidate the sales company, which had the issue of frequent product shortages at sales locations To us, “Oyakudachi” is the concept of identifying needs that light, we ultimately reached a thinking which focused lost its financial balance. We were overly focused on sales, and the resulting inconvenience to business partners, of people from across the globe, not just the established on people, which cared for human hearts, and which ideas took off and landed only within the manufacturer, a the team would discuss what measures could be taken. or the opinion-leaders, in their daily lives, not just during sought value creation only possible by humans. We often mindset that contrasts sharply with our current philosophy An employee may express a desire for a more detailed special moments. We hope to provide value which is discussed the question of what capabilities are unique to of “Oyakudachi” dedication to service. As a result, Mandom production plan to be made at factories to prevent “Something New” or “Something Different” based on humans. was forced to dispose of a large quantity of returned product shortages. The discussion would often develop solid technology and a stylish, fun concept. We hope that Only humans are capable of being deeply touched by goods, sell portions of the land of our founding place, in the following way: “What does the factory base their our products will help consumers from around the world beauty and feeling a sense of satisfaction. This awareness and most intolerably, make personnel reductions. Leaving production plan on?” → “The sales plan from the Sales to feel a little bit of magic, to feel positive and cheerful, of beauty is unique to humans. Humans also possess an would have been painful, but staying was also agonizing. Division” → “What does the Sales Division base their sales through cleaning their body, grooming, and dressing neatly incredible imagination which is not bound by past data Seeing the Company in near collapse, I learned an plan on?” → “The sales plan from sales locations around the in their day-to-day lives. or the status quo. Human imagination is the only thing important lesson as I vowed never to repeat this. country.” Ultimately, the team would reach the conclusion In addition, we also feel that it is important to imagine capable of producing new value which can make one feel In 1980, as the Company aimed to regain its footing, that “product shortages could be reduced if each sales staff and act without being constrained by common sense, beautiful, cool, cute, excited, fun, or sad, to stir peopleʼs we underwent managerial reforms and the management member more accurately grasps the information of their preconceptions, previously accepted values, and past heart. We believe that it is the duty of humans to light the became significantly younger. While younger managers area and produces a more accurate sales plan.” Naturally, successes during this time when forecasting the future is fire of these passions and make the impossible possible could match their predecessors in mental and physical measures to combat product shortages must be conducted a difficult task. It is vital to act boldly, facing shifts in the with an unbending spirit, with the help of strong-willed energy, they lacked managerial experience, and unlike through cooperation of all related departments, including current of times, be prepared to cut our own path forward partners who share the same values. In other words, we today, there was no function set in place for drawing up production, sales, purchasing, and product development. by being brave, taking risks and challenges. believe that it is a job for humans and role of humans management strategy. We all had to come together for Once teams began to think about what is currently We will utilize this mentality passed down over the and human-oriented companies, one of which we aspire the rebuild. First, we grasped the current status of the possible, they began to head towards problem resolution. 90-year history of the Company in order to become a to be, to grab and shake hearts and create our shared Company and identified all of the problematic issues. By continuing such discussions among all employees, our company which is needed in society at not only our 100th future. So many issues came up that the walls of the conference vectors started to align and the whole company has begun anniversary, but beyond. At the core of the reformulated heading in a single direction. Extracted from Mandom Report 2018 room were covered by cards forming affinity diagrams. We MISSION, constructed last year, is the concept of being concentrated similar issues, organized them into categories, When we began to really feel these changes a “human-oriented” company. We have arrived at this further concentrated them into related groups, and and movements, we were able to build a business concept by revisiting the starting point of our corporate designed cause and effect flow charts. We ultimately linked development foundation based on a consumeractivities, exploring Mandomʼs reason for existence that our them with our corporate mission, divided the issues into centric perspective, which has continued to this day. predecessors have built, and adjusting it to the needs of those requiring overall company initiatives and those which We also developed Mandom terminology which took the times. could be handled by individual departments, and created the perspective of customers. Our customers are not project teams. This was the origin of the MP meetings just “shouhisha (consumer)” but “seikatsusha (liver).” We ̶ In this age of stunning technological and scientific (Middle-Range Planning meetings). At the time, there were started using the term “shopping place” instead of “sales progress, why focus on being “human oriented?” about 20 such teams, comprised of six or seven employees place.” Sales is not to “push” our products, but rather to Currently, I can strongly feel how technology is growing who would meet for two days a month to discuss these have the customers “pull” the products themselves. “Sales at an exponential rate. In the 21st century, society is issues. All personnel truly participated in this process as promotions” should rather be “choice promotions,” to supported through assorted technologies and science, everyone from officers down to young employees with prompt customers to choose us. As a result of this large including artificial intelligence, robotics, IoT, and life only three or four years of experience belonged to these shift in our mindset, the whole Company started to move sciences. However, we must prevent technology from teams. There were so many issues to be discussed in the in a positive direction, and began over-the-counter trading 04 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 05 Top Message To realize VISION2027 ̶ How do you feel about the MP-12 and Indonesia, the twin engines of the Mandom Group, infrastructure development situation there is now a foundation in place for more quickly looking ahead to the next MP? and accurately keeping track of results under the same standards and judging things from the standpoint of On the road map to realize VISION2027, MP-12 group-wide optimization. We will continue introducing (12th Middle-Range Planning) is considered the the common accounting system at all companies within infrastructure development period, and it is in its final the Group. We will also establish policies for efficient year. In accordance with the VISION policies, with the and effective fund management and our approach to aim of evolving into a truly global company, we have transactions on a global scale, to swiftly address issues. been working on creating a Group operating structure The foundation is also coming together for management and establishing a management platform to support accounting, enabling various departments to consider it with our sights set on meeting the global standards, their operations in a more multifaceted manner from a including thorough implementation of mission-based profit standpoint. management, which is the most important infrastructure. In regard to the information infrastructure, we When establishing MP-12, we identified management introduced a group-wide integrated communication issues at officersʼ gatherings, and four issues were raised network in addition to upgrading the core systems, as foundational components, namely human resources including systems for production and sales. I expect creation, financial foundation, information infrastructure, it to promote timely information sharing and quicker and corporate governance. decision-making. Efforts have begun that will lead to Two years have passed under MP-12, and with improvement in productivity per unit, including the respect to human resources creation, we began promotion of digitalization and paperless operations. working to spread among all employees in every Our initiatives in the area of corporate governance country the understanding of our MISSION, which are detailed in the integrated report that we began has been translated into eight languages in the first publishing last year. These include strategy formulation year. In the second year, we conducted a survey of by top management based on integrated thinking and implementation status of the MISSION. The survey enhanced evaluations of the effectiveness of directors. showed that employee engagement with respect to the The next Middle-Range Planning (MP-13) covers a MISSION was very high, and I was happy to see that. period of reformation and challenges for the realization At the same time, our younger employees expressed of VISION2027. A large, stable infrastructure will allow a positive attitude in requesting for opportunities us to make a major leap forward, so we would like to and environment to take more challenging jobs that complete infrastructure development during this final allow them to better exercise their abilities. We will year of MP-12 for that reason as well. develop a better environment in combination with the simultaneous implementation of a group-wide While striving to be of benefit to consumers worldwide, personnel affair system that allows all employees of the Group to grow under the same system. This survey we seek to evolve in order to remain a company will continue to be conducted every year, and we will identify issues and make improvements on an ongoing basis. We also launched a system for hiring and training that is valuable for society. the outstanding human resources necessary for realizing VISION2027. We are also making progress in work-style reform as only Mandom can, promoting improvements in the three areas of fulfillment in work, creativity, and productivity based on the MISSION. As for the financial foundation, the common accounting Mandom Corporation system that was introduced in Japan for the first year and President Executive Officer & Director in Indonesia last year is in effect as of this year. In Japan Motonobu Nishimura 06 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 07 Top Message Aiming to become a cosmetics company possessing but if it relieves people of routine daily tasks such as data processing and allows more time and energy to life unthinkingly, even if they spend the same time in the same place. Information available on smartphones and unique strengths in specialized areas be put into work that requires imagination, creativity, and comprehensive decision-making capabilities, it will computers can be very useful, but there are many things that can only be understood by taking physical action lead to improved way of working. The role of humans and experiencing them with the five senses, seeing them will change. For example, it will not be AI but humans and hearing them for yourself. If you focus, no matter ̶ What is the value provided to consumers that create new value for the future, by interacting more what results, youʼre sure to make new discoveries in the that is important to Mandom as a humanclosely with consumers, eliminating social inefficiencies, process that will lead to the next step. oriented company? solving difficult and persistent problems, and creating The second thing was that I want them to open their The value we provide is “Oyakudachi,” our MISSION innovation. minds and take a positive approach to things, assuming itself. As I said last year, to us, “Dedication to Service Normally with innovative companies that continually a “can do” attitude instead of a “canʼt do” attitude in (Oyakudachi)” is the concept of identifying needs of innovate, you picture a corporate climate of freedom every challenge they tackle. Life is an accumulation of people from across the globe, not just the established and open-mindedness, challenge, and tolerance of various choices and decisions made on a daily basis. or the opinion-leaders, in their daily lives, not just during failure. However, in reality, evaluation of performance When you consider that the decisions and KohDoh special moments. We hope to provide value which is is strict, and those human resources that cannot deliver (thoughtful action) of yourself today will impact your “Something New” or “Something Different” based on the expected results are treated without mercy. later decisions and KohDoh to no small extent and, in solid technology and a stylish, fun concept. We hope At Mandom, I want to create a corporate climate turn, will greatly affect the future you, if you open your that our products will help consumers from around the conducive to continuous innovation by having mind and take a positive approach to things, assuming world to feel a little bit of magic, to feel positive and everyone actively participate in taking up challenges you “can do” anything you try rather than doubting you cheerful, through cleaning their body, grooming, and and recognize meaningful failures rather than seeing “might not” be able to, engaging in KohDoh by taking dressing neatly in their day-to-day lives. failure as a trade-off for success. Realizing such a physical steps and putting your five senses to work At the heart of the value that Mandom provides climate will likely be very difficult. Accordingly, a major rather than just thinking in your head, you just might is the “fun” axis. The word “fun” represents a positive challenge will be creating a stimulating environment in make unexpected discoveries. Many people give up attitude. The Gatsby commercials, for example, have ̶ What is organization building as it which innovation can be brought about and people can on things halfway through, so it is important to have the been described as “stylish but somehow whimsical, pertains to becoming a human-oriented do their jobs comfortably. Cross-border job rotations powers of concentration and persistence to continue entertaining and rhythmic.” This is a message unique company? will become commonplace, and there will be all kinds thinking about how something can be accomplished. to our company and is an expression of Mandomʼs of people around. Moreover, information will come I want you to open your mind and take a positive During the 30 years of the Heisei era, there were characteristics and world view. in from inside and outside the company. New value approach to things, assuming a “can do” attitude instead tremendous technological developments from the When it comes to the five senses, itʼs important for will be created under those conditions, and proper of “might not,” and live out a cycle of positivity. standpoint of human history, including the emergence people to interact and relate to each other. Young evaluations will take place. People will grow, and a high I also want supervisors to delegate authority and of the internet and genome analysis. However, over the digital natives make their selections while taking in level of motivation will be maintained. The ideal is a subordinates to work on achieving the goals of their next several decades, it is said that the world will change various information using various means. They may group of strong, independent individuals who exercise departments while thinking about their jobs on a higher to the point of requiring a new social system and that know what is talked about or selling at the moment, but leadership based on their respective roles rather than level. People grow when they overcome difficulties. human ideals will change beyond our imaginations as thereʼs some doubt as to whether theyʼve cultivated authority or position. scientific and technological progress, taking place at the sensitivity to determine what they really need. To For that reason, we have put together a global an exponential rate, have entered a phase of limitless cultivate those sensitivities, a cultural aspect or emotions personnel system during the infrastructure development upward growth. This can no longer be avoided. like delight, anger, sorrow, and pleasure have to be period of MP-12, and we have begun training the Nevertheless, what kind of society will come about is brought in. As such, though there are several elements human resources that will support Mandom on a global up to us. In any case, I believe that technology must to the qualitative picture of the ideals set forth in scale. be used to improve our quality of life, including the VISION2027, the first and foremost is to continually global environment, and the quality of our work. In the deliver authentic proposals with a focus on stock rather ̶ What do you emphasize in personnel near future, I think work that does not require special than flow. Underlying this is the belief that providing knowledge or skills, along with data analysis and work development so that Dedication to Service true value is what will lead to daily discoveries and that require orderly, structured execution of tasks, will (Oyakudachi) will continue to be upheld? inspiration. be taken over by AI and robots. I believe, with digital I communicated two things at this yearʼs new employee transformation and the adoption of digital technologies, training. The first was that I want them to always there will be major, fundamental changes to approach everything with awareness and care. This conventional business processes and operations. Some will result in very different experience, insights, and have voiced concern that AI will steal jobs from humans, sensibility gained compared to those who go through 08 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 09 Top Message There are many current mid-level management personnel that have had various experiences overseas values are also changing significantly. Under these circumstances where values differ from country to Aiming to achieve in their twenties, so one strategy is to send our younger employees on overseas assignments in their twenties as country and those values and purchasing behaviors are changing rapidly, thorough consumer-led lifestyle value sustainable growth well, but I feel like one of our organizational challenges creation is essential if we are to expand Dedication is that in many ways, the environment for our younger to Service (Oyakudachi) in terms of both quality and employees is still not conducive enough for taking up quantity. ̶What does becoming a sustainable challenges. Early on in MP-12, we developed a matrix structure company mean to Mandom? to generate Group synergies. We are pouring particular What lies at the heart of the spirit that has been handed ̶ What initiatives are being taken to provide effort into marketing functions (horizontal axis), down to us from our predecessors is Dedication to promoting total marketing on a global scale, sharing Service (Oyakudachi). To put that into practice, the Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) to a marketing know-how through cross-border personnel company must not go under. If we approach things billion people around the world? exchange, and creating new value within the Group. As from the standpoint of a going concern, we are set and maximizing corporate value. As you can see in We must expand our Dedication to Service part of this, we concentrated our marketing functions in a specific time and are merely a part of one short the endless strings of corporate scandals, the trust a (Oyakudachi) in terms of both quantity and quality to Aoyama, Tokyo. As a result, we are now able to have period of a long history. The day will come when we corporation has worked so hard to build up can be as we work toward fulfilling the VISION Slogan of substantive discussions at IMCG (International Marketing pass the torch to the next generation. What is important lost in a moment when it seeks profit at all costs or VISION2027, which is to “Use our ʻOnly Oneʼ strengths Conference of Gatsby) and IMCL (International at that time is human resources and our MISSION. It ignore rules to increase efficiency. SDGs and ESG, where to provide Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) to Marketing Conference on Ladiesʼ Cosmetics). is important for us to build platforms for growth and economic value is reinforced by social value, have a billion people around the world.” That is another For example, at the last IMCG, everyone discussed pass them on to the next generation, but we do not become important standards. In this day and age, it is reason why it is important to establish our products the future of Gatsby. The sense of camaraderie was know what kind of person will be the most sought-after, impossible to develop effective management strategies within the lifestyles of Asian consumers, but the lifestyles deepened by sharing individual thoughts across national in corporate management, in that age. However, the if you stand on economic value alone. Social value, in differ in each country and region. For example, products boundaries and working toward mutual understanding. platform has to be something with the power to attract essence, is the value that serves as the foundation of the like menʼs facial cleansing paper and body paper that Employee motivation has also increased based on the people, and it is important how we raise the standing as companyʼs existence, such as our MISSION, SPIRIT, and are successful in Japan struggled to take root in the idea that our world will naturally expand if we are able we pass it on to the next generation. PRINCIPLES. lifestyles of men in Asia, even in affluent places like to win in the rapidly growing Asian market. For that reason as well, at the Board of Directors I want Mandom to continue to be an “Only one Taiwan, because the products are disposable. Today, Additionally, as a symbolic example of globalization, meeting and other meetings, we regard the thorough company” that thrives as a one-of-a-kind company they are fixtures in Taiwanese convenience stores, but to the Bifesta Birthday Party was held last year. Bifesta deliberation process to reach a conclusion as important whose value to society is recognized by partners and get to this point we had to conduct frequent awareness having developed into a global brand despite its as the conclusion itself, and discuss things in earnest until stakeholders, having a balance of sociality and humanity campaigns, including sampling on the streets and at newcomer status, its birthday party was planned by every member is satisfied. as a good corporate citizen with the dynamism to gas stations. A great deal of time was spent creating a female employee from the Taiwan Office, with the The top management issues for achieving survive in any age, and valuing a MISSION based on a and establishing the market. Moreover, as mentioned Aoyama Office, our headquarters, being brought in VISION2027 are establishing the corporate brand human-oriented approach. earlier, technological change is taking place at a rapid on the planning. Our offices all over the world were pace today, especially in the area of IT, so the means brought together by this event, truly materializing of obtaining information, purchasing behavior, and one of our aims when we concentrated the marketing Interviewer's Thoughts Interviewer functions. Even as the future remains unpredictable, cosmetics can play a role in Hiroko Ozawa Meanwhile, we are ramping up efforts to re-brand creating a positive attitude. With “Oyakudachi” as its keyword, Mandom is our global brand Gatsby as well as Pixy which has U.S. Certified Public Accountant/ always thinking about ways to perceive changes within the company, with Chief Consultant of Japan Shareholder suffered from declining brand activity in recent years, means such as holding marketing conferences and utilizing the Aoyama Services Ltd. and also working on cross-border e-commerce, which Marketing Office. Hiroko Ozawa joined Ernst & Young has gotten off to a late start in Japan. What was very interesting, about being human-oriented, was the comment about ShinNihon LLC after working as an approaching everything with awareness and care. I felt it exemplifies how the company advisor for corporate acquisitions and is more about innovation toward “active employee engagement” than creating particular business restructuring at a corporate system or monitoring things. I got the picture of an innovative organization where everyone auditing consulting firm. She is in charge has a leadership mindset, recognizing their own roles and respecting their colleagues with of advising on disclosure of corporate different roles, while appreciating cross-border values. “Fun” is the keyword, and this is a information, primarily CSR and integrated group of people that enjoy that environment. reports. From May 2012 to September Daily words and actions create tomorrow, whether itʼs getting rid of negativity or thinking 2018, she also worked at the Japan Office about how to accomplish things. The focus on tomorrow instead of yesterday and taking a of the International Integrated Reporting positive approach to life are things that I felt when I watched Mandomʼs commercials as a Council (IIRC). She has been in her child. I thought these things were very “Mandom-esque.” current position since January 2018. 10 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 11 History of Value Creation 80,000 Mandom Corporationʼs history began in 1927 as Kintsuru Perfume Corporation, which inherited the trademark for high-grade domestic perfume “Kintsuru Perfume.” Value Creation Story Shinpachiro Nishimura, the company president at the time, worked to spread cosmetics under the principle of “Value for Money,” and that spirit has been passed down to this day. Since then, Mandom has continually offered consumers a host of unique products always 60,000 perfectly suited to the lifestyles of the times, launching various industry-first products and Founder growing the market in Japan and other Asian countries. Shinpachiro Nishimura We will continue to pursue Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) for consumers all over the world guided by our original concepts of Health, Cleanliness & Beauty. 40,000 VISION 2027 Founding Spirit ― Spreading high-quality and low-cost products ➡ P.22 Growth Strategy Spreading high-quality products and having them used by as many people as possible will lead to social contribution. 20,000 Domestic net sales Overseas net sales * Post-1997 consolidated base 0 1920’s ‒50’s (1st 43rd) 1960’s (44th 53rd) 1970’s (54th 63rd) 1980’s (64th 73rd) 1990’s (74th 83rd) Consolidated base 2000’s (84th 93rd) 2010’s (94th 101st) (Millions of yen) Corporate Governance 1927 1960s Latter half of 1970s -early 1980s 1982 2017 Launched the first MP Project under a management Revised the Mission, and Established Kintsuru Perfume Corporation First Business Crisis Second Business Crisis team that was reorganized in 1980 formulated VISION2027 Acquired Alcohol-based liquid hair styling products came to market Transitioned to a direct sales structure in 1978, but with Developed Mandom terminology such as which outlines where the Performance was sluggish due to being unable to respond ballooning costs, things came to a standstill in two years, “Oyakudachi (Dedication to Service),” “Seikatsusha (Consumers),” “Shopping area” and “Push to pull.” Company aspires to be in 2027, the 100th anniversary. Assets to changes in consumer wants as a result of not letting go and eventually the decision was made to return to sales of the success of tique and pomade. through distributors. The crisis left a long-standing impact, particularly with respect to having to reduce personnel. Only One Marketing 1980s through Consumer-led 1933 1970 Lifestyle Value Creation Launched Launched the Mandom Created a market and expanded results by offering new grooming options Sustainability Tancho Tique Series 1985 1994 1996 “Unique Research” Commenced the first over-theLaunched menʼs hair styling product Launched Gatsby facial cleansing paper and counter sales of Gatsby hair foam for Gatsby Water Gloss in Indonesia Introduced a new way of grooming “Reliable Technology” men Expanded product line for various sizes; became widely known, primarily for the 1989 sachet-size version 2001 Diverse, Highly-Engaged Launched Lúcido, a lineup of fragranceLaunched Gatsby Hair Color series, Human Assets free menʼs cosmetics products, 1995 developing a market for menʼs hair unprecedented in the industry Launched womenʼs cosmetic item Pixy color products Two Way Cake in Indonesia Customer Base 1958 1969 1980s Financial and Non-financial Data Commenced operations Established a joint venture in Production System at technical tie-up in the Indonesia Strengthened Overseas Developments Which Seeks Philippines Spread of Products 1988 1990 1993 1997 2008 2015 2019 Singapore Thailand Hong Kong Malaysia China Vietnam Executed the first M&A Sound and Solid since founding Financial Foundation 1989 1992 1996 1999 2012 All shares of ACG International Sdn. Bhd. Taiwan The Philippines China South Korea India acquired, making it a subsidiary 12 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 13 Mandom Value Creation Model Strengths of Mandom 1 Value Creation Story Only One Marketing through Social Issues Consumers Consumer-led Lifestyle Value Creation Core Brands Value Provided ➡ P.44 to Stakeholders “Business and Other Risks” ➡ P.16 Men's business Consumers ● True Value Satisfying Identification of Creation of fun, Development of Cultural FashionLatent wants from analysis Mandom-esque products embodying Strengths of Mandom 2 Consciousness Environment (E) Dissatisfaction of dissatisfaction solutions for wants “Something New” or ● Enjoyable Grooming Growth Strategy ● Climate Change “Something Different” Habits ● Safe and Reliable (CO2 emissions) using unique research ● Marine Plastic “Human-Oriented” Company and reliable technology Cosmetics and QuasiProblems Drug Products ➡ P.19 ➡ P.17 Employees ● Fulfillment in Work and Employee Growth ● Comfortable Working Environment Based on Society(S) Corporate Providing products at reasonable prices based Promotion of Diversity Mandom Corporate Governance ● Declining Birthrate ● Stable Profits* Culture with Freedom MISSION Diverse, Highlyon GDP level via a ● Work-Life Balance Resulting from Work World and Aging Population ( Japan) ● Brand & Framework Engaged production system Style Reform Creation ● Increasing Population Engagement Open➡ P.02 Employees which seeks the spread Women's business Shareholders & in Asia ● Borderless Mindedness of products ➡ P.19 ● Shareholder Returns through Earnings Growth Expansion Information with Based on Sound Financial Spread of ICT Standing ● Reform of Work ● Ongoing Improvement Styles of Corporate Value ● Promotion of Diversity Strengths of Mandom 3 through Growth Investments Distribution network Sound and solid financial foundation Sustainability extending throughout Customers/Suppliers fast-growing Asian ● Products Capable of Efforts directed at governance region based on Providing Healthy Profits structure and social/environmental ● Proposals for Creating partnerships with Governance(G) issues to enable ongoing value creation Shopping Areas with suppliers High Sales Efficiency ➡ P.18 ● Equal and Fair Trade ● Corporate Scandals ● Director Diversity Relationships Store development to Communication of Satisfaction promote selection by fun, Mandom-esque Regional Societies Financial and Non-financial Data consumers concepts ● Provision of Environmentally Friendly Products and Services *Profit earned for Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) Solving social issues/sustainable growth 14 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 15 Mandom Value Creation Model Strengths of Mandom 1 Strengths of Mandom 2 Only One Marketing through Gatsby, Our Menʼs Cosmetics Brand That Value Creation Story Consumer-led Lifestyle Value Creation Enjoys Tremendous Popularity in Asia With MP-1 in 1982, the corporate stance at Mandom was shifted to Active Employee Engagement in Management, and we Launched in 1978, Gatsby has continued to provide joy for more than 40 years as a brand that loves and is loved by young transitioned to a company focused on Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) and consumer-focused management. It was at this people. The shape of the brand has changed with the times, but Gatsby has always been and always will be a brand for young time that most of the original words and ideas we refer to as Mandom terminology, such as “Seikatsusha” instead of “Shouhisha” people. (consumers), “Shopping area” instead of “Sales area,” “Value creation” instead of “Manufacturing,” “Pull” instead of “Push,” Gatsby is currently available in all areas of the 11 countries and regions where Mandom does business, including Japan. “Proactive” instead of “Passive,” and “Engagement” instead of “Participation” were developed. Although Gatsbyʼs brand philosophy is globally unified, different products are sold in Japan and other countries. The wants, From these, the concepts of “consumer orientation” and “consumer-wants-driven commercialization” were born, leading to the needs, and standards of living of local consumers differ between Japan and other countries, so the content and selling prices of Mandom marketing principle of Consumer-led Lifestyle Value Creation. The idea is that if a product created for the purpose of products are designed accordingly. Growth Strategy satisfying consumer wants and addressing insights really does so, it will provide the consumer with satisfaction and the company Gatsby products made at factories in Japan are mainly sold in countries with high GDPs, such as Japan and NIEs, the Gatsby with both sales and profits. products made in Indonesian factories are mainly sold in ASEAN countries where income levels are lower. In China, Gatsby At Mandom, product development is not based on the preconceptions of engineers or the demands of top management. products made at our Chinese factories are sold. Instead, we emphasize working for the consumer with the ultimate objective of satisfying them. Each and every one of our As a result of focusing on young people in our business expansion in Asia, not just with products but also with communication employees is thoroughly aware of and acts on the importance not only of product development but also of fully demonstrating and in-store points of contact, name recognition of the Gatsby brand is high in many countries, and it has penetrated to the point to their own customers and, by extension, to consumers in general their Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi), including in their of establishing a number one position in the hair styling market. communication and creation of store displays. This leads to the creation of new markets and higher brand engagement. ▶ History of Gatsby 1978. 7 Examples of Oyakudachi through the Concept of Corporate Governance Launched Gatsby Consumer-led Lifestyle Value Creation 1985. 3 Commenced the first over-the-counter We are constantly interacting with consumers to respond to their latent needs sales of hair foam for men and wants and guide their discoveries and feelings. As a result, we have 1994. 11 proposed new ways of grooming, including hair coloring for men and facial Facial cleansing paper Launched menʼs hair styling product cleansing paper. We have created various markets in this way. Hair coloring for men Gatsby Water Gloss in Indonesia Expanded product line for various sizes; We have spread this concept of creating products through Consumerbecame widely known, primarily for the led Lifestyle Value Creation outside of Japan into our overseas markets. For sachet-size version example, in Indonesia, we visit consumer homes to check how our products 1999. 3 are used in average homes in order to explore the latent needs and wants of Achieved ¥10 billion sales, a first in the consumers. We also engage in proactive conversations with consumers and visit Japanese cosmetics industry for menʼs hair salons, which are often the source of style trends. Gatsby ( Japan) products Sustainability Even if we have not developed a product category in Japan, we will enter into 2001. 3 Launched Hair Color series, developing new areas if there is demand from local consumers. By introducing products into a market for menʼs hair color products the market, we are expanding our business rooted in the local area. Home visit 2002. 3 Gatsby Hair Color commercial voted best overall in a survey carried out by Increasing In-store Interaction With Consumers CM Databank in the Tokyo metropolitan area Mandom pays close attention to the perspective of consumers; we do not 2006. 8 refer to locations where one can purchase products as a “sales area,” but rather Launched Gatsby Moving Rubber Financial and Non-financial Data a “shopping area.” In order to create “shopping areas” which make it easy and 2013. 8 attractive for consumers to purchase products, our salespeople and field staff Released Gatsby brand Hair Jam series as a new styling offering following on the regularly visit stores. heels of wax Our staff visits more than 200,000 stores annually (about 80 stores per 2014. 5 person in an average month). Through this, we not only increase interactions Launched menʼs hair styling product with the consumers and stores, but also gain useful information which is fed Gatsby (Overseas) Gatsby Styling Pomade in Indonesia Making proposals at a store back into the company and used in business activities. 16 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 17 Mandom Value Creation Model Strengths of Mandom 3 Business-Supporting Management Assets Overseas Expansion Focused on “Unique research” and “reliable technology” Value Creation Story Rapidly Growing Asia to respond to consumer wants The Mandom Group views overseas countries as markets rather than production areas (from which to import and sell low cost Conducting unique research to respond to diversifying consumer wants products in Japan). We are engaged in business overseas with the desire to demonstrate Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) to local consumers through our products. As a manufacturer with strengths in menʼs cosmetic products for many years, Mandom possesses a large vault of knowledge Our overseas expansion began with the commencement of operations at Tancho Corporation, our technical tie-up in the regarding menʼs hair and skin and even now is developing new technologies. We have conducted research that focuses on human Philippines, in 1958. senses, such as stimulation due to cold and body odor, as well as how skin makes an impression. Mandom was the first in the Later, in 1969, we established a subsidiary in Indonesia via a joint venture. industry to discover the triggering mechanism for “middle-aged body odor*” and developed the material “white activated carbon.” Since then, we have continued to expand our area of operations, and today, we have In recent years, the Company has strengthened research for cleansing, face washing, and skin care due to changes in the tastes of Growth Strategy 16 business companies in 10 countries and regions outside of Japan. Furthermore, young men and improvements in the womenʼs business, resulting in more patents. *Oily smell of sweat from middle-age men we export our products from Indonesia to more than 90 countries, including in the ▶ Breakdown of held patents Middle East and Africa, via Dubai (UAE), which is a global trade hub. 19% 22% Since our founding, there has been a spirit of spreading Value for Money at Mandom. 28% In our overseas operations, we target the general public in each area. We are engaged in product development with a thorough emphasis on Consumer-led Lifestyle Value Different sizes of the same item 2013 8% 2019 ■ Hair styling 51% Creation for the consumers in each country and region, not getting caught up in what (Year ended March 31) 3% (Year ended March 31) ■ Cleansing ■ Deodorant products are popular in Japan. 17% ■ Hair dyes 10% If there is a need or want among consumers, we will boldly take up the challenge to 15% ■ Skin care ■ Other roll out products in various categories, regardless of whether we have experience Corporate Governance 4% 11% 12% Research on body odor with such categories in Japan. Moreover, income levels of general public vary depending on the country or region, so we offer product sizes that match the buying power of consumers and have built Business-Supporting Management Assets a distribution network that makes it easy for middle-class consumers to acquire our goods. Through these and other efforts, we provide reasonably priced products and services that allow people to enjoy personal styling. Traditional trade store (The Philippines) Production and supply system which seeks the spread ▶ Overseas Business Areas of high-quality and low-cost products ▶ Comparison of sales by manufacturing center ■ Made in Japan ■ Made in Indonesia Product supply system which fits various GDP levels and local requirements As it reinforces the concept of products through Consumer-led Lifestyle Value Creation in each Asian Sustainability country we operates, Mandom has three manufacturing bases in Japan, Indonesia, and China in order The Philippines Per capita nominal GDP to provide high-quality, reasonably priced products and services which fit the income levels, wants, US$ 3,104 South Korea and changes in tastes and lifestyle of consumers in various countries. Our Fukusaki Factory in Japan takes the lead as our innovation center with technological and China production functions. Our Indonesian factory, which serves as a global production center, has a production structure that allows it to manufacture high-quality, cost-competitive products. The factory Taiwan primarily supplies ASEAN countries, but its global reach extends to many markets. Our factory in China Malaysia India Hong Kong supplies products to the countryʼs domestic market and additional provides production for the Group. Per capita nominal GDP Financial and Non-financial Data US$ 10,942 ▶ Manufacturing base and production volume based on fiscal 2018 performance Thailand The Philippines Vietnam Malaysia Singapore Singapore Per capita nominal GDP Fukusaki Factory ( Japan) Zhongshan Factory (China) [Manufacturing plant] ［Factory for molding plastic containers］ Site area: 71,058㎡ Site area: 27,253㎡ Factory 1 (Indonesia) Factory 2 (Indonesia) US$ 64,041 Production volume: 189million units Production volume: 19million units Site area: 147,936㎡ Site area: 54,442㎡ Indonesia Production volume: 511million units 18 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 19 Financial and Non-financial Highlights ▶ Net income attributable to owners of the parent (million yen) ▶ Number of patent applications submitted per year (Cases) Value Creation Story 6,383 ■■ Japan ■■ Overseas 6,086 5,566 5,087 32 32 Financial Highlights Non-financial Highlights 4,425 33 4,091 33 16 19 2 65 63 57 47 34 37 33 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) Growth Strategy ▶ Consolidated net sales*1 (million yen) ▶ Earnings per share [EPS]*2 (yen) ▶ Annual shipment volume (year ended March 2019) ▶ Number of patents held (cases) 81,386 136.52 ■■ Japan ■■ Overseas 75,078 77,351 78,997 130.19 54 690 million units 68,215 70,925 119.05 41 108.76 24 94.64 19 87.51 17 16 16 330 355 375 257 283 220 176 Corporate Governance 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 One in 6.5 people in Asia use Mandom products 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) ▶ Consolidated operating income (million yen) ▶ Return on equity [ROE] (%) ▶ Domestic brand share of menʼs cosmetic product market ▶ Number of employees in consolidated companies (year ended March 2019) 8,457 Market data by Mandom calculations Other overseas Japan 7,617 (monetary value) Gatsby 20.1% 616／21.1% 605／20.8% 6,853 6,996 7,135 Period: April 2018-March 2019 6,594 11.0 9.1 9.2 Men 8.3 8.3 7.3 Other 32.8% 1,257／43.1% A 11.6% Women 1,657／56.9% B 9.1% Indonesia Sustainability 1,693／58.1% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 C 6.7% (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) Lúcido 4.8% ▶ Operating income margin (%) ▶ Payout ratio (%) ▶ Gatsby brand awareness (%) ▶ CO2 emissions (Scope 1+2) Mandom survey (2018) ■■ CO2 emissions (t-CO2) ●● Per unit of sales (t-CO2/million yen) 55.2 Indonesia 100.0 The Philippines 99.2 0.426 0.415 0.418 0.422 0.409 10.0 9.9 9.8 10.4 45.3 India 92.3 0.377 9.0 40.0 40.2 40.3 Malaysia 88.8 Financial and Non-financial Data 8.8 29.3 Singapore 80.7 29,027 29,427 31,413 32,673 30,701 30,766 Thailand 74.7 Japan 72.6 China (Hong Kong) 72.1 South Korea 46.7 Taiwan 43.9 Vietnam 40.2 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) China (Shanghai) 26.8 (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) *1 Beginning from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, some items that had been processed as expenses have been deducted from net sales at overseas consolidated subsidiaries included in financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. *2 We executed a 2-for-1 stock split of common stock on October 1, 2017. EPS above is all figures taking into consideration the impact of stock split. 20 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 21 Growth Strategy For its 90th anniversary, We have formulated the MISSION with concern for a human-oriented business approach at the core. VISION2027 (embodying our dreams, unrestricted by past experience) was also Management Policy of MP-12 formulated to express a future-orientated approach. In an unpredictable world, “creating a future” is the surest way of determining what tomorrow will bring. Our ability to create a future depends on how successful we are in gathering the strengths of the Mandom Value Creation Story Mandom is evolving with the aim of realizing VISION2027 by 2027, the 100th anniversary of the company. Group by using “backcasting” (as opposed to “forecasting”) approach. VISION2027 Mandom has identified its current external environment and issues to form a policy during this infrastructure development period as it aspires to become the company we envision by the milestone year 2027, the Our VISION2027 A cosmetics company possessing unique strengths in specialized areas (not an“ all-rounder”) centennial of our establishment. 1 Authentic proposals 2 Global & ʻOnly Oneʼ External environment 3 Exciting & Excellent Threats Opportunities VISION Slogan Use our ʻOnly Oneʼ strengths to provide Dedication to Service ●  Demographic changes such as declining birthrate and aging population Invigoration of senior market ● ‌ Diversification of consumer needs and wants Potential unique niche markets (Oyakudachi) to a billion people around the world ● ● ‌ Growth Strategy ●  Sudden shifts in consumer purchasing styles (emergence of e-commerce) Innovation through new marketing methods ● ‌ ●  Intensification of competition from global companies in Asia and new entrants from Invigoration of Asia market ● ‌ VISION policy 1 Leverage Asiaʼs economic growth to evolve into a truly global company other industries 2 Display greater Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) in the menʼs business segment and invest aggressively to expand our womenʼs segment 3 Provide authentic products and services to develop a MANDOM WORLD inspired by the Issue awareness concept of stock-oriented management (the idea of strengthening or “stocking up” various assets including ties with our stakeholders by providing authentic and valuable products and services). Product Area Infrastructure development Image ●  Mandom has secured the top share of the Indonesia: Company must strengthen ability ●  Overseas developments have been ●  Overseas Japan Breakthrough inspired by menʼs hair styling market in many countries. to respond to sudden market environment executed on a single country basis, However, we have not sufficiently secured changes, such as standard of income preventing Group synergies from forming Overseas Japan future-orientation Men market share in other categories increases and changes to distribution Management platform is not integrated ●  Business Domain Insufficient products and services to address Other overseas: Each business scope across the Group Corporate Governance 2027 ●  ●  Women declining birthrate and aging population remains small Growth Strategy 2016 Women ●  Inability to respond flexibly to diversity of There remain areas not fully explored, even ●  Men Profit Structure countries of operation within Asia Human Asset Development ●  Sales scope of womenʼs cosmetics remains small Response Positioning of 12th Middle-Range Planning (MP-12) ●  Make additional proposals in menʼs business Indonesia: Further strengthen business, ●  Shift to a matrix structure with businesses ●  area as a core business including product development and and functions as axes and strengthen Expand womenʼs business area: Expand expansion in stores function axis to generate Group synergies MP-12 (April 2017-March 2020) is designated as the “Infrastructure Development period,” a first step in ●  volume of existing categories, enter new Other overseas: Set Indochina (five nations ●  Prioritize marketing functions (category●  categories with a total population roughly the size of based strategy) and aim to optimize realizing of VISION2027. Sustainability ●  Strengthen response for middle-age and Indonesia and average age lower than that technology and production for a global VISION2027 senior customers in Japan as a developed of Indonesia) and China (high potential) as perspective nation facing these issues while considering areas of focus Develop business infrastructure (human ●  2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 horizontal deployment of dedication to Aim to strengthen a profitability structure by ●  assets development, accounting system, P service (Oyakudachi) in Asian nations in the dividing areas into three businesses information systems, etc.) for the Group to S B h future support such initiatives ●  Develop global brands eeding lossoming and arvesting ●  Products responding to diversity of countries of operation lowing ●  Create a new communications model in order to forge strong bonds with consumers Financial and Non-financial Data Policy 1. Promotion of category strategies 2. Improvement of growth in 3. Building a group operation system and thorough implementation of overseas operations, focusing on and improving productivity per MP-12 Infrastructure Development MP-13 Reformation and Challenges MP-14 Accelerated growth activity Indonesia unit * Growth image The details of each policy are provided under “Management Basic Policy” on the next page. 22 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 23 Growth Strategy MP-12 (12th Middle-Range Planning) Progress of MP-12 Management Basic Targets Mandom has set three important growth areas and displayed average annual growth rate targets for each area Value Creation Story Menʼs business Corporate Infrastructure Development for Realizing VISION2027 The two-year average growth rate in the menʼs business was 1.4%. ● ‌ Theme Average annual growth rate: In the menʼs business, we recognize re-accelerating Gatsby as the top priority ● ‌ +1.4% issue, so we will promote further strengthening of the rebranding efforts already underway and continue developing a new Gatsby with a stronger presence and greater influence on young men in Asia. 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ending March 31) 1. Promotion of category strategies and thorough implementation of activity *Growth curve image Management *Performance in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 has been calculated using the same criteria as before. Basic Policy 1 Nurturing of a category that can become a firm mainstay Womenʼs business Average annual The average growth rate in the womenʼs business was 8.9%. ● ‌ Growth Strategy growth rate: We will promote shared brand value of “high-quality facial wash and cleansing Increase of brand values ● ‌ 2 +8.9% series from Japan” for Bifesta as a global brand and work to improve the brand image and expand our Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) in terms of both 2. Improvement of growth in overseas operations focusing on Indonesia quantity and quality. We will continue to strengthen the brand activity for Pixy in Indonesia and ● ‌ Malaysia. 1 Indonesia: Display greater Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) for middle-income class 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ending March 31) *Growth curve image 2 Asian countries other than Indonesia: Advance marketing measures unique to each *Performance in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 has been calculated using the same criteria as before. country by understanding consumer wants and achieving profitability Overseas Average annual The sluggishness of the Indonesia business in the fiscal year ended March 31, ● ‌ 2019 had a significant impact, and the average growth rate overseas was 2.7%. 3. Building a group operation system and improving productivity per unit growth rate: +2.7% In Indonesia, we will refocus on understanding the changing mindset of local ● ‌ Corporate Governance consumers and proposing more suitable products, placing top priority on Gatsby and Pixy, as we work to expand our Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) 1 Increases in the decision making accuracy and speed by securing a group in terms of both quantity and quality. personnel affair system, accounting system, and information system, and building a As for the Other Overseas segment, we will continue to actively invest in marketing. ● ‌ structure for increasing productivity per unit 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ended March 31) (Year ending March 31) We will promote the expansion of MANDOM WORLD, including ACG ● ‌ International, which will join the Group in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020. *Growth curve image 2 Construction of a structure that allows prompt strategy formulation and *Performance in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 has been calculated using the same criteria as before. implementation at the operating company Profitability Shareholder Returns ● Operating income margin (%) ■ Interim dividend (yen) ■ Year-end dividend (yen) ● Payout ratio (%) 59 60 62 31 Management Basic Target Growth Potential 10.4 48 Sustainability 9.8 38 40 10.0 35 55.2 51.6 8.7 30 31 45.3 40.3 Consolidated Net Sales Menʼs business Womenʼs business Overseas 42.5 40.2 40.0 40.2 Final year of MP-12 Average annual growth rate: Average annual growth rate: Average annual growth rate: 29.3 ¥90,000million 3% or more 10% or more 10% or more 31 2017 2018 2019 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) (Year ending March 31) (Forecast) In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the operating ● ‌ As for shareholder returns, our target payout ratio on a consolidated ● ‌ margin was 8.7%, while the target was 10%. basis was 40% or higher (excluding extraordinary factors). Due to the Financial and Non-financial Data impact of a decline in net income, the payout ratio was substantially Profitability Shareholder Returns Impacted by a major downswing of sales in Indonesia, ● ‌ and a substantial increase of costs in Japan. higher than the target at 55.2%. We hope to improve profitability by increasing capital ● ‌ In the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020, we plan to increase the annual ● ‌ Consolidated Payout Ratio efficiency and expanding profits at each stage while dividend to 62 yen, which will be the eighth consecutive year of increases, completing development of an infrastructure to and if things proceed according to plan, the payout ratio will be 51.6%. Consolidated Operating Profit Margin Consolidated basis, excluding extraordinary items achieve VISION2027. We also acquired treasury stock for the first time in ten years. We will ● ‌ 10% 40% or higher *Performance in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 has been work on enhancing return of profits to shareholders and improving our calculated using the same criteria as before. capital efficiency. *We executed a 2-for-1 stock split of common stock effective on October 1, 2017. The figures in the above graph are figures taking into consideration the impact of stock split. 24 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 25 Growth Strategy Measures Taken for MP-12 Basic Management Policies Group-wide Instillation of MISSION Rebranding of Gatsby Value Creation Story The Company believes that the most important topic in the Based on the results of this survey, officers first shared the At present, the rapid pace of global digitalization and were tapped as the new brand ambassadors, and a new globalization of its business is the spread of its mission to strengths and improvements in evangelist training. emergence of a borderless economy is promoting shared television commercial called “Gatsby Cop” was released each Group employee. The evangelists then shared the current and ideal situations values, and the lifestyles, values, and communication featuring Kenshi Yonezuʼs song “Teenage Riot,” which is Based on this thinking, management trained department with employees in their departments, proposed action plans behavior of consumers have changed completely. tremendously popular among young people, as the theme managers in “evangelist training” sessions. Then these for closing the gap, created schedules, and implemented the For more than 40 years since its release in 1978, Gatsby had song. “evangelists” conducted “philosophy sharing workshops” plans. continually proposed stylishness for the times in every era, At the same time, we have shifted to a communication for their department members. This included all overseas We will continue these efforts year after year to increase but for global development, we had to compete in-store method that fully leverages digital media to target todayʼs subsidiaries, following the implementation at each understanding of and instill the MISSION so that every with big companies from around the world, and we feel that young men who are part of the digital native generation. regional office in Japan from 2017 to January 2018. After employee has the opportunity to think about and share we had come to a turning point. Using Twitter posts, we are rolling out content such as the these efforts, in fiscal 2018, we conducted a MISSION their ideas on what is necessary to create a lively workplace To make Gatsby a stronger brand, we felt that it was Gatsby Cop video that becomes a topic of conversation Implementation Survey of all employees as part of our climate and put the MISSION into practice. necessary to redefine global shared value while respecting among young men. These tweets have received a very large Growth Strategy MISSION implementation program. the value built with consumers in each country. At number of retweets and likes. international marketing conferences, marketers from each As mentioned in our press release dated April 22, 2019, the country spoke about the strengths, spirit, and brand value Gatsby campaign video and commercial won prizes in three Evangelist training Workshop of Gatsby and redefined the shared value of Gatsby for Asia categories at the 22nd Asia Pacific Advertising Festival, one as a whole. As a part of that, since fiscal 2018, we have been of the largest advertising festivals in the Asia Pacific region. working on rebranding, including creating a brand book and We will continue to promote Dedication to Service concept video. (Oyakudachi) in response to the changing lifestyles of young First, in Japan, we reorganized the creative team and updated people in Asia. our communication. Actors Yuya Yagira and Mackenyu Arata Gatsby Cop television commercial (first commercial; run time of 15 seconds) Corporate Governance Next-Generation Global Leaders Training It is essential to train and assemble human resources that We will train leaders that are capable of coming up with are capable of fulfilling their responsibilities with a global strategies to achieve VISION2027, carrying out both perspective in order to achieve VISION2027 and look management and marketing, backcasting future markets beyond. In fiscal 2018, we launched our Next-Generation in the midst of environmental changes that create high Global Leader Training as a group-wide educational uncertainty, testing their own hypotheses, formulating Sustainability Gatsby international marketing conference program designed to train and assemble human resources policies from a group perspective, and planning and that will play important roles in the future of the Mandom implementing strategies accordingly. Group. ・Number of participants in FY2018: 15 Training Financial and Non-financial Data 26 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 27 Growth Strategy All Shares of ACG International Acquired, Making It a Consolidated Subsidiary Introduction of Shared Accounting System to Establish Corporate Infrastructure Value Creation Story In January 2019, we acquired all shares of ACG International, In fiscal 2018, net sales at ACG International were over We are currently updating our management platform to The system was introduced in Indonesia in fiscal 2018 after which is engaged in business primarily in Malaysia and owns ¥3.2 billion after conversion to Japanese yen. The highly establish an infrastructure for achieving VISION2027. As having been introduced in Japan and Thailand prior to that. brands such as “SILKYGIRL,” a makeup brand for young profitable company is growing steadily with a three-year part of these efforts, we are promoting use of the same It has been fully operational since early 2019. By updating women. This was our first corporate acquisition since our average growth rate of 3.6% and an operating margin of backbone systems for accounting, production control, and our management systems as part of our infrastructure founding. around 15%. other operations. development, we are looking to have our business units play The area in which there is the biggest gap between the For the time being, we will not engage in a sudden business We believe that sharing the level of management accounting an important role in providing management information of current situation and the targets of VISION2027 and where integration in order to avoid confusion among the respective at each company will provide the following advantages: even higher added value as we work to increase corporate further strengthening is required is womenʼs products organizations and personnel. First, we aim to share our ● Allow for more appropriate management decisions value. overseas. values and MISSION and will tie this into achievement of ● Allow for decision-making from the perspective of groupWe will continue introducing the system in one country after In the midst of these circumstances, the move to acquire VISION2027 from a mediumto long-term perspective. wide optimization another so that we can transform our organizational structure ACG International aligned perfectly with the policy of ● Allow for optimal inventory control and production without into one that is highly productive by instilling a group-wide Growth Strategy VISION2027. We believe that it will further increase the overburdening or waste...and more profit mindset. Groupʼs presence in Southeast Asia and improve our ▶ Net sales (local currency basis) Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) in terms of both quantity and quality. Average annual growth rate: +3.6% EC (electronic commerce) Efforts Silky Girl matches the preferences of sensible consumers in Southeast Asia, quickly incorporating global cosmetic As a major global trend, changes can be seen in purchasing borderless e-commerce website and began selling 32 items trends. The brand has been rolled out in Malaysia as well as behavior by consumers, the most prominent of which is the under four brands (Gatsby, Bifesta, Lúcido, and Barrier Singapore, Indonesia, and Brunei, mainly through modern expansion of e-commerce. Repair). This has allowed us to make Mandom products, trade channels. In the Malaysian capital of Kuala Lumpur in Up until recently, our basic approach to creating customer including Barrier Repair Facial Masks, which enjoys high particular, the brand enjoys high support, especially among contact was to have consumers purchase our products inbound demand, more accessible to Chinese consumers, women in their teens and twenties. According to an internal at retail stores. In 2017, we established Marketing Div. 3 offering both convenience and peace of mind. survey in 2017, it is the number one brand among women in to address the changes in the social environment, and it Borderless commerce is growing in the Asian market as Corporate Governance their twenties in terms of current use. 2015 2018 studied and analyzed the situation. To promote our efforts standards of living improve and advances are made in the (Years ended December 31) with greater speed, we established the New Business digital environment. Taking advantage of our distinguishing Development Division to review and plan e-commerce at characteristic of having bases throughout Asia, our group In-store display the Group and the EC Sales Division to address e-commerce companies will accelerate efforts to address the changes in in our Japan business in 2018. the environment working closely with each business. As a In May 2019 we opened our flagship store on the Tmall group, we will work on capturing this huge new market. Mandom flagship store on Tmall Global Sustainability Financial and Non-financial Data 28 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 29 Brand Expansion Other businesses 8.8% The Mandom Group has five strategic ▶ Net sales ▶ Overseas Development Regions by business business areas, with operations Japan Indonesia Singapore Taiwan Hong Kong South Korea The Malaysia Philippines Thailand Vietnam China India Menʼs business concentrated in two areas̶menʼs business GATSBY ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Value Creation Story 2019 (Year ended March 31) and womenʼs business*̶through which it Womenʼs business consolidated net sales Menʼs business LÚCIDO ● responds carefully to a range of consumer 28.4% 78,997million yen 62.8% Womenʼs business Bifesta ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● demands. PIXY ● ● *The remaining three areas are categorized as “other businesses” LÚCIDO-L ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● (professional use business, other business, and international trading business). Pucelle ● ● ● ▶ Menʼs Business ▶ Net sales (Millions of yen) ▶ Womenʼs Business ▶ Net sales (Millions of yen) Growth Strategy ■ GATSBY ■ LÚCIDO ■ Other ■ Bifesta ■ PIXY ■ LÚCIDO-L ■ Pucelle ■ Other 46,955 48,256 49,737 51,147 49,580 23,083 22,433 Business offering a range of products including menʼs Business offering a range of products spanning everyday 16,171 19,052 19,641 22,311* everyday grooming products as well as general fashion items, 49,542 * Actual womenʼs grooming and fashion items, including hair styling Actual YoY change UP YoY change UP such as hair styling, skin care, and body care products products, body care products, and products to bring a 0.1%⬆ 0.5%⬆ splash of color to the beauty lives of women, such as makeTarget categories: Hair styling/hair coloring/scalp care/face care/ 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Years ended March 31) up and skin care items 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Years ended March 31) body care *Calculated using the same standards as the fiscal year ended Target categories: Make-up/skin care/hair styling/hair coloring/ *Calculated using the same standards as the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 hair treatment/body care March 31, 2019 Other Overseas Other Overseas Other Overseas Corporate Governance Japan Overseas Japan Overseas Overseas Indonesia Composition of sales Composition of sales Composition of sales by region during by region during by region during Indonesia Japan Japan the fiscal year ended the fiscal year ended the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2019 Indonesia A brand that utilizes the beauty, technology, and fashion sense of Sustainability A menʼs cosmetic brand targeting young men A cleansing and facial wash brand gives busy modern women beautiful skin Japan to pull out the diverse beauty of Asian women Developing horizontally across Asia as a core brand of the Mandom Group Rolling out horizontally across various countries as a Japanese brand Developing in Indonesia and certain other countries Other Overseas Other Overseas Japan Japan Overseas Overseas Indonesia Financial and Non-financial Data Indonesia Composition of sales Composition of sales Composition of sales by region during by region during by region during Japan Japan the fiscal year ended the fiscal year ended the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2019 A fragrance and body-care brand for fashion-conscious young women A menʼs smart aging cosmetic brand targeting middle-aged men A hair styling and hair care brand to help young women Centered on fragrances, developing in Indonesia and certain other Developing in Japan Developing across Japan and in other Asian countries countries 30 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 31 Business Domains Mandom Group Business Areas The Mandom Group is developing its global operations, particularly in Asia. The Group segments its ▶ Japan Value Creation Story operations into three regions: Japan, Indonesia, and Other Overseas. Our core sales region, constituting approximately 60% We create and invigorate markets by responding meticulously to conditions in each area and to such of the Mandom Groupʼs net sales characteristics as consumer preferences, lifestyles and purchasing power. Net sales, year on year ＋ 1.5% Average growth, past five years ＋ 3.4% ▶ Composition of consolidated sales by region ▶ Composition of consolidated operating income by region ▶ Net sales (Millions of yen) ▶ Operating income (Millions of yen) ▶ Operating income margin (%) Other Overseas 45,945 47,739 48,442 5,077 5,525 41,637 44,104 4,704 17.1% 4,485 4,248 10.8 10.7 11.1 11.6 Other Overseas 8.8 Growth Strategy Sales Japan 30.9% Operating income Japan Indonesia 78,997 61.3% 7,135 59.5% 21.6% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 million yen million yen (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) Indonesia 9.6% FY2018 (ended March 2019) Performance Summer products for men and women, particularly Gatsby Body Paper, ▶ Composition of sales by region and business performed well in FY2018 as a result of record-breaking hot weather. Corporate Governance Although Lúcido, Bifesta, and Lúcido-L sales were strong, sales of Barrier Repair Facial Masks, which account for the majority of inbound sales, declined substantially starting in the second half, keeping overall sales growth at 1.5%. Moreover, FY2018 was a year of preparation to develop the infrastructure for achieving VISION2027. As a result of aggressive Other Overseas Japan investment, including the first M&A since our founding, consolidation of Gatsby Body Paper Barrier Repair Facial Masks marketing functions in Aoyama, and support for introducing a groupwide accounting system, operating income was down 23.1%. Growth Strategy for the Future Although the Japanese cosmetics market is a mature one, we will work on enhancing our new grooming product proposals, focusing on categories in the menʼs cosmetics market where there is room to grow, such as body Sustainability care and facial/skin care. As for womenʼs cosmetics, the competitive environment is harsh, but the market is about ten times the size of the menʼs cosmetics market, so Bifesta Cleansing Sheet Lúcido Aging Care Milk (left)/ Lúcido Aging Care Body Cream (right) by developing in categories in which we can differentiate ourselves, we Other businesses believe we can expand the business sufficiently. For the time being, we will focus on cleansing and facial washes along with facial/skin care in the Indonesia aim of expanding our Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) in terms of both quantity and quality. In regard to the inbound business, we will leverage our strength of Financial and Non-financial Data Other businesses Other businesses Sales having a sales network in Asia to develop a mechanism by which tourists Womenʼs business 48,442 Menʼs business to Japan can make purchases not only in Japan but in their own countries Sales million yen as well after returning by collaborating with local group companies while Sales Womenʼs Menʼs also strengthening our efforts in relation to borderless e-commerce. Womenʼs 13,510 Menʼs business 17,044 business business million yen business million yen See the materials from the fiscal 2018 (ended March 2019) financial results briefing for specific efforts: Gatsby Premium Deodorant Roll-on (left)/ Gatsby Skin Multi Cream (right) URL: https://www.mandom.co.jp/en/ir/pdf/presentation_201903_en.pdf *All figures from the year ended March 31, 2019 32 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 33 Business Domains ▶ Indonesia ▶ Other Overseas Value Creation Story The largest overseas business area and growth leader This area possesses a large potential for future growth and for the Mandom Group is expected to become the engine of growth in the future. Net sales, year on year − 10.8% in real terms Net sales, year on year ＋ 12.4% in real terms ▶ Net sales (Millions of yen) ▶ Operating income (Millions of yen) ▶ Operating income margin (%) ▶ Net sales (Millions of yen) ▶ Operating income (Millions of yen) ▶ Operating income margin (%) 19,616 1,181 14,030 13,510 2,205 17,172 18,164 18,323 17,044 1,028 12,115 12,809 13,081 16.3 19,104＊ 880 925 6.0 6.2 1,614 1,750 14.6 5.0 1,482 12.2 12.3 681 4.8 4.0 12,020＊ Growth Strategy 1,008 7.9 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) *Calculated using the same standards as the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 *Calculated using the same standards as the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 FY2018 (ended March 2019) Performance FY2018 (ended March 2019) Performance In fiscal 2018, growth of Gatsby Hair Styling Pomade, which had In fiscal 2018, we had double-digit growth in five countries and been driving growth for the past several years, hit a plateau. In territories, including China and Malaysia. Sales were up 12.4% over the Corporate Governance addition, waxes, gels, and other styling products struggled due to previous year in real terms. Outdoor Gatsby advertisement cannibalization. Meanwhile, Pixy, which had been facing challenges What these countries and territories shared in common was that Bifesta (Taiwan) including intensification of the competitive environment and declining womenʼs cosmetics performed well. We steadily acquired new fans by brand activity, saw a delay in the release of new products designed for taking advantage of digital marketing using ideas from each country and rebranding. As a result of these and other factors, sales declined 2.1% on utilizing sales strategies tied into those marketing campaigns at brick-anda local currency basis. On a consolidated basis, the negative impact of the Gatsby Hair Styling Pomade mortar stores. exchange rate made for a more significant decline of 10.8% in real terms. Additionally, in Taiwan, we have made steady progress on creating and On a consolidated basis, operating income was down 42.3%, primarily as proposing new grooming habits with Gatsby Facial Paper and Body a result of the decrease in sales. Paper. Operating income was up 26.0%, primarily as a result of the increased Pop-up Bifesta store Growth Strategy for the Future sales. (China) In Indonesia, the wants, values, and purchasing behavior of the rapidly expanding middle class have changed significantly. This requires a Growth Strategy for the Future Sustainability swift and accurate response in terms of not only products but also In other cosmetics markets overseas, there is continued maturation in communication and distribution. Although growth rate of the cosmetics the NIES area of Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and South Korea, which market has dropped from double to single digits, it continues to grow, Gatsby Gel Series (back)/Gatsby Wax Series (front) have relatively high GDPs. However, in the ASEAN area, which is in the and we aim to achieve better-than-market growth. demographic dividend phase, and China, which has a huge market with In menʼs cosmetics, our biggest advantage lies in the hair styling market, a population of over 1.3 billion, we expect to see significant continued which still enjoys a high growth rate. Consumer wants are concentrated growth thanks to the high consumption potential and increased on pomade products in the market, and it is transitioning from a market awareness of cosmetics among consumers associated with rising income. that was monopolized by Mandom to a competitive one. We believe the By strengthening our products, communication, and distribution with pomade market will continue to grow for some time, so we will work on a focus on menʼs hair styling, an area in which our strengths can be expanding sales by continuing to propose new products. leveraged, and womenʼs cleansing and facial washes, we will continue Financial and Non-financial Data In womenʼs cosmetics, we will continue to update the brand image Gatsby Regroom Pomade to expand our Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) in terms of both Communication of through rebranding and strengthen the brand activity of Pixy, which has quantity and quality. information by Bifesta focused primarily on acquiring new users among young people. key opinion leaders (China and Taiwan) See the materials from the fiscal 2018 (ended March 2019) financial results See the materials from the fiscal 2018 (ended March 2019) financial results briefing for specific efforts: briefing for specific efforts: URL: https://www.mandom.co.jp/en/ir/pdf/presentation_201903_en.pdf URL: https://www.mandom.co.jp/en/ir/pdf/presentation_201903_en.pdf Pixy Make It Glow Dewy Cushion ad 34 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 35 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Policy Corporate Governance System The Mandom Groupʼs mission is co-existence, mutual growth and mutual creation with global society. Consequently, to realize our core philosophy, we are dedicated to generating stable profits by pursuing efficiency, while ensuring soundness and Value Creation Story Top Decision-Making Body, Venue for Communicating with Shareholders transparency. As a result, we look to achieve sustainable, steady growth together with consumers, society and other stakeholders. General Meeting of Shareholders: Mandomʼs Corporate Governance Initiatives Advice/ Appointment/Dismissal Disclosure/Explanation Report Appointment Recommendations Statutory auditing Dismissal Fair and Transparent Decision-making/oversight function Legal Audits Proactive initiatives ahead of legislation Selection Process 1 Board of Directors 4 Advance discussion, 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2018 2 ● Directors ● External directors mutual checks, Audit & Progress of corporate governance in Japan Nominating Proposal Report monitoring Supervisory (CC): Commercial Code revisions Committee Authority delegation/Supervision Board 1993 (CC) Strengthened Audit & Supervisory Board system / Executive Board ▶ ▶2015 Introduced the Companies 6 (AA): Antimonopoly Act revisions (CC) Reviewed shareholder lawsuit system Act concerning outside ● Representative ▶1997 (AA) Legalized pure holding companies / Directors, company with ● Audit & Supervisory director President Executive Officer (CC) Introduced employee stock options audit and supervisory ● External directors Business execution ● Board members Supervisory Executive Officer Growth Strategy ● ▶1999 Formulation of OECD Principles of Corporate Governance committee, etc. / Formulation ● Outside experts ● External Audit & ● Audit & Supervisory Board of Japanʼs Corporate Supervisory Board ▶2001 (CC) Established system to limit liability of Directors, Governance Code President Executive Officer members members strengthened function of Audit & Supervisory Board Members ▶2004 Formulation of Tokyo Stock Exchangeʼs Principles of Corporate Supervisory Executive Officer Governance for Listed Companies ▶2005 Formulation of Guidelines Regarding Takeover Defense Fair and Transparent Proposal Measures / Enactment of the Companies Act ▶2018 Revision of Compensation System Domestic Human Resources/ Report Marketing ▶2006 Revised Financial Instruments and Corporate 3 Sales General Resources Social Responsibility Independent Audits Progress of corporate governance at the Company Exchange Act requires listed companies to Governance Audit of internal file Internal Control Report Code Compensation International Corporate CSR Promotion Statutory auditing controls for Inviting independent external executives Committee Technology/ Production Business planning/ Committee financial reporting Operation Financing Inviting external 1985 Total Risk Management Audit & Supervisory Board members ● Representative Authority delegation/ Committee Independent director auditor Corporate Governance Supervision ● External directors Code of Conduct Inviting external directors 1995 ● Outside experts Promotion Committee Executive Officers Quality Assurance Establishment of committees consisting chiefly of independent external executives Committee Internal Control, Establishment of Compensation Committee 2005 Reporting, discussion, and Environment Promotion Statutory Business Audits mutual checks of business execution Committee auditing Establishment of Nominating Committee 2008 5 Management Council Occupational Health and Internal Other measures to enhance governance Safety Committee Audit Div. Introduction of executive officer system 2001 Direction/Management System construction/Overall management Information provision Terminated retirement benefits for directors and corporate auditors 2005 Complied with Japanʼs Corporate Governance Code, announced Corporate Governance Guidelines 2015 Introduced Restricted Stock Compensation Plan 2018 Company-wide organizations (Group companies in Japan and overseas) Compliance system Establishment of the Mandom Groupʼs Code of Conduct 1999 (revised 2002, 2007, 2011, 2014, 2018) Sustainability Introduction of Helpline System 2002 2007: Expanded coverage to business partners 1 Board of Directors 2 Nominating Committee The Board of Directors is comprised of all directors and makes decisions regarding the basic The Nominating Committee is established as an advisory body to the Board policies of business execution and important matters regarding business execution in addition of Directors in order to ensure transparency and fairness of the process when to supervising the execution of business by directors and executive officers. determining candidates for directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members. Corporate Governance Structure This committee shall be consulted by the Board of Directors for proposals regarding candidates for director and executive officer. Major topics at the Board of Directors meetings 3 Compensation Committee Overview of the Corporate Governance Structure and Reasons for Adopting the Structure 2018 April : Disclosure of summary of evaluation results and analysis of the The Compensation Committee is established as an advisory body to the Board The activities of the Group are overseen by the Audit & To ensure management soundness and efficiency, the Group effectiveness of the Board of Directors of Directors in order to ensure transparency and fairness of the process when May : Abolishment of Internal Rules on Senior Advisors, Honorary determining directorsʼ compensations. This committee shall be consulted by Supervisory Board. With legal oversight from its members as employs an extensive range of management monitoring functions. the Board of Directors for policies regarding compensation for directors and the basis for corporate governance, we invite multiple external Moreover, based on our understanding of the importance of Advisors, and Advisors, and thinking on introduction of advisor executive officers as well as proposals for individual compensation. system Financial and Non-financial Data directors to sit on our board, to reinforce our monitoring and reflecting front-line management views in decision making, the June : Revision of Corporate Governance Guidelines for fiscal 2018 4 Audit & Supervisory Board advisory functions. By clarifying responsibilities and delegating Board of Directors includes not only senior management and July : Performance-linked compensation for directors in fiscal 2018 The Audit & Supervisory Board is comprised of full-time and external Audit & authority under a system of supervisory and executional officers supervisory executive officers both concurrently serving as (102nd term) Supervisory Board members and discusses and adopts resolutions regarding in charge of specific operations, we have created a system for directors, but also external directors. Payment of monetary compensation claims related to restricted important audit-related matters upon receiving reports. the proactive and expeditious execution of operations. This In addition to establishing an Audit & Supervisory Board, we have stock system ensures soundness and transparency, and appropriately voluntarily established advisory panels for the Board of Directors, November : Signing of agreement for transfer of ACG International shares 5 Management Council December : 2019 business plan and sales plan for Indonesia business domain The Management Council deliberates matters up for discussion at the Board of pursues efficiency. The Group has also voluntarily established the and apply mutual checks and oversight between directors on Directors beforehand and matters related to business management policies. Compensation Committee, more than half of whose members are the Board as well as oversight and supervision from external 2019 business plan and sales plan for overseas business domain (total of 11 overseas companies) Executive Board external directors, as well as the Nominating Committee. Executive directors. This structure is rigorously monitored by the Audit & 6 2019 January : Appointment of executive officers in fiscal 2019 compensation and appointments are reviewed by these entities, Supervisory Board, and we believe this approach will contribute The Executive Board deliberates beforehand matters to be resolved by the March : Start of construction of new factory building at Fukusaki Factory Board of Directors and Management Council, and matters related to the business and determined by the Board of Directorsʼ resolution with close to strengthening corporate governance. execution by supervisory executive officers. reference to the results of such reviews. 36 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 37 Corporate Governance Election and Composition of Officers Mandom acknowledges the importance of selecting personnel Company, Mandom aims to reinforce its corporate governance Value Creation Story with various business experiences and of diversity when it comes and augment the Groupʼs overall management quality, and has to the composition of the Board of Directors and the Audit & formulated the “Standards for the Independence of Independent Message from New External Director Supervisory Board. Outside Executives.” The above-mentioned external directors When I was a child, Mandom was a company that discriminating consumers in the world, the range of From the standpoint of promoting womenʼs contribution, Reiko and external Audit & Supervisory Board members satisfy these made hair styling cosmetics for men. Today, however, possibilities for global expansion will also widen. Nakayama was appointed as an external director in June 2019. standards and the Tokyo Stock Exchangeʼs independence criteria. the company makes a wide range of products, and The duty of an external director is to work out Additionally, since April 2015, we have had one female executive The Company has notified the Tokyo Stock Exchange that all it is no exaggeration to say that they are national long-term growth strategies while always looking officer. There are two female directors at our listed subsidiary in of these executives are independent executives. Please refer to goods that many people use on a daily basis without at things from the perspective of external minority Indonesia, which is our biggest overseas subsidiary. the Mandom website for details regarding the Standards for the realizing they are from Mandom. shareholders. A listed company is a public entity, and Mandom aims to become a global company, and while we Independence of Independent Outside Executives. It is said that in Japan, consumption will continually its surroundings are many stakeholders, including currently do not have any foreign national directors or Audit & decrease as the birthrate declines and the shareholders, employees and their families, business Supervisory Board members, we acknowledge this as an important Standards for the Independence of Independent Outside Executives population ages, but is that truly the case? Cosmetics partners, and customers. We must continually think https://www.mandom.co.jp/company/src/g_guideline_ex2.pdf and toiletries are products that appeal to sensibilities, about what we must and must not do and take issue in order to promote diversity management. Our policy is to ( Japanese language) so if you propose a new approach or convenience, action boldly and without restraint in order to meet proactively promote foreign national and female employees to a certain number of new markets will be born. As the expectations of all these stakeholders. Growth Strategy executive and managerial positions to provide opportunities for Please refer to the Mandom website for information regarding society ages and more women participate, there are What lies beyond that is a further increase in them to leverage their talents. Since fiscal 2018, we have selected the reasons for nomination and election of individual manager, sure to be more new business opportunities when corporate value. I believe that corporate governance employees not only from Japan but from our overseas subsidiaries director, and Audit & Supervisory Board member. it comes to the concepts of Health, Cleanliness & should be approached from an offensive rather as well for Next Generation Global Leader Training. We are Beauty. Moreover, if we are recognized by Japanese than a defensive standpoint in order to increase identifying human resources that can play an active role globally Explanation of individual reasons for the selection of the people, who are sometimes called the most corporate value. Reiko Nakayama and have launched a system for educating and training them. principle members of the managerial team and the nomination of In addition, by appointing external directors and external Audit candidates for directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members & Supervisory Board members who have no special interest https://www.mandom.co.jp/company/src/g_guideline_ex1.pdf ( Japanese language) Supervision Execution relationships with the Company and are highly independent of the Attendance in Fiscal 2019 (number of times attended/number of times held) Name Overview of executives (As of June 21, 2019) Board of Directors Nominating Committee Compensation Audit & Committee Supervisory Board Corporate Governance Field of experience*1 〔Directors〕 Management Council Executive Board Name Corporate Technology/ Finance/ Human Resources/ Social capital/ Financial and Motonobu planning Global Marketing Sales Production Accounting General Resources Legal environment capital markets 13／13 3／3 3／3 Nishimura 〔Directors〕 Shinichiro 13／13 Number of meetings held in Fiscal 2019 Number of meetings held in Fiscal 2019 Motonobu ● ● Koshiba Nishimura Yasuaki 13／13 11 times 10 times Shinichiro ● ● ● Kameda Koshiba Takeshi 13／13 Yasuaki ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Hibi Members Members Kameda Tatsuyoshi 13／13 Takeshi ● ● Kitamura President Executive Officer President Executive Officer Hibi Satoshi Independent External 12／13 3／3 3／3 Supervisory Executive Supervisory Executive Sustainability Ken ● ● ● ● Nakajima Officer Officer Nishimura Satoshi 13／13 3／3 3／3 Executive Officers Audit & Supervisory Satoshi Nagao Independent External ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Board Members Nagao [Audit & Supervisory Board Members] External Directors Reiko ● ● ● ● ● Ryuichi Audit & Supervisory Nakayama 13／13 14／14 Terabayashi Board Members [Audit & Supervisory Board Members] Hiroo 13／13 14／14 External Audit & Ryuichi ● ● ● Mizuno Supervisory Board Terabayashi Yukihiro Members Independent External Financial and Non-financial Data 13／13 14／14 Hiroo ● ● ● Tsujimura Mizuno Masahiro Of which, external members: 13／13 14／14 Yukihiro Nishio Directors 2 Independent External ● Tsujimura Attorney 〔Advisors〕 Audit & Supervisory 2 Board Members Masahiro ● Masayoshi Nishio CPA 3／13 *2 Momota *1 Areas of practical or supervising experience. Global refers to managerial experience upon being transferred to an overseas subsidiary or affiliate of Mandom. Tsutomu 3／3 3／3 For independent external directors and independent external Audit & Supervisory Board members, this refers to experience in other companies. *2 Became advisor as of June 22, 2018. Tsukada 38 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 39 Corporate Governance Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors 2. Inspection visit to overseas subsidiaries Date Country Company name Days Visitor Satoshi Nakajima Satoshi Nagao Purpose: May The Philippines Mandom Philippines Corporation 3 days ○ ○ 1 So that external directors could ascertain the current May Thailand Mandom Corporation (Thailand) Ltd. 3 days ○ ○ 1. The Company carried out evaluation and analysis using the following procedure: situation of overseas subsidiaries and offer advice from October Indonesia PT Mandom Indonesia Tbk 4 days ○ Value Creation Story December Malaysia Mandom (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 2 days ○ (1) To investigate whether the Companyʼs Board of Directors was effectively fulfilling its role in line with the policies and other items set out in an outside perspective. December Singapore Mandom Corporation (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 2 days ○ 2 To observe the markets in each country and ascertain the Corporate Governance Guidelines (the “CG Guidelines”) in accordance with Section 4 “Responsibilities of the Board” of the Corporate the current situation. March Taiwan Mandom Taiwan Corporation 2 days 〇 Governance Code (the “CG Code”), a questionnaire* was distributed to members of the Board of Directors in January 2019. Every person responded and all responses were received. *Regarding the structure of the questionnaire, the policies and other items specified in the CG Guidelines in accordance with Section 4 of the CG Code were grouped into 23 items, with a four-level evaluation scale for each item and a space for free comments, for instance to raise any issues. Content of Executive Compensation (2) Based on these responses, the representative director (President Executive Officer) interviewed each director during February to confirm their content. Policy and design-making process for the current fiscal year (amounts paid to individual operational Policy for Determining Executive Compensation Amounts and executive directors are based on evaluation of their individual (3) In March, the results of the questionnaire and interviews were submitted to the members of the Nominating Committee in order to evaluate Calculation Methods performance). Restricted stock compensation (in principle, the and deliberate the results from an outside perspective. The Nominating Committee secured a suitable timeframe and opportunity for amount will correspond to compensation for performance of 1. Total Amount of Compensation by Executive Category, duties in the first year of the three fiscal years covered by middledeliberation, held careful discussions, and then made a report to the Board of Directors in April. Type of Compensation, and Eligible Number of Executives range planning) is linked to mediumto long-term performance. (4) In response to the report of the Nominating Committee, having understood and accepted its content, the Board of Directors confirmed the Total amount by type of Compensation for non-executive directors (including external Growth Strategy Total amount of Compensation (Millions of yen) Eligible directors) is composed solely of fixed compensation. results of the evaluation and analysis of its own effectiveness. Executive Compensation Performancenumber category (Millions of yen) Fixed linked of executives Compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board members is set compensation at an appropriate level that reflects their important role and 2. Summary of results of evaluations and analysis of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors Directors 258 163 95 6 responsibility for conducting rigorous legal audits that form the (excluding external directors) basis of compliance management for the Group and improve The Company is engaged in mission-based management. The aim is to achieve VISION2027̶the slogan of which is “Use our ʻOnly Audit & Supervisory corporate value. As the role and responsibility of Audit & Oneʼ strengths to provide Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) to a billion people around the world”̶while instilling the new MISSION Board Members 36 36 2 Supervisory Board members is to conduct rigorous legal audits Framework announced in 2017 in all employees throughout the world. (excluding external Audit & Supervisory Board members) unrelated to the Companyʼs operating performance, their compensation is composed only of fixed compensation, which is Evaluation The evaluation concluded that the Board of Directors has Ongoing 1 Working to further strengthen business management methods within External Directors 24 24 2 not affected by operating performance. achieved effectiveness. The properly established the Standards Issues a business and function matrix structure makes it possible to accurately External Audit & for the Independence of Independent Outside Executives are reflect the results of analyzing the factors behind differences between the Supervisory Board 14 14 2 2) Process of Determining Compensation for Company Executives met, and several independent external directors capable of management plan and actual results in the strategies and plans for the next Members The Compensation Committee, a majority of whose members Corporate Governance fulfilling the functions of advising and monitoring are brought year, so further improvement of management efficiency can be expected. in. Suggestions and feedback, including the raising of issues, are external executives, deliberates and recommends director 2 By reaffirming and raising awareness of the importance of proactive risk2. Policy for Determining Compensation Amounts for compensation amounts. Based on these results, the Board are sought from the external directors and external Audit & taking supported by improved accuracy in risk evaluation and of ensuring Supervisory Board members. Constructive discussions and the flexibility of decision-making and business execution, more advanced and Company Executives of Directors resolves compensation amounts within the sharing of ideas take place with freedom and open-mindedness, innovative decision-making can be carried out in a flexible way. 1 ) Method of Determining Compensation Amounts for scope approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. including encouraging each director and Audit & Supervisory 3 For the management of subsidiaries, attention is devoted to oversight of the Company Executives Board member to actively share their opinions. Independent Affiliated Company Management Regulations and the detailed guidance The Compensation Committee also deliberates and makes outside executives and outside experts hold opinion sharing of their operation, to gradual progress of the alignment of accounting In addition to ensuring soundness and transparency, the Companyʼs recommendations on policies related to determining director meetings comprised only of independent outside executives systems, and to other initiatives. Additionally, work is promoted on building compensation for operational executive directors is aimed at the compensation. Based on these results, the Board of Directors and outside experts, and they communicate with each other as a foundation for addressing international taxes. By doing this, the Company appropriate pursuit of efficiency, leading to the achievement of resolves compensation amounts. At the 101st Ordinary General necessary and appropriate, sharing information and awareness of can promote growth built on the assured soundness of subsidiaries, including management plans and the enhancement of corporate value. To Meeting of Shareholders held on June 22, 2018, a restricted stock issues from an objective standpoint. those located overseas. this end, the Company sets an amount of fixed compensation compensation plan was introduced for the purpose of further to ensure steady devotion to their duties. In addition, a certain promoting shared value with shareholders and providing an 3. Specific comments concerning evaluation of effectiveness amount of performance-linked variable compensation is provided incentive for the Companyʼs directors (excluding external directors) to serve as an incentive to a higher level of motivation. The to continually strive to increase the Companyʼs corporate value. Comments ● “In FY2018, a new performance-based stock compensation Comments ● “I get the impression that, when a target is not achieved, analysis of causes and Companyʼs policy is to strike a balance between these two. The Audit & Supervisory Board member compensation amounts are on plan was introduced for top management, the first M&A on Areas issues only covers the present situations such as market factors and internal Company sets fixed compensation amounts at appropriate levels determined according to the capabilities and audit experience of since the companyʼs founding was executed, and risk-taking factors, and does not develop into mediumto long-term measures such as Evaluation challenges have been taken up.” Requiring product strategies or brand strategies. Additionally, in the process of analyzing by referring to third-party data. These amounts differ according individual members on a rational basis and referring to third-party to executive rank and Group management responsibilities. data. These amounts are determined through deliberation among Sustainability ● “There is communication between Audit & Supervisory Board Improvement the current situation, I believe it is necessary to check the market share and the and independent external directors, and this contributes to position within the market by a comparative analysis of performance with other Performance-linked compensation is linked to single-year and the Audit & Supervisory Board members, including the two sharing information and understandings with independent companies in the industry.” mediumto long-term performance at an appropriate ratio. external members. Policies for determining Audit & Supervisory external directors. These activities should be enhanced going “Regarding the CEO succession program, the process of selection and career ● Annual payment amounts are set to reflect performance with Board member compensation are also decided through forward.” planning has been clarified, but the specific details of the program have still not ● “A climate has been cultivated where individuals actively been provided, so supervision still cannot be said to be sufficient.” reference to the Companyʼs performance in the preceding fiscal deliberation among the Audit & Supervisory Board members, work on gathering information and improving their own skills, ● “Revisions to Japanʼs Corporate Governance Code ask for diversity, including year and achievement of planned targets, and to the business plan including the two external members. including participating in external seminars and workshops.” diversity in gender and nationality, so I think future efforts will be required, ● “The Internal Audit Division and Audit & Supervisory particularly regarding gender.” Board members maintain frequent communication to share information.” CEO Succession Program Mandom has a policy of gradually implementing the succession The succession program is as follows: Overview of Activities of External Directors (Fiscal 2019) program on the right to train human resources determined to be 1 Experience at work sites in Japan and other countries Financial and Non-financial Data qualified to succeed the CEO. A system has been established in 2 Learning of management theory and knowledge through study which the details of the implementation are reported to the Board abroad or other such program 1. Visit to regional offices in Japan Date Place Division Visitor Notes of Directors as appropriate, and the Board of Directors provides 3 Department rotation after promotion to management Satoshi Nakajima Satoshi Nagao Purpose: Aoyama Office Interview with managing executive supervision. They are selected after review by the Nominating 4 Rotation of area of supervision/execution after promotion to June Tokyo ○ 1 So that external directors could ascertain (Marketing Division) officer in charge of the Marketing Units Committee, a majority of whose members are external directors, executive position the current situation at offices engaged in July Osaka Joint Research Program with ○ ○ which serves as the advisory body. The selection process will 5 Training, including OJT, by representative directors, external Osaka University Graduate School new efforts and important offices and offer Joint Research Program with be clarified based on this selection policy to ensure objectivity, directors, etc. after promotion to director August Osaka ○ advice from an outside perspective. Osaka University Graduate School timeliness, and transparency. 2 To boost motivation of staff on site by Nihonbashi Office ○ August Tokyo (East Japan Sales Division, Sales Planning Division) exchanging opinions with external directors. Aoyama Office March Tokyo ○ ○ Informal discussion with employees (Marketing Division) Please refer to the Mandom website for details. https://www.mandom.co.jp/en/company/governance.html 40 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 41 Executives, Audit & Supervisory Board Members (As of July 1, 2019) Shinichiro Koshiba Senior Managing Executive Officer & Director (Born on December 24, 1963) Satoshi Nagao External Director (Born on October 29, 1946) In charge of the International Business Operation Units, the International Business Division 1, Value Creation Story the International Business Strategy Division 1969 April Joined Toyota Motor Sales Co., Ltd. (now Toyota Motor Corporation) 1996 January General Manager, Toyota Motor Corporation 1987 April Joined the Company 2001 January Joined DDI CORPORATION (now KDDI Corporation);General Manager, 1993 July Senior Managing Director, Sunwa Marketing Co., Ltd. the Corporate Strategy Planning Division 1997 May General Manager, Zhongshan City Rida Fine Chemical Co., Ltd. (now Zhongshan 2001 June Managing Executive Officer, KDDI Corporation City Rida Cosmetics Co., Ltd.) 2003 April Senior Managing Executive Officer, KDDI Corporation 2002 April General Manager, the Sales Planning Division 2003 June Director, KDDI Corporation 2008 June Executive Officer 2005 June Executive Vice President, Representative Director (CFO), KDDI Corporation (until 2013 April Managing Executive Officer; In charge of the Marketing Units June 2010) 2016 June Director (current position) 2007 June Chairman, KDDI Evolva, Inc. (until June 2012) 2018 April Senior Managing Executive Officer (current position); In charge of the International 2014 June External Director of the Company (current position) Business Operation Units (current position); Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Chairman, PT Mandom Indonesia Tbk (current position) Motonobu Nishimura President Executive Officer & Director Ken Nishimura Managing Executive Officer & Director Growth Strategy (Born on January 9, 1951) (Born on May 12, 1982) In charge of the Internal Audit Division In charge of the Marketing Units, Marketing Division 2, New Business Development Division, Group Marketing Strategy Division and Public Relation Division 1977 April Joined the Company 1983 April General Manager, the East Japan Sales Division 2008 April Joined the Company 1984 June Director (current position) 2011 January Assistant Manager, Mandom Corporation (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 1987 June Managing Director 2013 April Human Resources Division 1990 June Representative Director (current position); Senior Vice President 2015 July The Human Resources Division stationed at Europe IESE Business School (Spain) 1995 June President Director 2017 May Graduated from IESE Business School (MBA) 2000 May Audit & Supervisory Board Member, PT Mandom Indonesia Tbk (current position) 2017 July Executive Officer; General Manager, the Corporate Strategy Division 2004 June President Executive Officer (current position) 2018 April Managing Executive Officer (current position); In charge of the Marketing Units 2008 April In charge of the Internal Control Promotion Division (now the Internal Audit (current position), In charge of the Marketing Division 2, the New Business Division) (until June 2015) Development Division, the Group Marketing Strategy Division and the Public 2019 April In charge of the Internal Audit Division (current position) Relation Division (current position) Takeshi Hibi Managing Executive Officer & Director Corporate Governance (Born on April 16, 1960) In charge of the Domestic Sales Units, the EC Sales Division, the Sales Planning Division and the Distribution Channel Development Division 1984 April Joined the Company 1999 April Director and President, Mandom (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 2008 April Managing Director, PT Mandom Indonesia Tbk 2011 April Representative Director and President, PT Mandom Indonesia Tbk 2014 April Executive Officer 2015 April Managing Executive Officer (current position) 2016 April In charge of the Sales Units 2016 June Director (current position) 2017 April In charge of the Domestic Sales Units (current position) Ryuichi Terabayashi Hiroo Mizuno Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member Sustainability Yasuaki Kameda Senior Managing Executive Officer & Director (Born on November 1, 1961) Reiko Nakayama External Director (Born on April 2, 1959) In charge of the Corporate Planning & Financial Units and the Human Resources & General Resources Units, the CSR Promotion Division, the Legal Affairs Office, the Investor Relations Division, and the Secretarial Office 1983 April Joined Japan Associated Finance Co., Ltd. (now JAFCO Co., Ltd.) 1997 January Joined Marusan Securities Co., Ltd. 2000 March General Manager, Investment Information Department, Marusan Securities Co., Ltd. 1984 April Joined the Company 2004 October General Manager, Underwriting Department, Marusan Securities Co., Ltd. 2008 April General Manager, the Product Development Department Section 1 (now the Product 2008 October Director, LivTech, Inc. Planning Division) 2009 February Director, Head of Administrative H.Q. Division, LivTech, Inc. 2009 April Executive Officer 2015 March External Director, LUCKLAND CO., LTD. 2012 April In charge of the Chain Store Sales Division 1, the Chain Store Sales Division 2 and the 2016 March External Director (Audit and Supervisory Committee Member), LUCKLAND CO., Distribution Channel Development Division; General Manager, the Chain Store Sales LTD. (current position) Division 2 2017 March Audit & Supervisory Board Member, UcarPAC Co. LTD. (current position) 2014 April In charge of the Corporate Planning Division (now the Corporate Administration Division) and the Corporate Communications & Investor Relations Division (now the 2018 June External Director, YUSHIN PRECISION EQUIPMENT CO., LTD. (current position) Yukihiro Tsujimura Masahiro Nishio Investor Relations Division); General Manager, the Corporate Planning Division External Audit & External Audit & 2015 April Managing Executive Officer; In charge of the Corporate Planning Units Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member 2017 April In charge of the Corporate Planning & Financial Units and the Human Resources & Financial and Non-financial Data the General Resources Units (current position) 2017 June Director (current position) 2018 April Senior Managing Executive Officer (current position) Executive Officers Noboru Nonaka In charge of the East Japan Sales Division and the West Japan Sales Division Masahiro Ueda Senior Managing Director, PT Mandom Indonesia Tbk Masanori Sawada In charge of the Information Systems Division and the Finance Division; General Manager, the Finance Division Hironao Suzuki In charge of the Technology and Production Units, the Purchasing Division and the Production Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Engineering Division Koichi Watanabe Senior Managing Director, PT Mandom Indonesia Tbk Kiyoshi Tai In charge of the Chain Store Sales Division Section 1, the Chain Store Sales Division Section 2 and the Chain Store Sales Division Section 3; General Masahiko Ushigami In charge of the General Administration Division and the Human Resources Division; General Manager, the Human Resources Division Executive Officer Executive Officer Manager, the Chain Store Sales Division Section 2 Executive Officer Misao Tsubakihara In charge of the Product Assurance Division, Technical Development Center and Technology Strategy Division; General Manager, Technical Development Center Yoshikazu Hongo In charge of the International Business Division 2; General Manager, the International Business Division 2 Fumihiro Okada In charge of Fundamental Research Institute; Director of Fundamental Research Institute Tatsuya Arichi Representative Director and President, PT Mandom Indonesia Tbk Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Kenji Uchiyama In charge of the Product Planning Division, the Communication Design Division, the Marketing Division 1 and the International Marketing Division; General Manager, the Communication Design Division Norihito Azuma In charge of the Fukusaki Factory and the Production Engineering Division; General Manager, the Fukusaki Factory Yasumasa Yoshida In charge of the Corporate Strategy Division and Corporate Administration Division; General Manager, Corporate Strategy Division Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer 42 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 43 Business and Other Risks The society we are living in is right in the middle When it comes to the manufacture and sale At the same time, when considering what is Creation, sticking closer to consumers than other of great changes. of cosmetics, which is the core of our current uniquely required of Mandom by society and companies, imagining what they are feeling, and One of those is the exponential advancement business, our most important responsibility is to that cosmetics are a cultural industry, we believe creating appealing products. Value Creation Story of science and technology, including digital provide consumers with products they can use it is our mission within society to provide value in At Mandom, we will pour our every effort into technology. The rapid spread of Internet access with peace of mind. which users of our products gain confidence in Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) for the and smartphones has also brought big changes In January 1998, we established our Quality themselves and become cheerful. achievement of a sustainable society, which to our living activities, including explosive growth Philosophy and Fundamental Quality Policy. What is important in order to put this into is required for our company to be a going of e-commerce. Additionally, warming and other Since that time, we have attempted to ensure practice is how accurately we can identify the concern, and Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) aspects of global climate change have become a the provision of safe and reliable products and wants and needs of consumers. Information to bring a splash of color to the daily lives of serious problem. It is heavily impacting our daily services based on our proprietary Mandom is becoming increasingly borderless around consumers everywhere. Our aim is to use our lives, including extended periods of abnormally Quality Management System. the world, including Japan, available almost ʻOnly Oneʼ strengths to provide Dedication to hot temperatures, as well as destructive typhoons. We also believe that consideration for the simultaneously and without much variation Service (Oyakudachi) to a billion people around Growth Strategy Moreover, in Japan, population decline associated environment and society must be incorporated between areas. As a result, trends in fashion and the world as set forth in the VISION Slogan of with the declining birthrate and aging society is a into our business activities. In recent years, cosmetics change frequently and rapidly. If we are VISION2027. problem, but the global population is increasing, environmental problems such as climate change late in properly addressing uncertain factors such especially in Asia, resulting in significant and plastic pollution in the ocean have been as changes in the wants and needs of consumers, demographic changes. growing steadily worse, and we recognize that consumers will not select our products, and we Based on the lessons learned from two business this will have an impact on the continuity of risk getting stuck with stagnant, obsolete products. crises, we believe it is important that the company our business activities. We also believe that On the other hand, these changes are also an Corporate Governance is a going concern. For a company to continue to it is important that human assets with various opportunity for Mandom to create new markets. exist, first you have to have a sustainable society. attributes and values are able to fully realize In fact, Mandom has a strong history of creating In September 2015, the United Nations adopted their potential so that we can accurately identify various new markets by developing products to sustainable development goals (SDGs) as common changes in society, come up with innovations to propose new grooming options under Consumergoals for the international society. We believe that take advantage of new earnings opportunities, led Lifestyle Value Creation, one of our MISSION as a corporate citizen, it is important that we think and ensure sustainability as a company. approaches. The key will be whether we are seriously about and act on what we can do to able to continue offering products based on create a sustainable society, including contributing the approach Consumer-led Lifestyle Value to achievement of SDGs. Sustainability Financial and Non-financial Data 44 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 45 Approach to CSR Framework for a global society and Mandom Group CSR Our Approach to CSR and CSR Guidelines In developing our approach to CSR, we referred to the International Code of Conduct, and other frameworks for At the Sustainable Development Summit held on September Division, a corporate department dedicated to this task. Mandom Group's corporate philosophy and philosophy/ global society. Finally, our approach to CSR was determined 25, 2015, sustainable development goals (SDGs) were In September 2015, we signed the UN Global Compact Value Creation Story policies in special areas that establish our internal philosophy along with a course of action regarding each of the seven adopted as shared targets to be met by 2030 and new to express our support for its ten principles in four areas and values, and linked these to the ten principles of the UN core subjects of the ISO 26000 standard. initiatives were launched across the whole of global society of activity, with the aim of allowing all Mandom Group Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), aimed at sustainable development. employees to share in the values of global society as a In the Mandom Group, one of the themes of our declared step toward sustainable development, and to create new initiatives from fiscal 2015 was similarly to strengthen our CSR opportunities to strengthen relations with a diverse and The Future We Want promotion system. In April 2015, we set up the CSR Promotion wide range of stakeholders. The Mandom Group declared its participation in the UN Global Compact in September 2015. We support the Ten Principles relating to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption as universal principles which should be highly Achieving sustainable development in society valued by global corporations. (Example: triple bottom line̶improving value based on all three aspects̶social, environmental and financial) The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Strategic CSR Global society initiatives and agreements Global society initiatives and agreements Growth Strategy Human Rights Principle 1： Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human (Expectations for Creating Shared Value) rights; and Principle 2： make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Engagement/Dialogue aimed at achieving sustainable development aimed at achieving sustainable development Labour Principle 3： Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right Respect/Contribution Respect/Contribution to collective bargaining; Principle 4： the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Business activities Expectations and Principle 5： the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6： the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. and corporate CSR demands from Material (Examples: UNGC, SDGs, International Code of (Examples: UNGC, SDGs, International Code of Environment Principle 7： Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental values of the a broad range challenges; Mandom Group Issues of stakeholders Principle 8： undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9： encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Conduct, Declaration of Human Rights, etc.) Conduct, Declaration of Human Rights, etc.) technologies. Corporate Governance Anti-Corruption Principle 10： Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Fundamental CSR (Demands from society) Mandom Group CSR Promotion System With the aim of strengthening our CSR promotion system, Group, reinforces CSR activities, and monitors the progress The foundation for leading comfortable lives we set up the CSR Promotion Committee chaired by the of CSR material issues, liaising with relevant departments (Examples: ISO 26000 and resolution of social, environmental and economic issues) President Executive Officer. The committee ensures a through five related committees and councils as well as other consistent approach to CSR promotion across the Mandom bodies. External Site External Site Decision-making CSR Core Subjects UNGC: UN Global Compact SDGs: Sustainable Development Goals ▶ Global Compact Official Website ▶ Global Compact Official Website > THE SDGS Supervision Total Risk Management Committee Organizational governance Sustainability Fair operating practices Code of Conduct Promotion Committee Human rights Organizational Governance Fair Operating Practices We strive to maintain and further improve upon the fairness and With the shared goal of sustainable social development, we will CSR Promotion Committee transparency of our management, in full compliance with all laws build good relationships with our suppliers and partners and Board of Directors Quality Assurance Committee Consumer issues and regulations, and will put forth every effort to ensure the fulfill our social responsibilities through our business activities. safety and benefit of our stakeholders. Consumer Issues The environment Human Rights We will utilize the feedback received from customers in our Environment Promotion Committee (including CSR procurement) We support and respect the protection of human rights as business activities to improve the benefits of our products and declared by the international community and will do our best to services from their standpoint and to ensure safety. continuously monitor actions and educate people at every stage Community Involvement and Development Occupational Health and Safety Committee Labor practices of our business activities to avoid complicity in any human rights We will ascertain social issues from a global perspective and take violations. Financial and Non-financial Data useful action to resolve those issues in pursuit of sustainable social Labor Practices development and sustainable business growth. Human rights We consider our employees corporate assets that are vital to our Activities carried out business, and strive continuously to create safe, clean workplaces Community involvement and by other related departments that give employees the freedom to express themselves. development ...etc. The Environment We consider the impact that our business activities have on the Secretariat environment and strive continuously to reduce that impact at every stage from the development of products and services to CSR Promotion Division procurement, production, transportation, sales, and after-use disposal, recycling, etc. 46 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 47 Approach to CSR CSR Material Issues and Mandom Group's Value Chain The Relation between CSR Material Issues and Stakeholders As indicated below, we have examined and clarified impacts from our business activities. Mandom has been conducting dialogues with a wide range of “creating lifestyle value with consumers, for consumers,” the relationship between the CSR Material Issues of the Going forward, we will further advance and strengthen of diverse stakeholders since FY2006 in order to take their we will continue or initiate promotion of CSR Material Issues, Mandom Group (Ver. 2: February 2017) and each stage of our initiatives while developing an understanding of both requests, hear their expectations, and reflect those in our and improvement/review of Kohdoh, while taking advantage Value Creation Story the Mandom Group's business activities (value chain). positive and negative impacts of the business activities of the business activities. of various opportunities enabling exchange of views and CSR efforts are broadly divided into two types: fundamental Mandom Group. We will search for the specific nature of “the Stakeholders are diverse in terms of their expectations and dialogue with a wide range of people such as experts, CSR and strategic CSR/CSV. Fundamental CSR aims to future we want”̶a future suited to the Mandom Group and demands on corporations, and their prioritization of issues research institutions, and groups. We hope we can count on eliminate or reduce negative impacts from our business based on our corporate philosophy. pertaining to sustainability. These differences depend on your cooperation. activities, while strategic CSR strives to maximize positive their standpoint, principles, lifestyle, way of thinking, and CSR Information other factors. ▶ Stakeholder Dialogue Issue No. (red) KohDoh for fundamental CSR, or to deal with threats to continuing our previous business activities, or other issues to be overcome Based on one of the Mandom Group's KohDoh principles KohDoh for strategic CSR/CSV, or to create opportunities to improve future business activities, competitiveness, and company Issue No. (blue) Relation with Stakeholders value, or further strengthen the corporate structure (degree of interest, expectation, or demands) Somewhat Very high High high * Community includes educational and academic research Growth Strategy KohDoh: ★Items for Proactive Engagement organizations, NGOs/NPOs, etc. Distribution, marketing, sales, etc. “Thoughtful action” Suppliers Business Public bodies Community* Procurement of materials and ingredients In-house activities in areas such as production, Intermediary distribution, Consumer use and disposal Investors (procurement, Employees partners and (government, (private sector Consumers Regional Global (including materials for sales promotion) development, and resources Internal and partners purchasing) customers regulatory organizations, societies environment retail outlets, etc. agencies, etc.) etc.) Issue No.01 Building a risk management system and continuous improvement ★ Build a group-wide risk management system Organizational Governance Issue No.02 Promoting corporate philosophy/culture and compliance ★ Build the Mandom Group's corporate philosophy from a global perspective and promote its understanding and spread Human Issue No.03 Continuous investment in education on human rights Rights Corporate Governance Promote human rights education to build an inclusive society Issue No.04 Improving health and safety in the workplace The Most Important Material Issues : Elucidate the cause of the fire at the plant in Indonesia, prevent any recurrence,and provide relief to the victims and bereaved families Labor Practices Issue No.05 Achieving employee satisfaction (ES) and diversity Promote Decent Work practices, work-life balance and diversity Issue No.06 Environmental considerations in products and services ★ Take environmental measures for products and build an evaluation system Issue No.07 Promoting measures toward a carbon-free society ★ The Carry out measures at all sites to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Sustainability Environment Issue No.08 Protecting biodiversity ★ Give environmental consideration for biodiversity throughout the product life cycle (includes sales bases and offices in Japan) Issue No.09 Promoting a recycling-oriented society ★ Achieve and maintain zero emissions by fully recycling industrial waste (includes sales bases and offices in Japan) Fair Issue No.10 Building and implementing CSR procurement Operating ★ Practices Build a CSR procurement system based on three aspects̶human rights, the environment, and fair business practices Financial and Non-financial Data Issue No.11 Taking responsibility for quality and the health and safety of consumers ★ Consumer Effective administration and continuous improvement of a quality management system Issues Issue No.12 Creating new shared values with consumers ★ Promote a product planning system that takes into consideration the communications system, convenience and safety Issue No.13 Detecting and contributing to new social paradigms ★ Community Contribute to international frameworks such as the UN Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Involvement and Development Issue No.14 Co-creating value with society ★ Promote the co-creation of value with research institutions and NGOs/NPOs 48 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 49 Approach to CSR Progress Situation of CSR Material Issues of the Mandom Group and KohDoh Plan for the Future ISO 26000 Mandom Group's CSR Material Issues (Ver. 2) Related SDGs themes Overall assessment Core Main specific activities in FY2018 Setting of long-term goals Policy for the future and KohDoh plan (SDGs: Sustainable Development Goals) (including some of the most recent activities) Subjects No. Course of action for CSR material issue Value Creation Story Theme Building a risk management system and continuous ●Collected data and improved management system in response ● Continue suitable response to laws and regulations pertaining to amendment of laws and regulations pertaining to chemical improvement substances. to chemical substances. ●Identified continuing risks and examined responses ● Improve education and manuals regarding the leakage of Through a Total Risk Management ●Examined and verified the effects of GDPR on the entire group － Committee, provide guidance and to matters such as GDPR, including of overseas classified information and response to GDPR. and examined and verified the personal information in our group companies, but did not develop overall BCM 1 supervision regarding continuous improvements in business continuity possession. or formulate BCP. ●Improve disaster and emergency manuals and formulate BCP. management and planning (BCM/BCP) and ●Created new risk response themes taking into account the ●Respond to new risks. efforts to build the risk management system latest international trends. for the group as a whole ●Carried out survey to gauge how well the corporate philosophy Organizational Theme Promoting corporate is put into practice. ●Formulated an action plan in each division based on Governance philosophy/culture and ●Revised the Code of Conduct manual (2018 version). the issues found in the survey regarding our compliance corporate philosophy. ●Continue instillation and education of the corporate philosophy for all ●Conducted compliance education (6 times in each division), 2 Build the corporate philosophy for the Mandom Code of Conduct training (twice), and company-wide ●Improved company-wide compliance awareness － group employees. education on the Code of Conduct (once). through compliance education, Mandom Code of ●Instill compliance and corruption prevention awareness in the entire Mandom Group from a global perspective and provide education to promote a Conduct training, and corruption prevention group. ●Formulated a corruption prevention policy and corruption complete understanding aimed at thorough education. Growth Strategy prevention guidelines, and conducted education on corruption implementation prevention for the entire group (once). Theme Continuous investment in ●Continued to implement company-wide Code of Conduct education on human rights training to heighten awareness of the helpline. ●Continue strengthening effective operation of the helpline system. Conduct in-house human rights education ●Based on the Mandom Group Supplier CSR Guidelines (Ver. ●Develop and clearly state in-house rules and Code of Conduct relating ●Did not sufficiently organize in-house system in line 3 aimed at training employees to act in a way befitting a corporation engaged in global 2), utilized the GCNJ self-assessment tool and carried out a questionnaire with our domestic suppliers for the second time with philosophy on human resources, nor clearly (Under review) (Note) See Issue No. 10 for CSR procurement to human rights and harassment through compliance with the Act for state what it entails. Eliminating Discrimination against Persons with Disabilities, business and designed to build an inclusive (December 2018). Human society awareness/support for LGBT, etc. ●Carried out the same questionnaire with local suppliers of Rights (Issue No.10 : Building and implementing CSR procurement system) Mandom Indonesia (February 2019). Corporate Governance Theme Improving health and safety in the workplace ●Finished outside renewal audit of Fukusaki Factory 〈Urgent Issue〉 occupational health and safety management system OHSAS 18001 (November 2018). ●Promote taking health checks, mainly for preventive purposes, and Elucidate the cause of the fire at the plant in ●Number of occupational accidents: 0 ●Continued activities to promote the creation of a comfortable continue to carry out stress checks and provide education on mental Indonesia, prevent any recurrence, and ● Number of occupational accidents at Fukusaki 4 provide relief to the victims and bereaved working environment by ensuring employee health and safety in line with the Industrial Safety and Health Act, and carrying Factory in FY2018: 3 ●Percentage taking health checks: 100% health. families ●Percentage of employees who took health checks in ●Percentage taking stress checks: 100% ● Promote efforts to disseminate and broaden knowledge of out improvement activities through workplace patrols. occupational health and safety activities at all bases. FY2018: 97.0% Promote taking health checks to all employees, mainly for preventive purposes, ●Percentage of employees who took stress checks in carry out stress checks, and provide FY2018: 84.7% education on mental health. ●Exceed statutory employment rate for Labor ●Established a special-purpose subsidiary to utilize and expand disabled persons every year. Sustainability employment of diverse human resources. ●Number of employees quitting work for ●Promote a healthy work-life balance and positive action Practices ●Established Mandom Will Corp. as a special-purpose ・ Formulate plans to reform work styles. ● Formulated a staggered working time system to improve subsidiary childcare: 0 every year Theme Achieving employee productivity, reduce overtime work, maintain and enhance ●Number of employees quitting work for ・ Promote use of short-term childcare leave for men. ・Disabled person employment rate for FY2018: 2.76% satisfaction (ES) and diversity employee health, and promote work-life balance (partially elderly care: 0 every year ・ Promote use of flextime system. changed to a flextime system in April 2019). ●Annual overtime hours per person for Mandom ●Rate of obtaining make-up holidays:100% 5 Build and continuously improve a labor system with the aim of achieving Decent ● Shared management of employee working hours and alone in FY2018 ●Consumption rate of yearly paid holidays ●Promote Decent Work ・Regular employees excluding managers: 152 hours, 70% or higher ・ Provide support for senior and new employees. Work practices and ideal work-life balance, implemented information campaigns to eliminate long securing diverse human resources, and working hours and promote use of paid leave and make-up 31 minutes (12.6% increase over previous year) ●Overtime: Average of less than 5 hours ●Promote diversity and inclusion providing fair and impartial evaluations holidays. ・All employees including contract employees, but per month per person ・ Bolster system for giving more opportunities to employees with excluding managers: 98 hours, 51 minutes (7.8% ●Percentage using in-house system foreign nationality. ● Began system to balance work with medical treatment, increase over previous year) following similar systems for childcare and elderly care. Based on total number of employees as of March 31 for diverse workstyles such as ・ Promote and support balance between medical treatment and work. Created guidebook and established help desk. wor k-from-home and flexible working hours: 50% or higher Financial and Non-financial Data ●Ensure that 90% of Mandom’s products Theme Environmental considerations for the domestic market are ●Promote development of environmentally friendly products (4R). environmentally friendly products (in in products and services テーマ テーマ ●Began using renewable materials in some of our line with in-house standards) by the year ●Promote use of renewable materials. テーマ ●Examined use of renewable materials in laminated packaging. laminated packaging. ●Expand scope of switch to FSC-certified paper (including package 6 Continuously improve the eco-friendliness of products by building a management system テーマ ●Revised standards for our environmentally friendly products. ●Formulated mediumto long-term goals for our 2027. ● Ensure that 100% of the Mandom inserts and backing paper, etc.) and maintain regular contact with for evaluating environmentally friendly environmentally friendly products. Group’s products are environmentally firms that have not acquired distribution management certification The processes and their results in products and friendly products (in line with in-house (CoC certification). Environment services standards) by the year 2050. 50 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 51 Approach to CSR Progress Situation of CSR Material Issues of the Mandom Group and KohDoh Plan for the Future ISO 26000 Mandom Group's CSR Material Issues (Ver. 2) Related SDGs themes Overall assessment Core Main specific activities in FY2018 Setting of long-term goals Policy for the future and KohDoh plan (SDGs: Sustainable Development Goals) (including some of the most recent activities) Subjects No. Course of action for CSR material issue Value Creation Story ●Calculated Scope 3 emissions for Mandom alone, and clarified ● Total energy input in FY2018: 443,580 GJ (2.3% Theme Promoting measures toward key ways in which to reduce CO2 emissions. decrease over previous year) ●Reduce total Scope 1 + 2 CO2 emissions for ●Revise company-wide CO2 emissions reduction goal in line Domestic sites: 121,481 GJ (4.8% decrease over previous year) domestic business by 26% relative to a carbon-free society with the Paris Agreement and government policies. FY2013 levels by 2027. ● Examine use of renewable energy. Overseas sites: 322,099 GJ (1.9% increase over previous year) ● Continue and expand energy conservation activities. 7 Promoting measures to create a carbon-free society based on the Paris Agreement, and ●Installed new boiler equipment at Fukusaki Factory, and reduced CO2 emissions by switching fuel from kerosene to ●Total greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions in FY2018 Scope ●Reduce total CO2 emissions for the Mandom Group by 80% relative to ● Expand calculation of Scope 3 emissions to include overseas sites. efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at 1 + 2: 30,766 t (0.2% increase over previous year) FY2013 levels by 2050. LPG. all sites Domestic sites: 5,781 t (7% decrease over previous year) ● Promoted adoption of power reduction equipment (e.g., switching to LED lighting or changing transformers). Overseas sites: 24,985 t (2% increase over previous year) ● Continue purchasing RSPO credit through the Book & Claim system ●Purchased credit through the Book & Claim system for the raw materials derived from palm oil that are used most ●Began purchasing RSPO credit through the Book & Claim Achieve the following by 2027 Theme Protecting biodiversity FY2018: 100% of most used materials derived from domestically. The system for the raw materials derived from palm oil that are palm oil ●Switch all palm oil used in our materials Grasp the impact on biodiversity of each used most domestically. to RSPO-certified palm oil. ● Examine possibility of purchasing RSPO credit through the Book & Environment 8 product throughout its life cycle and carry out ●Began switching to FSC-certified paper for all carboard used to ● Percentage of cardboard cartons that now use Claim system for other materials derived from palm oil. FSC-certified paper ●Use certified paper for all paper containers measures to protect biodiversity transport products at Fukusaki Factory. and packaging. ● Use FSC-certified paper for all cardboard by 2020. FY2018: 57% Growth Strategy ● Continue promoting switch to paperless operations. Theme Promoting a ●Fukusaki Factory: Selected contractor capable of recycling ● Industrial waste recycling rates ● Reduce industrial waste produced when filling containers. 9 recycling-oriented society industrial wastes for landfill disposal. Fukusaki Factory: 100%, Head Office: 100% ●Continue achieving zero emissions. ●Head Office: Confirmed that zero emissions are maintained at ● Continue confirming that zero emissions are maintained at industrial Achieve and maintain zero emissions by fully ●Continued achieving zero emissions and carrying industrial waste disposal contractors. waste disposal contractors. recycling industrial waste out activities aimed at reducing waste. ●Published the Mandom Group corruption prevention policy and corruption prevention guidelines, and began ● Guideline issuances and self-assessment Theme Building and implementing questionnaires ● Expand scope to include secondary/tertiary and overseas suppliers, company-wide education. Both the policy and guidelines are etc. CSR procurement system available in eight languages, including Japanese (November Domestic sites 2018 onwards). ・September 2016 (Ver. 1): 78 companies ● Revise Mandom Group procurement policy, and explain to/instill in Draft Supplier CSR Guidelines and gain the suppliers. 10 Corporate Governance ●Instilled the Mandom Group Supplier CSR Guidelines (Ver. 2) ・November 2017 (Ver. 2): 21 companies Fair Operating cooperation of suppliers to build and operate (Under review) among domestic suppliers and carried out a self-assessment ・December 2018: 78 companies ● Continue checking response to Supplier CSR Guidelines and a CSR procurement system Practices (Based on the specific topics within three core questionnaire with them for the second time (December Indonesia self-assessment questionnaire. subjects̶ human rights, labor practices and 2018). ・February 2019: 94 companies ● Examine evaluation methods for strengthening monitoring the environment) ●Carried out the same questionnaire with local suppliers of ●Failed to revise Mandom Group procurement policy. capabilities. Mandom Indonesia (February 2019). Theme Taking responsibility for quality and the health and ●Voluntarily recalled the following ●Examined causes of product recall, clarified issues safety of consumers ・Seven hair foams, including Lucido, due to a mistake in with response, and formulated measures to prevent recurrence. ● Take up the challenge of zero quality ● Continuously improve and strengthen the quality assurance cycle for 11 Effective administration and continuous improvement of a quality management system ingredients list (July 25, 2018). ・Limited edition Bifesta cleansing lotion due to incorrect ●Revised quality assurance policy. complaints. preventing product recall (strengthen checking function in PDCA). in every phase of our business activities̶ insertion of product description (June 5, 2018). Take up the challenge of zero quality complaints. planning, design and development, procurement, production, shipping and sales Consumer Theme Creating new shared Issues values with consumers Sustainability ●Posted instruction video on our website to prevent misuse of ●Although improvements were made in products and 12 Build a system of communication that hair foam products. services based on feedback from customers, these (Under review) ● Promote the use of universal design for containers, explanatory labeling, and other elements, so all consumers can safely and enables the use of feedback from a wide ●Adopted a universal font (used in 65 of 68 new spring 2019 did not go as far as creating new shared value with range of consumers; build a product planning securely use products. products). consumers. system that takes into consideration user-friendliness and safety ●Cooperated with Osaka fieldwork of second year students at Kansai University Senior High School (June 2018). Theme Detecting and contributing ● Actively participate in UN Global Compact (Network Japan) and ●Cooperated with SGH Fall Holiday Business/University Tour to new social paradigms and Training of Osaka Prefectural Senri Senior High School efforts of other groups outside the company. (October 2018). ● There were 64 participants at the sustainability ● Continue seminars and dialogues relating to social and 13 Look into KohDoh that can promote thorough in-company understanding of and ●Held sustainability seminar and dialogue with the help of seminar. Eight selected employees and seven － environmental issues. ability to contribute to international observers participated in the dialogue. ● Review and implement in-house education programs. WWF (December 2018). Financial and Non-financial Data frameworks such as the UN Global Compact's ● Strengthen support for international reporting guidelines such as GRI, 10 Principles and the Sustainable ●Held a luncheon seminar at the 92nd Annual Meeting of the Japanese Pharmacological Society aimed at promoting open and bolster and continue strengthening communication system. Development Goals (SDGs) Community innovation (March 2019). Involvement ●Continued efforts in the Joint Research Program with the and Theme Co-creating value with society Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences at Osaka University. ●See the following section of the website for previous Development Build co-creative relationships with research ●Concluded our first cross-appointment system agreement with results of the Joint Research Program with the ● Continue efforts with the Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences organizations, NGOs, NPOs and others to Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences at at Osaka University. Osaka University and the Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Osaka University. 14 achieve sustainable social development and begin taking measures Sciences (August 3, 2018, News Release). Community Involvement and Development > Joint － ● Continue efforts with the Japanese Society for Alternatives to Animal Experiments. (with Japanese Society for Alternatives to ● Continued call for proposals for Mandom International Research Program with the Graduate School of Animal Experiments; Graduate School of Research Grants on Alternatives to Animal Experiments ● Pursue new co-creative relationships through efforts to address Issue Pharmaceutical Sciences at Osaka University Pharmaceutical Sciences, Osaka University, (Decided on research themes for 12th grant: May 14, 2019, No. 13. https://www.mandom.co.jp/en/csr/comm_handai.html etc.) News Release). 52 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 53 CSR Efforts The Environment Environmental Promotion System Mandom considers environmental conservation to be a key issue in our business activities, and we carry out environmental We consider the impact that our business activities have on the environment and strive measures based on the Environmental Philosophy and Environmental Policy. Value Creation Story Basic Policy continuously to reduce that impact at every stage from the development of products and services The Fukusaki Factory became ISO 14001-certified in November 2000, and in Mandom's offices (head office building, Tokyo to procurement, production, transportation, sales, and after-use disposal, recycling, etc. Nihonbashi office, sales sites and so on) we have set up environmental management systems based on the ISO standard. We also promote environmental action based on environmental targets using a Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle. Long-Term Goals Priority Initiatives Environmental Promotion System ● Ensure that 90% of Mandomʼs products for the domestic market are ● Continuously improve the eco-friendliness of environmentally friendly products (in line with in-house standards) by the year 2027. products by building a management system for Management Council ● Ensure that 100% of the Mandom Groupʼs products are environmentally friendly evaluating environmentally friendly processes and Management products (in line with in-house standards) by the year 2050. their results in products and services Management Approval of New Topics Directive and Targets PDCA Report from Chairperson Directive ● Reduce total Scope 1 + 2 CO2 emissions for domestic business by 26% relative to ● Promoting measures to create a carbon-free FY2013 levels by 2027. society based on the Paris Agreement, and efforts Environmental Management Officer Environmental Promotion Committee (Executive Officer in Charge of ● Reduce total CO2 emissions for the Mandom Group by 80% relative to FY2013 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at all sites CSR Promotion Division) Mission : Summary and review of matters to be reported to the levels by 2050. ● Grasp the impact on biodiversity of each product management Council (once every six months in general) Achieve the following by 2027 throughout its life cycle and carry out measures to Directions Proposal of New Topics Chairperson : Environmental Management Officer and Targets Growth Strategy ● Switch all palm oil used in our materials to RSPO-certified palm oil. protect biodiversity (Executive Officer in Charge of CSR Promotion Division) ● Use certified paper for all paper containers and packaging. ● Achieve and maintain zero emissions by fully Participation : Heads of concerned divisions CSR Promotion Division Secretariat : CSR Promotion Division ● Continue achieving zero emissions. recycling industrial waste Internal Environmental Audit, etc. Subcommittee Activities Environmental Philosophy and Promotion System Site Activities Secretariat : CSR Promotion Division Secretariat : CSR Promotion Division Head Office / Sales Sites Fukusaki Site Fukusaki Site It is our sincere hope to instill OYAKUDACHI, a contribution towards a comfortable life, for our consumers, our community, and the preservation of the global environment, through the actions of our business. We have always been environmentally conscious in daily Head Office Building Fukusaki Factory Head Office / Sales Sites operations at Mandom, and it came into fruition in August 1999, in the form of the establishment of the Mandom Environmental Philosophy Other Office Production Engineering Div. Procurement of Sustainable Palm Oil and Fundamental Environmental Policy. Also, our Fukusaki Factory set its “Environmental Policy” as shown below in October 1999, which was Sales Sites Corporate Governance Technical Development Center Procurement of Sustainable Cardboard revised on May 1, 2006. It was certified to ISO 14001 in November 2000. Aerosol Products Mandom Group Companies In May 2016, we revised our Environmental Philosophy to strengthen efforts with respect to environmental protection throughout the value (Domestic) Development Div. Promotion of 4Rs* in Products chain, corporate response to social demands, and systematic performance improvements. We also set environmental policies and are carrying Overseas production bases CSR Procurement out environmental activities for three priority areas̶products, biodiversity conservation, and the Fukusaki Factory. Environmental Philosophy Entire Organization We seek to accurately grasp the effects on the environment in our value chain and work with society to move ahead with systematic *Promotion of the 4Rs: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, and Renewable (use of renewable resources and raw materials) environmental conservation. Environmental Policies ●Product Environmental Policy Environmental Considerations in Products and Services We consider environmental friendliness to be an important aspect of product value. To help create a more sustainable society and Formulating environmental-friendliness standards build product value we strive to combine ecological and economic value in our products. In accordance with our Life cycle stage Environmental efforts Environmental consideration Sustainability ●Biodiversity Conservation Policy Product Environment Policy, Use of RSPO-certified palm oil as a raw material We recognize how much we rely on and receive from the abundance of nature and many living things, so we seek to accurately grasp we have established a set of Biodiversity Use of FSC-certified paper and card for items such as inner boxes, individual boxes, and the effects on biodiversity in our value chain and to lessen and prevent such impact. conservation Forest instruction manuals environmental-friendliness Procurement of conservation Use of paper and card made from recycled pulp for items such as inner boxes, individual ●Fukusaki Factory Environmental Policy standards for every stage raw materials boxes, and instruction manuals We seek to accurately grasp the effects on the environment of the production of cosmetics and quasi-drug products; to help create of our products' life CO2 emissions a more sustainable society we will carry out environmental activities aimed at improving global environmental conservation and Use of renewable materials for containers and packaging cycles. In so doing, we are reduction relations with the local community. promoting the manufacture CO2 emissions Reduce use of electricity used for dryers and of gas for hot water supply compared to 1. We seek to accurately grasp the effects of our factory operations on the environment, and set, implement, and regularly review of environmentally friendly Product use reduction conventional products environmental targets within our technical and economic capabilities in the effort to continually improve our environmental conservation. Water use reduction Reduce use of water compared to conventional products products that help us move Reduce weight of container and packaging materials compared to conventional products 2. In our factory operations we aim to reduce environmental load and help create a more sustainable society through activities that toward a more sustainable Waste reduction Reduce weight of inner/individual boxes compared to conventional products, or eliminate use Financial and Non-financial Data focus on the following areas: society. Disposal Reduce weight of containers through use of package refills a. Saving energy and reducing greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions Plastic waste Switch from plastic containers to card or glass containers b. Working to achieve zero landfill disposal (“Zero Waste Emissions”) reduction c Reducing the volume of industrial waste Other Recycling Measures to make separation for disposal easier (easily removable labels, etc.) “Conventional products” are equivalent products from 2016, when our Environmental Philosophy was revised. d Conserving local environments by preventing wastewater risks 3. We strive to comply with environmental regulations, uphold agreements with the community and stakeholders, and prevent pollution. Products that meet one or more of the environmental considerations listed above will be categorized as environmentally friendly 4. We strive to make every one of our employees aware of their role in following this environmental policy in their daily actions. products and we will take steps to reach the following goals: This environmental policy is open to anyone who needs this information inside and outside our group. ● Ensure that 90% of Mandom's products for the domestic market are environmentally friendly products by the year 2027 (in line with in-house standards). ● Ensure that 100% of the Mandom Group's products are environmentally friendly products by the year 2050 (in line with in-house standards). 54 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 55 CSR Efforts Environmental Considerations in Products and Services Promoting measures toward a carbon-free society Policy on Plastic Microbeads Calculating greenhouse gas emissions for the Office Systems Value Creation Story In recent years, there have been growing concerns over the environmental impact that plastics have when they are released into the oceans. entire value chain (Scope 3) Our head office building uses demand monitoring to In the United States and other countries, a law was passed to phase in the ban of Plastic Microbeads in personal care cleansing manage electric power consumption in different ways at products. Mandom is helping the move toward a carbon-free society. We believe that reducing greenhouse gas emissions is different times of the day and reduce peak demand-side In light of this situation, the Mandom Group set a policy to stop using Plastic Microbeads in its facial cleansing products by the consumption. Furthermore, we are engaged in an ongoing end of 2017, replacing Plastic Microbeads using a formulation that does not cause such concerns. vital throughout the value chain, from the procurement of materials to the manufacture of products, and then on to shift to LED lighting and high-efficiency transformers. Although the Mandom Group previously used components containing Plastic Microbeads in some of its cleansing products, in Power consumption in domestic offices in FY2018 was 2.891 accordance with the above policy, in fiscal 2017 we completed the switch to alternative raw materials in applicable products, and their sale, use, and disposal. As such, since FY2018, we have been calculating the greenhouse gas emissions produced million kWh, for an increase of 3.1% over the previous year, started shipments of new products. and CO2 emissions (Scope 1 + 2) declined by 3.4% year-onMoving forward, the Mandom Group will continue to carry out product development that is both consumerand environmentthroughout the value chain based on the Scope 3 Standard established by the GHG Protocol. year to 2,019 tons. friendly. 15. Investments 0.3% Scope1 1% Scope2 2% Growth Strategy 12. End-of-life treatment of Protecting Biodiversity sold products 5% 11. Use of 1. Purchased goods and services 37% sold products 47% CO2 emissions In April 2016, we established a policy for protection of biodiversity, and incorporated it into our Environmental Policies (see P.54). 9. Transportation 252,998 t-CO2 2. Capital goods 4% At the CSR Promotion Committee meeting in February 2017, we established the following long-term targets as Mandom Group and delivery 3. Fuel and energy related activities (downstream) 0.1% CSR Material Issues (Ver. 2). not included in Demand monitoring equipment at the head office building 7. Employee Scope 1 or 2 0.2% commuting 0.1% 4. Transportation 1. To switch completely to the use of RSPO-certified palm oil as a raw material source by 2027 and delivery 6. Business travel 0.1% (upstream) 2% Product Distribution 2. To switch completely to the use of FSC-certified paper for paper containers and packaging by 2027 5. Waste generated Scope of calculations: Japan Period of calculations: April 2018 March 2019 in operations 1% To reduce CO2 emissions in distribution, we have been (RSPO: Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) External Site External Site streamlining operations and pursuing a modal shift Our calculations show that more than 90% of greenhouse from trucks to freight trains and cargo ships. We started Corporate Governance RSPO Official Website FSC gas emissions fall under Scope 3 and we were able to outsourcing operations in October 2004 with the aim of ▶ About RSPO ▶ FSC Official Website see that emissions were particularly large in Category 1 streamlining our distribution operations, using freight trains These efforts will not only protect both the environment and biodiversity; they will help to actively build and strengthen cooperative (Purchased goods and services) and Category 11 (Use of primarily for transporting products from Himeji to Kyushu, relationships with related suppliers and experts, NGOs and NPOs, and people in various communities. At the same time, the sold products). and cargo ships for transporting products from Maizuru to efforts will lead to our building and implementing a CSR procurement system that also considers human rights and labor issues. In addition to improving the accuracy of future calculations, Hokkaido. we will strive to reduce our environmental impact In truck transportation, we strive to continue achieving as throughout the value chain, such as by developing close to a 100% load efficiency as possible. Procurement of Sustainable Palm Oil environmentally friendly products that can help reduce CO2 emissions attributable to distribution (Scope 3, For the procurement of sustainable palm oil in light of impacts on the environment, we joined the Roundtable on Sustainable emissions in the categories detailed above. Category 4) in FY2018 were 4,616 tons, a year-on-year Palm Oil (RSPO) in March 2018. With an eye toward future long-term targets, we completed a certificate purchase via the RSPO decrease of 0.3%. supply chain certification model (Book & Claim system) for the full amount of the raw materials derived from palm oil that are Factory Systems used in the greatest volume at our Fukusaki Factory. At the Fukusaki Factory, the power consumption data taken Sustainability from the power monitoring system is shared at a monthly Procurement of Sustainable Paper Container and Packaging Materials supervisors' meeting and used in the various sections of the factory to develop energy-saving measures. A switch As a FY2017 initiative relating to the procurement of sustainable paper container and packaging materials, we began phased was made to thermal energy for nighttime power for switching to FSC-certified cardboard at the Fukusaki Factory, starting from new deliveries in February 2018, with a focus on the air-conditioning and refrigeration system, and an ice cardboard used to transport products manufactured by Mandom. (FY2018:57%) thermal storage system was adopted for the daytime for the most effective use of power. We are also upgrading airCSR Information conditioning equipment, and changing lighting to LEDs. ▶ Overview of Domestic Environmental Load of the Mandom Group Power consumption at the Fukusaki Factory in FY2018 was ▶ Historical Environmental Data 7.207 million kWh, down by roughly 3.8% year-on-year (with ▶ Environmental Data by Production Site Financial and Non-financial Data a 5.2% decrease in specific consumption per unit sales). CO2 emissions (Scope 1 + 2) were 3,762 tons, down by 8.8% from the previous year (a 10.1% decrease in specific emissions per unit sales). Power monitoring system of the Fukusaki Factory 56 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 57 CSR Efforts Promoting a Recycling-Oriented Society Labor Practices Efficient Water Use Preventing Pollution We consider our employees corporate assets that are vital to our business, and strive continuously Value Creation Story Basic Policy to create safe, clean workplaces that give employees the freedom to express themselves. At the Fukusaki Factory, we are working to reduce water use At the Fukusaki Factory, when the boilers operate for an by regularly calling upon each department to save water, extended time, there are increased emissions of the air and reviewing methods of cleaning production equipment, contaminants sulfur oxide (SOx) and nitrogen oxide (NOx). Long-Term Goals Priority Initiatives piping and other facilities. Also, at the head office building We are therefore taking measures to improve boiler usage ●Number of occupational accidents: 0 ●Rate of obtaining make-up holidays: 100% ●Elucidate the cause of the fire at the plant in we use water-saving equipment that controls water flow and efficiency, introducing electric water heaters, etc. Indonesia, prevent any recurrence, and provide relief ●Percentage taking health checks: 100% ●Consumption rate of yearly paid holidays: low-flush toilets to reduce water use. In FY2018, emissions of sulfur oxides (SOx) were 5 kg, a 70% or higher to the victims and bereaved families ●Percentage taking stress checks: 100% Water resource consumption in FY2018 was 81,206 m3, a 76.2% decrease year-on-year, while emissions of nitrogen ●Overtime: Average of less than 5 hours per ●Promote taking health checks to all employees, mainly ●Exceed statutory employment rate for year-on-year decrease of 2.9% (a 4.3% reduction in specific oxides (NOx) were 80 kg, a 76.6% decrease from the disabled persons every year. month per person for preventive purposes, carry out stress checks, and consumption per unit sales). previous year. ●Percentage using in-house system for diverse provide education on mental health. ●Number of employees quitting work for workstyles such as work-from-home and ●Build and continuously improve a labor system with childcare: 0 every year ■Water input (㎥) flexible working hours: 50% or higher the aim of achieving Decent Work practices and ideal ●Number of employees quitting work for work-life balance, securing diverse human resources, Growth Strategy Office water supply elderly care: 0 every year and providing fair and impartial evaluations Fukusaki Factory industrial water supply Fukusaki Factory water supply (㎥) Per unit of sales ( ㎥ /milion yen) 120,000 2.500 100,000 2.163 1.964 2.000 Ensuring Diversity / Diversity & Inclusion 2.082 10,058 1.752 9,610 1.676 In April 2015, Mandom established a Diversity Promotion Office and we are trying to build an organizational system that 80,000 10,377 10,486 8,830 10,297 9,568 1.500 Wastewater Efforts embodies diversity and inclusion in order to retain workers of diverse attributes and value systems, and enable them to reach 12,348 7,556 8,325 their full potential. 60,000 Starting in September 2015, wastewater from the Fukusaki The five Mandom Principles announced in May 2017 are a code of conduct that is followed by all Mandom personnel at all times 1.000 Factory began to be discharged directly into Hyogo and include “Active Employee Engagement” and “Human Assets;” every day we are engaged in thoughtful action in this area. Prefecture's Fukusaki municipal sewage system, in effect Corporate Governance 40,000 74,872 71,789 65,796 63,944 63,313 0.500 relaxing effluent standards, but Mandom has continued Promoting Women's Participation 20,000 to set standards higher than agreed values and treats wastewater accordingly. Also, the results of measuring water In April 2016, a Japanese law took effect, which obliges large companies and local and central governments to set numerical 0 0.000 quality discharged into the sewage system are reported to targets for hiring and promoting women. Mandom understands that promotion of women is an important theme that draws FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 the town of Fukusaki once a month. expectations and demands from a broad range of players in the society. Accordingly, this The total domestic volume of wastewater in FY2018 was theme has been reflected in one of the CSR Material Issues for the Mandom Group “Achieving employee satisfaction (ES) and diversity.” In line with the objectives and purposes Reducing Waste 38,678 m3, a year-on-year decrease of 3.1% (with an 4.5% decrease in specific volume per unit sales). of the law, Mandom will develop and execute a phased action plan to help realize a society Since October 2003 at the Fukusaki Factory we have been where women are promoted and encouraged to exercise their maintaining a 99% or higher rate of resource recovery CSR Information individuality and unleash their full potential. We will also disclose External Site from industrial waste to qualify as “zero waste emissions.” In ▶ Overview of Domestic Environmental Load of the Mandom Group our actions and keep the information up to date through the official Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Official Website FY2017, this was achieved at all Mandom business sites in ▶ Historical Environmental Data website of Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare below. ▶ Mandom page for general employer action plan based Japan. ▶ Environmental Data by Production Site on the Act on Promotion of Women's Participation and Sustainability To encourage waste reduction and recycling at our head Advancement in the Workplace ( Japanese only) office building, we conduct annual environmental awareness seminars in June relating to such topics as environmental Promoting Hiring of People with Disabilities problems, and rules for proper waste classification and disposal for new employees and individuals who have We aim to build an organization that encourages diversity and inclusion. As part of this, we are creating workplace environments transferred to the head office building. that allow us to hire more people with disabilities and facilitate their participation. Waste emissions including general wastes were 3,584 tons in At our head office we have set up an accessible restroom on the ground floor, provided handicapped parking spaces, and made FY2018, a year-on-year increase of 4.4%. the office hallways wide enough for wheelchairs and other mobility equipment, among our many efforts to ensure a “barrier-free” workplace. At the Fukusaki Factory in2014 we renovated the production building, and set up accessible and multipurpose restrooms, along with an accessible entrance and other Financial and Non-financial Data measures. Our initiatives go beyond simply providing support in terms of implementing physical accessibility measures. In order to foster a mindset and workplace culture where disabled employees can work with a sense of satisfaction together with diverse human resources, we enlist the cooperation of the Japan Universal Manners Association (Mirairo Inc.) and carry out training for universal manners certification. CSR Information ▶ Mandom Key Data on Personnel and Labor 58 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 59 CSR Efforts Cultivating Human Resources Employee Satisfaction (ES), Decent Work and Work-Life Balance Mandom Group HR VISION2027 Aiming to Achieve Decent Work and Work-Life Balance Value Creation Story The Company considers all its employees as Human Assets. The aim of VISION2027 is, through daily thoughtful action, to motivate them, and encourage their active engagement. At Mandom we aim to achieve Decent Work practices, encourage proper health management by employees, and promote workTo realize VISION2027, employees must take responsibility as Human Assets to provide support for the Company and society. life balance, having in place the following systems and measures. The Company, in turn, shall seek to develop their capabilities as Human Assets and provide this diverse talent pool with opportunities for motivation and active engagement. The HR Division shall redesign and develop systems and structures that Surveys of regular employees are conducted basically once every three years as a We have introduced this system to make working hours more flexible and correspond allow both parties to realize these ideals and provide Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi). means of gathering information to ascertain issues in the culture of each division and Flexible working to varying work loads. This will allow employees to invest more time in their health and Employee to make improvements. After the survey, the results are examined from every angle at hours education, which we hope will lead to enhanced productivity and creativity. awareness workshops held by the Personnel Division (for the assistant manager level and higher). Implemented in April 2019 Main Efforts in 2018 surveys Efforts are made to spread awareness of the issues and the overall results are conveyed In order for each and every one of our diverse range of employees to be able to to relevant employees through face-to-face conversations conducted by division heads. Junior employees with less than 2 years experience on the job are provided with One full day of production is suspended for employee education throughout the work comfortably, and to create a meaningful working environment in which they can training so that they can learn about the company's principles, acquire the fundamental Fukusaki Factory, conducted since FY2011. Changed from once every three years to every year in 2018 maximize their potential, since April 2017 we have implemented a work-from-home knowledge required to work at Mandom, gain and verify the skills necessary for working Topics covered are: occupational health and safety, the environment, quality, and In accordance with our “Stress Check System Based on the Amended Industrial Safety Work-fromsystem. New employee individuals, and develop an appropriate mindset. In this way, we hope to nurture a rules and regulations. Initially conducted once a year for employees involved directly Health and and Health Act” which came into effect on December 1, 2015, we have expanded home system To begin with, those with certain restrictions on their place of work and working time, training group of self-reliant employees. in production, the following year the program was extended to all employees at the Safety / the scope of stress checks to all employees in collaboration with an EAP organization. such as employees raising children or caregiving, are able to take up to 5days per Growth Strategy Number of new graduates in FY2018: 21 (3 weeks in April; 4 days in October) Environmental factory, and in FY2014 it was extended to once per half (twice a year) to further boost Stress checks Individuals are informed of the results and anonymous statistics are compiled and month from half-day increments. Number of second year employees: 25 (2 days in January) Protection the level of education. analyzed by division and department. Number of employees in FY2018: 29 Education at Traffic safety education is also incorporated with the cooperation of the Traffic Training conducted in-house for employees new to managerial positions. New Once a year (September) Target: All employees Fukusaki Factory Department of the Fukusaki Police. Efforts are also made to prevent accidents among A retiree reemployment system was introduced in FY2006, and is now being updated New manager managers learn what mindset they need, the role of managers, and about such topics as In FY2018, 891 employees had their stress levels checked (84.7% of all employees). employees who drive to and from work, and all employees are educated on the topics to comply with changes in the law made in 2013. training coaching, mental health, and company regulations. Periodic health checks are conducted for all employees and thorough physical of safe operations, quality improvement, and reducing environmental impact. Reemployment A consultation desk was set up in-house to improve support for employees with regard Once a year 1 day Number of participants in FY2018: 12 ( July) examinations are recommended for employees and spouses over the age of 35, with system (Retirees) 1 day each, twice a year Target: All workers at Fukusaki Factory to balancing work and elderly care. Training will be provided to develop leaders who can devise strategies to achieve Health checks subsidies provided. These seminars allow employees who have reached the age of 50 to think more about As required Education and the goals of VISION2027, implement integrated management and marketing, predict Once a year Target: All employees the remaining 10 years of their career. They can also learn about the company's various training for future market conditions in today's highly uncertain business environment (backcast), Life plan seminar retirement systems and social insurance packages. Number of employees examined in FY2018: 1,117 (Medical examination rate: 97.0%) We have set up a reemployment system for former employees so that outstanding Reemployment next-generation independently come up with hypotheses and gauge their feasibility, and formulate individuals who left Mandom midway through their careers for personal reasons can An industrial physician makes the rounds at the head office and Fukusaki Factory, system (Former policies for the entire group and create strategies to introduce them. One day a year Number of participants in FY2018: 31 return to the company. global leaders Working with joins the Occupational Health and Safety Committee meetings held once a month to employees) November 2018 October 2019 15 nominated employees e-learning enables employees to enhance their expertise and skill in their current Applications open since April 2019 industrial improve the workplace and provide health guidance. e-learning positions as well as in jobs that interest them. physicians Corporate Governance Education is provided to gain and verify understanding of the Act on the Protection As required Confidential All year round Target: All employees Volunteers are solicited to participate in JICA's Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers of Personal Information and related laws and Mandom's regulations with regard to the 3 industrial physicians (Head Office, Nihonbashi/Aoyama, Fukusaki Factory) information management of personal information and confidential information. Conducted by For applicants, the system subsidizes the costs of taking the TOEIC test, subsidizes through the private-sector partnership volunteer program. management Language study So that employees can continue to work with peace of mind even while undergoing Volunteer leave Employees who go on a mission through the program are supported with special leave division with testing. language study costs, etc. Medical education support system medical treatment, we have published the Medical Treatment and Work Guidebook system during that period. Once a year Approx. 2 hrs. Target: All employees All year round Target: All employees treatment and that outlines our various support systems, and we have also set up a consultation desk. work support Once a year In-house recruitment Company-wide Education for all employees to gain and verify understanding of the Mandom Group's This internally organized cross-industry exchange workshop brings together attendees Implemented in October 2018 Number of participants in FY2018: No recruitment education on Code of Conduct. Conducted by division with testing. and secretariats from eight companies with offices in the Tokyo and Kansai regions. TopA support system is in place to enable employees who would otherwise be constrained Mandom Code Education is also promoted using the monthly in-house email newsletter. Forum 8 and mid-level managers working at the vanguard of business give lectures, present case by childcare or elderly care to continue in their jobs. We have made it compulsory for of Conduct Once a year Approx. 2 hrs. (one email newsletter/month) Target: All employees (cross-industry studies or their own company's research or the research of other companies to expand knowledge and elevate business skills. Childcare/Elderly all employees eligible for childcare support to attend an interview with their manager exchange) care support and the human resource department to promote use of the system. Once a year In-house recruitment (Tokyo area: 5 times; Kansai area: 8 times) system A consultation desk was set up in-house to improve support for employees with regard Number of participants in FY2018: Tokyo area: 3; Kansai area: 3 to balancing work and elderly care. Selected employees will be sent to study on company orders to acquire qualifications As required Study abroad and gain globally applicable management skills and cutting-edge knowledge as well as system gain an understanding of diverse perspectives. Number of participants in FY2018: None Support for Balancing Work and Home Duties Such as Child/Elderly Care Sustainability We have established various systems to enable work-life balance that allows employees to work while raising children and caring Defined Contribution Pension System for elderly parents, as well as managing change at different stages in their lives. To support the lives of employees after retirement, the Mandom Group has adopted a defined contribution pension system Since 2009, we have been encouraging three-way meetings between pregnant employees, their supervisors, and the personnel since November 2003. department to remove anxiety about returning to work after the birth of a child. In 1985, we introduced a qualified retirement pension system, but due to reform of the public pension system, we revised our With regard to support for caregiving, we have a care leave/work arrangement system plus an elderly-care leave system that retirement allowance system to ensure income from retirement until age 65 (the age when eligibility to receive the national allows for five extra days off per year. Starting in 2012, we instituted a system of flexible working hours plus a system that allows pension begins), to compress and stabilize retirement benefit obligations, and to meet the demands of increasing mobility and the use of pooled, invalidated paid leave for elderly-care leave. diversity amongst employees. For information on general employer action plan based on the Act on Advancement of We currently make use of two types of corporate pension systems: a defined benefit plan (DB) and a defined contribution Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children, please see the following website operated by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. Financial and Non-financial Data plan (DC). Employees can join these plans voluntarily, and intent to continue is reconfirmed once a year. If an employee has not joined either or both plans, then a pre-paid retirement allowance is paid as an addition to the biannual bonus. Also, due to the External Site amendment of the Defined Contribution Pension Act in January 2017, it became possible for employees who have not joined a CSR Information Work-Life Balance Support Forum corporate defined contribution plan to join a personal defined contribution plan. ▶ Mandom Key Data on Personnel and Labor ▶ Mandom page for general employer action plan based For our employees, we hold periodic study sessions to promote on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support understanding of the system and asset management. We also News Release Raising Next-Generation Children ( Japanese only) provide support so that they can check their balance and asset status through web services, and carry out other tasks such as ▶ November 4, 2003 News Release “Defined contribution checking the performance of and making changes to investment pension system adopted in November” ( Japanese only) products. 60 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 61 CSR Efforts ■Overview of Childcare/Elderly Care Support System Occupational Health and Safety ●Chart of childcare support programs Women Men Programs for women and men Creating a Healthy and Safe Workplace Environment at Our Factory Value Creation Story During Elementary school Junior high school Mandom's Fukusaki Factory has acquired OHSAS 18001 Program pregnancy 6 weeks before birth Birth 8 weeks after birth 1 year 1 year and 2 years old 6 months old old 3 years old ～ 1st grade 2nd grade 3rd grade 4th grade 5th grade 6th grade 1st year ～ certification, a widely used international standard for occupational health and safety management systems, and we are working hard Maternity leave to create a healthy and safe workplace environment. (OHSAS: Occupation Health & Safety Assessment Series) Until child reaches Can be extended to 1 year and 6 months, or re-extended to 2 years old The OHSAS 18001 international standard aims to proactively Childcare leave 1 year old Salary can be supplemented using pooled yearly leave during that time prevent labor accidents, mitigate disasters and eliminate health hazard risks by clarifying the occupational health and safety Childcare work program (shorter hours) policies of organizations, and conducting PDCA (Plan-Do-CheckAction) management using an “established evaluation system.” Child nursing care leave Child has not yet 5 days are provided per person per year (10 days for 2 or morepeople) Leave can also be used when child cannot attend kindergarten due to Going forward we will continue working hard to ensure that entered school influenza or adverse weather operations at Mandom's Fukusaki Factory take into account consumers, society, the environment, and employees. This Growth Strategy When spouse Spouse maternity leave 5 days of special leave (paid) gives birth will be achieved by striving for continuous operation and synergistic effects, and implementing three management systems: Work-from-home *Regular employees only Up to 5 times per month an occupational health and safety management system; an environmental management system (ISO 14001 international Group training at the Fukusaki Factory on occupational health and safety and environmental protection Flexible working hours *Full-time employees only standard) which aims to simultaneously achieve management together with reduction in environmental risk and contribution External Site During to the environment based on the idea of sustainability; and the Official Website, Japan Management Association Quality pregnancy Exemption from overtime work, work on holidays, and late night work Mandom Quality Management System for raising the quality of Assurance Registration Center the company, products, and services, and achieving true customer ▶ BS OHSAS 18001, Until child reaches 3 years old Limitations on irregular work (exemption from overtime) satisfaction. “What is the Occupational Health and Safety Management Corporate Governance Overtime program (1) Limitations on late night work System (OHSMS)?” ( Japanese Only) Until child enters *Contract employees (2) Limitations on overtime work exceeding elementary school 24 hours per month or 150 hours per year Mental Health Measures Until child finishes (1) Limitations on late night work *Regular employees only 3rd grade of elementary school (2) Limitations on overtime work exceeding 24 hours per month Since FY2011 we have utilized the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) specialist HOKENDOHJINSHA Inc. to provide a toll-free or 150 hours per year support hotline for employees and their families that allows individuals to speak with an outside counselor about their troubles. Congratulatory payment We also bought group long-term disability income indemnity (GLTD) insurance, and in May 2011 set up regulations pertaining for birth to employees taking leave to cover how employees are treated when they are on leave and after they return to the workplace. In Congratulatory payment for these and other ways we are strengthening our mental health measures. Since FY2012 we have been asking all employees to take entering kindergarten/school a diagnostic test for stress and following up with private consultations if necessary. Support for babysitter utilization Mandom Safe Driving Courses Within the Mandom Group in Japan, about 500 vehicles are on the roads per day across the country, including both company vehicles and vehicles used for commuting to Sustainability ●Chart of elderly care support programs work. We set up a Vehicle Safety Measures Committee to carry out ongoing, in-house Program Program use 365 days 2 years 3 years ～ Necessary period educational activities with cooperation by experts on road traffic safety to prevent road accidents. Short-term elderly care leave 5 days are provided per person requiring care (10 days for 2 or more people) Can be taken in half-day units (paid) In FY2018, safe driving courses taught by outside instructors were held in May for sales staff working at our head office building, drivers, and others who wanted to participate Elderly care leave Upper limit of 365 days for regular employees, divided into multiple times (number of calendar days, not work days) and participants were reminded of their responsibility and the importance of driving as a Safe driving course at the head office Contract employees can take up to 93 days representative of the company. We will continue to thoroughly implement a safe-driving mindset. Use of pooled yearly leave Safety Measures at Head Office Building Financial and Non-financial Data Elderly care work program Can be taken for 3 years, divided into multiple times (shorter hours) Mandom is engaged in various initiatives to help prevent casualties from natural disasters. (1) Limitations on irregular work (exemption from overtime) (2) Limitations on late night work Every year, firefighters from Osaka's Chuo Fire Station visit the head office building to Overtime program (3) Limitations on overtime work exceeding 24 hours per month or 150 hours per year conduct a variety of drills to prepare Mandom's employees for a potential disaster such as an earthquake or fire, covering topics such as alerting others when a fire is discovered, Flexible working hours *Full-time employees only initial efforts to put out a fire, using a fire extinguisher, evacuation, and rescue. We are also engaged in a basic course in life-saving and provide emergency skills training. Work-from-home *Regular employees only Up to 5 times per month Lecture on emergency life-saving techniques 62 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 63 CSR Efforts Human Rights Human Rights Initiatives in the Supply Chain We have been promoting inter-departmental CSR activities since setting up a CSR Promotion Committee in 2015. We support and respect the protection of human rights as declared by the international The building and implementing of a CSR procurement system is a CSR Material Issue, and we have set up a CSR Procurement Value Creation Story Basic Policy community and will do our best to continuously monitor actions and educate people at every Subcommittee made up of members of relevant departments within the company. We are working to develop a CSR stage of our business activities to avoid complicity in any human rights violations. procurement system that takes into account issues in the supply chain such as human rights, labor practices, the environment, and fair business practices, while enlisting the cooperation of suppliers. Long-Term Goals Priority Initiatives In November 2017, we issued the Mandom Group Supplier CSR Guidelines (Ver. 2), asked all of our suppliers to develop an understanding of these CSR Information ●(Under review) ●Conduct in-house human rights education aimed at training employees to ▶ Mandom Group CSR Promotion System act in a way befitting a corporation engaged in global business and guidelines, and started monitoring using the CSR Procurement Self-Assessment designed to build an inclusive society Tool Set recommended by the Global Compact Network Japan. For details, ▶ Fair Operating Practices: Building and please see the Mandom Group Supplier CSR Guidelines (Ver. 2), P.67. implementing a CSR procurement system Realizing a Society Enabling Participation by Diverse Human Resources Promoting Human Rights Education To foster a culture which values diversity and difference at Mandom, we not only utilize female employees, but also exploit Growth Strategy At Mandom, we disseminate the following information through our Mandom Group Code of Conduct (2018revised version), and promote a variety of highly individual, diverse capabilities, and embrace employees with foreign nationality. As part of this effort, we KohDoh to ensure workplaces are safe, comfortable, and rewarding places to work. We also work hard to promote human rights awareness established a Diversity Promotion Office in April 2015. The issues of human rights and labor practices are closely related. We through ongoing employee education. are working to develop an organizational system that embodies diversity and inclusion in order to retain human resources with diverse attributes and value systems, and enable them to reach their full potential. ■Excerpt from the Mandom Group Code of Conduct (2018 revised version) Respect for Human Rights, Ban on Discriminatory Treatment Regarding our Special Subsidiary, Mandom Will Corp. 1. We shall respect the basic human rights of everybody. In August 2018, we established the Mandom Will Corp. (referred to below as “Mandom Will”) with the aim of utilizing diverse 2. Under no circumstance shall we discriminate against anybody for their nationality, race, ethnicity, religion, color of skin, age, human resources and expanding employment, and on December 17, 2018, the company acquired certification as a Special sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, health condition, physical disability or employment status. Should we detect any Subsidiary, as set forth in the Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities. At Mandom Will, we have put in place an environment and programs tailored to suit diversity, so that people with disabilities and Corporate Governance discrimination, we shall not turn a blind eye. those returning to employment can work with high motivation over the long term without undue stress. Steps taken in this area 3. We shall not discriminate against anybody or anything on the grounds of preconception or prejudice. include allocating work to match diverse capabilities and characteristics, and enabling the taking of annual paid holiday in hourly 4. We shall not force anybody to follow our own personal beliefs or preferences. units to deal with issues such as going to the hospital. We are also working to develop human resources capable of self-growth Ban on Child Labor and Forced Labor through work. The Mandom Group is promoting diversity and inclusion to ensure acceptance of diversity, enable individuals to perform at their 1. We shall refrain absolutely from any use of child labor, the employment of children who are under the minimum working age. peak ability, and achieve growth of both the company and our employees. Going forward, we will continue efforts to cultivate 2. We shall refrain absolutely from any use of forced labor, the illegal extraction of labor by means of physical or human resources and develop an environment/programs to realize a company where all employees are valued assets who can psychological constraint. derive satisfaction from their work. 3. We shall comply with treaties and laws that prohibit child labor and forced labor. Development of Working Conditions Understanding and Paying Respect to the Culture and 1. We shall create working conditions which are conducive to work, taking into account health and safety. 2. We shall produce ways of working which develop individual capability and respect diversity, personality and individuality so Customs of People in Different Countries Sustainability that we can enhance the power of individual members to the strength of the entire team. We carry out business with respect for the history, culture, 3. Placing top priority on human life, we shall comply with laws and rules concerning working conditions/industrial health and customs, and ways of thinking of the people in different countries safety. and regions. Our wholly owned subsidiary, PT Mandom Indonesia Tbk 4. We shall positively implement measures such as creating a safety-first environment and ensuring reasonable working hours. is based in a country where about 90% of the population is 5. We shall actively participate in efforts to maintain and promote health. Muslim. To show respect for the religious customs of Muslim 6. If any accidents or other problems relating to our product occur, we shall promptly respond to such a situation. workers, we have built a place of worship on company grounds and run operations with as much consideration as possible for Ban on Harassment prayer times throughout the day. 1. We shall speak and act with consideration from other people's point of view. Also, in deference to the victims of the July 10, 2015 fire at the Financial and Non-financial Data 2. We shall not engage in sexual harassment (any sexual acts that go against somebody elseʼs will). plant in Indonesia, and the families of those who were injured 3. We shall not engage in power harassment (any harassment using some advantage of business position in and out of the or who lost their lives, we have engaged in follow-up activities office). in a way that is respectful of local customs, religious beliefs, and 4. We shall not engage in maternity harassment (any unfair treatment for pregnancy or childbirth). culture. 5. We shall not engage in other harassment such as social harassment (infringements of privacy or nuisances involving social 100-day memorial for victims of the factory fire accident in Indonesia networks) and alcohol harassment (for example, forcing of participation in drinking parties, forcing of drinking down a jug (October 19, 2015) of beer in one go). 6. Should we detect any harassment, we shall not turn a blind eye. 64 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 65 CSR Efforts Fair Operating Practices Mandom Group Supplier CSR Guidelines (Version 2) Mandom Group values our suppliers as partners in promoting sustainable development. We extend our support to suppliers that With the shared goal of sustainable social development, we will build good relationships with our comply with the Guidelines as set forth below. Value Creation Story Basic Policy suppliers and partners and fulfill our social responsibilities through our business activities. Corporate Governance Fair Operating Practices Long-Term Goals Priority Initiatives 1. Understand and comply with laws and regulations, 1. Ensure fair, transparent and free business transactions and relevant voluntary standards and international respect contractual terms. ●(Under review) ●Draft Supplier CSR Guidelines and gain the cooperation of suppliers to build and operate a CSR conventions related to business operations. 2. Respect property rights and prevent infringement. procurement system (Based on the specific topics within three core subjects̶human rights, labor practices and the 2. Develop policies and a code of conduct related to CSR 3. Eliminate any involvement with groups that make illegal environment) and provide in-house support and training. demands of the company or the general public. 3. Structure an internal control system to conduct 4. Prevent all forms of corruption, including coercion and compliance management. bribery. 4. Establish a business continuity plan. 5. Establish a customer inquiries function to receive and Toward Fair and Transparent Transactions Human Rights deal with complaints and feedback from outside the company. Growth Strategy Mandom established the Antimonopoly Act Compliance Program back in July 2004, which was revised in2010, to establish fair 1. Respect human rights and avoid complicity in any human and transparent business transactions and build stable relationships of trust as a good partner to all with whom we are engaged. rights violations. Quality and Safety Our legal affairs office holds seminars for the sales division and purchasing department based on this program. The purchasing 2. Respect diversity and prohibit discrimination. 1. Structure a management system that ensures quality and department also participates in outside seminars related to purchasing and procurement to acquire greater knowledge. 3. Respect the lifestyles of indigenous peoples and local safety of goods and services. Once a year, Code of Conduct education is carried out at all Japan-based divisions in the Mandom Group at which time various communities. 2. Provide appropriate information that ensures quality and guidelines on procurement and sales are read together to instill their principles in employees. 4. Eliminate all forms of harassment. safety of goods and services. Since September 2007 the Mandom Group has been expanding the scope of its Helpline System to include business partners. 3. Provide products and services that contribute to See below for more details. Labor sustainable development. CSR Information 1. Recognize and adopt international rules regarding labor.* *Including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO's Information Security ▶ Fair Operating Practices Core Labor Standards, the ten principles of the UN's Global 1. Implement strict information security practices to ensure Corporate Governance Compact, the UN's Guiding Principles for Business and Human confidential information (including personal information) Rights, and the OECD's Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. is handled safely. Building and Implementing a CSR Procurement System 2. Provide equal opportunities for upskilling and career Supply Chain development for all employees. 1. Ensure companies in your supply chain and/or Building and Implementing a CSR Procurement System 3. Provide a safe and clean work environment and care for subcontracting companies, related to business with the We have selected “the building and implementing a CSR procurement system” as a CSR material issue and are engaged in employees' health. Mandom Group, comply with the Guidelines. drafting supplier CSR guidelines and gaining the cooperation of suppliers to achieve this goal. 4. Ensure workers are paid fair wages and ensure proper If your company already has guidelines in place with As times change in an age of rapid globalization, social and environmental issues are becoming more varied and complex. management of working hours. at least the same requirements and requests supplier We currently give consideration and take action based on our Procurement Guidelines, but we need to strengthen their 5. Eliminate forced labor, child labor, and inhumane compliance, no further action is required. implementation, which includes making ongoing improvements and revisions to prevent new social and environmental issues treatment of workers. Coexistence with Local Communities from arising and thereby avoiding such risks. Another reason for better implementation is to be able to continue responding to 6. Respect local religions, traditions, and customs. 1. Build good relationships with local communities through expectations and demands from a broad range of stakeholders. 7. Support the effective recognition of the freedom of collaboration. Sustainability We strive to achieve fairness and transparency in all transactions and will try to gain the cooperation of our partners as we association and the right to collective bargaining. practice due diligence with respect to specific topics in core areas such as human rights, labor practices and the environment, 2. Respond promptly and sincerely to complaints from The Environment surrounding areas. alongside taking other measures to build a sustainable and CSR procurement system. 1. Structure a system to promote environmental 3. Support communities through business activities. CSR Information ▶ Fair Operating Practices management and set goals for continuous improvement. 2. Implement measures to save energy, reduce greenhouse gases, prevent pollution and conserve biodiversity. About the Mandom Group's Supplier CSR Guidelines (Ver. 2) 3. Ensure proper management of chemicals and waste To move toward sustainable procurement, we issued the Mandom Group Supplier CSR Guidelines (Ver. 2) in November 2017, disposal. asked all of our suppliers to develop an understanding of these guidelines, and started monitoring using the CSR Procurement Financial and Non-financial Data Self-Assessment Tool Set recommended by the Global Compact Network Japan. ● Revisions to the Guidelines Going forward, we will secure the understanding and cooperation of all our suppliers ̶ through steps such as requesting that We will make revisions to the Guidelines to respond to changes both within and outside the Mandom Group as circumstances demand. Revisions these guidelines be shared with secondary, tertiary, and overseas suppliers ̶ and we will continue discussions, working step-bywill be posted on our website. Please note that further consent and/or confirmation of compliance status will be required. step to make our supply chain more transparent. ● Confirmation of compliance status The Suppliers' CSR Self-Assessment Survey has been compiled based on the CSR/Sustainable Procurement Self-Assessment Tool Set published by UN Global Compact Network Japan as the ninth instalment in their series of Building the Sustainable World. See below for more details. External Site Global Compact Network Japan ▶ CSR/Sustainable Procurement Self-Assessment Tool Set (English version) 66 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 67 CSR Efforts Consumer Issues ■Mandom Quality Assurance Activities and Implementation of Customer Feedback We will utilize the feedback received from customers in our business activities to improve the Product Planning Production Value Creation Story Basic Policy benefits of our products and services from their standpoint and to ensure safety. Discovering customers' wants Regulatory compliance Marketing research ISO 22716 (Cosmetics GMP) conformity Mandom quality management system conformity Long-Term Goals Priority Initiatives Production guidelines ●Take up the challenge of ●Effective administration and continuous improvement of a quality management system in every phase of Drafting and reviewing plan Ordering of raw materials zero quality complaints our business activities̶planning, design and development, procurement, production, shipping and sales ●Marketability ●Preferences ●Functional superiority ●Build a system of communication that enables the use of feedback from a wide range of consumers; build ●Eco-friendliness ●Regulatory compliance a product planning system that takes into consideration user-friendliness and safety Deliberation over content of plan Marketing strategy meetings (monthly) Chairperson: operating officer in charge of marketing Acceptance of raw materials Board of Taking Responsibility for Quality and the Health and Safety of Consumers Quality check Directors' Meeting Quality check Acceptance inspection Growth Strategy Approval for sale Compliance with material standards of new product Quality Assurance and Quality Policy Preparation of content Deliberation over validity of draft plan Regarding quality assurance for cosmetics and quasi-drugs, Mandom works to assure fully satisfactory quality as demanded by Planning and design combined meetings (monthly) consumers from purchase to end of use. We take measures to improve the quality of our products and services at every stage Chairperson: operating officer in charge of technology and production Quality check Content inspection Compliance with content standards ̶ planning, design and development, production and shipping. To ensure the reliability of these activities, in January 1998 Design of content and container Mandom established the Quality Philosophy and Fundamental Quality Policy, and built a quality assurance system that became ●Safety ●Stability ●Functionality ●Usability Filling, packaging ISO 9001-certified in December 1998. ●Regulatory compliance Since that time, as the quality philosophy and practices were deemed to have taken root company-wide, we voluntarily Quality check Product inspection Design of production methods surrendered ISO 9001 certification in December 2013. We have since pursued continuous improvement of quality through the Compliance with product standards, Mandom quality management system. Selection of raw material suppliers deliverability screening Corporate Governance ●Regulatory compliance ●Procurement guidelines Quality Assurance Activities and Reconfiguring Our Quality Assurance System Delivery In accordance with Japan's Pharmaceutical Affairs Law, we comply Product Design ●Assurance of traceability through lot control ●Management of retention samples with the ISO 22716 international standard that pertains to good quality practices (GQP), good vigilance practices (GVP) and New product development, product improvement good manufacturing practices (GMP) for cosmetics. In addition, we have formulated a fundamental quality policy based on Customers the Mandom quality philosophy that calls for truly satisfying Consumers, retailers, distributors, customers by enhancing the quality of the company, products trade partners, investors, etc. and services through the involvement of all employees. On this basis, we are creating a quality management system that spans Measures for prevention of contamination Visual inspection of products all stages ̶ planning, design and development, production and by foreign matter (air showers) Board of shipping ̶ as we make the ongoing enhancement of customer Directors Sustainability satisfaction a daily focus. Directors in charge of: overall manufacturing and sales, CSR Information quality assurance, safety management Publicity and sales promotions ▶ Consumer Issues: Promotion of Quality Assurance System ●Creation of advertising ●Creation of sales promotion tools ●Information dissemination through website, social media, etc. ●Plan management and implementation of promotions, etc. Communication with Customers ●Regulatory compliance Sensory test of product contents Analysis of active ingredients of quasi-drugs Regulatory compliance, privacy policy ●Compliance with voluntary standards of industry Advertising is to be carried out based on the following guidelines. Gathering customer opinions, Financial and Non-financial Data Appropriate Advertising Guidelines including Cosmetics feedback to customers from the Japan Cosmetic Industry Association https://www.jcia.org/user/business/advertising ( Japanese Only) (Consultations, questions, complaints, etc.) Daily reports Sales ●In-store communication Collation and analysis of customer opinions ●Supply of information to distributors, retailers ●Gathering of market information, etc. Monthly reports, quality management reviews (twice a year) Analysis of active ingredients of quasi-drugs Functionality inspection of product contents ●Regulatory compliance ●Sales guidelines 68 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 69 CSR Efforts Creating New Shared Values with Consumers For the Correct and Safe Use of Hair Coloring Products On October 23, 2015, the Consumer Safety Investigation Commission (of the Consumer Affairs Agency) published its “Report on the Causes of Accidents, etc. Based on Article 23, Section 1 of the Consumer Safety Act,” with the Minister of Health, Labour System for Utilizing Customer Feedback Value Creation Story and Welfare presenting a recommendation on measures to prevent the onset and exacerbation of skin disorders caused by Customer Inquiry System ■Customer Inquiries in FY2018 hair coloring products. Based on the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare's notification to the hair coloring industry and the recommendations of the Consumer Affairs Agency, Mandom has added information in the Frequently Asked Questions section We set up a Customer Relations Division in 1994 as a How to use, Product function: of its website and product information sections of each product in the hair coloring category to properly inform customers how general contact point for communicating with customers, 4,090 (33.6%) to safely use hair coloring, particularly the importance of conducting a patch test 48 hours prior to using a hair coloring product. including their suggestions, requests and other feedback. Other: 1,307 (10.7%) After reviewing the feedback received, we add information External Site Suggestions and requests to the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ ) & Inquiries except product: Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Website Top Page section of our website as part of our efforts to ensure the 281 (2.3%) Customer ▶ Skin Damage Owing to Hair Dyes ( Japanese Only) ▶ Customer Support>Q&A on Product Category> supply of information. Product Suggestions, Inquiries Q&A on Hair Coloring>Q&A on Safety>details Furthermore, feedback is compiled in a database, and through requests: 12,180 a design management committee, quality assurance committee, 642 (5.3%) and customer information meetings, is passed along to top Opinions, Advice: Full Lists of Ingredients Published on the Mandom Website's Product Information Page Growth Strategy management and relevant departments to be integrated into 2,608 (21.4%) The Customer Relations Division at Mandom receives a large number of inquiries from customers, many of which are in regard to future product development and improvement. Purchasing methods: 3,252 (26.7%) the ingredients in products used by consumers. Sometimes customers would ask about ingredients that were not displayed in full on the container itself for space reasons (only Request being listed on the mount, outer box, or the like). At other times customers had discarded the container after using a refill. Up to Quality Assurance Div. investigation Investigating ・Information provided dept. this point, the Customer Relations Division had dealt with each request individually, but situations have arisen where customers Consumers Distributors ・Inquiry content Report could not get the information quickly enough, such as in an emergency when a product had been swallowed accidentally or Requests, inquiries, etc. results a person had an allergic reaction, and a phone call was made after business hours, when the answer could not be provided Customer Relations Div. immediately. Confirm ・Telephone ・Information provided information Because of such circumstances, on April 28, 2017, full lists of ingredients were published on Mandom's official website to help Overseas Individual Employees Group ・Email ・Inquiry content dept. customers, with the following objectives. Information ・Mail ・Other information Supply providers companies ・Proposal/request information information Corporate Governance ●To allow customers to quickly obtain full lists of ingredients when seeing a doctor after the occurrence of a health Response Report Objectives: problem (such as dermatological symptoms, accidental ingestion, an allergic reaction, etc.) information ●To reduce time and effort required to answer inquiries from customers (by phone or email) Retailers Domestic Group companies ・Information provided Management ・Inquiry content Management team decision CSR Information ▶ Latest CSR information (article updated on May 11, 2017) ( Japanese Only) Top Page ▶ Customer Support Smell Care Seminars In today's mature market for products and services, personal elements such as a company's customer-facing interactions can be Examples of Utilizing Customer Feedback the deciding factor in business success or failure. Body odor and smells are rapidly becoming a social issue, even being picked up by the mass media, as a factor in obstructing good personal relations both inside and outside business contexts. At Mandom, we share feedback from customers with top management and relevant departments, and work to achieve true To assist consumers based on men's deodorant research, Mandom started smell management activities in 2014, and we regularly Sustainability customer satisfaction. offer Smell Care Seminars. The following presents our latest efforts making use of customer feedback. In FY2018, these seminars were held at 12 companies and groups, and were attended by a total of 639 people. FY2018 New spring season products A universal font was adopted for some new products to improve visibility and legibility. We also offer a Smell Care Quiz (e-learning) for individuals. For details, please see the links below. Added easy-to-understand video to the FAQ & Inquiries section of website, describing how to Hair foam products Top Page correctly use hair foam products so they can be used to the end in a foamy condition. ▶ Scientifically studying the body odor of men: Research on Men's Smell ( Japanese Only) Improved specifications and changed button design due to feedback that it is difficult to remove FY2017 LÚCIDO Hair Color One Push Type and attach the cover. ▶ Overview of Smell Care Seminar, Inquiries and Applications ( Japanese Only) Added a caution label to make clear that the blade is not replaceable, as a response to the GB Body Hair Trimmer misunderstanding that the product can be disassembled and its blade replaced. Handling of Personal Information Financial and Non-financial Data To prevent replacement of the contents, other tampering, and infiltration of foreign matter, GATSBY Natural Bleach & Color Series specifications were changed so that the product cannot be opened until use. The precautions At Mandom, we use personal information to deal appropriately with complaints, inquiries and consultations, and to otherwise LÚCIDO-L Creamy Milk Hair Color Series interact with the customer. To achieve the purposes for which the information was gathered, we sometimes entrust work to indication was also improved to be easier to see. outside contractors, but information is never disclosed to third parties other than outsourcing contractors. FY2016 GATSBY Hair Styling Foam The previous illustration of the use method (for enabling use of the entire contents of the container) was enlarged based on customer feedback that product foaming trailed off with use. In helping provide our customers with a secure and comfortable lifestyle, a key basis of our business activities is properly and appropriately handling the personal information held by our company, which we believe is one of our social responsibilities. Owing to customer feedback that the protruding part of the sales appeal label hurt to the touch, LÚCIDO-L Oil Treatment #EX Hair Oil the label shape was redesigned with a rounded tip. Therefore, we have established and abide by our privacy policy for the handling of personal information. CSR Information ▶ Consumer Issues > Communication with Customers 70 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 71 CSR Efforts Community Involvement and Development Educational Support Activities Personal Grooming Classes at Special Needs Schools and Facilities We will ascertain social issues from a global perspective and take useful action to resolve those Value Creation Story Basic Policy issues in pursuit of sustainable social development and sustainable business growth. Since FY2004, Mandom has been holding classes in personal grooming for individuals with intellectual disabilities who are soon to join the workforce, in order to support their self-reliance. Priority Initiatives Our approach to these students is to treat them as first-time users of cosmetics. We ●Look into KohDoh that can promote thorough in-company understanding of and ability to contribute to international frameworks such as cover all aspects, starting with how to handle, use, and care for cosmetic items. We also the UN Global Compact's 10 Principles and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) communicate the clear distinctions between clean and tidy appearances expected within ●Build co-creative relationships with research organizations, NGOs, NPOs and others to achieve sustainable social development and begin various social contexts and “stylish” appearances. “Cleanliness” is a key concept in the taking measures classes. (with Japanese Society for Alternatives to Animal Experiments; Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Osaka University, etc.) These classes were held at eleven schools and facilities in FY2018, with 223 participants. Cooperating with the Super Global High School Project We believe that cultivating global human resources is the foundation for supporting the sustainable development of society and The Japanese Society for Alternatives to Animal Experiments Growth Strategy the sound growth of our business going forward. In FY2018, we cooperated with efforts by Osaka Prefectural Senri Senior High School and Kansai University Senior High School In recent years, as society's awareness of safety in cosmetics ̶designated schools of the Super Global High School (SGH) program of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and has risen, the need has grown for a wider range of evaluative Technology. techniques that will enable the development of safe products. For Osaka Prefectural Senri Senior High School, we cooperated Mandom has declared a policy of no animal experiments. As part with the SGH Fall Holiday Business/University Tour and Training, of that, we present technical information at meetings held by the and a meeting to present research results from “Investigations” in Japanese Society for Alternatives to Animal Experiments, and the second year of the Global Culture Academic Study Course, a since 2008, we have subsidized research costs by offering grants program of Senri Festa. every year for selected international research on alternatives to For Kansai University Senior High School, we cooperated with animal experiments. “Osaka field work ̶A Special Class Examining Sustainable At the 30th Annual Meeting of the Japanese Society for Corporate Governance CSR Information Development Goals (SDGs).” Alternatives to Animal Experiments on November 24, 2017, our ▶ Community Involvement and Development： previous research grant activities were recognized for their major Approach to alternative to animal experiments contribution to the Japanese Society for Alternatives to Animal Experiments, and we received a Distinguished Service Award External Site Overseas Initiatives from the society. In April 2019, we began providing research The Japanese Society for Alternatives to Animal grants for the two topics selected as our 12th (FY2019) research BOP* Business Development Experiments themes. Mandom Indonesia has been supplying products in smaller packs and smaller sizes as a business development strategy, thereby providing goods at more affordable prices for consumers at the base of the economic pyramid (BOP). Joint Research Program with the Graduate School The company is selling and marketing sachets of hair styling products for men such as GATSBY Styling Pomade and GATSBY Water Gloss, and for women, a Two Way Cake refill that includes a makeup Two Way Cake refill of Pharmaceutical Sciences at Osaka University sponge for use as is for the popular makeup brand in Indonesia, PIXY. These products have gained that can be used as is acceptance from a wide range of consumers, including the BOP segment and those living in rural areas. Sustainability In June 2015, Osaka University and Mandom established the Advanced Cosmetic Science Joint Such products for the BOP market are being produced in Research Program at the Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences at Osaka University. Indonesia not only for domestic consumption but also for export The joint research program employs cutting-edge technologies from fields that have seen to the Philippines, Mainland Southeast Asia, and as far away as remarkable growth in recent years, such as regenerative medicine, applying them to research Southwest Asia and Africa. Such products are useful to local BOP the development of next-generation functional cosmetics and quasi-drugs. Research results consumers and will also help to expand the local cosmetics market announced thus far are as follows. and distribution network. ●Discovery of Human Sweat Gland Stem Cells, and Successful In Vitro Regeneration of Sweat Sachet (packet) products sold in Indonesia, the Philippines, and other countries Gland-Like Structure ●Three-dimensional observation of human sebaceous glands achieved, original sebum secretion * BOP Business : Sustainable business carried out in developing countries that targets the base of the economic pyramid (BOP) ̶ consumers, producers, Financial and Non-financial Data assessment method established retailers or combinations thereof. The BOP segment of the populace refers to the lowest level of the income/economic pyramid ̶ people whose annual ●Establishment of a New Assessment Method due to Successful Numeric Quantification of income is low and purchasing power parity is less than $3,000. This segment accounts for about 70% of the global population, or 4 billion people. the Amount of Sebum Produced by Human Sebaceous Glands̶Demonstration Using This Assessment Method of the Inhibitory Effect of Phytic Acid on Sebum̶ Other CSR Activities in Indonesia CSR Information Our Indonesian consolidated subsidiary PT Mandom Indonesia Tbk (listed on the Jakarta Stock Exchange in September 1993) ▶ Community Involvement and Development：Joint Research Program with carries out CSR activities that support human rights, labor, the environment, and corruption prevention. the Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences at Osaka University For details, please see the Mandom Indonesia official website. Mandom Indonesia Official Website CSR Information (English Version) 72 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 73 Analyses of Management and Finances Analysis of Operating Results (2) Status of Cash Flows Year ended March 2018 Year ended March 2019 Cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2019 came to ¥22,779 During the consolidated fiscal year, Japanʼs economy showed a from the same period of the previous fiscal year are calculated million, up ¥9,139 million from the end of the previous fiscal year. gradual recovery against a backdrop of improvements in corporate according to the same standards, for ease of comparison, those Value Creation Story This was mainly due to an increase in proceeds from redemptions 6,921 profits and the employment situation despite concern over comparisons are denoted by the use of the phrase “in real terms.” and sales of marketable securities and in accounts receivable, uncertainty in the global economy. Additionally the economies In regard to operating results for the fiscal year under review, despite a ¥7,958 million decrease (down 13.7% year on year) in throughout Asia our main sphere of international operations net sales were up 0.2% in real terms to ¥78,997 million (down income before income taxes. showed a gradual recovery despite continued uncertainty about 2.9% year on year) as a result of intensification of the competitive 10,246 Factors influencing cash flows during the term are as follows. the future. environment, particularly in Indonesia, and a decline in the Given these economic conditions, the Mandom Group pursued domestic womenʼs business, which had been doing well through 6,587 ▶ Cash Flows from Operating Activities initiatives aimed at driving sustained growth, namely maintenance the first half. Due in part to aggressive spending of general and Net cash provided by operating activities was ¥6,587 million. This was and expansion of our core menʼs business, further strengthening administrative expenses to strengthen the business foundation, mainly due to an increase resulting from income before income taxes of our womenʼs business, and strengthening of our global business operating income amounted to ¥7,135 million (down 15.6% year of ¥7,958 million and depreciation and amortization of ¥3,583 million, centered on Indonesia. Beginning from the fiscal year under on year), ordinary income was ¥8,161 million (down 11.9% year on and a decrease resulting from ¥2,484 million in corporate and other ‒ 4,020 review, some items that had been treated as expenses have been year), and net income attributable to owners of parent was ¥5,087 taxes paid and a ¥2,372 million increase in inventories. ‒ 6,776 ▶ Cash Flows from Investing Activities deducted from net sales at overseas consolidated subsidiaries million (down 16.4% year on year). included in financial statements conforming to IFRS. When net sales Net cash provided by investing activities was ¥6,921 million. This was Growth Strategy mainly due to an increase resulting from ¥21,300 million in proceeds Year ended March 2018 Year ended March 2019 Change YoY from redemptions and sales of marketable securities, and a decrease ‒ 2,669 (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (%) resulting from ¥6,491 million in purchase of investments in subsidiaries with a change in scope of consolidation. Net sales 81,386 78,997 (2,389) −2.9% ▶ Cash Flows from Financing Activities ■ Cash Flows from Operating Activities (Millions of yen) Net cash used in financing activities was ¥4,020 million. This was mainly ■ Cash Flows from Investing Activities (Millions of yen) Cost of sales 36,550 37,115 565 ＋1.5% due to a decrease resulting from dividend payments of ¥3,013 million. ■ Cash Flows from Financing Activities (Millions of yen) Selling, general and administrative expenses 36,379 34,746 (1,632) −4.5% Operating income 8,457 7,135 (1,322) −15.6% Capital Policy Non-operating profit (expenses) 806 1,026 219 ＋27.2% In a competitive environment in which the global markets ratio as described earlier and targets related to growth and Ordinary income 9,264 8,161 (1,102) −11.9% grow more intense daily, the Company, under the going profitability (operating income margin) as numerical targets in its Corporate Governance concern assumption, adopts a basic capital policy rooted in the management plan. However, we keep the improvement of capital Extraordinary profit (losses) (45) (203) (158) ＋348.5% maintenance of a strong financial foundation in order to achieve efficiency in mind. As such, in addition to enhancing shareholder Income before income taxes 9,218 7,958 (1,260) −13.7% sustainable growth. The capital policy calls for the proactive returns and proactive business investments, we will also consider utilization of strategic investments such as overseas investments, the acquisition of treasury stock depending on a number of Income taxes 2,544 2,392 (151) −6.0% R&D investments, capital investments, and M&A. Regarding factors, including economic conditions, company assets, and stock Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 587 478 (108) −18.5% shareholder returns, we prioritize the stable and continuous return price trends. of profits to shareholders through dividends. At the Board of Directors meeting held on May 14, 2019, we Net income attributable to owners of the parent 6,086 5,087 (999) −16.4% In addition, we consider that it is its first priority to improve its resolved to acquire shares of treasury stock up to 2,000,000 corporate value by expanding its mainstay cosmetics business. shares as a measure for improving shareholder returns and capital Therefore, we do not set targets for ROE, while it has set a payout efficiency. Analysis of Financial Position and Cash Flows (1) Assets, Liabilities and Total Equity Year ended March 2018 Year ended March 2019 Facilities Total assets were ¥93,402 million as of March 31, 2019, up ¥799 (1) Overview of capital investments Total assets Segment name Fiscal 2018 (Millions of yen) YoY change (%) Sustainability million from a year earlier. Total assets 92,602 93,402 The Group maintains a basic policy of making capital investments Japan 2,129 45.4 Current assets were ¥52,926 million. This was mainly due to a Current Current in facilities to manufacture products that sustain a competitive ¥13,198 million increase in cash and deposits and a ¥22,799 liabilities liabilities Indonesia 1,321 6.4 million decrease in securities. 11,749 11,784 advantage. Total capital investments were ¥3,559 million as of Other Overseas 108 −27.2 Non-current assets were ¥40,475 million. This was mainly due to Non-current Non-current March 31, 2019, up ¥703 million (24.7%) from a year earlier. liabilities liabilities Total 3,559 24.7 recording ¥3,408 million in goodwill, ¥1,626 million in customerBreakdown by segment is listed on the right. 5,103 Current 5,808 related assets, and ¥1,039 million in trademark rights as a result of Current assets business combination. assets 52,926 (2) New important facilities Group makes adjustments mainly to the reporting companies 58,360 when they determine the plan. Total liabilities were ¥17,592 million as of March 31, 2019, up The Group determines its plans for capital investments while Financial and Non-financial Data Planned additions, retirements, etc. of important facilities as of ¥738 million from a year earlier. comprehensively taking into consideration investment efficiency March 31, 2019 are listed below. Current liabilities were ¥11,784 million. This was mainly due to a and other factors. In principle, each consolidated company ¥365 million increase in notes and accounts payable trade. Total equity Total equity separately determines its capital investment plan. However, the Non-current liabilities were ¥5,808 million. This was mainly due to 75,749 75,810 a ¥688 million increase in deferred tax liabilities. Planned amount of investment Planned date of start/finish Enhanced Company Office name Segment (Millions of yen) Method of capabilities Total equity was ¥75,810 million as of March 31, 2019, up ¥60 Non-current name (location) name Facilities financing after million from ¥75,749 million a year earlier. This was mainly due Non-current assets Total amount Amount paid Start Finish completion to a ¥2,070 million increase in retained earnings resulting from assets 40,475 34,241 Reporting Fukusaki Factory Production 60% ¥5,087 million in net income attributable to owners of the parent company Japan 14,920 119 Own capital July 2019 August 2021 (Fukusaki-cho, Kanzaki-gun, Hyogo) facilities increase and ¥3,016 million in dividends of surplus. (Millions of yen) * Consumption tax, etc. is not included in the above amount. 74 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 75 11-Year Consolidated Financial and Non-financial Highlights 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Operating Results (Millions of yen) Value Creation Story Net sales 55,178 54,304 57,262 59,801 60,427 68,215 70,925 75,078 77,351 81,386 78,997 Overseas ratio (%) 34.5 31.7 34.5 34.9 36.8 40.0 41.3 41.3 40.6 41.3 38.7 Operating income 4,926 5,368 5,747 6,050 5,947 6,853 6,996 6,594 7,617 8,457 7,135 Overseas ratio (%) 41.8 34.0 36.6 37.1 34.1 34.6 35.9 28.7 33.3 34.7 40.5 Ordinary income 5,175 5,715 6,006 6,308 6,241 7,330 7,595 7,415 8,183 9,264 8,161 Net income attributable to owners of the parent 3,011 2,802 2,672 3,299 3,607 4,091 4,425 6,383 5,566 6,086 5,087 Capital investment 2,039 3,221 1,696 2,157 1,467 7,632 3,443 3,725 3,309 2,855 3,559 Depreciation and amortization 2,353 2,125 2,394 2,242 2,165 2,143 2,599 2,919 3,165 3,315 3,583 Research and development 2,037 1,846 1,850 1,921 1,792 1,960 1,731 1,558 1,717 1,813 1,826 Growth Strategy Financial Position (Millions of yen) Total assets 49,078 54,182 53,328 55,600 60,163 67,858 75,980 79,821 83,835 93,195 93,402 Liabilities 6,698 9,123 8,036 8,517 9,126 12,679 15,000 13,965 14,245 17,445 17,592 Total equity 42,379 45,058 45,291 47,082 51,037 55,179 60,980 65,856 69,590 75,749 75,810 Cash Flows (Millions of yen) Cash flows from operating activities 3,458 7,766 4,063 3,692 7,605 7,303 5,488 7,232 9,045 10,246 6,587 Cash flows from investing activities (1,204) (5,111) (1,408) (2,694) (5,387) (5,596) (5,141) (2,383) (5,920) (6,776) 6,921 Corporate Governance Free cash flows 2,253 2,655 2,655 998 2,218 1,706 346 4,849 3,124 3,469 13,509 Cash flows from financing activities (2,045) (2,291) (1,661) (1,668) (1,646) (1,833) (341) (3,534) (2,215) (2,669) (4,020) Per Share Data*1 (Yen) Book value per share (BPS) 830.97 887.32 892.78 930.50 1,005.54 1,091.54 1,197.11 1,277.01 1,352.88 1,484.67 1,496.20 Earnings per share (EPS) 63.30 59.70 57.15 70.56 77.15 87.51 94.64 136.52 119.05 130.19 108.76 Cash dividends per share 30.00 30.00 30.00 30.00 31.00 35.00 38.00 40.00 48.00 59.00 60.00 Financial Index (%) Operating income margin 8.9 9.9 10.0 10.1 9.8 10.0 9.9 8.8 9.8 10.4 9.0 Shareholdersʼ equity ratio 80.5 76.6 78.3 78.3 78.2 75.2 73.7 74.8 75.4 74.5 74.9 Sustainability Return on equity (ROE) 7.4 6.9 6.4 7.7 8.0 8.3 8.3 11.0 9.1 9.2 7.3 Return on assets (ROA) 10.0 11.1 11.2 11.6 10.8 11.5 10.6 9.5 10.0 10.5 8.8 Payout ratio 47.4 50.3 52.5 42.5 40.2 40.0 40.2 29.3 40.3 45.3 55.2 Non-financial Data Total number of employees (consolidated) 2,280 2,269 2,232 2,256 2,221 2,316 2,400 2,663 2,662 2,694 2,914 Japan 584 599 601 590 565 566 557 562 581 595 605 Financial and Non-financial Data Indonesia 1,309 1,298 1,221 1,236 1,222 1,353 1,421 1,689 1,670 1,671 1,693 Other overseas 387 372 410 430 434 397 422 412 411 428 616 Domestic brand share of menʼs cosmetic product market*2 (%) 26.2 25.2 25.9 27.0 26.1 26.0 26.6 26.8 27.2 26.7 26.6 Domestic brand share of menʼs cosmetic product market*2 (ranking) No.1 No.1 No.1 No.1 No.1 No.1 No.1 No.1 No.1 No.1 No.1 Notes: Beginning from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, some items that had been treated as expenses have been deducted from net sales at overseas consolidated subsidiaries included in financial statements conforming to IFRS. The “Partial Amendments to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting” (ASBJ Statement No. 28, February 16, 2018) have been applied from the beginning of the first quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. *1 We conducted a 2-for-1 stock split of common stock on October 1, 2017. All of the figures for Per Share Data above take into consideration the impact of stock split. *2 Market data by Mandom calculations (monetary value) Period: April-March of each year 76 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 77 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheet MANDOM CORPORATION and its Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2019 Millions of yen Millions of yen Value Creation Story 2019 2018 2019 2018 ASSETS LIABILITIES AND EQUITY CURRENT ASSETS: CURRENT LIABILITIES: Cash and cash equivalents (Note 13) ¥22,780 ¥13,640 Short-term bank loans (Notes 6 and 13) ¥106 ¥ 272 Short-term investments (Notes 4 and 13) 3,562 22,302 Payables (Note 13): Receivables (Note 13): Trade notes and accounts 7,170 7,103 Trade notes and accounts 11,597 10,438 Unconsolidated subsidiaries and associated companies 52 41 Unconsolidated subsidiaries and associated companies 184 201 Other 132 236 Other 68 59 Accrued income taxes (Note 13) 1,119 1,184 Growth Strategy Accrued expenses 2,512 2,386 Allowance for doubtful accounts (21) (20) Other current liabilities 693 527 Inventories (Note 5) 13,518 10,761 Total current liabilities 11,784 11,749 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 1,238 980 LONG-TERM LIABILITIES: Total current assets 52,926 58,360 Liability for retirement benefits (Note 7) 2,180 2,321 PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT: Deferred tax liabilities (Note 9) 2,488 1,799 Land 511 511 Other long-term liabilities 1,140 983 Buildings and structures 23,413 24,202 Total long-term liabilities 5,808 5,103 Machinery and equipment 19,996 18,988 Corporate Governance COMMITMENTS (Note 12) Furniture and fixtures 6,950 6,156 EQUITY (Notes 8 and 17): Lease assets (Note 12) 18 47 Common stock—authorized, 81,969,700 shares; issued, 48,269,212 shares in 2019 and 2018* 11,395 11,395 Construction in progress 549 774 Capital surplus 11,016 11,235 Total 51,437 50,678 Retained earnings 50,037 47,967 Accumulated depreciation (33,297) (32,410) Treasury stock—at cost, 757,361 shares and 1,516,097 shares in 2019 and 2018*, respectively (1,828) (1,867) Net property, plant, and equipment 18,140 18,268 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss): INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS: Unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities 5,407 5,419 Investment securities (Notes 4 and 13) 11,308 11,317 Foreign currency translation adjustments (5,879) (4,467) Investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries and associated companies 840 693 Defined retirement benefit plans (148) (269) Sustainability Goodwill 3,408 Total 70,000 69,413 Trademarks 1,042 2 Noncontrolling interests 5,810 6,337 Customer-related assets 1,626 Total equity 75,810 75,750 Asset for retirement benefits 0 TOTAL ¥93,402 ¥92,602 Deferred tax assets (Note 9) 511 619 Software 2,351 1,365 Financial and Non-financial Data Other assets 1,250 1,977 Total investments and other assets 22,336 15,974 TOTAL ¥93,402 ¥92,602 *Shares have been restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split effected October 1, 2017. See notes to consolidated financial statements. 78 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 79 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity MANDOM CORPORATION and its Consolidated Subsidiaries MANDOM CORPORATION and its Consolidated Subsidiaries Millions of yen For the Year Ended March 31, 2019 For the Year Ended March 31, 2019 2019 2018 Thousands Millions of yen NET SALES ¥78,998 ¥81,387 Value Creation Story COST OF SALES 37,115 36,550 Outstanding Number of Gross profit 41,883 44,837 Shares of Common Capital Retained Common Stock* Stock Surplus Earnings Treasury Stock SELLING, GENERAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (Notes 10, 11, and 12) 34,747 36,379 Operating income 7,136 8,458 BALANCE, APRIL 1, 2017 46,754 ¥ 11,395 ¥ 11,235 ¥ 44,264 ¥ (1,863) OTHER INCOME (EXPENSES): Net income attributable to owners 6,087 of the parent Interest and dividend income 419 373 Cash dividends, ¥51.0 per share* (2,384) Foreign exchange gain 38 8 Loss on disposal of property, plant, and equipment (393) (52) Purchase of treasury stock (1) (4) Gain on sales of property, plant, and equipment 8 7 Net change in the year Claim of insurance 204 BALANCE, APRIL 1, 2018 46,753 11,395 11,235 47,967 (1,867) Compensation expenses (23) (49) Net income attributable to owners 5,088 Loss on rent cancellation (18) (0) of the parent Growth Strategy Equity in earnings of associated company 370 307 Cash dividends, ¥65.0 per share (3,018) Impairment loss (23) Purchase of treasury stock (0) (1) Other – net 240 167 Disposal of treasury stock 33 82 40 Other income – net 822 761 Change in the parent's ownership INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 7,958 9,219 interest due to transactions with (301) noncontrolling interests INCOME TAXES (Note 9): Current 2,425 2,511 Net change in the year Deferred (33) 33 BALANCE, MARCH 31, 2019 46,786 ¥ 11,395 ¥ 11,016 ¥ 50,037 ¥ (1,828) Total income taxes 2,392 2,544 * Shares and per share figures have been restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split effected October 1, 2017. NET INCOME 5,566 6,675 See notes to consolidated financial statements. NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS 479 588 Corporate Governance NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT ¥5,087 ¥6,087 Millions of yen Yen Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 2019 2018* PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK (Note 2.r): Unrealized Defined Gain on Foreign Retirement Basic net income ¥108.76 ¥ 130.19 AvailableCurrency Translation Benefit Noncontrolling Total Cash dividends applicable to the year 60.00 59.00 for-Sale Securities Adjustments Plans Total interests Equity *Per share figures have been restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split effected October 1, 2017. BALANCE, APRIL 1, 2017 ¥ 2,799 ¥ (4,353) ¥ (224) ¥ 63,253 ¥ 6,338 ¥ 69,591 Diluted net income per share is not presented because no dilutive securities exist. Net income attributable to owners 6,087 6,087 of the parent See notes to consolidated financial statements. Cash dividends, ¥51.0 per share* (2,384) (2,384) Purchase of treasury stock (4) (4) Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Sustainability Net change in the year 2,620 (114) (45) 2,461 (1) 2,460 MANDOM CORPORATION and its Consolidated Subsidiaries For the Year Ended March 31, 2019 Millions of yen BALANCE, APRIL 1, 2018 5,419 (4,467) (269) 69,413 6,337 75,750 Net income attributable to owners 5,088 5,088 2019 2018 of the parent NET INCOME ¥5,566 ¥6,675 Cash dividends, ¥65.0 per share (3,018) (3,018) OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (Note 14): Purchase of treasury stock (1) (1) Unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities (12) 2,621 Disposal of treasury stock 122 122 Foreign currency translation adjustments (1,762) (337) Change in the parent's ownership Financial and Non-financial Data interest due to transactions with (301) (301) Defined retirement benefit plans 223 (96) noncontrolling interests Share of other comprehensive loss in associates (15) (44) Net change in the year (12) (1,412) 121 (1,303) (527) (1,830) Total other comprehensive income (loss) (1,566) 2,144 BALANCE, MARCH 31, 2019 ¥ 5,407 ¥ (5,879) ¥ (148) ¥ 70,000 ¥ 5,810 ¥ 75,810 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ¥4,000 ¥8,819 * Shares and per share figures have been restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split effected October 1, 2017. TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO: See notes to consolidated financial statements. Owners of the parent ¥3,785 ¥8,549 Noncontrolling interests 215 270 See notes to consolidated financial statements. 80 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 81 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements MANDOM CORPORATION and its Consolidated Subsidiaries MANDOM CORPORATION and its Consolidated Subsidiaries Millions of yen For the Year Ended March 31, 2019 As of and for the Year Ended March 31, 2019 2019 2018 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL d. Inventories — Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net OPERATING ACTIVITIES: STATEMENTS selling value, cost being determined primarily by the weightedValue Creation Story Income before income taxes ¥7,958 ¥ 9,219 The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been average method. Adjustments for: prepared in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Japanese Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and its related accounting e. Property, Plant, and Equipment — Property, plant, and Income taxes paid (2,485) (2,353) regulations and in accordance with accounting principles generally equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation of property, plant, and Depreciation and amortization 3,584 3,315 accepted in Japan ( Japanese GAAP ), which are different in certain equipment of the Company and its domestic consolidated respects as to the application and disclosure requirements from subsidiaries is computed substantially by the declining-balance Loss on disposal of property, plant, and equipment 393 54 International Financial Reporting Standards. method, while the straight-line method is applied to buildings Gain on sales of property, plant, and equipment (8) (7) In preparing these consolidated financial statements, certain acquired after April 1, 1998, building improvements and structures reclassifications and rearrangements have been made to the acquired on or after April 1, 2016, and lease assets of the Company Changes in assets and liabilities: consolidated financial statements issued domestically in order to and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries. The straight-line Increase in receivables (668) (1,066) present them in a form that is more familiar to readers outside Japan. method is principally applied to the property, plant, and In addition, certain reclassifications have been made in the 2018 equipment of consolidated foreign subsidiaries. The range of Increase in inventories (2,373) (323) consolidated financial statements to conform to the classifications useful lives is principally from 15 to 50 years for buildings and Increase (decrease) in payables (113) 829 used in 2019. structures and from 4 to 12 years for machinery and equipment. Growth Strategy Increase (decrease) in liability for retirement benefits (1) 452 The consolidated financial statements are stated in Japanese yen, The useful lives for lease assets are the terms of the respective the currency of the country in which MANDOM CORPORATION (the leases. Other – net 301 126 Company ) is incorporated and operates. Total adjustments (1,370) 1,027 f. Long-Lived Assets — The Group assesses its long-lived assets for 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate Net cash provided by operating activities 6,588 10,246 a. Consolidation — The consolidated financial statements as of the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be INVESTING ACTIVITIES: March 31, 2019, include the accounts of the Company and its 16 recoverable. An impairment loss would be recognized if the (12 in 2018) significant subsidiaries (collectively, the Group ). carrying amount of an asset or asset group exceeds the sum of the Transfers to time deposits other than cash equivalents (4,040) (3,677) Under the control and influence concepts, those companies in undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the Proceeds from maturity of time deposits other than cash equivalents 4,821 2,856 which the Company, directly or indirectly, is able to exercise continued use and eventual disposition of the asset or asset Proceeds from sales of property, plant, and equipment 16 12 control over operations are consolidated and those companies group. The impairment loss would be measured as the amount by over which the Group has the ability to exercise significant which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable Acquisition of property, plant, and equipment (3,966) (2,572) influence are accounted for under the equity method. amount, which is the higher of the discounted cash flows from the Corporate Governance Acquisition of intangible fixed assets (1,197) (993) Investment in one associated company is accounted for under continued use and eventual disposition of the asset or the net the equity method. selling price at disposition. Payments for purchases of investment securities (9) (9) Investment in 2 (1 in 2018) unconsolidated subsidiaries is Proceeds from sales and redemptions of short-term investment securities 21,300 27,000 stated at cost. If the equity method of accounting had been g. Goodwill — Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an applied to the investment in this company, the effect on the acquisition over the fair value of the net assets of the acquired Payments for purchases of short-term investment securities (3,500) (29,299) accompanying consolidated financial statements would not be associated company at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is Purchase of investments in subsidiaries with a change in scope of consolidation (Note 16) (6,491) material. reported in the balance sheet as other assets and is amortized Other – net (13) (95) All significant intercompany balances and transactions have using the straight-line method over a reasonable number of years been eliminated in consolidation. All material unrealized profit within 20 years. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 6,921 (6,777) included in assets resulting from transactions within the Group is FiNANCING ACTIVITIES: also eliminated in consolidation. h. Trademarks and Customer Related Assets — Trademarks and customer-related assets are carried at cost less accumulated Repayments of short-term bank loans – net (148) b. Cash Equivalents — Cash equivalents are short-term amortization. Trademarks and customer-related assets are Dividends paid (3,280) (2,655) investments that are readily convertible into cash and exposed to amortized using the straight-line method over a reasonable insignificant risk of changes in value. Cash equivalents include number of years within 20 years. Purchase of investments in subsidiaries without a change in scope of consolidation (586) time deposits and bond funds, all of which mature or become due Sustainability Other – net (6) (14) within three months of the date of acquisition. i. Software — Software is carried at cost less accumulated Net cash used in financing activities (4,020) (2,669) amortization, which is calculated by the straight-line method c. Short-term Investments and Investment Securities — principally over three to five years. EFFECT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENTS ON CASH (350) (40) Securities included in short-term investments and investment AND CASH EQUIVALENTS securities are classified and accounted for, depending on j. Business Combinations — Business combinations are accounted NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 9,139 760 management's intent, as follows: 1) trading securities, which are for using the purchase method. Acquisition-related costs, such as held for the purpose of earning capital gains in the near term, are advisory fees or professional fees, are accounted for as expenses in CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF YEAR 13,641 12,880 reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses the periods in which the costs are incurred. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR ¥22,780 ¥13,640 included in earnings; 2) held-to-maturity debt securities, which are The Company acquired 100% of the shares of ACGI Financial and Non-financial Data expected to be held to maturity with the positive intent and ability INTERNATIONAL SDN. BHD. on January 4, 2019, and accounted for See notes to consolidated financial statements. to hold to maturity, are reported at amortized cost; and 3) this acquisition by the purchase method of accounting (see Note available-for-sale securities, which are not classified as either of the 16). aforementioned securities, are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable taxes, reported in a k. Retirement Benefits and Pension Plans — The Company and separate component of equity. The Group's securities (included in certain consolidated subsidiaries have funded defined benefit short-term investments and investment securities ) are all pension plans, defined contribution pension plans, and advance classified as available for sale. payment systems, which cover substantially all of their employees. Nonmarketable available-for-sale securities are stated at cost, The Company accounts for the liability for retirement benefits determined by the moving-average method. For other-thanbased on the projected benefit obligations and plan assets at the temporary declines in fair value, investment securities are reduced balance sheet date. The projected benefit obligations are to net realizable value by a charge to income. attributed to periods on a straight-line basis. Actuarial gains and losses and past service costs that are yet to be recognized in profit 82 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 83 Consolidated Financial Statements or loss are recognized within equity (accumulated other q. Derivatives and Hedging Activities — The Company uses 4. SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS AND INVESTMENT SECURITIES comprehensive income), after adjusting for tax effects. Actuarial derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to Short-term investments and investment securities as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: gains and losses are mainly amortized by the declining-balance fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Foreign exchange forward Millions of Yen method over seven years within the average remaining service contracts are utilized by the Company to reduce foreign currency period, and past service costs are mainly amortized by the exchange risks. The Company does not enter into derivatives for 2019 2018 straight-line method over seven years within the average trading or speculative purposes. Short-term investments: remaining service period. Certificates of deposit ¥13,300 Value Creation Story r. Per Share Information — Basic net income per share is Commercial paper other than cash equivalents 4,499 l. Research and Development Costs — Research and computed by dividing net income attributable to common Time deposits other than cash equivalents ¥ 3,562 4,503 development costs are charged to income as incurred. shareholders by the weighted-average number of common Total ¥3,562 ¥22,302 stocks outstanding for the period. m. Leases — In March 2007, the Accounting Standards Board of Diluted net income per share is not disclosed because no Investment securities: Japan (ASBJ) issued ASBJ Statement No. 13, Accounting Standard dilutive securities exist. Marketable equity securities ¥11,303 ¥11,313 for Lease Transactions, which revised the previous accounting Cash dividends per share presented in the accompanying Nonmarketable equity securities 4 4 standard for lease transactions. Under the previous accounting consolidated statement of income are dividends applicable to the Total ¥11,307 ¥11,317 standard, finance leases that were deemed to transfer ownership respective years, including dividends to be paid after the end of of the leased property to the lessee were capitalized. However, the year. other finance leases were permitted to be accounted for as On October 1, 2017, the Company effected a two-for-one operating lease transactions if certain as if capitalized information stock split by way of a free share distribution based on the Information regarding securities classified as available for sale as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: was disclosed in the notes to the lessee's financial statements. The resolution of the Board of Directors meeting held on August 23, Millions of Yen revised accounting standard permits leases that existed at the 2017. Unrealized Unrealized Fair Growth Strategy transition date and that do not transfer ownership of the leased March 31, 2019 Cost Gain Loss Value property to the lessee to continue to be accounted for as s. New Accounting Pronouncements: operating lease transactions. (a)The Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries Equity securities ¥3,514 ¥7,789 ¥0 ¥11,303 The Company applied the revised accounting standard Revenue recognition – On March 30, 2018, the ASBJ issued Millions of Yen effective April 1, 2008. In addition, the Company continues to ASBJ Statement No. 29, Accounting Standard for Revenue account for leases that existed at the transition date and that do Recognition, and ASBJ Guidance No. 30, Implementation Unrealized Unrealized Fair March 31, 2018 Cost Gain Loss Value not transfer ownership of the leased property to the lessee as Guidance on Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition. operating lease transactions. Equity securities ¥3,505 ¥7,808 ¥(0) ¥11,313 The core principle of the standard and guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of Debt securities 4,499 (0) 4,499 n. Income Taxes — The provision for income taxes is computed promised goods or services to customers in an amount that Other 13,300 13,300 based on the pretax income included in the consolidated reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be statement of income. The asset and liability approach is used to entitled in exchange for those goods or services. An entity recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future should recognize revenue in accordance with that core Corporate Governance tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying principle by applying the following steps: Available-for-sale securities whose fair value could not be reliably determined as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred taxes Step 1: Identify the contract(s) with a customer Millions of yen are measured by applying currently enacted tax rates to the Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract 2019 2018 temporary differences. Step 3: Determine the transaction price On February 16, 2018, the ASBJ issued ASBJ Statement No. 28, Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance Equity securities ¥4 ¥4 Partial Amendments to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect obligations in the contract There were no sales of available-for-sale securities for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. Accounting, which requires deferred tax assets and deferred tax Step 5: Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a liabilities to be classified as investments and other assets and performance obligation long-term liabilities, respectively. Deferred tax assets were The accounting standard and guidance are effective for classified as current assets, investments and other assets, and annual periods beginning on or after April 1, 2021. Earlier 5. INVENTORIES deferred tax liabilities were classified as current liabilities and application is permitted for annual periods beginning on or Inventories as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: long-term liabilities under the previous accounting standard. The after April 1, 2018. Millions of yen revised accounting standard is effective for annual periods The Company expects to apply the accounting standard beginning on or after April 1, 2018. The Company retrospectively and guidance for annual periods beginning on April 1, 2021, 2019 2018 applied the revised accounting standard effective April 1, 2018, and is in the process of measuring the effects of applying the Merchandise ¥3,666 ¥2,317 and deferred tax assets of ¥511 million and deferred tax liabilities accounting standard and guidance in future applicable Finished products 6,363 5,522 Sustainability of ¥2,488 million which were previously classified as current assets periods. Work in process 479 434 and current liabilities, respectively, as of March 31, 2018, have been (b)Foreign consolidated subsidiaries Raw materials and supplies 3,010 2,488 reclassified as investments and other assets, and long-term Accounting Standard Overview Date of Application ¥10,761 Total ¥13,518 liabilities, respectively, in the accompanying consolidated balance Annual periods sheet. Revised Accounting IFRS 16 Leases beginning on or after for Leases January 1, 2019 o. Foreign Currency Transactions — All short-term and long-term 6. SHORT-TERM BANK LOANS monetary receivables and payables denominated in foreign The Company is in the process of measuring the effects of applying the accounting standard and guidance in future Short-term bank loans at March 31, 2019 and 2018, consisted of the credit facilities from banks. The annual interest rates applicable to the short-term currencies are translated into Japanese yen at the exchange rates applicable periods. bank loans ranged from 5.55% to 5.80% and 2.88% to 3.15% in Philippine pesos at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The loan proceeds were mainly Financial and Non-financial Data as of the balance sheet date. The foreign exchange gains and losses from translation are recognized in the consolidated utilized to support financing of working capital in the Philippines. statement of income. 3. ACCOUNTING CHANGE Revenue from Contracts with Customers — The consolidated p. Foreign Currency Financial Statements — The balance sheet foreign subsidiaries apply IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with accounts of the consolidated foreign subsidiaries are translated Customers, for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. into Japanese yen at the current exchange rate as of the balance The effects of this accounting policy change for 2019 were as sheet date except for equity, which is translated at the historical follows: Consolidated statement of income for the year ended rate. Differences arising from such translation are shown as March 31, 2019 — sales decreased by ¥2,542 million, selling, Foreign currency translation adjustments under accumulated general, and administrative expenses decreased by ¥2,542 million. other comprehensive income in a separate component of equity. In addition, the cumulative effect of initially applying this Revenue and expense accounts of consolidated foreign accounting policy was recognized at the date of initial application. subsidiaries are translated into yen at the average exchange rate. The effect on segment information is disclosed in Segment information. 84 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 85 Consolidated Financial Statements 7. RETIREMENT BENEFITS AND PENSION PLANS (4) The components of net periodic retirement benefit costs for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: The Company and certain domestic consolidated subsidiaries have funded defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution pension plans, and Millions of Yen advance payment systems, which cover substantially all of their employees, and also unfunded defined benefit pension plans. 2019 2018 The funded defined benefit pension plans provide a lump-sum severance payment or annuity payments determined based on the salary at the time Service cost ¥346 ¥317 of termination, years of service, and certain other factors for employees who terminated their employment. Interest cost 172 166 The unfunded defined benefit pension plans provide premium lump-sum severance pay for employees who meet the prescribed requirements. Expected return on plan assets (80) (78) Value Creation Story The Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries participate in a contributory multiemployer pension plan (the Plan ), which is accounted Recognized actuarial loss 52 58 for in the same way as defined contribution pension plans. Amortization of past service cost 0 68 In connection with the enforcement of the Defined Benefit Corporate Pension Law, the Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries applied Net periodic retirement benefit costs ¥490 ¥531 for an exemption from obligation to pay benefits for future employee services related to the substitutional portion, which would result in the transfer of the pension obligations, and applied for transfer of the substitutional portion of past pension obligations to the government, and obtained approval by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare on March 1, 2017. The Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries are transitioning from welfare (5) Amounts recognized in other comprehensive income (before income tax effect) in respect of defined retirement benefit plans for the years ended pension funds to corporate pension funds. March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Certain foreign consolidated subsidiaries have funded defined benefit pension plans, unfunded benefit pension plans, and defined contribution Millions of Yen pension plans. 2019 2018 Prior service cost ¥1 ¥23 Defined Benefit Pension Plans Actuarial (gain) loss (281) 107 (1) The changes in defined benefit obligations for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Total ¥(280) ¥130 Millions of Yen Growth Strategy 2019 2018 Balance at beginning of year ¥5,472 ¥4,925 (6) Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (before income tax effect) in respect of defined retirement benefit plans for the Current service cost 346 317 years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Interest cost 172 166 Millions of Yen Actuarial (gain) loss (209) 197 Past service cost 2 91 2019 2018 Benefits paid (213) (152) Unrecognized prior service cost ¥2 Increase by a change in scope of consolidation 17 Unrecognized actuarial loss 303 ¥593 Foreign currency translation (197) (78) Total ¥305 ¥593 Other 7 6 Balance at end of year ¥5,397 ¥5,472 Corporate Governance (7) Plan assets (a) Components of plan assets Plan assets as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: (2) The changes in plan assets for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: 2019 2018 Millions of Yen 46% 40% Debt investments 2019 2018 Equity investments 30 29 Balance at beginning of year ¥3,150 ¥2,987 General accounts 14 14 Expected return on plan assets 80 78 Cash and cash equivalents 7 7 Actuarial gain (loss) (21) 17 Other 3 10 Contributions from the employer 146 149 Total 100% 100% Benefits paid (114) (74) (b) Method of determining the expected rate of return on plan assets Other (23) (7) The expected rate of return on plan assets is determined by considering the long-term rates of return which are expected currently and in the Balance at end of year ¥3,218 ¥3,150 future from the various components of the plan assets. Sustainability (3) Reconciliations between the liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet and the balances of defined benefit obligations and plan assets for (8) Assumptions used for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were mainly set forth as follows: the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Millions of Yen 2019 2018 Discount rate 0.4% 0.5% 2019 2018 Expected rate of return on plan assets 2.0% 2.0% Funded defined benefit obligations ¥3,416 ¥3,352 Expected salary/wage increment 2.1% 2.2% Plan assets (3,218) (3,150) Financial and Non-financial Data 198 202 Unfunded defined benefit obligations 1,981 2,119 Defined Contribution Pension Plans Net liability arising from defined benefit obligations ¥2,179 ¥2,321 The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries recognized a defined contribution cost of ¥113 million and ¥108 million for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Millions of Yen 2019 2018 Multiemployer Pension Plan Liability for retirement benefits ¥2,179 ¥2,321 The Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries participate in the Plan covering substantially all of their employees, for which the Company Asset for retirement benefits 0 cannot reasonably calculate the amount of plan assets corresponding to the contributions made by it and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries. Net liability arising from defined benefit obligations ¥2,179 ¥2,321 Therefore, it is accounted for using the same method as a defined contribution plan. Contributions to the Plan, which are accounted for using the same method as a defined contribution plan, were ¥192 million and ¥187 million for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 86 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 87 Consolidated Financial Statements The financial statements of the Plan as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 9. INCOME TAXES (1) The funded status of the Plan as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 was as follows: The Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries are subject to Japanese national and local income taxes which, in the aggregate, resulted in a Millions of Yen normal effective statutory tax rate of approximately 30.58% and 30.81% each for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. Foreign subsidiaries are 2018 2017 subject to income taxes of the countries in which they operate. Plan assets ¥12,422 ¥10,658 Sum of actuarial liabilities of pension plan and minimum actuarial reserve (18,605) (18,633) The tax effects of significant temporary differences that resulted in deferred tax assets and liabilities at March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Value Creation Story Net balance ¥(6,183) ¥(7,975) Millions of Yen 2019 2018 The net balance above was mainly caused by past service cost of ¥9,768 million and ¥10,012 million for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, Deferred tax assets: respectively. Past service cost under the Plan was amortized on a straight-line basis over 11 years and over 12 years for the years ended March 31, 2019 Tax loss carryforwards ¥192 ¥271 and 2018, respectively. The special contributions of ¥131 million and ¥128 million for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which are Accrued bonuses 280 265 utilized for such amortization, were expensed in the consolidated statements of income of the Group. Enterprise tax 69 76 Inventories 153 138 Liability for retirement benefits 591 639 (2) The contribution ratios of the Group in the Plan for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Long-term liabilities 80 90 Property, plant, and equipment 34 32 2019 2018 Other 641 518 The contribution ratio of the Group in the Plan 13.0% 13.2% Total of tax loss carryforwards and temporary differences 2,040 2,029 Less valuation allowance for tax loss carryforwards (192) Growth Strategy The ratios above do not represent the actual actuarial liability ratio of the Group. Less valuation allowance for temporary differences (73) Total valuation allowance (265) (297) 8. EQUITY Deferred tax assets 1,775 1,732 Japanese companies are subject to the Companies Act of Japan (the Companies Act ). The significant provisions in the Companies Act that affect Deferred tax liabilities: financial and accounting matters are summarized below: Unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities 2,382 2,387 Intangible assets associated with business combinations 690 a. Dividends Other 680 525 Under the Companies Act, companies can pay dividends at any time during the fiscal year in addition to the year-end dividend upon resolution at the Deferred tax liabilities 3,752 2,912 shareholders' meeting. For companies that meet certain criteria, such as (1) having a Board of Directors, (2) having independent auditors, (3) having an Net deferred tax liabilities ¥(1,977) ¥(1,180) Audit & Supervisory Board, and (4) the term of service of the directors being prescribed as one year rather than the normal two-year term by its articles of incorporation, the Board of Directors may declare dividends (except for dividends in kind) at any time during the fiscal year if companies have Corporate Governance The expiration of tax loss carryforwards, the related valuation allowances and the resulting net deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2019, were as prescribed so in their articles of incorporation. The Company meets all of the above criteria. The Companies Act permits companies to distribute follows: dividends in kind (noncash assets) to shareholders subject to a certain limitation and additional requirements. Semiannual interim dividends may also Millions of Yen be paid once a year upon resolution by the Board of Directors if the articles of incorporation of companies so stipulate. The Companies Act provides After After After After certain limitations on the amounts available for dividends or the purchase of treasury stock. The limitation is defined as the amount available for March 31, 2019 1 Year(s) 2 Years 3 Years 4 Years 1 Year(s) through through through through After distribution to the shareholders, but the amount of net assets after dividends must be maintained at no less than ¥3 million. or Less 2 Years 3 Years 4 Years 5 Years 5 Years Total Deferred tax assets relating to tax loss carryforwards ¥ 14 ¥0 ¥ 25 ¥ 41 ¥ 61 ¥ 51 ¥ 192 b. Increases/Decreases and Transfer of Common Stock, Reserve, and Surplus Less valuation allowances for tax loss carryforwards (14) (0) (25) (41) (61) (51) (192) The Companies Act requires that an amount equal to 10% of dividends be appropriated as a legal reserve (a component of retained earnings) or as Net deferred tax assets relating to tax loss carryforwards additional paid-in capital (a component of capital surplus) depending on the equity account charged upon the payment of such dividends until the aggregate amount of legal reserve and additional paid-in capital equals 25% of the amount of common stock. Under the Companies Act, the total Valuation allowance for tax loss carryforwards is disclosed separately in the valuation allowance of this note in accordance with ASBJ Statement No. amount of additional paid-in capital and legal reserve may be reversed without limitation. The Companies Act also provides that common stock, legal 28, Partial Amendments to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting beginning with the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. However, valuation reserve, additional paid-in capital, other capital surplus, and retained earnings can be transferred among the accounts within equity under certain allowance for tax loss carryforwards for the year ended March 31, 2018 is not disclosed separately in accordance with Paragraph 7 of ASBJ Statement No. conditions upon resolution of the shareholders. 28. Sustainability c. Treasury Stock and Treasury Stock Acquisition Rights A reconciliation between the normal effective statutory tax rate and the actual effective tax rate for the year ended March 31, 2018 reflected in the The Companies Act also provides for companies to purchase treasury stock and dispose of such treasury stock by resolution of the Board of Directors. accompanying consolidated statement of income is as follows: The amount of treasury stock purchased cannot exceed the amount available for distribution to the shareholders, which is determined by a specific formula. 2018 Under the Companies Act, stock acquisition rights are presented as a separate component of equity. The Companies Act also provides that Normal effective statutory tax rate 30.81% companies can purchase both treasury stock acquisition rights and treasury stock. Such treasury stock acquisition rights are presented as a separate Expenses not deductible for income tax purposes 1.80 component of equity or deducted directly from stock acquisition rights. Dividends and incomes not taxable for income tax purpose (0.36) On October 1, 2017, the Company effected a two-for-one stock split by way of a free share distribution based on the resolution of the Board of Difference in subsidiaries' tax rates (1.97) Financial and Non-financial Data Directors meeting held on August 23, 2017. Tax credit for research and development costs and others (3.08) Change in valuation allowance 0.11 Capital levy on inhabitant tax 0.24 Other – net 0.05 Actual effective tax rate 27.60% * Information for the year ended March 31, 2019 was not provided because the difference between the statutory tax rate and the effective income tax rate was less than 5% of the statutory tax rate. 88 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 89 Consolidated Financial Statements 10. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS (a) Fair value of financial instruments Research and development costs charged to income for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were ¥1,827 million and ¥1,814 million, respectively. Millions of Yen Carrying March 31, 2019 Amount Fair Value 11. ADVERTISING COSTS Cash and cash equivalents ¥22,780 ¥22,780 Advertising costs charged to income for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were ¥5,156 million and ¥5,208 million, respectively. Short-term investments and investment securities 14,865 14,865 Value Creation Story Receivables 11,829 11,829 Total ¥49,474 ¥49,474 12. LEASES Short-term bank loans ¥106 ¥106 The Group leases office space, office equipment, and certain other assets. Payables 7,354 7,354 Total rental expenses for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were ¥1,647 million and ¥1,535 million, respectively. Accrued income taxes 1,119 1,119 The minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases at March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: Total ¥8,579 ¥8,579 Millions of Yen Millions of Yen 2019 2018 Carrying March 31, 2018 Fair Value Due within one year ¥35 ¥144 Amount Due after one year 130 Cash and cash equivalents ¥13,640 ¥13,640 Total ¥165 ¥144 Short-term investments and investment securities 33,615 33,615 Receivables 10,678 10,678 ¥57,933 ¥57,933 Growth Strategy Total 13. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RELATED DISCLOSURES ¥272 ¥272 Short-term bank loans (1) Group Policy for Financial Instruments 7,380 7,380 Payables The Group uses financial instruments to invest cash surplus amounts in low-risk and highly liquid financial instruments. Derivatives are used to 1,184 1,184 Accrued income taxes achieve higher yields within specified limits on the amounts, but not for speculative purposes. ¥8,836 ¥8,836 Total (2) Nature and Extent of Risks Arising from Financial Instruments Cash and cash equivalents Receivables, such as trade notes and trade accounts, are exposed to customer credit risk. Short-term investments and investment securities, mainly The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents approximate fair value because of their short maturities. debt securities with maturities and equity instruments of customers and suppliers of the Group, are exposed to the risk of market price fluctuations. Short-term investments and investment securities Payment terms of payables, such as trade notes and trade accounts, are mainly less than three months. The fair values of short-term investments and investment securities are measured at the quoted market price of the stock exchange for the equity Receivables and payables in foreign currencies are exposed to the market risk of fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates. instruments and at the quoted price obtained from the financial institutions for certain debt instruments. The carrying amounts of short-term investments and investment securities are equal to the fair values. Fair value information for short-term investments and investment securities by Corporate Governance (3) Risk Management for Financial Instruments classification is included in Note 4. Credit risk management Receivables, short-term bank loans, payables, and accrued income taxes Credit risk is the risk of economic loss arising from a counterparty's failure to repay or service debt according to the contractual terms. The Group The carrying amounts of receivables, short-term bank loans, payables, and accrued income taxes approximate fair value because of their short manages its credit risk from receivables on the basis of internal guidelines, which include monitoring on a regular basis of payment terms and maturities. balances of major customers by the sales planning division to identify the default risk of customers in the early stages. With respect to financial investments with maturities, since the Group manages its exposure to credit risk by limiting its funding to high-credit(b) Carrying amount of financial instruments whose fair value cannot be reliably determined rating bonds in accordance with its internal guidelines, the credit risk associated with this investment is not considered to be significant. Millions of Yen 2019 2018 Market risk management Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market ¥4 ¥4 With respect to foreign currency trade receivables and payables, the Group monitors on a regular basis foreign exchange risk recognized monthly for each currency. Short-term investments and investment securities are managed by monitoring market values and the financial position of issuers on a regular basis, and the securities, except for government bonds, are managed by reviewing the condition continuously in view of the market trends and (6) Maturity Analysis for Financial Assets and Securities with Contractual Maturities Sustainability relationships of business partners. Millions of Yen Derivatives have been utilized in accordance with internal policies, which regulate authorization and credit limit amounts. The conditions and March 31, 2019 Due in results of such transactions are regularly communicated to the Management Committee. 1 Year or Less Cash and cash equivalents ¥22,780 Liquidity risk management Short-term investments and investment securities: The Group manages its liquidity risk by holding adequate volumes of liquid assets along with adequate financial planning prepared by the financial Other 3,562 management division based on each department's reports. Receivables 11,829 Total ¥38,171 (4) Concentration of Credit Risk Financial and Non-financial Data As of March 31, 2019, 47.8% of total receivables is from two major customers of the Group. Millions of Yen March 31, 2018 Due in (5) Fair Values of Financial Instruments 1 Year or Less Fair values of financial instruments are based on quoted prices in active markets. If a quoted price is not available, another rational valuation Cash and cash equivalents ¥13,640 technique is used instead. Short-term investments and investment securities: Available-for-sale debt securities with contractual maturities 4,499 Other 17,803 Receivables 10,678 Total ¥46,620 90 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 91 Consolidated Financial Statements 14. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (c) Date of business combination The components of other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: January 4, 2019 Millions of Yen (d) Legal form of business combination 2019 2018 Share acquisition in consideration for cash Unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities: (e) Name of the company after the combination Gains (losses) arising during the year ¥(18) ¥3,776 No change Value Creation Story Reclassification adjustments to profit or loss (f) Ratio of voting rights acquired Amount before income tax effect (18) 3,776 100% Income tax effect 6 (1,155) (g) Basis for determining the acquirer Total ¥(12) ¥2,621 It is based on the fact that the Company acquired 100% of voting rights by means of share acquisition in consideration for cash. Deferred gain on derivatives under hedge accounting: Gains arising during the year ¥(191) ¥ (2) The Period for Which the Operations of the Acquired Company Are Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements Reclassification adjustments to profit or loss 133 The balance sheet of the acquired company is included in the consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2019; however, the operations of the Amount before income tax effect (58) acquired company are not included in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended March 31, 2019. Income tax effect 58 Total ¥ ¥ (3) Acquisition Cost of the Acquired Company and Related Details of Each Class of Consideration Millions of U.S. Dollars Millions of Yen Foreign currency translation adjustments: Adjustments arising during the year ¥(1,762) ¥(337) Consideration for acquisition – Cash 58 ¥6,604 Total ¥(1,762) ¥(337) Growth Strategy Defined retirement benefit plans: (4) Major acquisition-related costs Adjustments arising during the year ¥228 ¥(255) Advisory fees and commissions: ¥382 million Reclassification adjustments to profit or loss 52 125 Amount before income tax effect 280 (130) (5) Amount of Goodwill Incurred, Reasons for the Goodwill Incurred, and the Method and Period of Amortization Income tax effect (57) 34 (a) Amount of goodwill incurred Total ¥223 ¥(96) MYR 127 million (¥3,408 million) Share of other comprehensive loss in associates: (b) Reasons for the goodwill incurred Gains arising during the year ¥(15) ¥(44) Goodwill is incurred from expected excess earnings power in the future arising from further business development. Total ¥(15) ¥(44) (c) Method and period of amortization Total other comprehensive (loss) income ¥(1,566) ¥2,144 Goodwill is amortized on a straight-line basis over 15 years. Corporate Governance (6) The Assets Acquired and the Liabilities Assumed at the Acquisition Date Are as Follows: Millions of MYR Millions of Yen 15. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION The Group acquired ACG INTERNATIONAL SDN. BHD. (ACGI Co.) during the year ended March 31, 2019. Reconciliation between cash paid for the equity Current assets 79 ¥2,112 Other assets 106 2,829 interest of ACGI Co. and payment for the acquisition of the newly consolidated subsidiaries, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired, was as follows: Millions of Yen Total assets acquired 185 ¥4,941 Current liabilities 38 ¥1,020 2019 Long-term liabilities 28 759 Current assets ¥2,113 Total liabilities assumed 66 ¥1,779 Property and equipment and investments and other assets 2,829 Goodwill 3,408 Current liabilities assumed (1,021) (7) Amount of Intangibles and the Period of Amortization (Weighted-average) Are as Follows: Long-term liabilities (758) Period of Foreign currency translation adjustments 34 Type Millions of MYR Millions of Yen Amortization (Weighted-average) Cash paid for the capital 6,605 Sustainability Trademarks 39 ¥1,040 15 Cash and cash equivalents of ACGI Co. (114) Customer-related assets 61 1,626 15 Net cash paid for the capital 6,491 Total 100 ¥2,666 (8) Pro Forma Information (Unaudited) If this business combination had been completed as of April 1, 2018, the beginning of the current fiscal year, the effects on the consolidated 16. BUSINESS COMBINATION statement of income for the year ended March 31, 2019, would be as follows: (1) Outline of the Business Combination Millions of MYR Millions of Yen (a) Name of acquired company and its business outline Name of acquired company: ACG INTERNATIONAL SDN. BHD. Sales 119 ¥3,271 Financial and Non-financial Data Business outline: Sale and develop of cosmetic products Operating income 17 480 (b) Major reason for the business combination Income before income taxes 16 462 At present, the Company is actively developing its business in Japan and overseas with the aim of realizing its vision for 2027 ( VISION 2027 ). Net income attributable to owners of the parent 11 325 Specifically, the Company is developing its business in accordance with its vision policies to Leverage Asia's economic growth to evolve into a MYR Yen truly global company and Display greater Dedication to Service (Oyakudachi) in the men's business segment and invest aggressively to expand Per share of common stock 0.25 ¥6.96 its women's business segment. (Effect of estimated amount) ACGI Co. is a company that develops and sells cosmetics. SILKYGIRL, as its core brand is, one of the top makeup brands chosen by the The effect of the estimated amount is the difference between sales and income on the consolidated statement of income of the acquired company. young generation in Malaysia and other Southeast Asian countries. SILKYGIRL is a popular brand that adapts to global cosmetic trends quickly If this business combination had been completed as of April 1, 2019, the beginning the current fiscal year. and meets the needs of fashion-conscious consumers in Southeast Asia. In Malaysia, SILKYGIRL is highly popular among women in their teens This note is not audited. and 20s. Through the acquisition of ACGI Co., the Company will enhance the Group presence in Southeast Asia. 92 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 93 Consolidated Financial Statements 17. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (3) Information about Sales, Profit, Assets, Liabilities, and Other Items (1) Appropriation of Retained Earnings Millions of yen The following appropriation of retained earnings as of March 31, 2019 is expected to be approved at the Company's annual general shareholders' 2019 meeting to be held on June 21, 2019 (the General Meeting of Shareholders ): Reportable Segment Millions of yen Japan Indonesia Other Total Reconciliations* Consolidated Year-end cash dividends, ¥30 per share ¥1,404 Value Creation Story Sales: (2) Purchase of Treasury Stock Sales to external customers ¥48,442 ¥17,045 ¥13,510 ¥78,997 ¥78,997 The Company announced the purchase of treasury stock, at the meeting of its Board of Directors held on May 14, 2019, in accordance with Article Intersegment sales or transfers 5,009 3,209 403 8,621 ¥(8,621) 156 of the Companies Act, as applied pursuant to Article 165(3) of the Companies Act. Total ¥53,451 ¥20,254 ¥13,913 ¥87,618 ¥(8,621) ¥78,997 Segment profit** ¥4,248 ¥682 ¥2,206 ¥7,136 ¥7,136 1. Reasons for purchase of treasury stock Assets 54,260 18,020 21,122 93,402 93,402 The Company purchases treasury stock to raise capital efficiency and implores profit returns to stockholders. Other: 2. Overview of the purchase of treasury stock Depreciation 2,292 1,195 97 3,584 3,584 (a) Type of stock Investments in an associated company under 809 809 809 Common stock the equity method (b) Amount of stock Increase in property, plant, and equipment and 3,005 1,425 6,337 10,767 10,767 2,000,000 shares (upper limit) intangible assets Growth Strategy The percentage of issued stock without treasury stock: 4.3% (c) Total of purchase cost Millions of yen ¥5,000 million (upper limit) (d) Period of purchase 2018 From May 15, 2019 to November 29, 2019 Reportable Segment Japan Indonesia Other Total Reconciliations* Consolidated 3. The status of acquisition of treasury stock until May 31, 2019 Sales: (a) Type of stock acquired ¥47,740 ¥19,616 ¥14,031 ¥81,387 ¥81,387 Sales to external customers Common stock Intersegment sales or transfers 4,633 3,118 367 8,118 ¥(8,118) (b) Number of stock acquired Total ¥52,373 ¥22,734 ¥14,398 ¥89,505 ¥(8,118) ¥81,387 179,800 shares Corporate Governance (c) The amount of acquisition Segment profit** ¥5,526 ¥1,182 ¥1,750 ¥8,458 ¥8,458 ¥497 million Assets 62,110 19,119 11,967 93,196 93,196 (d) Period of acquisition Other: From May 15, 2019 to May 31, 2019 Depreciation 2,178 1,067 70 3,315 3,315 (e) Method of acquisition Investments in an associated company under 671 671 671 Market purchase of Tokyo Stock Exchange the equity method Increase in property, plant, and equipment and 2,252 1,550 152 3,954 3,954 18. SEGMENT INFORMATION intangible assets Under ASBJ Statement No. 17, Accounting Standard for Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, and ASBJ Guidance Notes: * Reconciliations represent eliminations of intersegment sales or transfers. No. 20, Guidance on Accounting Standard for Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, an entity is required to report ** Segment profit represents operating income included in the consolidated statement of income. financial and descriptive information about its reportable segments. Reportable segments are operating segments or aggregations of operating segments that meet specified criteria. Operating segments are components of an entity about which separate financial information is available and for (4) Information about Products and Services which such information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision-maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Generally, segment information is required to be reported on the same basis as is used internally for evaluating operating segment Millions of yen Sustainability performance and deciding how to allocate resources to operating segments. 2019 Products for Products for Other Total (1) Description of Reportable Segments Men Women The Group's reportable segments are those for which separate financial information is available, and regular evaluation by the Company's Sales to external customers ¥49,581 ¥22,433 ¥6,984 ¥78,998 management is being performed in order to decide how resources are allocated among the Group. The Group mainly produces and sells cosmetic Millions of yen products. The Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries oversee activities in Japan; PT Mandom Indonesia Tbk oversees activities in Indonesia; and other overseas subsidiaries, including Malaysia, Thailand, and China, oversee activities in each of their respective countries. Each 2018 overseas subsidiary is an independent management unit, which develops product strategies and business activities in its respective region. Products for Products for Other Total Men Women Financial and Non-financial Data Therefore, the Group consists of the geographical segments based on production and sales structures, which are identified as Japan, Indonesia, and other foreign countries ( Other ). Sales to external customers ¥51,147 ¥23,083 ¥7,157 ¥81,387 (2) Methods of Measurement for the Amount of Sales, Profit, Assets, Liabilities, and Other Items for Each Reportable Segment The accounting policies of each reportable segment are consistent with those disclosed in Note 2, Summary of significant accounting policies. As described in the accounting change section, the consolidated foreign subsidiaries apply IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. As a result, due to the effects of applying the accounting standard, sales to external customers of Indonesia segment decreased by ¥406 million, and sales to external customers of other segment decreased by ¥2,135 million. There is no impact on segment profit. 94 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 95 Consolidated Financial Statements (5) Information about Geographical Areas (a) Sales Millions of yen Millions of yen 2019 2018 Japan Indonesia Other Total Japan Indonesia Other Total Value Creation Story ¥47,557 ¥14,822 ¥16,619 ¥78,998 ¥46,817 ¥17,354 ¥17,216 ¥81,387 Note: Sales are classified by country or region based on the locations of customers. (b) Property, plant, and equipment Millions of yen Millions of yen 2019 2018 Japan Indonesia Other Total Japan Indonesia Other Total ¥10,713 ¥6,931 ¥496 ¥18,140 ¥10,646 ¥7,287 ¥335 ¥18,268 (6) Information about Major Customers Growth Strategy Millions of yen 2019 Name of Customer Sales Related Segment Name PALTAC Corporation ¥26,713 Japan PT Asia Paramita Indah 15,185 Indonesia Millions of yen 2018 Name of Customer Sales Related Segment Name PALTAC Corporation ¥25,610 Japan Corporate Governance PT Asia Paramita Indah 17,319 Indonesia (7) Information about Goodwill Millions of Yen 2019 Japan Indonesia Other Total Amortization of goodwil ¥ ¥ ¥3,408 ¥3,408 Goodwill at March 31, 2019 Sustainability Financial and Non-financial Data 96 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 97 Mandom Group Detailed History ▶ Overall Management ▶ Research, Product Development and Marketing 1927 ‑ 1969 11 ▶ Mandom Corporation shares traded on the over-thecounter market 2000 ‑ 12 ▶ PT Mandom Indonesia Tbk achieved annual sales of 1 trillion rupiah 1927.12 ▶ Established Kintsuru Perfume Corporation ▶ Issued 500,000 shares by increasing capital through public 2000. 5 ▶ Mr. Ikuo Nishimura, Director and Corporate Advisor of 2008. 4 ▶ Commenced 9th 3-year Middle-Range Planning 1932.11 ▶ Mr. Shinpachiro Nishimura appointed president of Kintsuru offering Mandom Corporation, passed away on May 23 5 ▶ Established Mandom China Corporation Perfume Corporation 1989. 3 ▶ Received ECO Mark certification to foam products from the 8 ▶ Mandom Corporation's share trading unit lowered from (a consolidated subsidiary) in China 1933. 4 ▶ Launched Tancho Tique, Japan Environment Association for the first time in the 1,000 shares to 100 shares 2009. 3 ▶ Reorganized sales offices in the Tokyo metropolitan area a hit product which laid the foundation for future success industry 11 ▶ Fukusaki Factory and Logistics Center certified to ISO14001, (sold the Mandom Tokyo Building, Mandom Group Tokyo 1958. 4 ▶ Formed a technical tie-up with a local company in Manila, the 9 Introduced Lúcido, a lineup of fragrance-free men's ▶ the international standard for environmental management Nihonbashi Building and the Mandom Nihonbashi Bakurocho Philippines, and began operations; this marked the first step cosmetics products, unprecedented in the industry systems Building) in overseas expansion ▶ Japan Doctor Renaud Cosmetics Company changed its name 2001. 3 ▶ Commenced operations at PT Mandom Indonesia Tbkʼs 4 ▶ Absorption-type merger of Beaucos Corporation and mbs 1959. 4 ▶ Company name was changed to Tancho Corporation to Piacelabo Corporation Cibitung Factory Corporation 1961. 5 ▶ Mr. Hikoji Nishimura appointed president of Tancho 12 ▶ Started a joint venture in Taiwan (now consolidated ▶ Launched Gatsby Hair Color series, developing a market for 7 ▶ Acquired 88,800 shares of treasury stock Corporation subsidiary Mandom Taiwan Corporation) menʼs hair color products 6 ▶ Adopted Executive Officer system 2010 ‑ 1966.11 1969.11 ▶ Chairman Shinpachiro Nishimura passed away on November 3 ▶ Started a joint venture P.T. Tancho Indonesia in Jakarta, 1990 ‑ 8 ▶ Repurchased 2.33 million shares of Mandom common stock 2010.10 ▶ Transferred all the stocks of Guinot Japan Corporation, a Indonesia (now consolidated subsidiary PT Mandom 1990. 4 ▶ Commenced 3rd 3-year Middle-Range Planning on the open market wholly owned subsidiary, to Wamiles Cosmetics Inc. Indonesia Tbk) 2002. 1 ▶ Listed on the Second Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange ▶ Started a joint venture in Thailand (now consolidated 2011. 2 ▶ Commenced full-scale renewal of Lúcido as an aging care 3 ▶ Completed construction of the Mandom Group's Tokyo 1970 ‑ 7 subsidiary Mandom Corporation (Thailand) Ltd.) ▶ Prices revised due to abolishment of sales subsidies Nihonbashi Building 4 brand ▶ Commenced 10th 3-year Middle-Range Planning ▶ Gatsby Hair Color commercial voted best overall in a survey 1970. 6 ▶ Received a commendation from the Minister of International 1991. 4 ▶ Completed construction of Mandom Tokyo Building 8 ▶ Launched the Gatsby global website and Facebook page on Trade and Industry (now Minister of Economy, Trade and ▶ Started a joint venture in the Philippines (now consolidated carried out by CM Databank in the Tokyo metropolitan area the Internet 1992. 2 Industry) for its economic contributions as an export company 4 ▶ Commenced 7th 3-year Middle-Range Planning subsidiary Mandom Philippines Corporation) ▶ Launched Bifesta, a cosmetics brand for women (also received this commendation again in 1971 and 1972) 9 ▶ Established M-ZA Corporation, a company with cosmetics 5 ▶ Started marketing Gatsby and Lúcido-L simultaneously 2012. 3 ▶ Established Mandom Corporation (India) Pvt. Ltd. 7 ▶ Launched the “Mandom Series,” announcing launching 10 procured through selective distribution overseas (a consolidated subsidiary) in India products in 9 categories 1993. 2 ▶ Construction completed on the first stage of new Head 2003. 1 ▶ Honorary Advisor Hikoji Nishimura passed away on January 2013. 8 ▶ Launched Gatsby Hair Jam, a new formulation proposal Featured a Hollywood star (Mr. Charles Bronson) for the first Office building. Commenced operations in the new building 25 successor to wax time in a Japanese advertisement 3 ▶ Designated for listing on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock 4 ▶ Commenced 4th 3-year Middle-Range Planning 2014. 2 ▶ Launched “Lúcido Deodorant series” to combat middle-age 1971. 4 ▶ Company name was changed to Mandom Corporation Exchange 7 ▶ Started a joint venture in Hong Kong (now an equity-method sebum odor 1972.10 ▶ Established Japan Doctor Renaud Cosmetics Company (now ▶ Issued 1.65 million shares by increasing capital through affiliate Sunwa Marketing Co., Ltd.) 3 ▶ Extended Fukusaki Factoryʼs production building consolidated subsidiary Piacelabo Corporation) public offering 9 ▶ Launched Lúcido-L, a lineup of fragrance-free products for 4 ▶ Commenced 11th 3-year Middle-Range Planning 1976. 3 ▶ Construction of Fukusaki Factory completed. Commenced 10 ▶ Achieved “zero emission” status at the Fukusaki Factory women 2015. 1 ▶ Established Mandom Vietnam Company Limited operations ▶ PT Mandom Indonesia Tbk won the Economic Value Added ▶ P.T. Tancho Indonesia Tbk listed on the Jakarta Stock (a consolidated subsidiary) in Vietnam 1978. 5 ▶ Switched from distributors to direct sales (EVA) Award in Indonesia (also received awards in 2004, Exchange (Currently the Indonesia Stock Exchange) 6 ▶ Relocated head office and factory of PT Mandom Indonesia 7 ▶ Launched the new Gatsby and Spalding product lines, the ▶ Established Guinot Japan Corporation, a sales company that 2005 and 2006) 10 Tbk from Jakarta to Bekasi first time in Japanʼs cosmetics industry two major lines were distributes French cosmetics for esthetic salons 2004. 2 ▶ Recalled Gatsby Ex Hi-Bleach, a Mandom product, due to a 7 ▶ Established the Laboratory of Advanced Cosmetic Science at introduced simultaneously burn injury accident (the first product recall in the 1994. 6 ▶ The second phase of the construction of a new Head Office Osaka University Companyʼs history) 1980 ‑ 1995. 6 ended, completing the construction of the building ▶ Mr. Motonobu Nishimura appointed president of Mandom 3 ▶ Acquired Occupational Health and Safety Management ▶ Fire accident took place at a PT Mandom Indonesia Tbk plant, resulting in loss of life System (OHSAS 18001) certification at the Fukusaki Factory, 1980. 4 ▶ Switched from direct sales to distributors Corporation Logistics Center, and Production Engineering Division 2016.10 ▶ At the Laboratory of Advanced Cosmetic Science, 8 ▶ Mr. Ikuo Nishimura appointed president ▶ Established External Director discovered human sweat gland stem cells and succeeded in 10 ▶ Outsourced third-party logistics (3PL) operations to NIPPON 1982. 4 ▶ Commenced Mandom Corporationʼs1st 5-year Middle1996. 4 ▶ Commenced 5th 3-year Middle-Range Planning EXPRESS CO., LTD regenerating a sweat gland-like structure in vitro Range Planning (MP Project) ▶ Established Beaucos Corporation, that imports and processes 2005. 2 ▶ Acquired M-ZA Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary 2017. 4 ▶ Revised the Mission, and formulated VISION2027 which 9 ▶ Commenced sale of Pagliacci lineup through beauty salons cosmetics for group companies outlines where the Company aspires to be in 2027, the 3 ▶ Transferred all stocks of Mic Corporation, a wholly owned throughout Japan ▶ Launched “Mandom World,” the Group's website on the 100th anniversary subsidiary, to BHL SA. ▶ Commenced Mandom Corporationʼs 12th three-year 10 ▶ Launched Pixy in Indonesia Internet 4 ▶ Commenced 8th 3-year Middle-Range Planning 1983. 4 ▶ Introduced new CI system. Changed company logo ▶ Started a joint venture in China (now consolidated subsidiary Middle-Range Planning 12 6 ▶ Terminated retirement benefits for directors and corporate ▶ Introduced a work-from-home system as one part of its 1984. 4 ▶ Adopted information card system Zhongshan City Rida Cosmetics Co., Ltd.) auditors ▶ Started a joint venture in Malaysia (now consolidated workstyle reform initiative 7 ▶ Introduced Pucelle My Lip, the Companyʼs first product 1997. 1 11 ▶ Developed a preservative-free product incorporating 10 ▶ Executed stock split (split each common stock into two) geared to the women's cosmetics market subsidiary Mandom (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.) “alkanediol” ▶ Established Konan Service Corporation (now mbs 2018. 5 ▶ Concentrated Groupʼs marketing functions to the Tokyo 1985. 2 ▶ Established Mic Corporation to enter the womenʼs cosmetics 4 ▶ Launched Perfect Assist 24, Mandom's first proprietary market via door-to-door sales Corporation) office located in Aoyama cosmetic product for women ▶ Introduced restricted stock compensation plan 3 ▶ Commenced the first over-the-counter sales of Gatsby hair 1998. 8 ▶ Repurchased 1.7 million shares of Mandom common stock 6 2006. 8 ▶ Launched Gatsby Moving Rubber and featured Takuya on the open market ▶ Eliminated roles of senior advisor, honorary advisor and foam for men Kimura as the new model for Gatsby 1986. 1 ▶ Established External Corporate Auditors 1999. 1 ▶ Launched System E/O, a line of skin treatment for women advisor to further increase effectiveness and transparency 8 ▶ Repurchased 330,000 shares of Mandom common stock on with sensitive skin through mail-order sales 8 ▶ Established Mandom Will corp., (non-consolidated 9 ▶ Completed construction of a factory specializing in aerosol the open market products at the Fukusaki Factory 3 ▶ Achieved JPY 10 billion sales of Gatsby products, a first in the subsidiary) to expand utilization and hiring of diverse human 11 ▶ R&D building completed on Mandom headquarters site Japanese cosmetics industry for menʼs products resources 1987. 4 ▶ Commenced 2nd 3-year Middle-Range Planning ▶ Revised work rules in response to the introduction of the ▶ Commenced 6th 3-year Middle-Range Planning 2007. 1 2019. 1 ▶ Acquired all shares of ACG International Sdn. Bhd. (making it 11 ▶ Launched womenʼs cosmetic item Pixy Moisture Lipstick in 4 citizen judge system scheduled to start from 2009 8 ▶ Started a joint venture in South Korea (now consolidated a subsidiary), which is primarily engaged in young womenʼs Indonesia 2 ▶ Received a 12th (2006) Best Disclosure Award from the makeup brand operations in Malaysia 1988. 2 ▶ Started a joint venture in Singapore (now consolidated subsidiary Mandom Korea Corporation) Tokyo Stock Exchange subsidiary Mandom Corporation (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.) 98 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 99 Mandom Group Companies (As of March 31, 2019) Company Outline / Stock and Shareholder Information (As of March 31, 2019) Japan Company Profile Accounting Company Name Mandom Corporation Businesses: Manufacture and sale of cosmetics and Method on perfumes, manufacture and sales of quasi-drugs Company Name Location Main Businesses Main Products Established Consolidated Voting Rights Head Office 5-12, Juniken-cho, Chuo-ku, Osaka 540-8530, Japan Financial Fiscal Year-End: March 31 Established: December 23, 1927 Statements General Meeting Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders Paid-in Capital 11,394 million yen of Shareholders: every June Manufacture and sale of products for mass distribution via distributors, Cosmetries and skin No. of Employees 2,914 (Consolidated) / 586 (Non-consolidated) Mandom Corporation Japan 1927 ­ ­ Independent primarily to drug stores and care products Auditor: Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC convenience stores Piacelabo Corporation Japan Provides professional-use products and technologies to hair salons via Cosmetics for hair 1972 Consolidated 100.0% Stock and Shareholder Information salons distributors Number of Shares Major Shareholders No. of shares Ratio of share Authorized to Be Issued: 81,969,700 Shareholder name or title owned Insurance agency services, travel (Thousands) ownership (%) services, general services and quality NonShares of Common Stock mbs Corporation Japan assurance of domestic Group ­ 1997 consolidated 100.0% 48,269,212 Nishimura International Scholarship Foundation 3,600 7.69 Issued and Outstanding: company products The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 1,983 4.24 Number of Shareholders: 21,517 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 1,558 3.33 NonMandom Will corp. Japan Contractor to Mandom Group ­ 2018 consolidated 90.0% Stock Listing: First Section, Tokyo Stock Exchange Motonobu Nishimura 1,437 3.07 Securities Code: 4917 Mandom Employee Shareholding Association 1,227 2.62 JPMORGAN CHASE BANK 385174 1,007 2.15 Transfer Agent: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Overseas Common Stock Holdings SEB AB FBO DIDNER AND GERGE GLOBAL 970 2.07 Japan Trustee Services Bank Ltd. (trust account 5) 881 1.88 Accounting Securities Companies GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO. REG 821 1.76 Method on Financial Institutions 0.12 Company Name Location Main Businesses Main Products Voting Established Consolidated Rights 0.17 Domestic Corporations SSBTC CLIENT OMNIBUS ACCOUNT 734 1.57 Financial 0.66 Treasury Stock Notes: 1. Figures less than 1,000 shares have been rounded down. Foreign Companies Statements 0.01 1.10 2. Ratios of share ownership are rounded down to one decimal place. 3. We hold 1,483,926 shares of treasury stock which are not listed above. PT Mandom Manufacture and sale of cosmetics Cosmetries, makeup 4. Ratios of share ownership are calculated excluding treasury stock. Indonesia and skin care 1969 Consolidated 62.8% Indonesia Tbk and other products products Shareholders by Type Stock Price and Transaction Volume Mandom Corporation Cosmetries, toiletries (%) Stock Price (Yen) Singapore Sale of cosmetics and other products and skin care 1988 Consolidated 100.0% 4,500 (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. products Mandom Taiwan Cosmetries and skin Individuals, other 3,500 Taiwan Sale of cosmetics and other products care products 1989 Consolidated 100.0% 97.94 Corporation Sunwa Marketing Cosmetries, toiletries China Equity-method 2,500 Co., Ltd. (Hong Kong) Sale of cosmetics and other products and skin care 1993 affiliate 44.0% Treasury Stock products Financial Institutions 3.07 Cosmetries, toiletries 15.83 1,500 Mandom Korea South Korea Sale of cosmetics and other products and skin care 1999 Consolidated 100.0% Individuals, Securities Corporation products other Companies Transaction Volume (Shares) 23.25 1.41 6,000,000 Mandom (Malaysia) Cosmetries, toiletries Malaysia Sale of cosmetics and other products and skin care 1997 Consolidated 99.1% Sdn. Bhd. products Shareholders by Holding Domestic 3,000,000 (%) Corporations Mandom Philippines The Cosmetries and skin 17.78 Sale of cosmetics and other products 1992 Consolidated 100.0% Corporation Philippines care products 0 Cosmetries, toiletries FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Mandom Corporation Apr. 1, 2014 － Mar. 31, 2015 Apr. 1, 2015 － Mar. 31, 2016 Apr. 1, 2016 － Mar. 31, 2017 Apr. 1, 2017 － Mar. 31, 2018 Apr. 1, 2018 － Mar. 31, 2019 Thailand Sale of cosmetics and other products and skin care 1990 Consolidated 100.0% (Thailand) Ltd. products Foreign Companies * We executed a 2-for-1 stock split of common stock on October 1, 2017. The figures in the above 38.66 graph are all figures taking into consideration the impact of stock split. Mandom Vietnam Cosmetries and skin Vietnam Sale of cosmetics and other products care products 2015 Consolidated 100.0% Company Limited Mandom China China Cosmetries and skin Sale of cosmetics and other products 2008 Consolidated 100.0% Corporation (Shanghai) care products Introduction to Our IR(-related) Site IR Information CSR Information Zhongshan City China Manufacture and sale of cosmetics Cosmetries and skin The Company is working to use its website 1996 Consolidated 66.7% Rida Cosmetics Co., Ltd. (Zhongshan) and other products care products for IR activities, in the aim of providing information fairly and in a timely manner to Mandom Corporation Cosmetries and skin shareholders and investors. India Sale of cosmetics and other products care products 2012 Consolidated 100.0% (India) Pvt. Ltd. IR Information ▶ ACG International https://www.mandom.co.jp/en/ir Malaysia Others ­ 2009 Consolidated 100.0% Sdn. Bhd. CSR Information ▶ Notes: 1. Mandom Corporation (India) Pvt. Ltd. is not currently operating its businesses. https://www.mandom.co.jp/english/csr/ 2. ACG International Sdn. Bhd. is a holdings company for three companies selling cosmetics and other products. 3. Purchase of ACG International Sdn. Bhd. shares (making it a subsidiary) was completed in 2019. 4. Voting Rights percentages are rounded down to one decimal place. Contact: Investor Relations Division Address: 5-12 Juniken-cho, Chuo-ku, Osaka 540-8530, Japan E-mail: ir@mandom.co.jp URL: https://www.mandom.co.jp/english/ 100 Mandom Report 2019 Mandom Report 2019 101 Share together to build a low-carbon society.
