Positive matters Sustainability Report 2018 En+ Group Sustainability Report 2018 ABOUT THE REPORT GRI 102-5 102-32 102-45 About the 102-48 102-49 102-50 Report 102-51 102-52 102-54 The 2018 En+ Sustainability Report (hereinafter This is the Company’s first Sustainability Report The Health, Safety, and Environment Committee referred to as the “Sustainability Report” since listing on the London Stock Exchange (the “HSE Committee”) of the Board and or the “Report”) is a comprehensive review which demonstrates En+ Group's commitment the Board itself have reviewed and approved of the Company’s progress and achievements to transparency by providing a comprehensive the Sustainability Report to ensure that all in sustainable development. disclosure of important non-financial material topics have been covered. information on an annual basis. By publishing Whilst En+ Group included a section this Sustainability Report, En+ Group highlights This Sustainability Report covers the period on Sustainable Development in its 2018 Annual its commitment to transparency with all its from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 Report, the Company has now made the decision stakeholders and investors around the most and, in certain instances, discloses significant to publish a separate Report dedicated entirely material environmental, social and governance sustainability events during first six months to sustainability to reflect the Board's focus (“ESG”) issues. of 2019. It has been prepared in accordance on this area. with the Global Reporting Initiative The Company understands that providing (“GRI”) Standards: Core option, including regular information on the economic, the Mining & Metals and Electric Utilities Sector governance, social and environmental aspects supplements, as this is the most widely used of its business to internal and external standard for sustainability reports worldwide stakeholders, and receiving their feedback, and the Board considers the GRI standards is central to building stable and sustainable relevant to the Company’s operations. relationships based on trust. Boundaries of the Report In this Report the terms “En+”, “En+ Group”, Report 2018 is presented and calculated based “we”, “the Company” and “the Group” in various on the consolidated financial statements as forms shall mean EN+ GROUP IPJSC1 and its of 31 December 2018, prepared in accordance subsidiaries, the economic results of which are with International Financial Reporting detailed in the Group’s consolidated financial Standards (IFRS). statements. Performance management data covers all En+ The Sustainability Report 2018 discloses Group’s business units, unless stated otherwise. information about En+ Group’s two segments2: Metals (represented by RUSAL) and Power Due to rounding, some totals in the tables, (represented by the Company’s power assets charts and diagrams in this Report may not such as JSC EuroSibEnergo, PJSC Irkutskenergo correspond with the sum of segmental results. et al3). Unless otherwise indicated, financial 2 information included in the Sustainability | EN+ GROUP 1.  efore 9 July 2019 — EN+ GROUP PLC. B 2. For more detailed information about En+ Group's segments please refer to pp.22-23, At a glance 3. For a list of significant subsidiaries please refer to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 https://www.enplusgroup.com/en/investors/results-and-disclosure/. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE The principles of the Report We were guided by the following principles during the production of the Report: Stakeholder Inclusiveness Sustainability Context The Company strives to meet or exceed expectations of a wide range En+ Group’s sustainable development activities are based on global best of stakeholders who are affected by its operations. practices in this area, international and Russian standards and principles, including the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Materiality Completeness En+ Group assessed material topics based on stakeholders’ The Report reflects the key outcomes of the Company's sustainable expectations and management priorities. development activities and describes its management approaches and measures, as well as the results achieved. Principles for defining Report quality The following principles were used to define the Report’s quality. Principle: Description: Balance The Report reflects positive and negative aspects of the organisation’s performance to enable a reasoned assessment of overall performance. Comparability The reported information is presented in a manner that enables stakeholders to analyse changes in the organisation’s performance over time, and makes comparison to other organisations possible. Accuracy The reported information is sufficiently accurate and detailed for stakeholders to assess the organisation’s performance. Timeliness Starting this year, En+ Group will report on an annual basis so that information is available in time for stakeholders to make informed decisions. Clarity The information in this Report is presented in a manner that is comprehensible to stakeholders with 3 a reasonable understanding of the organisation and its activities. | Reliability Stakeholders should have confidence that the Report can be checked to establish the veracity of its contents EN+ GROUP and the extent to which it has appropriately applied Reporting Principles. ABOUT THE REPORT Limitation Continuance of Liability Unless otherwise indicated, the information as a result of their ownership by a sanctioned With effect from 9 July 2019 (the “Continuance presented in this Sustainability Report only party, are frozen, and U.S. persons are Date”), the Company has been registered reflects the Company’s position during generally prohibited from dealings with them. as an international company in the Unified the review period from 1 January 2018 Additionally, non-U.S. persons could face State Register of Legal Entities of the Russian to 31 December 2018 (the “Review Period”). sanctions for knowingly facilitating significant Federation. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements, transactions for or on behalf of the individuals analyses, reviews, commentaries and risks or entities blocked today.” Shareholders and With effect from the Continuance Date presented in this Sustainability Report potential investors should be aware that the Company’s memorandum of association and (save for this section, or unless otherwise the information presented in this Sustainability articles of association governed by Jersey laws specified) are based upon the information of Report (save for this Warning) does not take are superseded by the charter that is available the Company covering the Reporting Period into account the OFAC Sanctions or any on the Company’s website at only and not thereafter. Shareholders and potential impact, which the OFAC Sanctions https://www.enplusgroup.com/en/investors/ potential investors should be aware that on 6 may have had on the Company or the Group. corporate-documents/ (the “Charter”). Inter alia, April 2018, the Office of Foreign Assets Control Accordingly, the information presented in this the Charter establishes authority of the General of the Department of the Treasury of the United Sustainability Report (save for this Warning), Shareholder Meeting and the board of directors States of America (the “U.S. Treasury”) including but not limited to all forward-looking (the “Board”) and provides that the CEO1 has designated, amongst others, the Company to be statements, analyses, reviews, commentaries the authority to act on any matters outside added to its Specially Designated Nationals and risks, does not necessarily reflect the latest the scope of the authority of the General List (the “OFAC Sanctions”). A press statement position (financial or otherwise) of the Group. Shareholder Meeting and the Board. issued by the U.S. Treasury in respect of On 27 January 2019, the OFAC Sanctions were the OFAC Sanctions on 6 April 2018 stated lifted. Shareholders and potential investors The Company’s name was changed as follows: that: “All assets subject to U.S. jurisdiction of should exercise caution when making the designated individuals and entities, and of an assessment or dealing in the Company’s • T  he full name in Russian: Международная any other entities blocked by operation of law shares. If in doubt, they are strongly advised компания публичное акционерное to consult their stockbrokers, bank managers, общество «ЭН+ ГРУП»; solicitors and/or other professional advisers before dealing in the Shares. • T  he short name in Russian: МКПАО «ЭН+ ГРУП»; • T  he full name in English: EN+ GROUP International public joint-stock company; • T  he short name in English: EN+ GROUP IPJSC. 4 | EN+ GROUP 1.  he Charter uses the term “General Director” which T is used interchangeably with the term “CEO” in public disclosures made by the Company. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Contact information To provide your feedback, suggest a comment or ask a question please contact: For investors • IR Department • Tel: +7 495 642 7937 • Email: ir@enplus.ru For media • PR Department • Tel: +7 495 642 7937 • Email: press-center@enplus.ru 5 | EN+ GROUP Contents Company's Our sustainability overview approach About the Report 2 Statements 11 Strategy and sustainability management 56 Boundaries of the Report 2 Message from the Executive Our challenges and alignment The principles of the Report 3 Chairman of the Board 12 with the SDGs 57 Principles for defining Message from the CEO 14 Identification of material topics 62 Report quality 3 Message from HSE Committee Chair 16 Stakeholder engagement 63 Limitation of Liability 4 Association membership 64 Continuance 4 About En+ Group 19 Contact information 5 Key highlights 20 At a glance 22 Contents 6 Group’s key economic and financial results 24 Market presence 26 Corporate overview 28 Business model 30 Corporate governance 33 Corporate governance system 34 The Board’s Matters 35 The management bodies composition highlights 36 The Barker Plan 38 En+ Group Committees 38 Internal control and risk management 41 Internal control 42 Risk management system 44 Ethics and integrity 49 6 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE 2018 Performance Performance Environmental management 71 protection 119 Additional Business System 72 Management approach 120 information 150 Supply chain 75 Climate change 122 Quality 79 Forestry projects 125 GRI Content Index 152 Energy 126 Scientific and technological Air emissions 128 Glossary 162 development 81 Water resources conservation 129 Research and development 82 Waste and safe tailings management 134 Modernisation 86 Land rehabilitation 136 Biodiversity 137 Employees 91 Goals for 2019 and midterm period 138 Management approach 92 Personnel structure 93 Local community Diversity and inclusion 98 development 141 Talent acquisition 99 Management approach 142 Learning and development 100 Socio-economic contribution 143 Social benefits 103 Goals for 2019 and midterm period 148 Goals for 2019 and midterm period 105 Health and safety 107 Management approach 108 Monitoring program 109 Health and safety performance 110 Safety culture development 114 Prevention of occupational injuries and diseases 115 Goals for 2019 and midterm period 116 7 | EN+ GROUP EN+ GROUP | 8 STATEMENTS COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Company's overview S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2018 9 | EN+ GROUP STATEMENTS • ABOUT EN+ GROUP • CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT EN+ GROUP | 10 Statements IN THIS SECTION • Message from the Executive Chairman of the Board • Message from the CEO • Message from HSE Committee Chair 11 | EN+ GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 STATEMENTS GRI 102-14 Message from the Executive Chairman of the Board Our corporate strategies going forward will also include Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for management (including me!) linked to the sustainability performance of the Company and our progress in further reducing carbon emissions. This disclosure is consistent with, but goes much further than, the robust commitments on independent governance that we made to the US Treasury when sanctions were lifted on the Group earlier this year. This Report also builds on the major governance reforms that have further strengthened our business and opened the Group up to new opportunities and new markets. These measures further enhance our ability to help lead our sector in the global Lord Barker of Battle, Dear stakeholders, transition to a low carbon economy, allowing us Executive Chairman of the Board to face up to the responsibility we have to help of En+ Group A strong commitment to a progressive fight dangerous man-made climate change. sustainability agenda and a fierce determination to further drive down the carbon But this focus is not a passing fad or a board emissions of our Group is central to the aims box ticking exercise. Sustainability is core and priorities of the new independent Board to what we do as a business. We are the world’s of En+ Group. We are proud of our leading largest producer of low carbon aluminium, position on these vital issues and proud of our a material central to the drive for a low considerable achievements to date. However carbon global future. It is fully recyclable, and we are also critically aware that there is much already used extensively in the electric vehicle, more to do and the challenges ahead are aerospace and packaging industries as well as significant. It is in that spirit that I am pleased in the development of more energy efficient to present our first Sustainability Report as buildings; all essential building blocks of a London listed company to both shareholders the low carbon transition. and all interested stakeholders alike. In 2017, we launched a new market leading This Report aims to provide a dramatically brand for low carbon aluminium – ALLOW with improved level of transparency on the Group’s a verified low carbon footprint. ALLOW’s carbon governance, environmental and social focus. It footprint is lower than 4 t CO₂e/t of primary will enable our stakeholders to benchmark our aluminium produced at smelters (Scope 1 and 2) progress year on year. Publishing this Report which is among the best levels in the world’s 12 is consistent with our business strategy, which aluminium industry as verified by KPMG. strongly emphasises sustainable development | as both intrinsic to our growth and integral Overall, the aluminium industry is currently to our future. responsible for approximately 1% of global EN+ GROUP GHG emissions according to Carbon Trust estimates. But the carbon footprint of our aluminium production is more than three times below the industry average COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Sustainability is core to what we do as a business. We are the world’s largest producer of low carbon aluminium, a material central to the drive for a low carbon global future . of 12.3 tonnes of CO₂1 per tonne of Growing our business in a responsible way also En+ Group’s re-invigorated Health, Safety and aluminium and substantially lower than means enhancing our social and environmental Environment Committee. As current Chair of the typical Chinese produced aluminium contribution. From Siberia to Africa, The Climate Group and of the Advisory Board which dominates global production. But from Ireland to Jamaica, we have a global of the New Energy Coalition of Europe and we recognise that lowest in our sector geographical footprint touching diverse with a background in both the private and is not good enough. Our new goal is communities and ecosystems. Our day-to-day public sectors, her exceptional experience is to lead the industry by example and reduce challenge is to understand and address their invaluable. Ms MacNaughton will help us set the carbon content of our products even evolving needs, minimise any negative impact an ambitious, but achievable, sustainability further. from our operations, where ever possible repair, course for the business. I would like to take safeguard and improve the environment we this opportunity to thank her for the invaluable In Russia, the heart of our operations, operate in, while still ensuring we generate contribution that she has already made we greatly welcome the recent decision the returns necessary to continue to invest to the Group. by the government to ratify the Paris for a sustainable future. Agreements and to keep driving the necessary Given the nature of our business and changes to deliver against COP21 targets. It Our leadership in the development of new the scale of the Board’s ambition, En+ is critical that the global metals and mining technologies is key to our sustainability Group is determined to play a meaningful industry gets behind this initiative. progress. Innovation is at the centre of role in helping drive a change in business everything we do. It is through tireless attitudes towards climate change. The Climate However such ambitious progress within En+ innovation that we will continue to reduce crisis is real but so are the solutions. We see will depend most of all on the talent and the environmental impact of our operations the potential in our Group to be a meaningful commitment of our people. Our employees and the carbon footprint of our products. part of that solution, but there is a long road are the driving force of the Group. We invest Through a scientific approach to evaluating ahead. This will be a challenging journey but I considerably into the development of our our natural surroundings we will intensify our look forward to sharing our progress with all of over 98,000 employees across five continents efforts to sustain and enhance ecosystems, and our stakeholders. to support their personal growth and their support our local communities. shared success in the business. The health Lord Barker of Battle, and safety of every employee is our number As part of our governance reform Executive Chairman of the Board one priority and our HSE Committee has been at the beginning of 2019 we appointed considerably enhanced and strengthened a majority of independent, experienced by the new Board. It now meets more and high-calibre non-executive directors regularly to review our performance and to the Group’s Board. The new Board is working processes, with world class benchmarks as well with senior management and the diversity 13 the norm and a determination to drive up our of talent and experience is a huge strength. | performance against key health and safety However I would particularly like to draw your indicators across all of our operations. Through attention to the role of Joan MacNaughton EN+ GROUP developing a selfenhancing health and CB Hon FEI, a highly influential figure safety culture across our global business, we in international energy and climate policy. After aim to significantly improve our performance taking up her appointment as an independent 1.  melters’ direct emissions (scope 1) and indirect S in this area. director, she also assumed the role of Chair of energy emissions (scope 2). STATEMENTS Message from the CEO Dear stakeholders, Despite unprecedented headwinds during world heritage site that provides water to our 2018, I am proud that En+ Group has continued hydro operations. In 2018, we continued I am proud to report that the Group has to push forward with both its environmental the success of our Project 360 lake clean-up, continued to make material progress on its and social programs. We are increasing which attracted 16,500 volunteers from around sustainability objectives and to present our key the efficiency of our hydro power turbines, Russia. En+ Group continues to push projects and performance results in this Report. substituting condensation mode generation for a multi-stakeholder strategy for addressing This year we focused on the improvement of at our CHPs for hydro power output and using the human impact on Lake Baikal and is our internal sustainability reporting system and energy and fuel more efficiently. assembling a multi-disciplined team of therefore, made a strategic decision to obtain scientists to research the key issues facing independent assurance for the Sustainability A key part of this achievement has been the lake that will underpin this approach. Report that will be published for the next investment in our HPP modernisation program, reporting period. which has already enabled us to enhance Caring for the places in which we operate efficiency and improve cavitation, leading means supporting communities as well As businesses around the world become to an almost 20% increase in power. As a result as ecosystems. The Company is proud of increasingly conscious of their environmental of the program, starting from 2022 our Siberian the work it has undertaken with communities and social impact, the demand for sustainably HPPs are expected to increase their clean around its operations in Guinea, which have sourced and produced materials is growing. electricity generation by 2 TWh, from the same suffered from the outbreak of the Ebola virus. Our hydro power assets and low-carbon amount of water passing through the turbines. The business supported the establishment and aluminium mean we are well-placed for this The program will also allow to reduce operation of a specialist centre for treating shift. Today, more than 90% of En+ Group's the Group's greenhouse gas emissions the disease, developed a modern laboratory Metals segment’s aluminium output uses by 2.3 million tonnes per year by 2022 and complex for combating dangerous infections, clean renewable power. However, we recognise demonstrates our commitment to continuing and has helped the country’s mass vaccination there is a lot more that we can do. Therefore, to lower the average carbon intensity of program. The fact that our local communities at the moment we are working on a strategy electricity. have had to suffer through this disease is to minimise the impact of our coal assets. tragic, and I am only glad that as a business we We continued to transition to Eco-Søderberg have been able to offer them some meaningful cells, enabling us to significantly cut support. emissions while increasing production efficiency. This important innovation was In Siberia, En+ Group succeeded in bringing developed at our Engineering and Technology 30 companies together to establish Centre in Krasnoyarsk, and the Company the Irkutsk branch of the National Council expects to invest USD 250 million in rolling for Corporate Volunteering—an important the technology out between 2018 and 2022. platform to enhance volunteer efforts Overall, I am pleased to say that by 2018 across the region — and welcomed we have reduced direct GHG emissions the Republic of Buryatia to the Environmental from electrolysis operations by 7.5 percent Entrepreneurship School Project — Russia’s against a 2014 benchmark. We have used our only scheme for championing regional in-house and external expertise in highentrepreneurs with environmental innovations tech engineering to continue progressing and resource-saving solutions. the development of inert anode technology and to establish a pilot site for extracting valuable The most important community 14 scandium oxide from waste bauxite residue, for our business is our employees. Despite and continued work on the project aimed an unfaltering focus on high health and safety | at improving the characteristics of perovskite standards and training, unfortunately, in 2018 solar cells. there were some injuries at our production EN+ GROUP facilities. Every one of these workplace A core focus for the business is our ongoing accidents has been thoroughly investigated duty of care for Lake Baikal, the UNESCO and we are putting in place heightened safety COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE measures to ensure that they do not happen Vladimir Kiriukhin, again. The safety of everyone at En+ Group Chief Executive Officer is my personal priority and I will personally ensure that we never cease in our efforts to prevent workplace accidents. As businesses around the world Looking ahead, En+ Group remains committed become increasingly conscious to ensuring we produce the world’s most sustainable aluminium. We will achieve this of their environmental and social through a commitment to innovation—both in the ways we work every day and in our impact, the demand for sustainably pursuit of industry changing solutions. I am excited by the expertise and experience offered sourced and produced materials is by our new Board and am confident that, with growing. Our hydro power assets and the enhancements made to our corporate governance over the past year, the Company is low-carbon aluminium mean we are in a stronger position to push ahead with both our operational and sustainability strategies. well-placed for this shift . We believe the green economy is one in which En+ Group can thrive and are confident that 15 the path to a more sustainable business will | benefit our shareholders, our employees, and the planet. EN+ GROUP Vladimir Kiriukhin, Chief Executive Officer STATEMENTS Message from HSE Committee Chair Dear stakeholders, We take extremely seriously our responsibilities in terms of the impact of I was delighted to join the Board of En+ Group our business and our crucial stewardship earlier this year as an Independent Director of the unique natural ecosystems in which and Chair of its Health, Safety and Environment we operate. Sustainability is at the heart of Committee. En+ is one of the select group the En+ strategy and currently the Group’s of companies that have put sustainability power generation and aluminium production at the heart of their business. The Board facilities have among the lowest carbon has ambitious plans to help drive a change footprints in the world. However, much more in behaviour in both producers and consumers work is ahead of us, including targeting of aluminium to combat climate change, and a further substantial reduction in a wider I feel privileged to be part of this journey. range of pollutants, investing into land remediation and state-of-the art waste In the brief period since it was established — treatment facilities, moving towards renewable as part of our commitment to best in class energy where we can and reviewing our asset governance — En+’s HSE Committee has portfolio to minimise its environmental impact. already reviewed all of the key issues within its remit. This is testament to the quality En+ Group is totally committed to ensuring and depth of information we have received the health and safety of its employees and Joan MacNaughton, from colleagues supporting the work of contractors at all stages of its operations. Chair of the Health, Safety and the committee as well as from staff at the sites The life of every person must be protected, and Environment Committee we have visited. Employee health and safety the Group strives to prevent all occupational and robust environmental protection policies, accidents. We deeply regret that in 2018 there respect for human rights, and the diversity and were eight fatalities in our Group but we are inclusion agenda are key priorities for En+ and actively working on improving safety. We have we are committed to continuous improvement now developed and adopted an HSE Policy and in these areas. an HSE management system at the Group’s production facilities. En+ is one of the select group of companies that have put sustainability at the heart of their business . 16 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE In 2018, the Group paid close attention Our sustainability commitments include to developing a strong safety culture among supporting the communities where En+ and its employees and introduced a number of RUSAL have operations and contributing standards and procedures, while large-scale to social and economic life. In this context, training of personnel and top management our legacy combined heat and power assets was organised under the Conscious Safety in Siberia represent a major challenge, burning development program, through the Group’s coal to provide heat to local communities Corporate University and with external in a region where no heat alternatives consultancy support. In 2018, our LTIFR was currently exist. We take these responsibilities 0.14 and our employee occupational illnesses very seriously and are developing a roadmap rate per one hundred employees was 0.214. on GHG emissions (including Scope 1, 2 Our work here continues and we continue and 3) monitoring and reduction as well as to improve these and other health and safety the eventual replacement of older equipment indicators. and assets, reflecting our commitment to local communities, who rely on us for improving In terms of environmental performance, their quality of life. In 2018, En+ reduced water the carbon footprint of our operations was consumption by 36% compared to 2008 level, further reduced in 2018 with the emissions we aim to reach 100% recycled and reused (Scope 1) of our aluminium smelters 7.5% water supply for the main production processes lower than in 2014. We continue to implement across the entire Company by 2022. state-of-the-art environmental technology across our operations, some of which have We are aware of the significant risks posed been developed for limiting heat transmission by our business. We are determined to manage losses from the Power segment and some those risks with scrupulous regard for our for introducing a closed water cycle impact and to ensure a safe and sustainable for the Metals segment. future for En+, our operations and the people and communities we serve. We also have clear targets for the future. Our aim is for hydropower to cover 95% of Joan MacNaughton, the Metals segment's aluminium production Chair of the Health, Safety and Environment energy needs by 2025. The Power segment Committee aims to increase power generation from its hydropower assets by 3.4% by 20221, with corresponding reductions in emissions per unit of power produced. 17 | EN+ GROUP 1.  he New energy modernisation program envisages T an increase of power generation by 2 TWh annually. Comparison baseline — 2018 HPP output, 58.3 TWh. EN+ GROUP | 18 About En+ Group IN THIS SECTION • Key highlights • At a glance • Group’s key economic and financial results • Market presence 19 • Corporate overview | EN+ GROUP GOOD HEA LTH CLEAN WATER AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND RESPONSIBLE LIFE AND WEL L-BEING AND SANITATION CLEAN ENERG Y ECONOMIC GROWTH CONSUMPTION ACTION ON LAN D AND PRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ABOUT EN+ GROUP Key highlights Key economic and Corporate Sustainability financial results governance approach USD 12.4 bn En+ Group revenue 2 new committees 7 Key SDGs were created 32.7 % GOOD HEA LTH CLEAN WATER AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND AND WEL L-BEING AND SANITATION CLEAN ENERG Y ECONOMIC GROWTH The majority of the Board increase in net profit 2018 vs 2017 are independent directors RESPONSIBLE LIFE CONSUMPTION ACTION ON LAN D AND PRODUCTION 8.8% decline in net debt 2018 vs 2017 Internal control and HSE Committee risk management established in February 2019 Approach to risk management was changed 127 audit procedures were conducted resulting in dismissals and other disciplinary actions Chief Compliance Officer was appointed 20 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Performance Employees Environmental management protection 638 participants in 98,401 people employed 7.5% reduction of direct GHG emissions of Business System 250 program electrolysis operations 2018 vs 2014 USD 67.3 mn 26% (tCO₂e/tAl) total cost saving of the Metals segment since the implementation of Business System female representation in En+ Group in 2018 36% decline in fresh water consumption measures in 2018 93 % by the Metals segment compared to 2008 The Tender Committee was established employees have permanent contracts 1.2 mn young peled-fish were released into the Angara river basin over the past five years Scientific and Health ALLOW technological and safety brand of low-carbon footprint aluminium development Local community 55% reduction of estimated cost of scandium oxide 4,000 flashcards outlining safe development production working practices were produced 21 >17 % efficiency factor of the perovskite solar 4,969 employees completed safety regional and federal businesses joined the Irkutsk branch of the National Council for Corporate Volunteering cells test samples culture trainings 110 kV 8 ~800 children participated in RoboSib festival power line temperature control to increase fatal incidents in 2018 ~16,500 the reliability of electricity supply 0.14 LTIFR in 2018 volunteers took part in the eco-event to clean up Lake Baikal’s shoreline 21 | 0.214 650 EN+ GROUP OVER employee occupational illness rate young entrepreneurs have participated in 2018, per 100 employees in the Environmental Entrepreneurship School Project ABOUT EN+ GROUP GRI 102-1 102-2 At a glance 102-3 102-7 EN+ GROUP International Public Joint-Stock The Metals segment Company (EN+ GROUP IPJSC) is a global leader Al in aluminium production and renewable energy generation with a well-established presence The Group’s Metals segment has a well•  luminium is a lightweight metal that A across five continents. En+ Group employs diversified sales platform that allows it has good conductivity and is widely over 98,000 people. to efficiently access and operate in all key used in various industries; aluminium markets including the United States, • The oxide membrane formed En+ Group is unique among global natural Western Europe, Japan and South East Asia. on the surface of aluminium is strong resources companies. The Group achieves and durable, making it resistant strategic synergies through its complementary En+ Group’s Metals segment is represented to corrosion and rusting, even after Power and Metals segments. The Group’s hydro by RUSAL. RUSAL is a low cost, vertically prolonged contact with moisture. power plants provide clean electricity for its integrated aluminium producer with core portfolio of world-class aluminium production smelting operations located in Siberia. RUSAL 3.9 mtpa total aluminium capacity facilities. The full integration of these two segments is En+ Group’s main business advantage. also owns a 27.8% stake in Norilsk Nickel, the world’s largest platinum group metals producer, the third largest in nickel output and tenth in copper production. The Company moved its registered office from Jersey to Oktyabrsky Island, Kaliningrad, Kaliningrad Region, Russia on 9 July 20191. En+ Group international public jointstock company is a global leader in aluminium production and renewable energy generation. No. 1 aluminium producer 5.8% of global aluminium No. 1 global independent outside China production hydro power producer 22 | EN+ GROUP 1. On 30 April 2002 the Company was registered as a legal entity under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. On 25 August 2005 the Company was registered as a legal entity under the laws of Jersey. On 9 July 2019 the Company was registered as a legal entity under the laws of the Russian Federation. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Our production model: The Power segment • E  xtraction and refinement of bauxites — we mine the key raw materials for alumina The Power segment is the leading independent production from topsoil in various tropical power producer in Russia, one of the largest •  ydroelectric power generation H and subtropical regions. In 2018, the Group globally in terms of installed power capacity produces electricity from renewable was approximately 75% self-sufficient and the biggest independent hydro power energy and does not release harmful in bauxite and nepheline production; generator in the world. The Power segment emissions into the atmosphere; encompasses the full energy sector value chain: • Hydroelectric power plants in Russia • A  lumina production — we produce the production and sale of electricity and heat produce about 18% of all the country’s alumina (the common name given energy, electricity and heat transmission, energy electricity, accounting for virtually to aluminium oxide) from bauxite. sales to end consumers, and engineering. all of Russia’s renewable electricity RUSAL’s total attributable alumina output generation. was 7.774 million tonnes in 2018 and The Power segment comprises hydro, heat and 7.773 million tonnes in 2017; solar power generation. Renewable energy sources — five HPPs (hydro power plants) 19.6 GW 3 •  luminium production— we use the process A with total capacity of 15.1 GW and one SPP total Group’s installed electricity of electrolysis to extract aluminium (solar power plant)2 with installed capacity of capacity by dissolving alumina in a molten cryolite 5.2 MW— accounted for 77% of the Group’s electrolyte. The Group increased primary installed electricity capacity in 2018. aluminium production by 1.2% in 2018 to 3.753 million tonnes. In 2018, En+ Group remained the largest electricity producer in Siberia, contributing 36.4% to the region’s total installed capacity. Furthermore, over three quarters of the Group’s capacity is hydro power. 23 | EN+ GROUP 2. Photovoltaic (PV). 3. Including Onda HPP, with an installed power capacity of 0.08 GW and a production level of 0.4 TWh in 2018 (located in the European part of Russia, leased to RUSAL); excluding Boguchany HPP (a 50:50 joint venture of RUSAL and RusHydro). ABOUT EN+ GROUP Group’s key economic and financial results USD 12.4 bn En+ Group revenue Other key economic results in 2017-2018: USD mn (except%) 2018 2017 Change, % Revenue 12,378 12,094 +2.3% 2.3 % Revenue up (USD 284 mn) Primary aluminium 8,165 8,169 -0.05% and alloys sales1 year-on-year Alumina and bauxite 984 778 26.48% 26.48% sales increase in alumina and bauxite sales Electricity sales 1,329 1,319 0.80% (by USD 206 mn) Heat sales 461 462 -0.20% USD 3.3 bn En+ Group adjusted EBITDA, a 2.0% Other 1,439 1,366 5.34% Adjusted EBITDA 3,287 3,223 2.00% year-on-year increase Adjusted EBITDA margin 26.60% 26.60% 32.7% rise in net profit to USD 1.9 bn, driven Net profit 1,862 1,403 32.70% by an increased share of profit from associates Net profit margin 15% 12% +3pp and joint ventures Net debt2 11,094 12,164 -8.80% 8.8 % decline in net debt to USD 11,094 mn as Free cash flow3 877 1,258 -30.30% of 31 December 2018 (USD 12,164 mn as at 31 December 2017) 2.5% The capital expenditures before intersegmental elimination up to USD 1,015 mn 24 year-on-year | EN+ GROUP 1. After consolidation adjustments. 2. Net debt — the sum of loans and borrowings bonds outstanding and deferred liability for acquisition of PJSC Irkutskenergo (the Group’s subsidiary) shares less total cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the relevant period. 3. Calculated as operating cash flow less net interest paid and less capital expenditure adjusted for payments from settlement of derivative instruments plus dividends from associates and joint ventures. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Total net sales and capitalisation in 2017-2018, USD mn Metals Power Intersegmental Total segment segment adjustments 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total net sales for the year 10,280 9,969 3,147 3,235 (1,049) (1,110) 12,378 12,094 Capitalisation at the end of the year 13,495 12,923 8,792 9,054 (4,608) (4,563) 17,679 17,414 including borrowed capital (loans 8,286 8,479 3,991 4,550 12,277 13,029 and borrowings, including bonds) including equity 5,209 4,444 4,801 4,504 (4,608) (4,563) 5,402 4,385 Revenue dynamics in 2017-2018, USD mn4 Metals segment Power segment 2017 9,969 3,235 12,094 2018 10,280 3,147 12,378 25 | EN+ GROUP 4. After consolidation adjustments. ABOUT EN+ GROUP GRI 102-4 102-6 Market 102-7 presence En+ Group is a vertically integrated aluminium and power producer with core assets in Siberia, Russia. The Company is a global player in the aluminium supply market and a regional leader in the power sector. The core areas of the Company's Metals segment (three mines). The Group also has eight alumina are aluminium and bauxite production and refineries in six countries: Ireland (one plant), aluminium sales. The Metals segment has Jamaica (one plant), Italy (one plant), Ukraine Jamaica a well-diversified sales platform, which allows (one plant), Russia (three plants) and Guinea (one it to efficiently access and operate in all key plant). In addition, the Company holds a 20% Guyana aluminium markets including North America, equity stake in Queensland Alumina Limited Western Europe, Japan and South East Asia. (QAL), an alumina refinery in Australia. The Metals segment owns 101 operational aluminium The Power segment focuses on the generation smelters in two countries: Russia (nine plants) and distribution of electricity and heating and Sweden (one plant). to customers primarily located in Siberia, Russia. The Group operates foil and packaging assets Power and aluminium are the Company’s core as well as production facilities for wheels and markets. The Metals segment is a key supplier a wide range of other product lines. The Metals of aluminium to the auto, consumer goods, segment established a Downstream division packaging and construction sectors, as well as in February 2018 to develop and improve En+ Group’s revenue split to the aviation industry in Europe and North the efficiency of producing value-added products by region in 2018 America. from aluminium and aluminium-based alloys. The Company’s Power segment generates The Power segment’s assets are located primarily and distributes electricity and heating in the East Siberian and Volga regions. Currently, in Russia. Industrial enterprises, households the Company operates five hydro power plants, and municipalities in regions of presence are 16 combined heat and power plants as well as 14% the segment’s main consumers. The Metals one solar plant and is engaged in all key areas of segment is one of the largest consumers of the Russian power industry: electricity and heat 7% 36% the Power segment’s electricity. generation, electricity, capacity and heat sales, Total revenue 9% USD 12.4 bn heat distribution; retail energy trading and supply, The Metals segment’s bauxite mines are located engineering services, and electricity distribution in four countries: Russia (two mines), Jamaica and transmission. 26 (one mine), Guyana (one mine) and Guinea 33% | EN+ GROUP CIS Europe Asia USA Others 1. Ten aluminium smelters currently in operation. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Russia Sweden Krasnoyarsk Moscow Ireland Irkutsk Ukraine Kazakhstan Boguchany HPP Italy Armenia Ust-Ilimsk HPP Boguchany AS Krasnoyarsk AS Ust-Ilimsk CHP CHP-16 Bratsk HPP Taishet AS Bratsk AS Krasnoyarsk HPP Novo-Ziminskaya CHP CHP-6 CHP-12 CHP-11 Nigeria CHP-10 CHP-9 Baikalenergo Guinea Khakass utility services Sayanogorsk AS Irkutsk HPP Irkutsk AS Novo-Irkutsk CHP Khakass AS Abakan SPP Australia Two business segments: The Metals segment The Power segment Total production Total production En+ Group is an in 2018 in 2018 independent global 3.8 mt 58.32 TWh aluminium and Aluminium Hydro power power producer 7.8 mt Alumina 14.9 TWh Thermal power 13.8 mt Bauxite 6 GWh Solar 12 Countries 27 | 27.9 mn Gcal 60+ EN+ GROUP 2. E  xcluding Onda HPP with installed power capacity 0.08 GW and production level of 0.4 TWh in 2018 (Located in European part of Russia, leased to RUSAL). Heat production Sites ABOUT EN+ GROUP GRI 102-5 Corporate overview Since 9 July 2019, En+ Group has been changes to its corporate governance practices an international public joint-stock company throughout 2018, which reflect the Company’s (EN+ GROUP IPJSC)1 listed on the London Stock strong and ongoing commitment to the highest Exchange (LSE) and the Moscow Exchange standards of corporate governance2. (MOEX). The Company made substantial Financial assistance received from the government Financial assistance Metals segment, Power segment, EN+ Group, category USD, mn USD, mn USD, mn 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Tax relief and tax credits 5 19 1 3 6 22 Subsidies, including subsidies for R&D 5 4 3 3 8 7 Total 10 23 4 6 14 29 1.  efore 9 July 2019 — EN+ GROUP PLC. B 2. For more detailed information please refer to pp.33-39, Corporate governance and pp.96-123, Annual Report 2018. 28 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Voting and shareholder structure as at 26 January 2019 Other shareholders 3.42% Independent trustee 6.64% Volnoe Delo 3.22% Former family members 6.75% Independent trustee 6.75% Institutional and retail investors 4.88% Institutional and retail investors 9.42% Citi (Nominess) 4.54% Citi (Nominess)1 10.55% Glencore 10.55% VTB 21.68% Independent trustee 14.33% VTB 7.35% B-Finance 44.95% Independent trustee 9.95% B-Finance 35.00% Shareholding Voting rights 29 Note: percentages may not add up to 100% due to rounding. | GDRs issued as part of a Glencore swap transaction. EN+ GROUP 1. ABOUT EN+ GROUP Business model Sustainability at En+ Group is underpinned Business model structure1 by its sustainable business model, which, at its core, aims to responsibly boost the production OUR RESOURCES RAW MATERIALS of metals and energy and reduce our & INPUTS environmental impact. We strive to balance short and long-term interests whilst always Bauxites and nephelines are the key raw materials incorporating economic, environmental and for alumina production. In 2018, the Group was approximately 70% social considerations into our decision-making self-sufﬁcient in bauxites and nephelines. The Group uses water for hydro power generation processes. and coal for thermal generation. The Group is fully self-sufﬁcient in coal resources. The Group has a strategic stake in Norilsk Nickel (27.8%). Norilsk Nickel is the world’s ASSETS largest palladium producer, the second-largest nickel producer and one of the leading 3.9 mt Bauxite Aluminium production starts 13.8 producers of platinum and copper. The Group’s Al capacity with the raw material bauxite, mt found in a belt around the production holding diversifies its revenue streams and in 2018 broadens its strategic opportunities. 19.6 GW equator. The bauxite is mined Electricity capacity In line with Group’s commitment to drive down its carbon footprint with greater urgency 15.1 GW Nepheline Nepheline, a hexagonal mineral 4.3 and ambition, the Board has commissioned Hydro capacity that usually presents as mt a full review of strategic options with respect production to the Group’s coal and coal-fired power assets. aluminium, can also be used as in 2018 raw material for alumina. RAW MATERIALS 20.6 mtpa Water Bauxite production Meticulous calculations of hydro power capacity operations were conducted before creating the Angara and Yenisei hydro power cascade in order to supply cheap electricity to the 10.4 mtpa region with a minimal impact on the hydrological regime of Lake Baikal and the Yenisei River. Alumina production capacity PEOPLE Coal c. 98,000 Coal is mainly used to power En+ Group’s CHPs. Employees 16.2 mt production in 2018 30 | EN+ GROUP 1. Table as at 31 December 2018. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE REFINING PROCESSING/ SALES & CREATING POWER GENERATION GENERATION MARKETING GLOBAL VALUE En+ Group’s long position in alumina En+ Group’s position as the largest Low-carbon capacity helps secure ample supply for aluminium producer outside of aluminium the prospective expansion of our China opens up extensive For more information | aluminium production capacity and marketing opportunities. We are please see p. 88 Scientiﬁc and allows us to take advantage of aiming to further develop sales to technological development. Modernisation. ALLOW brand favourable market conditions through key customers in major growth third-party alumina sales. regions, focusing on value-added Renewable energy products and direct sales to For more information | end-users. please see p. 90 Scientiﬁc and technological development. Modernisation. The New Energy Alumina Total sales in 2018 Generation program Alumina, or aluminium oxide, is Income and extracted from the bauxite through reﬁning where alumina is separated from the bauxite by Primary aluminium and 3,671 kt shareholder value For more information | using a hot solution of caustic soda value added products please see p. 30 About En+ and lime. VAP sales in 2018 Group. Corporate overview Aluminium is produced through the Alumina can also be extracted via the nepheline process. process of electrolysis, where electricity is run between a negative cathode and 1,664 kt Reducing the carbon footprint of the global aluminium industry a positive anode (both made of carbon), 7.8 mt production in 2018 which reacts with the oxygen in alumina and forms CO₂. Liquid aluminium is cast into extrusion ingots, sheet ingots, or For more information | please see p. 124 Environmental protection. RUSAL’s Climate initiatives foundry alloys, depending on the intended ﬁnal product. Environmental conservation Hydro power For more information | generation Key products: please see p. 139 Environmental protection. Biodiversity Hydro power is a key part of the Group’s – Primary – Slabs energy business and generates massive aluminium – Wire ord Community engagement amounts of low-carbon energy to power – ALLOW (certiﬁed – Ingots For more information | please see p. 143 Local alumina processing facilities. low-carbon – Foil community development aluminium) – Powder 58.3 TWh – Billets of electricity production in 2018 3.8 mt Electricity Trading and retail Strategic investment production in 2018 in Nornickel (27.8%) Thermal – Capturing additional margin Nornickel is the world’s largest power generation palladium producer, the second – Direct access to consumers The Group’s HPP portfolio is balanced nickel producer and one of the leading producers of platinum and with thermal power generation, which is supplied to the power markets in its regions of operation. Electricity 18.6 TWh copper. The Group’s holding allows for signiﬁcant diversiﬁcation of transmission and sales in 2018 earnings as well as broadening of distribution the Group’s strategic opportunities. 14.9 27.9 – Efﬁcient management of TWh mn Gcal investment resources USD 8,286 mn – Seamlessly connecting new Investment market value of electricity of heat 31 capacity to the grid production production at 31.12.2018 in 2018 | EN+ GROUP EN+ GROUP | 32 Corporate governance En+ Group is a global company with GDRs listed on the London and Moscow Stock Exchanges. The Company is committed to the highest international standards of corporate governance. Adherence to the most rigorous standards of corporate governance 2 new committees standards is the key to attracting fresh investment, were created strengthening the Group’s competitive position, and enhancing shareholder value. Good governance is based on clear roles and responsibilities, and we aim to ensure The majority of that our governance procedures cover all areas of decision-making across the Group. the Board are independent directors Our corporate governance system The following corporate governance outlines the relationship between principles are fundamental to our the Board, the Company’s shareholders operations: and the management team, as well as the remit and duties of the Board •  ransparency; T committees. • Open and clear decision-making; • Legal compliance, including clear and robust compliance with the requirements for the Company to be, and remain free from OFAC Sanctions; • Continuing to grow the Company’s value for the benefit of all stakeholders. IN THIS SECTION • Corporate governance system • The Barker Plan • The Board’s matters • En+ Group Committees • The management bodies composition highlights 33 | EN+ GROUP DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GRI 102-18 102-19 102-20 102-22 Corporate 102-23 102-24 102-26 102-27 governance 102-36 405-1 system We recognise that robust corporate governance The matters that the Board should be engaged to allow the Board and individual directors is crucial for the long-term success of our in include, among other things, setting to operate effectively. The CEO is responsible Company. The General Shareholder Meeting is the Company’s strategic aims, ensuring that for the day-to-day management of the Company’s the highest management body, which provides the necessary financial and human resources business and ensuring that the strategic shareholders with an opportunity to participate are in place for the Company to meet its decisions made by the Board are implemented. in the management of the Company and objectives and reviewing the Company’s The day-to-day operation of the Company is make decisions on all key issues related performance. The Board is responsible performed by executive Directors and Officers to the Company. for providing leadership to the Group and (the “Management Team”). The Company its overall management. The Board also sets implemented a number of strategic changes to its the Company’s values and standards and Management Team throughout 2018 following ensures that its obligations to shareholders the implementation of the Barker Plan1. and other stakeholders are understood and met. The Chairman of the Board is RUSAL has its own corporate governance responsible for leadership of the Board system with a separate board of directors and and for creating the conditions necessary committees. We recognise that robust corporate governance is crucial for the long-term success of our Company. 34 | EN+ GROUP 1.  or more detailed information please refer to p.38, F The Barker Plan. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE The Board’s Matters The matters specifically reserved • A  pproval of consolidated annual budgets •  onducting performance evaluation of C for the Board under the Charter include, inter and material amendments made thereto; the Board, its committees and members alia, the following: of the Board, evaluation of compliance of •  ontrol over the Company’s core business C non-executive members of the Board with •  etermination of priority areas of D and regular evaluation of its business independence criteria; the Company's activities, including approval in the context of the Company’s long-term of the annual budget, mid-term and longstrategy and objectives and discharge • A  pproval of items that require Board term budgets, development strategies and of obligations contemplated by law and approval under the Company’s Charter. programs of the Company, amendment the Charter; of these documents, consideration of the results of their implementation; •  ecommendations to shareholders R to approve changes in the structure of •  pproval of the Company’s long-term A the Company’s share capital, including strategy and objectives and its overall reduction in the capital and acquisition of management mechanism; treasury shares to maintain their market value; • D  ay-to-day control over implementation of the Company’s long-term strategy and • A  pproval of resolutions to issue securities, objectives; approval of resolutions on any additional issue of securities, approval of prospectuses; 35 | EN+ GROUP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The management bodies composition highlights As of 31 December 2018, there were nine All of the current directors, with the exception in November 2018. As CEO, he oversees directors on the En+ Group Board, who of Lord Barker, were re-appointed/appointed the Company’s long-term strategy, business were elected based on the principles of by the Company’s shareholders at the Company development, and cooperation with key diversity, independence and their experience annual general meeting on 29 May 2019. Lord external stakeholders. in economics, environmental protection and Barker has served as the Chairman of the Board social development. As of the date of this since October 2017 and as Executive Chairman Report, the Board comprises 12 directors: seven of the Board since February 2019. independent non-executive directors, four nonexecutive directors, and one executive director, Vladimir Kiriukhin was appointed Chief being the Executive Chairman of the Board. Executive Officer (CEO) of En+ Group Composition of the Board and its committees1 The Rt Hon Lord Barker of Battle PC Executive Chairman of the Board Hon Christopher Bancroft Burnham Independent Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director Alexander Chmel Independent Non-Executive Director Carl D. Hughes Independent Non-Executive Director Nicholas Jordan Independent Non-Executive Director Igor Lojevsky Independent Non-Executive Director Joan MacNaughton CB Hon FEI Independent Non-Executive Director Andrey Sharonov Independent Non-Executive Director Vadim Geraskin Non-Executive Director Ekaterina Tomilina Non-Executive Director Elena Nesvetaeva Non-Executive Director Anastasia Gorbatova Non-Executive Director 36 | EN+ GROUP 1.  or more detailed information, please follow the link F https://www.enplusgroup.com/en/explore-enplus/ board-of-directors/. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Board diversity by gender and age2 25% 33% 67% 75% Male Female 30-50 >50 37 | EN+ GROUP 2. As of the date of issuance of the Report. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Barker En+ Group Plan Committees On 18 May 2018 the Board began •  7 January 2019: appointment of new 2 The Board of Directors has established five the implementation of the Barker Plan (also independent directors following the lifting committees to assist its activities. known as the Chairman’s plan), a roadmap of OFAC Sanctions from the Company to lift the OFAC sanctions imposed and its subsidiaries, RUSAL and JSC All committees perform their duties on the Company on 6 April 2018 by overhauling EuroSibEnergo; on behalf of the Board, which is responsible and strengthening the Company’s corporate for constituting, assigning, co-opting, and governance mechanisms. The plan was •  February 2019: establishment of two new 8 setting the terms of service for committee successful, with sanctions lifted on 27 Board committees: (i) Health, Safety, and members. The Board may delegate this function January 2019. Nonetheless, the Company Environment Committee and (ii) Regulation to the Corporate Governance and Nominations remains committed to upholding the highest and Compliance Committee. Committee. international standards of corporate governance. On 8 February 2019, Lord Barker was The composition of the committees has been appointed as an Executive Chairman of reorganised following the lifting of sanctions Timeline of corporate governance changes: the Board to streamline the Board's control on 27 January 2019. The composition of over the corporate governance system and the Company’s existing Board committees was •  0 June 2018: amendment of the terms of 2 the Company's procedures. The appointment amended on 14 February 2019. reference of the Board committees; aims to further increase cooperation between the Board and the Company’s management and • 2  6 July 2018: approval of the division of ensure the continued strong performance of authorities between the Chief Executive En+ Group. Officer and the Chairman of the Board by the Board; All the newly appointed Non-Executive Directors are now serving on the Board. • 1  5 November 2018: approval of a Conflict of The Board’s composition has been carefully Interest policy and Risk Management policy balanced to include the quality and a breadth by the Board; of experience that will support and promote its effectiveness. The new members include, • 1  9 December 2018: fulfilment of Cambridge Global Capital co-founder, Hon the Terms of Removal by En+, RUSAL, JSC Christopher Bancroft Burnham and Chair of EuroSibEnergo, and OFAC, resulting in, inter The Climate Group and the Advisory Board alia, new requirements for the Board; of the New Energy Coalition of Europe, Joan MacNaughton CB Hon FEI, as well as senior executives from leading international energy companies and financial institutions1. 38 | EN+ GROUP 1.  or more detailed information please follow the link F https://www.enplusgroup.com/en/explore-enplus/board-committees/. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE The Audit and Risk Committee (the “ARC”) The Remuneration Committee (the “RemCom”) as well as the results of any health, safety, comprises at least three members, all of comprises at least three members, at least half and environmental audit; identifying any whom are Independent Non-Executive of whom shall be Independent Non-Executive risks to the aforementioned and whether Directors, and meets at least four times a year. Directors, and meets at least three times the appointed executive is managing such risks The ARC is responsible for considering, inter a year. The RemCom is responsible, inter alia, effectively. alia, the integrity of the Group’s consolidated for determining and reviewing the Company’s financial statements, the terms of appointment remuneration policies, compensation and The Regulation and Compliance Committee (the and remuneration of the independent auditors, benefits plans, including incentives and “RCC”) is a newly formed committee following and ongoing monitoring of the effectiveness executive compensation and any equity-based the Company’s removal from OFAC’s SDN and objectivity of independent auditors. plans, having given due consideration List. It comprises at least three members and to the applicable laws and regulations. meets at least four times a year. The primary The Corporate Governance and Nominations responsibility of the RCC is to establish and Committee (the “CGNC”) comprises at least The Health, Safety, and Environment maintain transparency, accountability, and three members, at least half of whom shall Committee (the “HSE Committee”) is a newly good corporate governance, as well as to keep be Independent Non-Executive Directors, and formed committee, established following all legislative, regulatory, and Corporate meets at least three times a year. The CGNC’s the Company’s removal from OFAC’s SDN Governance developments under review, primary role is to recommend and annually List. It comprises at least three members and and make recommendations to the Board review the corporate governance guidelines meets at least three times a year. The primary in relation thereto. for the Company and its consolidated responsibilities of the HSE Committee subsidiaries and to oversee corporate include reviewing the effectiveness of The Right Honourable Lord Barker of Battle governance matters. the Group’s health, safety and environmental (“Lord Barker”) was the Independent Chairman strategies, systems, policies, and practices, of the Board for the 2018 financial year. Composition of the Board and its committees1 Audit and Risk Corporate Governance Remuneration Health, Safety, and Regulation and Committee2 and Nominations Committee Environment Compliance Committee Committee Committee Carl Hughes Andrey Sharonov Nicholas Jordan Joan MacNaughton Christopher Bancroft as Chairman as Chairman as Chairman as Chair Burnham as Chairman Christopher Bancroft Carl Hughes Christopher Bancroft Lord Barker Lord Barker Burnham Burnham Alexander Chmel Nicholas Jordan Alexander Chmel Alexander Chmel Carl Hughes Andrey Sharonov Joan MacNaughton Igor Lojevsky Vadim Geraskin Igor Lojevsky Joan MacNaughton 39 | EN+ GROUP 1. F  or more detailed information please follow the link https://www.enplusgroup.com/en/explore-enplus/board-committees/. 2. Philippe Mailfait left the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee in April 2019. EN+ GROUP | 40 Internal control and risk management We have introduced and rigorously maintain an effective system of internal control aimed at protecting our assets, improving the efficiency of business processes and Approach to risk ensuring that our economic and financial activities are management fully compliant with the applicable laws and regulations. was changed 127 audit procedures were conducted resulting in dismissals and other disciplinary actions Chief Compliance Officer was appointed IN THIS SECTION • Internal control • Risk management system • Ethics and integrity 41 | EN+ GROUP DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT GRI 102-29 Internal 102-30 control The Board oversees the efficiency of A total of 127 internal audit procedures were The Company has set long and short-term goals the Company’s financial and economic conducted in 2018, resulting in disciplinary aimed at instilling confidence in the Company’s activities. The Board is also responsible actions against 224 employees and 1,011 internal control processes: for maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness recommendations, the majority of which have of the Company’s Internal Control System (the already been put into practice. •  orming and implementing annual audit F “ICS”) and risk management in accordance with plans for the Company’s enterprises the highest standards of corporate governance. The Company’s stable and sustainable and divisions. These plans are to ensure development depends on its ability to ensure maximum audit coverage of the enterprises En+ Group’s Board has established the Audit the safety and efficiency of its assets, and divisions (on-site audits are carried out and Risk Committee, which: prevent fraud and maintain compliance once or twice per year); with all the applicable laws and regulations. •  elps the Board independently assess h The Directorate for Control and Internal Audit • E  xecuting unscheduled management the Company’s financial statements; (the “Directorate for Control”) is a structure assignments and analysing current business that manages both long and short-term issues in a given calendar year; • s upervises the efficiency of the internal plans to meet the Company’s targets. It is control and risk management systems; independent from management and helps • S  upporting risk management activities: the Board oversee the Company’s financial and drawing up annual risk maps of • oversees the audit process; economic activities, and implement internal the Company's enterprises and businesses control and risk management measures. and conducting quarterly risk monitoring • r egulates the performance of other throughout the year; commissions and instructions given to the ARC by the Board. •  etting up online monitoring of S the Company’s commercial activities (as a part of activities of the Tender Committee and the tender commissions of enterprises); • D  eveloping and implementing monitoring projects for commercial activities that are focused on reducing costs and generating additional income (supervising a project to sell the Company’s non-core assets, etc.); •  eveloping and implementing critical D solutions to automate and improve business processes. 42 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE The Directorate for Control provides assurance The following anti-fraud and anti-corruption to management and shareholders that policies are an integral part of the Company’s the Company’s assets are safeguarded and business processes: profits are maximised. It employs the following mechanisms to maintain proper accounting • Government Contracting Procedure; records and ensure compliance with the requirements of external regulators, laws •  nti-corruption clauses or the “Agreement A and regulations1: to observe anti-corruption requirements” annex in every contract with counterparties; • Operational and financial control; • F  ull employee training on En+ Group’s anti• Risk management; corruption and anti-fraud procedures. • Regulation of business process; •  evelopment and implementation of D projects aimed to improve the internal control system; • Compliance control. The Company has a comprehensive set of measures in place to prevent bribery and is fundamentally opposed to any form of unethical incentives or payments. The Chief Compliance Officer, the Directorate for Control and the Directorate for the Protection of Resources play a leading role in preventing corruption. 43 | 1.  or more detailed information please refer to p.89, F EN+ GROUP Annual Report 2018. INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT GRI 102-11 102-15 Risk management 102-30 system The risk management system is an essential Risk management We employ a multilevel risk management component of the Company’s Internal Control System and corporate governance framework. process process throughout the Company, which involves: Our risk management system aims to reduce any potential threats to the Company’s • Determining risk appetite; compliance with its corporate governance The Directorate for Control reports directly standards while consistently applying to the ARC, informing the Committee about • Identifying risks; a risk-based approach to sustainable business the results of both scheduled and unscheduled development. audits on a regular basis. These results • R  isk assessment (probability, financial are taken into account when developing assessment, potential damage); recommendations and implementing corrective measures. The Directorate for Control also • C  hoosing a risk management approach and reports on risks, the projected impact of these developing mitigation measures; risks and any flaws detected by the Internal Control System. All identified risks are included • Mapping potential risks; in the Group’s risk map, which includes a comprehensive list of all the potential risks •  onitoring risk management results every M that could threaten the Company’s objectives quarter; in the next calendar year. The Company’s overall risk management process also covers • Informing the management and climate risks. The Group regularly assesses the Board about the results of quarterly risk opportunities where it can reduce its impact monitoring; on climate change. • Instructing the Board to evaluate Risk maps are used to illustrate potential the effectiveness of the risk management risks to the Group's operating companies and process against key performance indicators businesses. These maps detail each risk event (KPIs). scenario, estimates the possible impact and assesses mitigation measures. To ensure a consistent risk management approach throughout the Group, En+ Group developed an online risk management course in 2018, which is available to all employees as a distance learning course on the Group’s Corporate University website. The risk management system is an essential component of the Company’s Internal Control System 44 and corporate governance framework. | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Risks The Company uses the following risk •  he Risk Management Regulation had not T assessment management metrics to assess risk: been updated since 2013 and previously included corporate bodies and procedures • Risk probability; that no longer exist or are no longer in use; The Group-wide approach to risk management • Financial risk estimation; •  ll the Company’s risks are now included A was changed in 2018. The Board approved in risk maps (previously only operational, the Company’s first Risk Management Policy • Probable damage; strategic risks were considered separately); in 2018. This is a key document for any public company. It defines the Group’s main risk • Risk severity (five groups). • Potential risk areas are identified; management principles and approaches. We also updated our Risk Management Regulation, Risk analysis is a core element of • N  ew risk assessment indicators have been setting new ambitious targets and establishing the Company’s risk management system. introduced: probable damage and risk advanced risk assessment methods. Innovative The Company takes a vertically integrated severity; risk assessment tools have been introduced approach to risk management. Any risks that will help us evaluate potential damage to business operations are assessed at all levels • R  isk maps for enterprises and the Company and risk severity. We also introduced risk throughout the Group, taking into account have been transformed. A standardised appetite statements in 2018. The updated procedural documents and the responsibilities format has been introduced, meaning that version of the Risk Management Regulation of everyone involved in the risk management changes in risks and possible risk damage provides a detailed classification of risks and process. can be tracked throughout the year; risk assessment tools. En+ Group has identified four key risk groups: Updates to the Risk Management Regulation • The risk appetite of each unit has been set; in 2018: • Operational risks; •  seminar was held for unit heads and risk A • T  he structure of risk management owners in Irkutsk. This meeting boosted • Market and financial risks; regulatory documents was overhauled: communication among participants and all principles, objectives and approaches helped to define development priorities • Corporate risks; to risk assessment are laid out in the Risk in risk management processes. Management Policy, while all actions • Project risks. and responses come under the Risk Management Regulation with an emphasis on practical issues with a minimum of theoretical questions; 45 | EN+ GROUP INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT GRI 102-15 En+ Group’s key risks The Company has determined the following key risks1: Risk Description Sanctions There is a risk that the Company and its subsidiaries may be put on the OFAC sanctions list again, or that other sanctions may be imposed with potential damage of similar severity Interdependence of the Power segment There is a high level of interdependence between these two segments and Metals segment Leverage The Group has high leverage and a substantial amount of its borrowings are secured and subject to covenants Group dividend structure The Company’s ability to meet its commitments largely depends on receiving sufficient funds from its subsidiaries, and the Company is reliant on the ability of the Group’s subsidiaries to distribute dividends to the Company Foreign currency fluctuations The Group reports its financial results in USD, while certain subsidiaries denominate their revenues and/or costs in RUB, EUR and/or UAH Interest rates A significant amount of the Group’s total borrowings have variable interest rates, potentially leading to a large increase in interest cost Key senior management The risks that the Group’s top management may adopt incorrect and inefficient personnel managerial decisions or leave the Company, affecting business continuity Operational assets The Group’s assets require regular maintenance and modernisation in order to extend their operating lives Operational hazards The Group’s power generation, aluminium and other operations are subject to hazards and risks that could lead to property damage or personal injury or death Environmental and health This risk includes compliance by the Group’s subsidiaries with environmental and and safety regulations health and safety laws and regulations of international and Russian environmental legislation 46 | EN+ GROUP 1. F  or more detailed information please refer to p.91, Annual Report 2018. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Risk Description Reliance on licences The operational licences and permits that the Group’s subsidiaries require and permits from various government entities and agencies may be invalidated, suspended, or may not be issued or renewed, or may contain onerous terms and conditions that restrict the Group’s ability to conduct operations or lead to substantial compliance costs or administrative penalties Labour disruptions, skilled labour shortages, The Group is exposed to any changes in the cost and availability of skilled labour and labour cost inflation Competition The Group may become subject to increased competition in every industry of operation Adverse media Adverse media speculation, claims, and other public statements could adversely affect the Company’s reputation and the value of its GDRs Countries of operation The Group is exposed to risks relating to the multi-jurisdictional regulatory, social, legal, tax, and political environment in all countries where it operates Regulatory reform of the Authorities continue to reform rules related to, in particular: (i) capacity power market modernisation and decommissioning; (ii) transmission and distribution tariffs; and (iii) capacity prices for certain types of power generators, and may, in the future, impose unforeseen, additional new rules and regulations in any area Natural monopolies A number of the Group’s companies have natural monopoly status under the Russian law. There is a risk of compliance with regulations imposed on such companies Tariff regulation and The Group’s power subsidiaries are currently required to sell certain amounts of price fluctuations their planned electricity output (primarily to households) under regulated contracts at tariffs set by the relevant regulator, which are therefore outside the Group’s control 47 | EN+ GROUP INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Description Relations with third parties The Group’s power operations are dependent on third parties that provide services in the wholesale electricity market, such as the System Operator Power output The Group’s hydropower generation facilities are subject to fluctuations in water flows, which could result in decreased power generation and subsequent lower revenues than planned from electricity and capacity sales Fluctuations in demand for The demand for electricity and heat varies seasonally and from year to year electricity and heat Fuel supply A portion of the Group’s power operations require gas and fuel oil in their operations, and the Group is therefore exposed to any disruptions in supply or increases in prices Technological advances The energy market is subject to far-reaching technological change, both on the supply side and on the demand side, which could in turn lead to structural changes in the market Customer default If a customer is unable to pay for the power supplied to them, the Group may not be able to terminate the contract or suspend the supply unilaterally under the applicable regulations Risks of Metals segment The Metals segment operates in a cyclical industry that has recently experienced price and demand volatility, which has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the Group’s performance and financial results Anti-monopoly laws The Group is subject to certain requirements under Russian anti-monopoly laws Ore Reserves and Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources data are only estimates and are therefore Mineral Resources inherently uncertain 48 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE GRI 102-16 102-17 102-25 Ethics and integrity 103-1 103-2 205-2 Our commitment to upholding the highest Key documents include: cases of unethical behaviour and manage internal legal and ethical standards is the foundation communications. Employees are made fully aware of how we do business. Corruption wastes • Conflicts of Interest Policy; of the critical importance of raising concerns and valuable resources, undermines trust and consulting with compliance specialists if they harms communities. We therefore see full • Code of Corporate Ethics; have any doubts about ethical behaviour within compliance with anti-bribery laws and the Company. regulations as absolutely essential to our • Code of Ethical Standards; survival and success as a sustainable company. All employees of En+ Group’s companies commit The Group strictly adheres to the regulations • Share Dealing Code. to the key ethical values outlined in the Code: of its countries of operation, including the Russian Law “On Preventing Corruption”, In 2018, En+ Group updated its Code of Corporate •  espect for the individual rights and R the UK Bribery Act, US Foreign Corrupt Ethics and Code of Ethical Standards, drafted interests of all employees; Practices Act, and where possible, the Group and approved its Conflict of Interest Policy and endeavours to go above and beyond developed recommendations for disciplinary • Accountability; the requirements of the law to be a global measures against non-compliant employees. leader in the fight against corruption. We The Company also updated its procurement • Trust in employees; respect individual freedoms and human regulations for the entire Group. rights, provide equal opportunities to all • Honesty and transparency; employees and do not tolerate any form of The Code of Corporate Ethics and Code of Ethical discrimination or child labour. To this end, Standards are the main documents that regulate • D  rive to achieve maximum results the Company respects all labour laws and corporate ethics at En+ Group and have been in all that we do; contractual obligations to its employees. En+ approved by the Board. Group adheres to the Russian Labour Code • Fairness and impartiality; and the Russian Constitution and pledges The Code of Corporate Ethics strives to ensure to combat child labour and provide human that business is conducted in compliance with • Care; rights protections to all. The Company has the highest possible legal and ethical standards drawn up a comprehensive set of corporate by designating dedicated specialists to monitor •  ommitment to ongoing C documents to regulate ethical compliance. employee conduct, consult employees about development. 49 | EN+ GROUP INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT We educate our employees about various Ethics Officers’ main role involves In 2018, 16 ethics violations were reported aspects of business ethics, including communicating directly with employees to Ethics Officers. Stakeholders can also report labour regulations, the allocation of duties, about any concerns they may find and ethical misconduct via the dedicated hotline: remuneration procedures and leave provision. implementing solutions. If employees feel unhappy or mistreated during their •  alls can be made via the hotline number: C Any major violations of corporate ethics employment at the Company, corporate Ethics 8-800-250-10-58. All calls are free of principles are identified, investigated and Officers quickly initiate interaction with charge; followed up with the appropriate remedial the head of the enterprise, the Labour Dispute measures. En+ Group encourages all Committee and trade unions to deescalate •  -mails can be sent to the address: E stakeholders to report any issue they find and resolve the situation in collaboration with doverie@enplus.ru. suspicious, disturbing or unethical. management. Ethics Officers also handle Ethics Code violations and use their experience of The hotline operates at all times and is Ethics Officers oversee compliance with our Code working closely with employees on the ground a channel for both internal and external of Corporate Ethics at each operating asset. to provide targeted, innovate solutions. stakeholders to report any concerns. Our commitment to upholding the highest legal and ethical standards is the foundation of how we do business. 50 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE The hotline promotes a culture of transparency The Company analyses, and where necessary among employees and makes everyone investigates, all incoming reports and develops accountable for reporting violations. Reports appropriate responses and solutions. The Group to the hotline can be made anonymously and informs individuals who leave their contact the Company guarantees the confidentiality of details about the status of their report and any all information received. All cases are registered actions taken. in the system and are handled by specialists assigned to a particular case. In 2018, The Directorate for Control ensures that the hotline received 21 messages about cases all incidents are added to the system and of fraud and corruption, employee conflicts of investigated to determine the root causes, interest, abuse of power and violations during develop the appropriate remedial measures tender procedures. No complaints of human and ensure a best-in-class approach rights violations or offences against local to resolving ethics and compliance issues. communities were reported. 51 | EN+ GROUP Our sustainability approach S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2018 STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT • OUR CHALLENGES AND ALIGNMENT WITH THE SDGS • IDENTIFICATION OF MATERIAL TOPICS • STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT • ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIP EN+ GROUP | 54 Our sustainability approach As a global producer of aluminium and renewable power, we are committed to integrating the sustainable development principles and values into our daily operations. 7 key SDGs HSE Committee established in February 2019 IN THIS SECTION • Strategy and sustainability management • Our challenges and alignment with the SDGs • Identification of material topics • Stakeholder engagement 55 • Association membership | EN+ GROUP GOOD HEA LTH CLEAN WATER AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND RESPONSIBLE LIFE AND WEL L-BEING AND SANITATION CLEAN ENERG Y ECONOMIC GROWTH CONSUMPTION ACTION ON LAN D AND PRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH GRI 102-11 102-29 Strategy and sustainability 102-16 management As part of En+ Group’s strategy, we aim The Group’s objectives are the following1: • Operate sustainably; to achieve vertical integration and selfsufficiency across the entire aluminium value •  ptimise the electricity supply-demand O • C  onstantly introduce new technologies chain (energy, raw materials and finished balance by integrating the Metals and to the Group through research and products), maintain and expand the Company’s Power segments; development projects. high margin and low-risk production capacity, preserve its strong financial position and boost • Focus on cost control below inflation; En+ Group’s top sustainable development overall shareholder returns by paying out priorities are: sustainable and attractive dividends. • R  einforce the Group’s leadership in the global aluminium industry by raising • E  conomic efficiency (please refer to production efficiency and operating pp. 19-31, About En+ Group); margins; •  esponsibility for employees (please refer R • A  ctively explore power industry to pp. 91-105, Employees and pp. 107-117, development opportunities; Health and Safety); •  nsure continuous improvement of E • E  nvironmental protection (please refer the Group’s environmental performance; to pp. 119-139, Environmental protection); •  eleverage and support solid dividend D •  ontribution to local communities C payments through strong free cash flow development (please refer to pp. 141-149, generation; Local community development). Employees’ involvement in sustainable development Staff category Function Top management • Define sustainability targets and goals for the Group; • Seek new growth opportunities through sustainability initiatives; • Ensure that corporate sustainability objectives are met. Management • Implement sustainability initiatives; • Adopt concepts of sustainability development; • Build a sustainable workforce; • Provide guidance and consultation on sustainability activities; • Ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations; • Collect feedback and analyse it. 56 Employees • Take an active part in implementing sustainability initiatives; | • Provide feedback on sustainability issues; • Operate in line with all applicable laws and regulations. EN+ GROUP 1.  or more detailed information please refer to pp.14-15, F Annual Report 2018. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Our challenges and alignment with the SDGs Due to significant changes that have taken En+ Group recognises the many challenges challenges concern the Company’s day-to-day place within the Company's management facing the world to ensure that, as a global business operations, especially with regards bodies as part of the Barker Plan, the strategies community, we are able to combat climate to employees and the Company’s social impact, for key focus areas (personnel, employee change, preserve our ecosystems, provide as well as general potential economic threats. training, labour protection and industrial safety a healthy environment and make communities The main challenges are summarised below and climate) are still at various stages of sustainable for generations to come. and further details on how En+ manages these development. challenges can be found throughout this As it explores new opportunities to increase Report. A Company-wide corporate strategy is currently the sustainability of its activities, En+ faces being overhauled according to the new Board’s various challenges in meeting sustainable The United Nations Sustainable Development instructions. development targets. The Company is aware Goals provide a framework for governments, that its Metals and Power segments are both companies, civil society organisations and The Group strives to implement the precautionary resource and energy intensive, and takes communities to help them drive genuine principle for all the operations on En+ Group’s this into consideration when developing improvements for the future. We are currently assets by supporting the UN Global Compact — sustainability objectives. working towards our contribution to seven the Metals segment represented by RUSAL has of these vital goals to manage the identified been a participant since 2002, while the Group En+ aims to address the issues and challenges challenges. joined this initiative in 2019. that are essential to its stakeholders. These En+ Group recognises the many challenges facing the world to ensure that we are able to combat climate change, preserve our ecosystems, provide a healthy environment and make communities sustainable. 57 | EN+ GROUP OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Environmental impact of operations UN SDG Challenge Our commitment Our focus areas Disclosure in the Report Climate En+ Group’s primary sustainability •  orporate carbon footprint — C Environmental protection, change goal is to decrease the ‘carbon GHG emissions Climate change ACTION footprint’ of its metal and energy Air quality production facilities, thereby • T  otal emissions of pollutants Environmental protection, contributing to the aims of the Paris • Nitrogen and sulphur oxides Air emissions Agreement to limit the rise of global • Gaseous and solid fluorine temperatures. AFFORDABLE AND Energy We are working to ensure • T  otal energy consumption Environmental protection, • CLEAN ENERG Y an ongoing supply of renewable Energy saving technologies Energy (emission-free) energy to power our • Hydroelectric power stations aluminium plants and to provide • Use of other renewable energy the residents and businesses of sources Siberia with low-cost, sustainable • Coal-fired generation energy. CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION Water and Our goal is to preserve the quality •  otal water consumption T Environmental protection, waste water of water in Lake Baikal and • Total fresh water consumption Water resources conservation management the rivers that flow into and out during production of it. • Impact on natural water bodies and freshwater ecosystems • Treatment of used water and waste discharge Like for many other organisations, En+ We address our challenges in three broad Group’s activities and sustainability initiatives areas: do not fully align with all the aspects of any given Sustainable Development Goal • M  inimising the impact of our operations (SDG). The UN goals are inter-related and, and protecting the environment; as a consequence, we are working towards some of them in different ways — for example • Improving the lives and well-being of our through changes to our operations and employees and the communities that we by implementing community improvement affect; projects. 58 • D  eveloping and upholding world-class standards in governance. | In each of these areas, we have set ourselves EN+ GROUP stretching goals. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE UN SDG Challenge Our commitment Our focus areas Disclosure in the Report RESPONSIBLE Waste and We are committed to reducing all • E  mergency preparedness Environmental protection, • CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION safe tailings waste by cutting back on what Overburden Waste and safe tailings we use, and recycling and reusing • Tailings disposal and storage management wherever possible. • Closure and rehabilitation of tailings • Monitoring and risk analysis LIFE Biodiversity The Company's goal is to develop • D  isturbed land Environmental protection, Land ON LAN D programs for land restoration • Rehabilitation rehabilitation, Biodiversity and biodiversity conservation • Waste disposal landfills in the regions where the Company • Protected areas is present. • Biodiversity conservation • RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION Impact on natural habitats AND PRODUCTION En+ Group focuses on the controlled, rational and effective use of natural resources. En+ Group focuses on the controlled, rational and effective use of natural resources. 59 | EN+ GROUP OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Our people and communities UN SDG Challenge Our commitment Our focus areas Disclosure in the Report GOOD HEA LTH AND WEL L-BEING Health and •  ccupational H&S management O Health and safety safety system • Monitoring compliance with occupational H&S • Occupational H&S training •  reventative measures P • Information and advice on occupational H&S • Occupational diseases At En+ Group, we are focused • Incident investigation on the well-being of our people and have implemented a number • Knowledge and expertise management of programs to maintain and GOOD HEA LTH Local improve the health of our workers • S  ocial development programs Local community development AND WEL L-BEING communities and local communities. • Ensuring the wellbeing of local communities • Interaction with local communities • LIFE ON LAN D Minimising the potential impact of operations on local communities We are working to create a positive environment for local communities • Supporting communities after project completion and cooperate with them. • Complaints procedure • National and regional socioeconomic development planning Employee •  mployee training E Employees DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH management • Programs to upgrade and employee skills engagement En+ Group is focused on increasing • Employee performance measurement systems the economic productivity of the areas where it operates, • Salaries to reduce unemployment levels • Employee incentive system and to provide safe, fulfilling • Fair recruitment 60 careers for its people. • Employee turnover • Social support | • Diversity EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Our governance UN SDG Challenge Our commitment Our focus areas Disclosure in the Report DECENT WORK AND Economic results We are committed to ensure • D  irect economic value generated Performance management, • ECONOMIC GROWTH sustainable economic performance Indirect economic value Scientific and technological to support future success and generated development, Local community progress, including social and • Economic opportunities development, Additional environmental aspects. for stakeholders information • Operational efficiency DECENT WORK AND Business ethics We focus on implementing best • C  ompany values Internal control and risk • ECONOMIC GROWTH business practices and ethics. Non-discrimination and equal management, Ethics and opportunities integrity • Combatting anti-competitive practices • Corporate Code of Conduct • Right for trade unions, collective bargaining & freedom of association • Respect for local cultures DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Compliance We are committed to ensuring • Policies  and procedures Internal control and risk compliance in all areas. to ensure regulatory compliance management, Employees, • Improving employees’ legal Environmental protection awareness • Helping employees fulfil regulatory compliance responsibilities • Social compliance • Environmental compliance • Anti-corruption • Internal control system DECENT WORK AND Corporate We are working to implement • T  ransparency Corporate governance, • ECONOMIC GROWTH governance corporate governance practices Institutional strengthening Our sustainability approach that support the achievement • Diversity in governance bodies of sustainable development • Governance structure 61 principles. • Governance documents • Strategic approach | • Role of the Board of Directors EN+ GROUP in sustainability performance OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH GRI 102-29 102-44 102-46 Identification of 102-47 103-1 material topics In order to identify and evaluate the material Materiality matrix topics that the Company has the most significant impact on and that substantively influences decisions of stakeholders, Environment Social Economic the following processes were conducted: Inﬂuence on stakeholder assessments and decisions 1. A complete list of topics to be covered 9,0 in the Report was compiled and assessed based on: Air quality Water and waste • International standards and 8,5 water management recommendations for reporting (including Health and safety GRI Standards, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB); 8,0 Compliance Waste and safe • Industry benchmark analysis; Business ethics management Energy 7,5 management • R  eview of publicly available open sources Employees Biodiversity Climate change Economic and global trends; management results Local communities and engagement Corporate 7,0 • Interviews with the Company employees governance responsible for ESG issues and stakeholders engagement. 6,5 2. Sustainable development topics were ranked by: 6,0 • S  urveying of external and internal 6,0 6,5 7,0 7,5 8,0 8,5 9,0 stakeholders; Signiﬁcance of economic, environmental and social impacts •  eviewing the material topics identified R by international and Russian metals & 3. Thirteen topics were recognised as material The matrix represents the key material topics. mining and power companies; and were collated in a materiality matrix. Depending on the survey results, a significant topic may be in different areas of importance; •  actoring in topics recognised as material F Our key stakeholders contributed to material the most significant topics are located by industry associations (including the ASI topics identification process by filling in the upper right part of the matrix. In order Standard); in an online form. Results of this survey to weight the results for the Metals and were later used by the Group for analysis. the Power segments, the employee breakdown •  nalysis of the key sustainable development A Based on the responses, 13 topics were is used. rating systems (including RobecoSAM); identified as material. We are thankful to all the stakeholders who took part and hope 62 • Review by executive officers of the Group. for further cooperation. | The Company determines, lists and ranks material topics in line with its strategy, risk assessments EN+ GROUP and management foresights using the scale from 1 to 10, where 1 stands for “the topic does not appear material/significant to the respondent” and 10 — “the topic is very significant’. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE GRI 102-21 102-40 102-42 Stakeholder 102-43 102-44 engagement En+ Group strives to retain an effective To ensure that all groups are covered by our and/or employee organisations is part of sustainable development system and build stakeholder engagement approach and the consultation process between stakeholders a mutually beneficial partnership with our can give feedback, En+ Group uses various and the highest governance body. stakeholders. The Company’s communication communication channels, including annual and engagement with stakeholders is reports, financial results presentations, The key principles of stakeholder engagement based on the principles of respect, business the media, official website, corporate are set out in the Company’s internal corporate cooperation and delivery on commitments. newspapers, face-to-face communication with documents. These include the Conflicts of employees, customers, suppliers, investors Interest Policy, Code of Conduct, Code of Stakeholder groups were identified and and local community leaders, and a corporate Corporate Ethics, Code of Ethical Standards, selected based on their significance to En+ hotline1. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy. Group, the frequency of their involvement and their impact on the Company’s processes. Making recommendations to the Board The key stakeholder significance criterion is regarding possible participation, co-operation the influence stakeholders and the Group have and consultation on HSE issues with on each other. governments, NGOs, other companies Key stakeholder groups Stakeholder groups Stakeholder engagement Clients and suppliers Long-term trade relations, transparent pricing, improvement of customer service and quality of the supplied products/services, equal participation in competitive tenders, timely fulfilment of mutual obligations, anti-corruption activities, compliance with ethical standards. Employees and labour unions Workplace safety, improvement of social and living conditions, improvement of the remuneration system, the social partnership system, education and training. Local communities Employment, community programs and social initiatives, sponsoring sports and cultural events. National and regional authorities Strategic development, construction of public facilities, compliance with all applicable regulations including environmental protection legislation, occupational health and safety, fulfilment of tax obligations. Non-Governmental Organisation Development of joint solutions and documents that provide increased transparency, consumer confidence in the industry, preparation and implementation of initiatives, development of programs aimed at improving the industry environment. Shareholders, investors and analysts Improving financial performance, strategy implementation measures, the setting of key performance indicators, corporate governance, risk management system. 63 | 1.  or more detailed information please refer to F EN+ GROUP pp. 49-51, Ethics and integrity. OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH GRI 102-12 Association 102-13 membership En+ Group recognises the importance of collaboration and partnership — with peers, En+ Group is a strategic partner associations and global bodies — to achieve our own sustainability objectives and to drive real of the World Economic Forum change across the sectors in which we operate. (“WEF”) We are active partners of local and international industry organisations and work closely with representatives of the Russian government, En+ Group has become a strategic and Various aluminium associations have been Russian business, academia and the civil society. industry affiliation partner of the World at the forefront of industry-wide efforts En+ Group is a regular participant in international Economic Forum (“WEF”), the International to combat climate change, improve production conferences, including the UN forums on Climate Organization for Public-Private Cooperation processes and increase recycling. However, Change and Sustainable Development. that supports for the UN Climate Action we still need to do much more if we are Summit’s (UNCAS) Industry Transition track going to meet our climate targets. This En+ Group and RUSAL, which represents and has launched its Mission Possible includes reducing the environmental impact the Group’s Metals segment, have joined other campaign to give industries a platform of aluminium production and cutting GHG Russian companies in the Climate Partnership of to showcase what they are doing to ensure emissions in line with the Paris Agreement and Russia, an initiative that encourages companies long-term emission cuts. the latest IPCC findings. to launch low carbon production processes and promote a greener economy. En+ Group is studying worldwide efforts to combat environmental pollution in the following areas: environmental En+ Group joined the Energy legislative initiatives, emissions trading systems and enforcement of environmental regulation. Transitions Commission (“ETC”) En+ Group interacts with the embassies of different countries on the issues relating to lowcarbon economy and energy efficiency, also In July 2019, as a part of its strategy to lead By joining the ETC, En+ Group aims to draw within the framework of climate-related events a global shift towards low carbon aluminium, on the international expertise of its members organised by the Climate Partnership of Russia. En+ Group joined the Energy Transitions to identify new ways it can work towards its Commission (“ETC”). greenhouse gas reduction targets. It will also use its experience from ongoing sustainability The ETC is an alliance of global programs to support research and initiatives that leaders from the business world, NGOs drive a global shift towards low carbon materials. and academia working to provide decisionmakers with research, analytics and policy insights, and encourages public and private stakeholders to advocate ambitious energy transition strategies. 64 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Membership of associations Association/Initiative Engagement activity En+ Group World Economic Forum (WEF) En+ Group became a partner of the World Economic Forum to accelerate the net zero transition in the aluminium sector. Business 20 (B20) En+ Group and RUSAL are among companies preparing policy recommendations on climate change, carbon pricing, sustainable development and green energy transition for the leaders of the Group of 20 (G20), an international forum for 19 countries and the European Union. In 2018, En+ Group's proposals on low-carbon development and climate change were included in the Energy Efficiency and Climate Change Adaptation sections of the Final B20 Communiqué Policy Recommendations to the G20. Business and Advisory Committee En+ Group and RUSAL are members of the Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD (BIAC). to the Organisation for Economic En+ Group and other BIAC members contribute to the OECD work on environmental policy design, including climate Cooperation and Development change, circular economy, resource efficiency and sustainable materials management. (BIAC at OECD) Carbon Pricing Leadership En+ Group and RUSAL are the only two Russian members of CPLC, a voluntary partnership under the auspices of Coalition (CPLC) the World Bank initiated to advance carbon pricing on the global scale. BRICS Business Council En+ Group chairs the Russian part of the Energy and Green Economy Working Group at the BRICS Business Council. As a council member, En+ Group shares its expertise on energy efficiency and reduction of GHG emissions. The position of En+ Group on low-carbon production and green energy transition is reflected in BRICS Business Council Recommendations for BRICS leaders. En+ Group joined the United Nations Global Compact In August 2019, En+ Group joined the Company’s 2025 sustainability En+ Group will focus on reducing carbon the United Nations Global Compact, commitments and engaging in collaborative emissions from aluminium production. This demonstrating its commitment efforts to create a more sustainable can be achieved due to the vast amount of to the 10 principles on human rights, aluminium industry. clean, renewable energy generated by our 65 labour, environment and anti-corruption. We have pledged to publish annual reports hydro power plants, which is then used | on our ongoing efforts to implement to power aluminium production. In a letter to UN Secretary-General the 10 Principles of the Global Compact EN+ GROUP António Guterres, En+ Group stressed and collaborate with industry peers and its determination to continue reducing stakeholders to drive progress towards these its environmental impact by achieving fundamental values. OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Canada Eurasia Russia En+ Group is a member of the Canada Eurasia Russia Business Association (CERBA). En+ Group regularly submits Business Association (CERBA) information to the CERBA Newsletter to share its achievements in sustainable development and climate change with the international business community. In 2018, the CERBA Newsletter published information about En+ Group’s New Energy Hydropower Plants modernisation program. Conferences of the Parties En+ Group and RUSAL regularly attend UN Climate Change Conferences. In 2018, En+ Group made several to the United Nations presentations on climate and sustainable development strategies in the Russian pavilion of the 24th Conference Framework Convention of the Parties to the UNFCCC (COP24) in Katowice, Poland. on Climate Change (UNFCCC) United Nations Global In August 2019, En+ Group joined UNGC to promote its commitment to 10 principles on human rights, labour, Compact (UNGC) environment and anti-corruption. Energy Transitions Commission In July 2019, En+ Group joined ETC to identify new ways towards achieving (ETC) its greenhouse gas reduction targets. The Metals segment (represented by RUSAL) International Aluminium RUSAL has been exchanging best practices and developing methodologies to be applied in the aluminium sector Institute as a member of the International Aluminium Institute since 2002. United Nations Global RUSAL became a member of the United Nations Global Compact, Caring for Climate: The Business Leadership Platform Compact (UNGC) initiative in 2008. To support the 21st session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC in Paris. In 2018, RUSAL advocated for the UN Global Compact’s Business Leadership Criteria on Carbon Pricing by promoting a price on carbon (including internal) as a necessary and effective measure to tackle climate change. The China Nonferrous Metals In 2012, RUSAL became a member of the China Non-Ferrous Metal Industry Association to work in the field of Industry Association (CNIA) a long-term strategy for the aluminium industry, environmental protection and other issues. Carbon Disclosure Project RUSAL has been involved in the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2015 and informs stakeholders about (CDP) implementation of its climate agenda (carbon footprint, climate risks assessments, climate targets). It has also committed itself to fully disclosing its greenhouse gas emissions from its aluminium, alumina, bauxite and other facilities. Aluminium Stewardship RUSAL joined the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) to work with producers, customers and other Initiative (ASI) stakeholders in the aluminium value chain to maximise the sector’s contribution to building a sustainable society by taking part in the development and launch of the ASI standards (ASI Performance Standard and ASI Chain of Custody Standard), which is now applied across the aluminium manufacturing and supply chain all over 66 the world. Certification against ASI standards of RUSAL’s Headquarters and its three facilities within the value | chain, which focused on responsible production, sourcing and stewardship, was conducted in 2019. Members of RUSAL’s Technical Directorate are involved in the Working Groups, which are taking part in preparation of the ASI EN+ GROUP standards. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Intergovernmental Panel The Group’s expert representatives participate in the IPCC on various issues, e.g. on update of the IPCC guidelines on Climate Change (IPCC) for GHGs evaluation for the period of 2017-2019. Task Force on Climate-related Up until 2019, RUSAL was the only company in Russia that supported TCFD Recommendations. Since 2017, Financial Disclosures (TCFD) RUSAL has been voluntarily working on building up an effective system to disclose decision useful information to the stakeholders. International Chamber of As a member of the Commission on Economics of Climate Change and Sustainable Development of ICC-Russia, Commerce, ICC-Russia RUSAL provides recommendations on sustainable development, low carbon growth and green financing to the chamber members and policy makers. The Power segment (represented by JSC EuroSibEnergo) The International Hydropower As an IHA member, JSC EuroSibEnergo helps to shape the sustainable development strategy for the global hydro Association (IHA) power industry. IHA projects are generally aimed at ensuring the sustainable development of hydropower projects and environmental protection, as well as developing methodologies to estimate greenhouse gas emissions from reservoir surfaces. The Global Sustainable JSC EuroSibEnergo has been a member of the Global Sustainable Electricity Partnership (GSEP) since June 2015. Electricity Partnership (GSEP) RUSAL (En+ Group’s Metals segment) is a member of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) As En+ Group aspires to be a leader for aluminium industry. RUSAL Headquarters in sustainability, it has joined several have recently been certified as compliant global sustainability organisations1. with ASI standards, including in its three In 2015, RUSAL joined The Aluminium plants: Timan Bauxite (bauxite mining), Stewardship Initiative (ASI), which focuses Urals Aluminium Smelter (alumina refining) on responsible aluminium production, and Irkutsk Aluminium Smelter (primary 67 cooperation between aluminium aluminium, wire rod, aluminium alloys, bars | companies worldwide and global efforts and strips), which have met the requirements to mitigate climate change, corresponds of ASI Performance Standard and ASI Chain EN+ GROUP with En+ Group’s line of business. The ASI of Custody Standard. A Norwegian company, Performance Standard requires organisations DNV GL, conducted an independent external to operate in accordance with principals of audit. In the future, RUSAL plans to obtain Sustainable development and best practices ASI certification for its other operations. EN+ GROUP | 68 2018 Performance S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2018 69 | PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT • SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL EN+ GROUP DEVELOPMENT • EMPLOYEES • HEALTH AND SAFETY • ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION • LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT EN+ GROUP | 70 Performance management At En+, we are always looking to boost the performance of our people and our operations. To properly reward outstanding results, and identify areas for improvement, our Company has introduced a robust Performance Management 638 participants in the Business system that assesses our business from every angle System 250 program and at all levels. USD 67.3 mn total cost saving of the Metals segment since the implementation of Business System measures in 2018 The Tender Committee was established IN THIS SECTION • Business System • Supply chain • Quality 71 | EN+ GROUP DECENT WORK AND RESPONSIBLE ECONOMIC GROWTH CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Business System Business System is an environment The Power segment only started introducing En+ Group’s key policy documents regulating for developing personnel and creating Business System into its business processes the implementation of Business System a culture of continual improvement within in 2018, following the Metals segment’s include: En+. It ensures a systematic approach lead. Each business unit has similar Business to efficiency optimisation and promotes System departments, all of which are • The Operational Development Regulation; the implementation of a coherent production supervised by En+ Management LLC’s Business system throughout the Company. The Toyota System department and groups responsible •  he Submission of Kaizen (from T Production System (TPS), which encourages for Business System development. The highest the Japanese — Principle of Continuous continuous operational improvement, governing body is the Management Business Improvement) Proposals Regulation; promotes a rapid response to customer needs System Committee, which is chaired and strives to maintain optimal efficiency, by the CEO. Business System does not include •  egulation for interactions R serves as the blueprint for Business System. suppliers as they account for less than 20% of in the “Operational Development” function. TPS offers the unique advantage of integrating the Group’s activity. production management and logistics with Business System targets align with En+ Group’s processes for interacting with customers and A total of 15 management committees were general business development objectives, suppliers. launched in 2018 to improve the Group’s including the following: Business System. Their achievements include: Business System in the Company’s Metals • Increasing the efficiency of equipment; segment works together with En+ Group’s • C  onducting expert reviews of the decisionBusiness System department. making process; • Decreasing the use of raw materials; •  reating new approaches and the exchange C • Reducing electricity and heat loss. of best practices between Group companies; • Involving managers in decision-making throughout the process flow. Business System is an environment for developing personnel and creating a culture of continual improvement within En+. 72 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Results in 2018 Russian Railways (RZD) is one of En+ is constantly working to develop the best the Power segment’s external Business programs and initiatives to help our employees System development partners. The joint unlock their full potential. Business System is In 2018, the Metals segment launched project “Implementation of an effective central to employee development, delivering a project to reduce the production cycle (Lead engagement process for all participants increased productivity, upgraded skills and Time — LT) and create a backup supply chain, in the transportation process” involves employee fulfilment. Our programs include: as part of which the Company conducted companies belonging to En+ Group and an experimental transhipment at the sea Russian Railways. En+ Group initiated this 1. Business System 250 port of Zarubino in the south of Primorsky project to identify and eliminate inefficiencies (both segments) Krai, Russia (north-western part of the Sea of in the Group’s transportation processes. En+ Japan). The project successfully shipped and Group is also providing methodological support The Business System 250 program is a crucial handled nearly 3,000 tonnes of slabs and cut to RZD employees. element of the Company’s performance LT from 90 to 63 days. The Metals segment also management strategy. The Metals segment held joint training initiatives with the Sea Port One of the Group’s key Business System launched the program in 2015, followed of Saint Petersburg JSC to share its expertise development initiatives is close cooperation by the Power segment in 2018. Business System on Business System implementation. with higher and vocational educational 250 aims to train employees and motivate institutions. Working with universities in our them to seek out and resolve inefficiencies The Metals segment achieved regions of operation ensures that they produce throughout the production chain. The program a total cost saving of USD 67.3 million talent with the skills and knowledge that is designed to train and teach employees about from the implementation of Business System we need to drive our business forward. We Business System and identify future industry measures in 2018. launched an educational program for two leaders. The program has four stages, lasts streams of students at Irkutsk Energy College for two and a half years and covers five model The Power segment’s key Business System in 2017, covering both theoretical and practical platforms. Knowledge and experience is then goal in 2018 was to make a cost saving of courses, and taught 267 students in total. transferred to other business sectors (model at least USD 32 mn (USD 22 mn excluding LLC The Irkutskenergo Corporate Research Centre grounds). The program usually has 230-260 Krasnoyarsk Metallurgical Plant (KraMZ), LLC trained 31 students in 2018. In 2019, we will participants at one time. The program had 230 Sorsk Mining and Metallurgical Complex, and focus on training and developing students participants in 2018 in the Power segment and logistics). The actual cost saving in 2018 was studying in energy, geology and metallurgy 408 participants in the Metals segment. USD 27 mn. faculties. The Company is also looking into establishing a separate department at INRTU (Irkutsk National Research Technical University) that will specialise in teaching the skills that we look for in future employees. 73 | EN+ GROUP PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 2. Kaizen workshops Business System • O  rganising the Fundamentals of Industrial (the Metals segment) development plans Design program (opening the SFU department), Business Systems training Kaizen workshops are an effective tool 2019 in collaboration with the Human Resources for optimising production processes, Directorate (HRD), as well as a joint program standardising technological operations and with the RUSAL Laboratory youth initiatives giving employees the capabilities they need The Metals segment has the following centre; to implement proposed improvements. Kaizen initiatives planned for 2019: workshops operate at 10 production facilities •  rganising methodological support O of the Metals segment in the Aluminium, • O  rganising and conducting for interdivisional internships program Alumina and Downstream Divisions, as well as the Improvements of the Year 2019 contest for the candidate pool in 2019. the New Projects Directorate. at individual plants and at the corporate level; The Power segment’s plans for Business System 3. Technical Academy development for 2019 include: (the Power segment) • O  rganising and conducting audits of Business System implementation • C  oordinating training for the 388 This is a fast-track development program at the Company's production facilities participants of the Transformation program to train members of the candidate pool in line with the 2019 schedule; and candidate pool members to fast track for positions such as station directors, them for management positions; managers and chief engineers. The program has • Implementing a training program worked with 32 employees in total. It consists for procurement personnel in 2019. • Implementing and launching a Production of seven modules such as Outlook, Training, The program aims to train at least 500 Systems department at INRTU (Irkutsk Change, Quality, People and TIPS (Theory of employees by the end of the year and National Research Technical University); Inventive Problem Solving), and lasts for two will be delivered in conjunction with to three years. The program’s participants must the Directorate for Control, Internal Audit • C  onducting a Business System training implement personal Business System and TIPS and Business Coordination (DCIABC); course for 68 En+ commercial service projects. employees; •  aunching a project at RUSAL-Achinsk JSC L 4. Kommersant to improve equipment operability and boost •  aunching six Business System projects L (the Power segment) operational efficiency; in the Group. This program was developed for employees engaged in the procurement process, including specialists, economists and managers. It aims to develop management skills and identify leaders who will be able to handle business problems beyond manufacturing and technological processes, such as procurement, logistics and economics. The program has been available for employees of JSC EuroSibEnergo and LLC VostSibUgol. We had 28 participants 74 at the end of 2018 with another 40 joining in March 2019. | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE GRI 102-9 102-10 204-1 Supply 308-1 414-1 chain En+ Group comprises multiple companies itself the following key goals to further boost The Company’s key principles are that work with a large number of contractors responsible sourcing in its supply chain: to provide transparent and equal competitive and suppliers. Promoting an effective and opportunities for all potential suppliers. responsible supply chain is a crucial step • Maximising transparency; The procurement process has been enhanced towards achieving sustainability. To ensure this, to ensure strict adherence to these principles. the Group needs all its contractors to comply • Expanding competition; with international and Russian environmental, The percentage of the 2018 procurement budget health and safety requirements that are •  ttracting alternatives, broadening A sourced from local suppliers and companies set out in our agreements. The agreements the supplier base; registered in En + Group's regions of presence are drawn up according to worldwide best (Krasnoyarsk, Irkutsk, Nizhny Novgorod regions practices and include HSE requirements as • Optimising inventory. and the Republic of Khakassia): well as social obligations. The Group has set Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of operation that is spent on suppliers local to that operation in 2018 Metals segment Power segment1 Total Total purchases, USD mn 8,827.94 491.48 9,319.42 Percentage of products and services 68% 70% 68% sourced locally 1.  Excluding LLC Krasnoyarsk Metallurgical Plant (KraMZ) and Strikeforce Mining and Resources PLC (SMR). 75 | EN+ GROUP PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT The Metals delegated to a number of business units including, during contract reviews. The Department segment but not limited to: monitors all the Company’s transactions by reviewing the counterparty’s documents and • Business Support Directorate; conducts an in-depth analysis of their profile from publicly-available information. As one of the world’s largest producers of • C  ommercial Department of the Aluminium aluminium, En+ Group’s Metals segment Division; The Metals segment subjects all suppliers works with a large number of suppliers of of raw materials and feedstock for core electricity and fuel products, raw materials • Procurement Units of Aluminium Smelters. products to a rigorous system of requirements. and feedstock, equipment and technology, as The framework consists of the following main well as services, including contractors that The Company’s procurement department documents: operate at the Company’s production facilities. conducts supplier audits to ensure that Complex production processes require seamless all entities in the Group’s supply chain are • Quality agreement; collaboration: we cannot afford to have any weak compliant with all corporate and legal links in our supply chain. regulations. The audits also assess compliance • Procurement regulations; with the ESG standards set out in the Business The Metals segment’s management approach Partner Code. •  egulation for the Quality Certification of R to sustainability and ESG issues is governed Suppliers of Raw Materials; by corporate codes and policies, including The Health, Safety and Environmental the Business Partner Code, which establishes Committee is heavily involved in supply chain • R  egulation for Auditing Manufacturers of the principles that the Company must observe management. It oversees the Environmental Raw Materials and Feedstock; when interacting with suppliers. Policy, Health and Safety Policy, environmental and climate change risk management, as • Regulation on Supplier Accreditation; The CEO’s role is to oversee the implementation of well as the implementation of health and the supply chain policies approved by the Board. safety programs and risk management across • Supplier rating assessment method; the supply chain. To ensure a comprehensive, vertically integrated • G  uidelines for the development of QMS of supply chain management system, each individual The Compliance Department verifies suppliers; business unit is also responsible for checking the reliability of suppliers as part of compliance its own suppliers and contracts. In RUSAL, procedures and checks for adherence with • A  ccounting methods for non-compliant raw for instance, supply chain management has been human rights and anti-corruption laws materials and feedstock; Promoting an effective and responsible supply chain is a crucial step towards achieving sustainability. To ensure this, the Group needs all its contractors to comply with international and Russian 76 | environmental, health and safety requirements that are set out in our EN+ GROUP agreements. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE •  egulation on Contractor Management R The Power •  ender and Competition Committee T in the area of Health and Safety, Fire and Environmental Safety; segment Regulation; • Collegiate Bodies Regulation. • R  egulation on the Supplier Accreditation System. Procurement in the En+ Power Segment is fully The Company is introducing additional centralised at EuroSibEnergo Trading House principles to guide its commercial activities The Company considers maintaining a close LLC (hereinafter referred to as the “Trading and develop an efficient supplier selection working relationship with suppliers as a critical House”). At the moment, the Trading House procedure for goods and services (including factor in successful long-term cooperation. is the main centralised supplier of material construction and installation works). En+ Group strives to help suppliers develop resources, equipment and contractors for all The ultimate goal is to maximise cost savings sustainable and ethical practices. A number companies in the Power segment. (including by participating in the Tender of suppliers use our system of requirements Committee and supervising the work of as a benchmark and see supplier audits as All of the Group’s companies in the Power business units’ Tender Committees). a useful tool for identifying their development segment must comply with a standardised priorities. procurement policy that covers purchases of all The Department for Price and Commercial goods and services, as well as the assessment Operations control was launched in 2018 as Interaction with contractors is another of incoming commercial proposals. a part of the Audit and Risk Committee (the important element of supply chain The Company’s procurement process aims “ARC”). It is responsible for: management. The Metals segment hold both to ensure compliance with state legislation contractors and employees to the same strict and the Federal Act on the Procurement of • Implementing new procurement approaches requirements. Goods, Construction and Services in particular. within the Group; Extensive improvement efforts are continuously The main criteria for the assessment of ongoing, focusing on the digitalisation of •  roviding methodological support P contractors are professional qualifications, the procurement process. We use the following for the procurement process; the provision of personal protective equipment key internal documents to regulate and and the ability to work safely. standardise procurement in the Power • Monitoring and optimising supply chains; segment: The Company not only investigates all • Initiating the procurement process incidents, but also makes concerted efforts • T  he Procurement Process Policy (publiclyfor goods and services; to manage risks proactively. available on the corporate website and state procurement website); • Working with illiquid items and assets. The vertical management system for health, industrial and fire safety covers all employees • Internal procurement standards for supplier Moreover, the Tender Committee was and contractors in its core processes and selection, contractor selection, surplus established in 2018 to coordinate reinforces a safety culture by encouraging all management; employees and contractors to lead by example. 77 | EN+ GROUP PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT the decision-making process for the most contractors. All new suppliers are audited and our contractor and service provider selection important purchases of materials, services and existing partners may also be audited if their processes in the Trading House. We created construction work. technological processes change, the amount of an additional centralised unit to focus materials supplied increases, or inconsistencies on the disposal of non-core and illiquid assets. Around 95% of all procurements were are found. An obligatory check is held every Most procurement activity in the Power segments processed through the centralised three years. is connected to repair and maintenance services. procurement unit, which has its own KPIs. The Company does not generally select the same The Company has hit all its targets in 2018 According to the Company’s regulations, there suppliers (except for rolled products, which is with high KPI rates (for both business units are three types of materials and equipment a very unique industry). and managers). Managers’ remuneration is tied in the Company’s procurement processes: to the achievement of KPIs such as: Data confidentiality and security of suppliers and • Simple; contractors is ensured by: • Providing materials and equipment on time; • Complex; • Requiring employees to sign NDA documents; • Incorporating feedback from suppliers into the procurement process; • Unique (extra complex). •  ngaging the cybersecurity department E to protect data about procurements; • Consolidating procurement processes. Complex products, products that have not been purchased before, potentially dangerous goods •  estricting access to folders containing R The Power segment’s quantitative KPIs include: and other specified goods are also subject sensitive data by the tender has been closed. to preliminary assessments. • Net working capital no lower than USD -7.6 mn; Suppliers and contractors will be fined • C  ompleting at least 90% of maintenance and if they fail to comply with the health investment programs; and safety requirements that are usually set out in contracts. The transparency of • T  he share of manufacturers among suppliers the procurement process means that there is for at least 59%; no need for a rating system; however, suppliers can receive negative reviews and be included •  chieving a delivery volume from China of USD A in the Federal Antimonopoly Service’s black list. 3 mn; En+ Group set up this three-tier procurement • Increasing the supplier base, increasing system to: the average number of suppliers for each procurement process by 10%; •  tandardise the membership, remit and S procedural requirements of all procurement • Implementing the Speeding Up the Supplier bodies and collegial bodies; Selection Process project and meeting the approved deadline; •  eparate decision-making stages, making S different people responsible for different • Launching employee training programs. processes to reduce corruption risks. 78 The Regulations for Auditing Suppliers To boost transparency, standardise practices | describe the requirements for suppliers and and ensure quality control, we have centralised EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Quality Ensuring and delivering the consistent A quality management system (QMS) has been production processes that focus on meeting quality our customers have come to expect implemented in the Metals segment to create basic customer requirements. The Focus from us is crucial to our business and is efficient, standardised business processes Improvement Program aims to improve a priority across our various assets and and operations. In 2018, the Company communication with key customers with industries. successfully completed the transition the goal of expanding cooperation and to the new IATF 16949 version of the standard strengthening relationships. To ensure best practices and offer concrete for the automotive industry. We regulate guarantees to clients, we have made the compliance of our production facilities The Metals segment also formed a Variability sure that our companies have obtained with standards, regulations and guidelines Reduction Team (VRT) to monitor the problemquality management systems certification. using the quality management policy, which solving process and the results of remedial This certification guarantees that these is supported by regular quality management measures. The segment also launched a Digital companies adhere to international standards meetings and internal audits (QMS, process and Quality project and competency management and that their quality management systems product). processes. are properly integrated. RUSAL and KraMZ are both compliant with ISO 9001 — Quality The Metals segment launched the Perfect Management System. Process initiative with the aim of developing Ensuring and delivering the consistent quality our customers have come to expect from us is crucial to our business and is a priority across our various assets and industries. 79 | EN+ GROUP EN+ GROUP | 80 Scientific and technological development Research and technology advancement is the backbone of continued growth and improving efficiency and aims to implement the best-available technologies on an ongoing basis. The Company conducts wide-ranging research and development 55 % reduction of estimated scandium activities to harness cutting-edge resource-saving oxide production costs and cost-cutting technologies into its production cycles. We focus our efforts on creating innovative long and short-term solutions for the challenges our Company faces. > 17 % efficiency factor of the perovskite solar cells test samples 110 kV power line temperature control to increase the reliability of electricity supply IN THIS SECTION • Research and development • Modernisation 81 | EN+ GROUP AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND RESPONSIBLE CLEAN ENERG Y ECONOMIC GROWTH CONSUMPTION ACTION AND PRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT Research and development The Metals segment’s Engineering and The Company also has an in-house R&D The council’s members include representatives Technology Centre is the Company’s main department, which specialises in tech from the Company’s business units and industry business unit focusing on scientific and scouting, energy-related applied research and experts from research institutes. technological development. The Centre intellectual property (IP) management. Ongoing conducts research and development (R&D) and research initiatives include photovoltaic In terms of cooperation, En+ Group works has successfully created and implemented new technologies, condition monitoring, big data with the Russian Ministry of Industry and technologies. The Regulations for planning, and machine learning. Trade and the Ministry of Energy as part of implementing and monitoring of R&D projects the Innovation Group, which was founded as were updated in 2018 to improve planning, The R&D department conducts targeted a platform for knowledge sharing between implementation effectiveness and the quality projects requested by subsidiary enterprises the most technologically advanced companies of final products. to quickly resolve efficiency issue or strategic and the Russian state research institutes and projects that serve the Company’s long-term universities1. The Committee for Strategic Development innovation priorities. The Company mostly was launched in En+ Group’s Power segment focuses on targeted projects to quickly resolve R&D is coordinated across the Company in 2018 as an all-new structure to ensure efficiency issues, while strategic projects are by dedicated regulatory documents: the responsible selection and assessment developed for long-term solutions. En+ Group of projects and better define technological currently conducts projects with technology • T  he Scientific and Applied Research approaches to energy efficiency, digitalisation, readiness level (TRL) 4 indexes and higher, Procedure; renewables, robotics, automation, smart grids meaning that there are already laboratory and others. The committee is made up of samples or prototypes that will be scaled up • The IP Management Standard; the Company’s project leaders, experienced over the next few years. engineers and industry professionals. •  egulations issued by the Committee R The Company has established a Technology for Strategic Development; Council responsible for approving R&D projects and assessing their results. • The Patent Policy. 82 | EN+ GROUP 1.  or more detailed information on the collaboration F with the Corporate University, please refer to pp. 100-102, Learning and development, Employees. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE The Metals segment Aluminium casting alloys • e  xpansion of the product line and projects The development of innovative aluminium development of new types of wire rod for electrical products and welding wire; casting alloys is another key focus area, spurring the Metals segment to continue • d  evelopment of new cost-effective uses Waste project testing new casting alloys on the Asian market. for innovative scandium-containing The Metals segment is also implementing aluminium alloys. The Metals segment is testing a technology a project in collaboration with major European to process red mud, a waste product generated car makers and parts manufacturers to create One of the Metals segment’s key strategic by alumina production, which contains valuable aluminium materials for large and critical objectives is increasing the share of VAP at its metal oxides, including scandium. Red mud automobile parts that do not require heat Russian production facilities to 55% by 2020. processing technologies at alumina production treatment. The proposed solutions will produce However, the sanctions prevented the Metals facilities were modified in 2018 to increase strong, lightweight structures at a significantly segment from achieving its target VAP of the extraction of scandium oxide (Sc2O3) and reduced cost by simplifying the production 50-52% in 2018 (VAP was 45% of total sales vs reduce the consumption of critical reagents. cycle of the finished product. 47% in 2017). As a result, the estimated cost of producing scandium oxide was reduced by an impressive Value-Added Products Innovations in aluminium production 55% to USD 480/kg. These results were confirmed by a pilot project at RUSAL KamenskThe Metals segment's innovative development The Metals segment conducts R&D to harness Uralsky. The technology is still being enhanced strategy and R&D have driven the following new technologies and processes that give it to create additional improvements and cut breakthroughs in the production of valuea competitive edge in the aluminium industry. costs even further. The findings from laboratory added products (VAP): At the same time, the Metals segment's testing will be verified throughout 2019. specialists are guided by the precautionary •  evelopment of a line of casting alloys that d principle, comprehensively assessing any do not require heat treatment; potential danger an innovation may pose to the environment or human health. •  evelopment and launch of new aluminium d materials for railway equipment; • c reation and launch of new aluminiumbased materials for additive technologies and the development of 3D printing technologies; 83 | EN+ GROUP SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT The Power segment Extracting commercial products regression algorithms were assessed in 2018. projects from ash and slag waste The models selected were shown to work, a request for proposal was developed and The project has been implemented at facilities a contractor was selected to perform the next in Irkutsk and Angarsk. The economic stage. The project will continue in 2019-2020. 110 kV power line benefits of using the technology to extract temperature control iron-containing concentrate from ash and slag Solar cells waste have already been shown at the CHP-9 technology This project aims to find the best diagnostics coal plant. equipment to optimize network load balancing. Using the financial backing of En+ Group, During the preliminary stage, a test section Improving the efficiency of researchers from Lomonosov Moscow State of 220 kV power line (Novo-Irkutsk CHP measures influencing defaulting University continued the development of to Irkutskaya No. 1) was equipped with passive power resource users next-gen perovskite solar panels. The Russian maintenance-free wireless sensors. The second scientists proposed a unique method part of the project focused on monitoring The project involves the extensive use of big for producing perovskite solar cells of the temperature and collecting data data and machine learning. Among the 2018 a potentially unlimited size; the test samples in real time. Analytical work is now underway achievements were the completion of of solar cells showed an efficiency of more to identify existing vulnerabilities. The project pre-project planning, the conceptualisation than 17%. The research results were published will increase the reliability of electricity supply of machine-learning model architecture, in Nature Nanotechnology and other scientific and extend the operational life of primary the development of a request for proposal journals. electric grid equipment. and the selection of a contractor to perform the work. User profiling En+ launched a project in 2018 that uses big data and machine learning to profile users based on an electricity consumption scenario. The aim is to forecast consumption levels for every user depending on their characteristics and profile. With this forecast, we will be able to develop recommendations on conscious electricity consumption. Three user-clustering algorithms were tested and four 84 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE En+ Group’s action plan for 2019 includes a number of new and ongoing R&D projects: Perovskite Russian Federal Best Available Technologies distribution program Solar Cell project The program aims to increase the efficiency of existing production facilities, upgrade equipment, reduce environmental impact and improve the sustainability of power-generating facilities and, in particular, coal-fired power plants. The Company is proactively involved in the program, the first stage of which (20192024) implies the reconstruction of Ust-Ilimsk CHP’s ash handling system. Long-term forecasting of Lake Baikal’s water levels The research project makes use of machine learning and predictive analytics to calculate the operating schedules of HPPs in advance and optimise their main production processes. The Power segment continued to work were filed as part of the project in 2018. on a hybrid perovskite solar module The research results were published for the distributed generation project in Nature Nanotechnology, one of realized as part of the Russian Education and the world’s leading journals in the area of Science Ministry’s Federal Target Program nanoscience. “R&D in Priority Areas of the Russian Science and Tech Sector”. The project will be continued over the next few years after it successfully hit all its The Perovskite Solar Cell project aims targets in the first stage. Research will to create a new type of photovoltaic concentrate on raising the efficiency and modules with hybrid perovskite as an active lifespan of perovskite cells. The project component. A unique method of producing is generating significant interest and has a perovskite layer of a potentially unlimited received support from the Russian Science area has been developed and a laboratory Foundation. Partners will be engaged prototype has been created. Laboratory while research is still ongoing to facilitate tests on the laboratory sample have the creation of a commercial prototype and demonstrated efficiency factors as high as help bring the technology to market. 17%. Three Russian patent applications and 85 three international PCT patent applications | EN+ GROUP SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT Modernisation The Metals segment’s ALLOW brand modernisation En+ Group is making every effort to boost the efficiency of its operational assets through its modernisation programs. RA-400 and RA-550 potcells The Company is continuously looking for opportunities to improve the efficiency of processes that help reduce its environmental impact. One of the Metals segment’s main initiatives was the installation of an automated alumina feeding system and a central distribution system. The next step in the development of the automated production system is the rollout of next-generation potcells with high-energy efficiency (RA-400 and RA-550). Potcells that operate on inert anodes are being developed and tested at pilot sites. The creation of The Metals segment launched its ALLOW the RA-550 electrolyte potcells aims to further brand of low-carbon footprint aluminium cut the cost of aluminium production and in 2017 as part of its low-carbon production boost its environmental credentials. The new strategy. The brand generates less than equipment will be 50-80% more productive four tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions than the previous model (RA-300) and will be in СО2 equivalent1 for every tonne of able to process more than four tonnes of metal aluminium, which is considered one of per day. A new technical solution to remove the best levels in the global aluminium gas from the electrolyte potcells will further industry. The ALLOW brand offers improve environmental safety. independently verified carbon footprint statements and ships worldwide. 86 | EN+ GROUP 1.  melters’ direct emissions (scope 1) and indirect energy S emissions (scope 2). COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Eco-Søderberg new low loaders with a carrying capacity of Plans to install these pieces of equipment technology program 160 tonnes to transport transformers. In 2018, at all ECD branches are in place, provided the ‘Separation of the needs of the Sayanogorsk that industrial tests and operational trials are The full-scale implementation the Aluminium Smelter’ project, the goal of which a success. In 2018, 42 out of 1,191 pots were Eco-Søderberg technology program was to increase power supply reliability, disconnected for relining with their lifetime of at the Metals segment's aluminium smelters was completed. The expert opinion received up to 36 months, the lowest number on record. is ongoing. A total of 254 potcells were about the project was positive and a tender upgraded at the KrAZ smelter and another procedure was started to purchase the required Self-propelled pot treatment 66 potcells at the BrAZ smelter. The pilot equipment. vehicles production project was expanded to 20 potcells to adapt the technology for the NkAZ smelter. The gas In 2019, equipment purchases and construction In 2018, the Krasnoyarsk branch of RUSducts under five potrooms at KrAZ have and assembly works are scheduled. In 2018, Engineering Ltd continued to mass produce been fitted with state-of-the-art automated the Bratsk centre of competencies launched special self-propelled pot treatment vehicles as pneumatic impulse cleaners. The deployment a project to increase maintenance efficiency part of the ‘RUSAL Treatment Vehicles’ project, of the Eco-Søderberg process reduces and optimise costs by achieving shorter which helped reduce the number of vehicles pollutant emissions to levels that comply with maintenance time for transformers and better needed to be purchased from abroad. In 2018, environmental regulations while also reducing use of in-house resources. 43 treatment vehicles were manufactured and electricity consumption and significantly put into operation. increasing the service life of reduction cells. Krasnoyarsk pot rebuilding department development Since the beginning of the project, 173 vehicles Smelter electrical equipment have been put into operation and the design reliability improvement In 2018, the Krasnoyarsk pot-rebuilding of 34 vehicles has been developed. The Group department developed, manufactured and has made 52 patent applications to protect its In August 2017, a high-voltage transformer was installed the following pieces of equipment: intellectual property, including five in 2018. installed and tested on the main stepdown A total of 42 patents were obtained in Russia, substation 2 at the Bratsk smelter. For the first •  gantry cathode relining and metal A including four in 2018. time, high-voltage aluminium wiring was used structure assembly machine to improve in its design to ensure a stable power supply labour conditions and manufacturing quality One of the main aims of the ‘RUSAL Treatment to potrooms 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Bratsk smelter. (as a result, spending on metal structures Vehicles’ project in 2019 is to design and In 2018, two such high-voltage transformers from third-party suppliers declined), shorten manufacture environmentally-friendly locallywere installed at the Bratsk and Krasnoyarsk pot rebuild periods, optimise production produced diesel treatment vehicles to ensure smelters. areas and the number of auxiliary reliable operation with a service life of at least equipment. 15,000 machine-hours. Every year, including in 2019, we plan to replace two old-style transformers of such •  batching hopper for BROCHOT ramming A a design at aluminium smelters. In June 2018, machine to improve the quality of the Bratsk and Krasnoyarsk branches of RUSoperations (to maintain a controllable set Engineering Ltd purchased and commissioned material temperature and to batch ramming paste automatically) while ramming cathode bottom seams and to avoid hazardous impact on the personnel. 87 | EN+ GROUP SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT The Power segment’s En+ Group has set the following targets as part the capacity of each unit is expected modernisation of the program: to increase from 82.8 MW to 105.7 MW. • Improving the efficiency of existing The hydraulic profile of the new impeller offers equipment; improved efficiency and better cavitation The Thermal Power Plants and increases power capacity by almost 20%. modernisation program • B  oosting the reliability of existing These results have been confirmed by profile equipment by replacing the components of acceptance tests performed by the water The Company supports the State Program turbines, boiler equipment, and generators turbines laboratory of ČKD Blansko Holding to Modernise Thermal Power Plants, whose that have exceeded their normal lifecycle; (Czech Republic), a subsidiary of Tyazhmash JSC aim is to increase the operating efficiency of (Russia). thermal power plants connected to the Russian • Improving environmental performance Wholesale Electricity Market (WEM). by modernising and increasing the efficiency The modernisation is also aimed at reducing The program’s first selection round took place of boilers, turbines and ash removal the Company’s environmental impact and in March — April 2019 for the modernisation equipment. This should cut greenhouse gas mitigating related cavitation risks. The program projects with the start of capacity supply emissions by 69,000 tonnes of CO₂ per year will cut GHG emissions by partially replacing in 2022-2024. According to its results, and reduce emissions of other pollutants energy from coal-fired power plants with HPP the Group will improve reliability and safety of by 9,300 tonnes per year. output. 795 MW of its CHP capacity (17.7% of the total) with total expected CAPEX for CHPs of USD The New Energy The upgrades of HPP equipment will make it 130 mn. The last round of modernisation modernisation program possible to boost electricity generation by 2 projects is scheduled to start by 1 October TWh by 2022 from the same volume of water. 2025, with the start of capacity supply The program is primarily focused in 2031. The program aims to modernise on modernising the Group’s HPPs. Its aim is Future plans for The New Energy modernisation 39 GW of capacity in total. Each project has to raise the efficiency of turbines to worldprogram include: a capacity supply period of 16 years with leading levels, provide improved power supply the price methodology that provides the return quality and boost the reliability without • R  eplacing four hydro power generating on investment with a certain rate of return. increasing water flow rates. The New Energy units at Irkutsk HPP in 2019-2023 program is one of the Group’s key investment to increase installed capacity by 91.6 MW; projects that aims to improve the reliability and safety of all its HPPs. •  eplacing the next six runners R at the Krasnoyarsk HPP. The program was launched to modernise hydroelectric turbines and replace runners, transformers and open-type switchgear. Four out of Irkutsk HPP’s eight hydro power units will be replaced by 2023. As a result, 88 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Other projects En+ Group is making every The Company is also continuing its modernisation efforts to improve the efficiency effort to boost the efficiency of of operations at plants across the Group to decrease costs and achieve better production its operational assets through quality. its modernisation programs. • D  ry ash handling systems were modernised to increase the volume of dry ash extracted at the Novo-Irkutsk CHP. • A  utomated systems were introduced into the operational processes of all CHPs to reduce fuel consumption and increase operational efficiency. • E  n+ Group is planning to change how it regulates temperature fluctuations in water networks in 2019. The hydraulic testing method will also be changed in 2019 to troubleshoot possible malfunctions over the summer, which should ensure a reduced number of failures in winter. 89 | EN+ GROUP EN+ GROUP | 90 Employees Our global workforce is at the heart of what we do. As well as being a global leader in aluminium production, En+ Group is also one of the largest employers in Russia as well as in other countries where the Group operates large industrial complexes, including Jamaica, Ireland 98,401 employees and Guinea. The Company currently employs over 98,000 people across two business segments in 12 countries and we recognise the importance of providing our people with a safe working environment and supporting their wellbeing. Therefore, our people and human resources are 26% female representation in En+ Group in 2018 among the Company’s top priorities. Our success depends on building an inclusive and diverse environment where 93 % our employees can thrive. of employees have permanent contracts IN THIS SECTION • Management approach • Social benefits • Personnel structure • Goals for 2019 and midterm period • Talent acquisition • Learning and development 91 | EN+ GROUP DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EMPLOYEES GRI 102-8 102-41 103-1 Management 103-2 103-3 401-1 approach 405-1 The Company aims to provide all its employees En+ Group has a vertically integrated • Integrating the Business System 250 with favourable employment conditions that personnel management function, which is program, a continuous employee advance their professional development, regulated by the Remuneration Committee development process, to improve employees’ support the well-being of their families (the “RemCom”) and the Corporate Governance skills and knowledge on industrial and encourage their active involvement and Nominations Committee (the “CGNC”). processes. In 2018, this program trained in the Group’s social and operational activities. The RemCom’s role is to determine and 439 employees in the Metals segment and The Group’s HR policies are aimed at recruiting review the Company’s remuneration policies, 230 employees in the Power segment; and retaining highly skilled personnel. compensation and benefits plans, including incentive and executive compensation and • Introducing Theory of Inventive Problem The five-year HR management strategy was any equity-based plans. The CGNC committee Solving (TIPS) methods and tools to pioneer drawn up and launched in 2018 and the results is responsible for reviewing the corporate more organised and efficient solutions are now being reviewed. The strategy aims governance guidelines for the Company and to complex problems in various business to develop people and their skills, enhance its consolidated subsidiaries. It also oversees segments. The Metals segment trained the quality of training, encourage innovative corporate governance matters and provides 147 employees on TIPS in 2018, and 128 thinking, and increase the integration and recommendations. employees in the Power segment have standardisation of all processes, including completed the TIPS online course; recruitment and business processes. Our achievements in 2018: The strategy also outlines the Company’s •  aunching the Technical Academy program, L unwavering commitment to upholding human • D  eveloping transformation program which focuses on developing senior rights, diversity and inclusion throughout its to establish a unique approach to employee engineers and station managers. A total of corporate environment. development across the Company and 100 candidates were whittled down to 30 develop additional technical competence participants who started on-site internships training modules; in 2018; 92 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE GRI 102-8 Personnel structure • R  edesigning all talent pool coaching • L  aunching the Metals segment General En+ Group is one of the biggest employers programs and relaunching the integrated Service Centre (GSC) in April 2019, in multiple Russian regions and other countries, talent pool development program under which provides recruitment services providing jobs for over 98,000 people across the name Transformation. The revamped for the Company's production facilities all its regions of operation. The personnel program is based on the best practices and centralises all relevant functions into structure remained almost unchanged in 2018. in employee development and brings a single service organisation. Most employees are male due to the nature of together the resources and expertise of the Company’s operations. The percentage of the Corporate University, Business System The Company’s main personnel management workers with full-time employment type was Development department, TIPS department goal is human development, with eight 99.53% in 2018. and technical specialists. The pilot group out of 10 KPIs connected with professional has 68 participants and will be expanded advancement. The Company hit all its targets to 300 people in 2019; in 2018 and is determined to achieve all its stated KPIs over the coming years. •  aunching the Kommersant program L in 2018, which focuses on evaluating and developing Commercial Services employees; The Company aims to provide all its employees with favourable employment conditions that advance their professional development, support the well-being of their families and encourage their active involvement in the Group’s social and operational activities. 93 | EN+ GROUP EMPLOYEES Average number of employees in the Metals and Power segments in 2017-20181 Metals segment Power segment 2017 62,020 34,687 96,707 2018 64,057 34,344 98,401 Percentage of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary) in 2017-20182 Permanent Temporary 94 6 Metals segment 2017 95 5 Power segment 93 7 Metals segment 2018 96 4 Power segment 94 | 1.  he difference in the number of employees in the Metals segment in 2017 in comparison with its value disclosed in T the Annual report 2018 is due to the clarification of the number of employees in Guyana. EN+ GROUP 2. Hereinafter in the section “Emloyees Personnel structure” the Power segment is represented by: JSC EuroSibEnergo, PJSC Irkutskenergo, EnSer, OJSC Irkutsk Electric Grid Company, Volgaenergo, Baikalenergo, LLC EuroSibEnergoengineering, LLC En+ Digital, LLC Accounting Service Center EuroSibEnergo, LLC EuroSibEnergo Trading House, LLC EuroSibEnergo — Hydrogeneration, ANO CPD Corporate University EuroSibEnergo, En+ Holding Limited (ex. EuroSibEnergo Plc), CJSC MAREM +. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Gender diversity of employees in 2017-2018, % Men Women 2017 76 24 2018 74 26 Employee wages in 2017-2018, USD mn Metals segment Power segment 2017 718 415 1,133 2018 739 396 1,135 95 | EN+ GROUP EMPLOYEES GRI 401-1 MM4 New hires by segment in 2017-2018 Metals segment Power segment 2017 5,493 4,228 9,721 2018 5,228 4,724 9,952 In February 2019, workers at the Metals The Company took the protests and workers’ segment facility Bauxite Company of Guyana concerns extremely seriously, basing decisions Inc. (BCGI) protested to demand higher wages. on global best practices and remaining The Company negotiated with the protest faithful to the principles of human rights. organisers, the Guyana Bauxite and General This approach led to the fast and amicable Workers Union (GB&GWU), in a concerted effort resolution of the conflict and the swift return to swiftly deescalate and resolve the conflict. of BCGI to business as usual. There were no After reaching a renewal agreement with strikes or lockouts in the Power segment within the union, BCGI reinstated the workers. the reporting period. 96 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Outgoing employees by segment in 2017-2018 Metals segment Power segment 2017 4,273 4,041 8,314 2018 4,757 4,647 9,404 The Group’s HR policies are aimed at recruiting and retaining highly skilled personnel. 97 | EN+ GROUP EMPLOYEES Diversity and inclusion We seek to build a diverse workforce and We make every effort to create a fair working The Company sees the complete elimination are constantly striving to build an inclusive environment, provide equal employment of all forms of discrimination, persecution environment. The Company has defined opportunities and reward excellent or bullying on the basis of race, skin colour, the following priorities: performance. By developing the competencies religion, sex, age, ethnicity or nationality, sexual and leadership skills of our employees, we are orientation or disability as essential to its • Workplace safety and equal opportunities; creating leaders of the future. success. • Guarantee of equal pay; We comply with relevant legal obligations The Company complies with all the obligations across host jurisdictions for people with of labour laws and employment contracts in its • Socio-economic diversity; disabilities, providing all our employees with relations with employees, respects personal the appropriate working conditions. freedoms and human rights, grants equal • Human rights; opportunities to all and does not tolerate any Our employees must be familiar with the Code form of labour discrimination. •  ttraction and retention of proactive and A of Ethics and follow its principles at all ambitious staff and interns; times. The Code sets out our ethical conduct standards, and how we expect employees •  evelopment of career growth D to interact with each other, our business opportunities; partners, government authorities and society in general. • Enhanced employee engagement; • Improvement of training programs. In its relations with employees, the Company complies with all the requirements of labour legislation and employment contracts, respects personal freedom and human rights, grants equal opportunities to everyone and does not allow any labour discrimination. 98 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Talent acquisition As talented and highly skilled professionals •  he Internal Talent Pool program, which T school students to guide them through are essential for our continued success, we aims to create a group of promising the Energy University Irkutsk National invest significant time and resources into talent employees for all types of managerial Technical University (INRTU) application acquisition and development programs. We positions; process. The program includes additional make every effort to find and retain the people courses for physics, maths and Russian who will drive our business forward. • Recruitment outside of Russia. along with workplace learning and excursions to power facilities; The Metals segment runs the following joint The Power segment works closely with programs and initiatives with specialised government-run training centres. The Company • C  ompetitions for young people, challenging mining and metallurgical institutions, has two main higher education partners: them to create innovative and effective which helps the Company source promising the faculty of Power Engineering and projects in a range of fields. There have candidates for its talent pool: Automation at Bratsk State University (BrSU), been five contests in the last three years which provides about 45-50 new employees involving more than 3,500 entrants. •  argeted selection and scholarships T per year, and Irkutsk State University. We are The Laboratory of the Power Industry for students to encourage skilled young also partnered with a vocational college competition was held in 2018, and will be engineers to apply for and study university in Irkutsk. transformed into a corporate accelerator courses that will set them up for a career for innovative projects in 2019; at En+; We are constantly striving to find new ways of inspiring the next generation of En+ employees • T  he New Generation program is another •  ducational programs for international E and attracting the best local talent: major initiative for 2019 that aims to attract students; talented young specialists to the Company •  he Power segment has developed a special T by offering paid internships. The program • T  he “RUSAL to the Russian Schools” project, course for high school students about its has already taken on 142 interns. which facilitates students’ progression operations and potential career pathways; from school to vocational college and ultimately to employment in our industrial • T  he Company has organised an exam production facilities; preparation program for final year high 99 | EN+ GROUP EMPLOYEES GRI 403-6 Learning 404-2 and development En+ Group’s entire training system focuses The Metals segment • Collaboration with educational institutions; on the development of professional skills, meeting high standards, ensuring safety • Professional guidance; and pioneering long-term technological The Company uses a variety of training development in the industry. The development tools and programs for all types of positions • Assessment of staff knowledge. and training of employees is of paramount to achieve its goal of driving the development importance to En+ Group. The Company and growth of all its employees, emphasising Below are some examples of specific projects aspires to attract the best talent, enhance values and ethical principles. in the Metals segment: their professional skills and provide them with a variety of high-quality training tools and The Metals segment’s personnel training and •  odular vocational training system M programs. It provides various types of training development activities are regulated by: (including the Business System 250+ and courses, including sessions required by law program, an add-on to the Business in the countries where the Company operates. •  egulation on the training and education of R System 250 program, which aims Company personnel; to enhance the professional skills and Both En+ segments have a Corporate University expertise of high-potential candidates created to provide comprehensive training • Provision on the Corporate Ethics System; for future relocation and rotation within programs and reinforce the Company’s the Company); commitment to professional development. • R  egulation on non-monetary (non-material) The educational and training system is motivation. • T  echnological Minimum Project (aims constantly developing with the addition of to provide employees with the fundamental new programs, specially tailored to achieve The Metals segment has its own Corporate technological knowledge and skills required the Company’s objectives. University, which directs the comprehensive for particular divisions and trades, such training system and covers: as the aluminium, alumina and packaging divisions); • Talent pool (training programs); • F  unctional academies, which focus •  orporate culture (industrial competition C on upgrading practical and technical skills and the Institute of Corporate Ethics with courses in various formats, including Officers); on-site and online training, group and oneon-one sessions, etc.; •  rofessional academies (training programs P for professions and trades); • D  istance Learning System (DSL) with more than 300 e-courses (topics include • Training centres at production facilities; management, logistics, foreign languages, time planning, presentations, stress • Distance learning system; management and office management). • Youth education; 100 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE A competency assessment centre was The Power segment The key aims of the Power segment’s Corporate established alongside the university, allowing University are: personal qualities, leadership skills and professional knowledge to be assessed All Power segment employees can take • Running core curriculum courses; remotely. We started using a personal advantage of multiple training programs, questionnaire with cognitive tests as which are primarily focused on developing • E  nsuring the professional development of an assessment tool in 2018. We provide all professional skills, improving health and existing staff members, including project employees with internal and vocational safety, quality control and long-term industry management and hard skills training; training, and even offer full funding development. for advanced training courses provided •  raining new staff members and forming T by third-party organisations. The Power segment’s employee training and a candidate pool; education is directed by the following bodies: The Metals segment’s key training and • Developing a corporate research centre; development achievements in 2018: • Corporate University; • C  onducting regular psychophysiological •  raining 1,923 people in its professional T • Business System Development Department; check-ups of relevant staff to prevent health academies; and safety risks. • T  IPS (Theory of Inventive Problem Solving)/ •  pening its first centre focused O TIPS Department; The Company has training and development on initiatives for young people, RUSAL programs for all levels of experience, ranging Laboratory, at Siberian Federal University; • C  orporate Research Centre at INRTU and from high school students to technical BrSU; managers. The university has around 150 •  ccepting 142 new interns onto the New A training programs, has a license to issue Generation program; •  xternal vocational training centres (if E nationally recognised certificates and possesses the required programs are not available an unlimited license for providing training •  pening a special department O at the Corporate University). services. in Sayanogorsk for working with talented students; The Power segment’s Corporate University Developing a safety-oriented culture is one was created by centralising its educational of the Company’s top priorities. A number of • Training 147 employees on TIPS; resources, teachers, professors and standards and procedures have been developed psychologists in one place. The Irkutskand implemented to raise employees’ safety •  aunching the Training 100 Guinean L based institution is treated as a separate awareness and Company-wide trainings Students program. organisation and is mainly geared towards have been organised for personnel and top servicing the internal client. The university’s management as part of the Conscious Safety mission is to drive up employees’ skills and development program, led by the Group’s qualifications by promoting an integrated Corporate University and a consulting company. approach to learning and spreading world-class educational practices. 101 | EN+ GROUP EMPLOYEES Several educational courses based The Power segment’s Corporate University also The Company also attends various conferences on the NEBOSH (a global organisation, which has its own internal online portal called Virtual that promote employee wellbeing. This provides health, safety and environmental University with more than 100 video lectures included a roundtable on protecting the health qualifications) methodology are being and online courses. Most of the courses have of night shift employees in March 2018, hosted conducted for employees of all levels as part of been created with the help of the Company’s by the Civic Chamber of Russian Federation, a major initiative to develop a safety-oriented specialists who have practical experience which brought together more than 50 experts culture: “Cognitive safety” for operational in particular areas of study. New courses added from various industries. employees, and “Leadership in safety” and in 2018 include: “Efficient safety management” for technical En+ presented their BioMouse technology and managers. These courses aim to change • TIPS; discussed how it works at the “Comprehensive employee attitudes towards health and safety approaches to ensure employee wellbeing: and help them understand that everyone is • Investment project management; technologies and solutions” conference in May responsible for reducing industrial accidents. 2018. BioMouse is a computer mouse that • Risk management; measures employees’ general health and stress levels by monitoring their heart rate variability. • Production analysis; Around 1,000 employees can be assessed at any one time. • Standardised work; • Total Productive Maintenance (TPM). Another update in 2018 was the introduction of a mandatory induction system for new employees, covering topics such as the fundamentals of the modern Power industry, information security and the Corporate Code of Conduct. A total of 2,970 Power segment employees completed these courses in 2018. The platform also hosts online competitions. For example in 2018, 450 people submitted short films that encourage a safetyorientated culture for a video competition. 102 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE GRI 102-41 401-2 Social benefits 403-6 Beyond offering employees opportunities Negotiations and dialogue with labour •  edical services (including voluntary M to develop and learn new skills, En+ is also unions have resulted in collective bargaining medical insurance); committed to providing its workers with agreements for social support packages that the best social benefits to help improve enhance the welfare of our employees. These • Sports activities; the quality of their working and living include a childcare program (vacation programs conditions. These benefits aim to create and and benefits for children), sports events, • Free meals at work; maintain long-term employee motivation training facilities and healthcare programs. and are provided equally to all full-time and Although the Company is mainly focused • Subsidised housing; part-time En+ employees. We strive to improve on social programs such as health resorts and relations with our employees and see trade treatment centres, we also provide leisure •  ocial security services for employees’ S unions as key partners, striking collective activities for children, the full list of key social children; bargaining agreements at all of our businesses, benefits includes: with the sole exception of small service • Support for pensioners; structures. • Financial aid; •  ther social expenses (subsidised transport, O • Recreation at health resorts; additional paid social vacation under the collective bargaining agreement • Retirement planning; and local regulations, and compensation for workplace accidents). Employees covered by collective agreements, % Metals segment Power segment 92 90 76 76 2017 2018 103 | EN+ GROUP EMPLOYEES Compensation is also available The Company’s employee turnover rate is industry in which employers are represented to employees who: about 7%, which puts it on par with other by the Association of Industrialists of industry players. The Company is implementing the Mining and Metallurgical Complex • Have just had a child; or has already launched employee retention of Russia (AMROS), and employees are strategies, such as specialised training facilities, represented by the Mining and Metallurgical • H  ave an income below the regional seminars, indexation of salaries and regular Trade Union of Russia (MMTUR). RUSAL adheres minimum wage; meetings with employees. to all the requirements of the ITA and is constantly improving its internal regulations • Have three or more children under 18; En+ Group provides a stable competitive for benefits, guarantees and remuneration. salary and comprehensive social benefits •  re on parental leave until the child reaches A for its employees as well as remuneration six months. based on skills, performance and grade. The remuneration and motivation system also The Company recognises that shortages of includes multiple wage and salary benefits skilled and professional labour, strikes and (time-based bonus system), incentive programs labour cost inflation are major risks. En+ and other additional benefits (free meals, Group’s specific operational processes mean financial assistance and benefits for employees’ that it is dependent on a skilled workforce, and children). therefore vulnerable to any changes in the cost and availability of this kind of labour. As many RUSAL, as a part of En+ Group, is a member workers are unionised, the Company is exposed of the Industry Tariff Agreement (ITA) to the threat of strikes, lockouts and stoppages. for the Russian mining and metallurgical Beyond offering employees opportunities to develop and learn new skills, En+ is also committed to providing its workers with the best social benefits to help improve the quality of their working and living conditions. 104 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Goals for 2019 and midterm period The Group’s key goals for the next year and various kinds of social support that are University in 2019-2020 to automate the mid-term are: affected by inflation, such as the cost of processes such as the management medical services, compensation for travel of the candidate pool and generate •  nalysing employee satisfaction levels A and vacations and the maintenance of operational reports that can track how by running a comprehensive online social housing facilities; the Corporate University changes over time; survey about their overall contentment and involvement in upcoming training •  iscussing the conditions of the Industry D • Implementing a range of commercial programs; Tariff Agreement (ITA) with the Mining training and procurement programs and Metallurgical Trade Union of Russia in the Metals segment (in conjunction with • E  xpanding existing programs and those (MMTUR) and signing it again in December the Sales Directorate, Quality Assurance launched in 2018, as well as creating new 2019; Department, Directorate for Control, Internal programs such as the School for Safety Audit and Business Coordination (DCIABC) Managers and the Financial Director School; • Improving interaction with the Siberian and other departments). Federal University, Irkutsk National •  ully implementing the New Generation F Research Technical University and Siberian These goals will uphold the Company’s social program, an initiative created to attract State Industrial University by opening corporate values and commitment to develop talented young specialists to the Company specialised departments and including its employees. by offering paid internships; TIPS, Business System and QMS programs at the universities (the Metals segment); • H  olding training seminars that use real life operational cases and TIPS instruments • Implementing the Business System 250+ with at least 16 teachers and 200 modular training program for selected participants; employees in the Metals segment; • Increasing the Metals segment’s social • Introducing the 1C reporting system programs budget for 2019 by 4% to fund for the Power segment’s Corporate 105 | EN+ GROUP EN+ GROUP | 106 Health and safety Safeguarding the health and safety of our employees and contractors has always taken top priority at En+ Group and is the primary focus at every facility. The Company is committed to constantly improving its health and safety system and ensuring a safe and comfortable workplace 4,000 flashcards outlining safe working for its employees. practices were produced En+ Group strives to be an Occupational Health and Safety 4,969 leader in its industry. To this end, we are constantly overhauling our existing OHS management system and are continuously developing new, innovative ways of employees completed promoting safe working conditions among our employees. safety culture trainings 8 fatal incidents in 2018 0.14 LTIFR in 2018 0.214 employee occupational IN THIS SECTION illnesses rate in 2018, per 100 employees • Management approach •  revention of occupational injuries P • Monitoring program and diseases • Health and safety performance • Goals for 2019 and midterm period • Safety culture development 107 | EN+ GROUP GOOD HEA LTH AND WEL L-BEING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103-2 103-3 403-1 Management 403-2 403-3 403-6 approach 403-7 The Company pays particular attention We are committed to conducting regular En+ Group strives to comply with all local OHS to strong executive leadership and improving internal and external audits to monitor and fire safety legislation, its internal policies the occupational safety culture, building the effectiveness of our OHS measures. Eight and all corporate policy principles. a foundation for a safe production cycle that external audits were carried out in 2018: safeguards all employees and contractors. four audits at units in the Metals segment En+ Group is regulated by the following OHS and four at units in the Power segment. State and fire safety document framework: An HSE Policy and an HSE management OHS supervisory authorities conducted 251 system have been introduced at all the Group’s inspections in the enterprises of the Metals • OHS and Fire Safety Policy Statement; production facilities. Our occupational, health segment. We are continuously seeking to drive and safety (OHS) management system of up OHS and fire safety standards and carry out •  HS and Fire Safety Management System O the Metals segment is certified by Det Norske scheduled and spot audits, inspections and Guidelines; Veritas, while the OHS management system behavioural safety check to leave no stone of the Power segment is certified by Bureau unturned. • HSE and Fire Safety Role Matrix; Veritas as compliant with OHSAS 18001. The Group is committed to further improving The Company’s OHS and fire safety activities • Core occupational safety rules and values; its health and safety management system are underpinned by the following principles: and securing employee safety. To this end, •  olicy for the Prompt Communication of P in 2018, the Group initiated plans to update •  uman life and health are more important H Incidents and their Consequences; its OHS management system and review its than production results and economic OHS procedures and documents to align them performance; •  egulation for the Reporting, Investigation R with the requirements of the new ISO 45001 and Analysis of Occupational Safety standard. • Any incident can be prevented; Incidents. • S  afety management should be fully En+ Group regularly amends its corporate integrated into all business and production documents to keep them in line with operations; the legislation of its regions of operation. • A  n unwavering commitment to comply with The Company is currently updating the Policy OHS legislation, and where possible be best regulating the occupational safety reporting in class; process for all its business units. Our joint ventures (JVs) and subsidiaries will use this •  ach employee (must have) has E Policy to prepare and submit the latest health the necessary skills and training to work and safety information, as well as monthly safely; and annual reports on their performance to the Occupational Safety Department. • S  afe behaviour must be supported and encouraged; •  uppliers and contractors must commit S to our standards of safety. 108 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Monitoring program In 2018, the Company developed a regulation The Сompany has a rigid safety monitoring As for other initiatives within the monitoring to create flashcards outlining safe working framework in place, which includes a number of program, the Metals segment launched practices. En+ Group created more than 4,000 key performance indicators and assesses OHS an initiative to create a comprehensive flashcards with workflow descriptions in 2018. performance in the following key areas: automated information system “Automated En+ is continuing these efforts in 2019. We also information system of production safety”, have plans to reform the incident investigation •  ommunication with employees. Inductions, C in 2018. One of its key objectives is to create Policy to establish a standardised procedure knowledge tests, trainings, etc.; an integrated information system between for the swift reporting of accidents, minor all departments, to handle issues related injuries, illnesses and potentially dangerous • O  HS and fire safety compliance to Occupational and Industrial Safety measures. incidents that could have resulted in injury, assessments; The system enables remote monitoring and as well as a procedure for investigating these integrates a single end-to-end methodology incidents and communicating the lessons • Compliance with regulations; for all core business processes. learned to employees. • Swift investigation of incidents; En+ employees can use several communication channels to highlight operational hazards and • E  mployee engagement and participation minimise risks: in risk minimisation; • Ethics Officers; • R  isk assessments, as well as the quick identification and elimination of issues; • Incident alert system for executives; • Prevention of occupational illnesses. • Hotlines; We have been installing closed-circuit • Problem-Solving Boards. television (CCTV) systems at our facilities since 2017 in order to monitor employee •  roblem-Solving Boards that are P compliance with OHS rules. CCTV systems an effective way of collecting feedback are used to check worksite preparation and from employees on the ground and ensuring access authorisation for work on electrical a rapid response from management to their systems. We are continuously monitoring how concerns. well our employees have been inducted, how quickly risks are identified and how well risk A response is considered rapid if the issue is minimisation is implemented. resolved or a decision is made within a week. This process is designed to capture information Video recordings are used to manage risks on potential risks and ensure that employees and educate employees when investigating have a voice in OHS risk management. the causes of incidents and accidents. This risk-based approach is fundamental to safety management at En+ Group. Business unit heads play an active role in identifying potential health and safety risks and promoting employee engagement in the risk management 109 process. | EN+ GROUP HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 403-6 403-9 Health and safety 403-10 performance We keep comprehensive records of all Fatalities from fatal incidents are reviewed and discussed accidents, including those involving external with the Board and HSE Committee. contractors. En+ Group thoroughly investigates every incident involving both employees and We regret to report that eight of our The major risks that contributed contractors. Our LTIFR figures do not include colleagues died at work in 2018. Every to the accidents included: data for contractor injuries. incident is unacceptable and is thoroughly investigated by a dedicated team of experts. • Inadequate leadership in production safety All contractors we work with are required En+ Group provides all the necessary support issues; to adhere to our rules and standards. to the families of the victims and takes Compliance with these rules and standards every possible step to prevent similar events • Inadequate assessment of industrial risks form an integral part of our oversight of from occurring again. and hazardous factors by staff; contractor performance. We remain unwavering in our commitment • Personal negligence; to achieving our goal of zero fatal incidents. To this end, En+ group investigates each • U  nsatisfactory organisation of safe work accident, conducting a risk assessment and environment; implementing health and safety initiatives across the company and in individual business •  nauthorised expansion of work scope U units. by employees and the performance of unassigned work. Eliminating fatal incidents is a priority for En+ Group. The HSE Committee considers a detailed We strengthened our safety culture throughout report on any incident that has involved 2018 by focusing on all the measures needed a fatality. to prevent these fatalities happening again. This includes investigating each accident, conducting We also share our findings with all our a risk assessment and implementing health employees so that everyone can reflect and safety initiatives across the Company and on the lessons from such incidents. Key findings in individual business units. Work-related employee fatalities in the Metals and Power segments in 2017-2018 Metals segment Power segment 2017 7 4 11 110 2018 4 4 8 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Work-related Occupational injuries diseases • T  argeted programs and initiatives En+ Group reduced LTIFR to 0.14 in 2018 for potentially dangerous areas; from 0.16 in 2015. The Company has set The number of occupational diseases increased ambitious KPIs for OHS and fire safety to • E  xtended safety training for personnel, to 184 in 2018 from 173 in 2017. This was drive further improvements. Zero fatalities, including remote training on the Company’s mainly due to increased detection following zero serious injuries related to technological new system; a series of high-quality medical check-ups process and lower LTIFR are goals for executive at facilities of the Metals segment, conducted management across all our enterprises, making • E  xchanging best safe working practices with in partnership with the Moscow Scientific and OHS a primary concern for management at all other industry leaders. Research Institute of Occupational Medicine, levels of the group. The Group has developed as well as the hospitalisation of miners an action plan to further reduce LTIFR: In 2018, our LTIFR remained almost at the to the occupational disease clinic for in-depth same level as in 2017. A slight increase is examinations and treatment. • Z  ero tolerance by management to health associated with a small rise of both man-hours and safety violations; and work-related injuries. We take a proactive approach to managing health risk by continuously improving our • Investigations into all injuries, root cause We are aware that our operations can affect occupational disease prevention programs. As analysis and corrective actions; the health of our employees and take every a result, there were no employee or contractor possible precaution to protect their current and fatalities because of work-related ill health future well-being. in 2018. Lost time injury frequency rates per 200,000 hours worked in 2017-20181 Metals segment Power segment En+ Group 0,16 0,15 0,14 0,14 0,12 0,11 111 2017 2018 | 1.  he Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate, calculated by the T EN+ GROUP Group as lost time injuries per 200,000 man-hours. HEALTH AND SAFETY Lost-time accidents’ types of work distribution in the Metals segment, 2018 Equipment operation 1 Use of vehicles 4 Mining 4 Loading and unloading 7 Other types 14 Repair, comissioning, equipment operation 24 Work at height and movement on surface 31 Total 85 Employee occupational diseases in 2017-2018 Metals segment Power segment 2017 148 25 173 2018 153 31 184 112 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Lost-time accidents’ types of work distribution in the Power segment, 2018 Violation of trafﬁc moving trafﬁc rules 2 Exposure to steam and hot water 3 Falling from height 4 Beats by moving parts and mechanisms 4 Falling when moving 4 Electric current 6 Personal negligence 6 Total 29 Occupational disease rate (per 100 employees) in 2017-2018 0,253 Metals segment 0,250 Power segment En+ Group 0,214 0,208 0,126 0,101 2017 2018 113 | EN+ GROUP HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 403-2 403-5 403-7 Safety culture 403-8 404-2 development The Company devotes considerable effort • Risk-based approach; OHS training towards building a resilient safety culture to embed robust practices at every level within • Professionalism; the Group. These programs were launched Our employees are given safety inductions in collaboration with the Corporate University • Engagement. and complete introductory/refresher/targeted/ and included training for the NEBOSH unscheduled training sessions. As a part of International General Certificate (ICG). These values serve as the foundation the induction process, each employee must for the core safety rules and provide employees complete OHS training. Employees must regularly We improved the Safety Culture program in 2018, with easy-to-understand information pass knowledge tests for occupational and an initiative aimed at building a stronger safety on the requirements for safe behaviour. Our industrial safety. The Company offers regular culture and better employee engagement core safety rules make all employees keenly professional development programs. These in the safety management process. The program aware of what they need to do reduce and programs include both online self-study materials is to promote the highest possible OHS prevent workplace accidents. provided as part of the distance learning system management approach across the board. We and courses offered by the Corporate University. have implemented a Self-Suspension program, To ensure further declines in accident Both En+ Group’s business segments provide which grants each employee the guaranteed right numbers, we have implemented health and employees with the opportunity to train in multito refuse work that poses the risk of injury. Each safety KPIs for senior executives as part of functional training centres and acquire practical self-suspension is analysed in detail to minimise our safety culture initiatives. These KPIs skills and methods for working at height, using the risk of injury in the future. This program include a target 10% year-on-year reduction personal protective equipment and teamwork has been running since 2016. There were 226 in LTIFR across the Group and compliance for specific tasks. self-suspensions in 2018. Safety Culture program with the requirements of performance defines the Company’s five key culture values: monitoring. Performance monitoring tracks how well the following measures are being • Safety; implemented: inductions, knowledge testing, risk assessments, workplace inspections, • Leadership; investigations, staff engagement in risk management and injury prevention initiatives. 114 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE GRI 403-6 403-9 Prevention of occupational 403-10 injuries and diseases We are constantly working to decrease risk En+ Group launched a program to monitor also held every year to mark World AIDS Day. of occupational diseases. Our initiatives are the alcohol levels of employees as they enter aimed at prevention and diagnosis, as well as power facilities at two combined heat and Psychologists work with employees to alleviate providing rehabilitation services for all our power plants. The Company is planning to roll stress and other mental health issues. Our employees should they require them. out this system at all high-pressure thermal employees can rest in special relaxation rooms stations and hydroelectric power stations. that are fitted with massage chairs and other The most commonly reported occupational calming devices to help them unwind. illnesses were vibration disease and The Power segment has health centres that sensorineural hearing loss. En+ Group are equipped to provide employees with Our safety culture program provides employees specifically targets these occupational illnesses outstanding treatment and preventive care. with health resorts, voluntary health insurance in its health risk assessments and health They are staffed by top medical professionals and corporate discounts at fitness centres. management plans. The Metals segment who provide first aid, pre-shift and post-shift The Group also covers expenses for surgeries has developed a highly effective approach medical check-ups, alcohol tests and preventive and other medical procedures. to protect workers from vibration risks and medical examinations. All employees must has reduced vibration-related illnesses undergo the mandatory medical examinations by educating workers on how to select and use to diagnose any undetected conditions and anti-vibration personal protective equipment treat them quickly. The Company offers (PPE). vaccinations against flu and tick-borne encephalitis every year. To reduce the impact of potentially harmful operations on employees, the Company equips En+ cares deeply about the general health of them with PPE. For example, the Company has its employees. In 2018, the Company organised identified workplaces where employees require a diabetes awareness day where employees noise protection and has provided employees learned about diabetes situation at industrial with state-of-the art communication headsets. sites. Awareness events about HIV prevention are We are constantly working to decrease risk of occupational diseases. Our initiatives are aimed at prevention and diagnosis, as well as providing rehabilitation services for all our employees should they require them. 115 | EN+ GROUP HEALTH AND SAFETY Goals for 2019 and midterm period In 2019, the Group seeks to further improve •  ontinuously improving C • Developing a VR-based training; its health and safety performance. En+ Group the OHS management system, guided has set the following occupational health and by international best practices. •  aunching the Diagnosing Dangerous L safety and fire safety objectives: Behaviour project and developing related The Metals segment has set the following key training programs. •  chieving zero fatalities, zero serious workA objectives for 2019: related injuries related to technological The Power segment is planning the following process; • Introducing an “Automated information initiatives for 2019: system of production safety”; • Reducing LTIFR; • Implementing core rules for occupational • R  epairing the spillway at Achinsk Alumina safety; • Reducing occupational diseases; Refinery‘s hydro chemical treatment facility; • Implementing toolbox meetings at the start •  xceeding regulatory OHS requirements E • Implementation of the safe potline project of each work shift; to ensure the most robust safety at Krasnoyarsk Aluminium Smelter; environment; •  ontinuing to improve the centralised C •  ontinuation of the program to ensure C information portal for occupational safety; • P  roviding health and safety trainings better industrial safety and stronger for employees on a regular basis; employee motivation to reduce injuries and •  ontinuing to improve the occupational C promote safety culture at the North Urals safety monitoring system; •  nsuring that all employees understand E Bauxite Mine; that they have the right to refuse to perform • E  nsuring the bottom-up resolution of safety work posing an injury risk (self-suspension); • Introducing a training using simulators and issues by using problem-solving boards training environments; across the Group; 116 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE • A  dding visualisations of risk factors In 2019, the Group seeks to further to safety guidelines; improve its health and safety • M  onitoring the use of safety flashcards performance. En+ Group has set a set for potentially dangerous operations and changeovers; of occupational health and safety and • Introducing a company-wide colour system to designate dangerous areas and fire safety objectives. equipment parts. New technologies are also helping to reduce the risk of occupational illnesses. En+ Group is constantly implementing technical measures aimed to eliminate (where possible) or reduce such risks. In cases when such risks cannot be fully eliminated, state of the art personal protective equipment is provided to workers. 117 | EN+ GROUP EN+ GROUP | 118 Environmental protection Our sustainable development focus is set on environmental protection and climate change. We understand that our operations inevitably have an impact on water, land, air quality and biodiversity, and we therefore strive to mitigate and minimise our footprint 7.5 % reduction of direct GHG emissions of in everything we do. electrolysis operations 2018 vs 2014 (tCO2e/tAl) We will achieve this by adhering to and surpassing basic legal requirements and taking the initiative to launch our own environmental protection projects. 36 % decline in fresh water consumption by the Metals segment compared to 2008 1.2 mn young peled-fish were released into the Angara river basin over the past five years ALLOW brand of low-carbon footprint aluminium IN THIS SECTION • Management approach • Waste and safe tailings management • Climate change • Land rehabilitation • Energy • Biodiversity • Air emissions • Goals for 2019 and midterm period 119 • Water resources conservation | EN+ GROUP CLEAN WATER AFFORDABLE AND RESPONSIBLE LIFE AND SANITATION CLEAN ENERG Y CONSUMPTION ACTION ON LAN D AND PRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GRI 103-1 103-3 Management 103-2 approach En+ Group’s commitment to being a world The Group’s decision-making process is guided Sharing knowledge, skills and resources leader in addressing climate change and by the following principles: among departments are essential elements environmental issues means that it surpasses of our approach to environmental its legal obligations, running many voluntary •  he swift and comprehensive identification T management. As member of the Aluminium projects on environmental protection. and assessment of environmental and Stewardship Initiative (ASI), RUSAL played The Company is investing in the development climate risks; a role in the rollout of the ASI Performance of new technologies and the modernisation of Standard, which aims to support responsible equipment to enhance production efficiency • C  ompliance with all the necessary laws of management of aluminium production and reduce the environmental impact of its the countries where En+ Group operates to mitigate climate change. JSC EuroSibEnergo operations. We are continuously increasing and best practices; is a member of the International Hydropower the use of renewable power resources, and Association (IHA). The Company’s main areas improving waste recycling and processing •  commitment to minimising and A of cooperation with the IHA involve projects processes. preventing risks that may affect aimed at ensuring the sustainable development environment and climate; of hydroelectric facilities and developing The Company’s primary environmental methodologies to assess GHG emissions protection goals are: • R  egular interaction with stakeholders and from reservoir water surfaces. measured consideration of their opinions. • E  nhancing the environment surrounding Communicating with stakeholders and the Company’s production facilities; While adhering to all state legislation, respecting their opinions are among the Company has also adopted its own the guiding principles of the Group’s decision• C  onserving biodiversity in places where voluntary internal policies regulating making process. Environmental Managers En+ Group operates and participating environment protection. The company has of the Group’s business units are in regular in programs aimed at protecting threatened rigorous policies and procedures in place that direct contact with the Federal Service species; govern environmental risk management. Any for Supervision of Natural Resources. We also issues identified by government agencies and use public hearings to communicate with •  eveloping programs to protect Lake Baikal, D independent audit checks are quickly resolved a wide range of stakeholders, all of which its unique ecosystem and cultural heritage. and followed up with corrective measures. comply with local state legislation and take 120 | EN+ GROUP 1. F  or more detailed information, please refer to pp. 82-85, Scientific and technological development. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE place under the supervision of a government En+ Group’s commitment to being a body such as the Main Department of State Expertise. world leader in addressing climate En+ Group sets specific environmental goals change and environmental issues for itself each year. The reporting period saw many changes, including the restructuring means that it surpasses its legal of En+ Group’s corporate governance system and the formation of the Health, Safety and obligations, running many voluntary Environment (HSE) Committee. The Committee, projects on environmental protection. together with managers companywide, has been tasked with ensuring sustainable growth, decreasing the Company’s environmental impact and developing a comprehensive sustainability strategy and targets. There are a number of ongoing R&D projects1, such as testing red mud (alumina waste) treatment technologies, developing new value-added products, researching innovations in aluminium production and other initiatives aimed to facilitate more rational use of natural resources and improved environmental safety. 121 | EN+ GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GRI 305-1 305-5 Climate 305-2 change Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing our planet. We are constantly looking for ways to reduce our carbon footprint and are RUSAL’s climate working with a wide range of partners to enhance global policy and the industry’s response. initiatives Due to the energy-intensive nature of our businesses, minimising the impact production processes have on climate is one of our most important strategic aims. As detailed below, RUSAL already has an established GHG reduction strategy, including seven targets to be achieved by 2025. The En+ Group’s other companies are in the process of drawing up detailed and ambitious climate policies of their own. Various activities in the production of • T  o reduce direct specific greenhouse primary aluminium generate greenhouse gas emissions by 10% compared gases. These include stationary and to 2014 at the existing alumina mobile combustion, anode production, refineries; aluminium smelting, alumina production and other downstream processes. • T  o reduce the specific aluminium smelters power consumption by 7% RUSAL was the first company as compared to 2011; in the Group to implement climate mitigation schemes and launched its •  o achieve the average level T Safe Future Strategy Initiative, which of specific direct and indirect focuses on minimising the Company’s energy related greenhouse gas impact on the environment, air quality emissions from reduction processes and climate change. In 2016, RUSAL at the aluminium smelters not introduced seven strategic targets exceeding 2.7 t of CO2e/t Al1; for greenhouse gas emissions to be achieved by 2025: • T  o use internal carbon prices when making strategic and investment •  o ensure that at least 95% of electricity T decisions starting from 2017; 122 purchased by aluminium smelters comes | from hydroelectric power plants and •  o support Russian and international T other carbon-free power generating; initiatives and associations advocating active actions to prevent EN+ GROUP •  o reduce direct specific greenhouse gas T climate change and supporting emissions by 15% compared to 2014 carbon prices as long as they are at reduction processes at the existing aligned with the strategic goals of aluminium smelters; the company. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE One of the Metals segment’s strategic goals Dynamics of GHG emissions reduction in is to achieve a 15% reduction in direct the Metals segment, tCO2e/tAl greenhouse gas emissions at its existing aluminium smelters by 2025 compared to 2014 levels. Direct GHG emissions from aluminium smelters fell by 7.5% in 2018 compared to 2014 (down to 2.11 from 2.28 tCO₂e/tAl). 2014 2.28 In 2018, RUSAL’s greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3) were subjected to an independently verified certification 2017 2.2 by KPMG according to the requirements of ISO 14064-2016, the Aluminium Carbon 2018 2.11 Footprint Technical Support Document and 2016 IPCC Guidelines For National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. Previously, RUSAL’s greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2, 3) had been verified by QUANTIS and BSI. En+ Group companies are striving to comply with both national and international climate change regulations. En+ Group and of the initiative, aims to be transparent for every tonne of aluminium2, which is one RUSAL have joined the Climate Partnership about its GHG emissions and plans of the best levels in the global aluminium of Russia, an initiative that aims to help to release a report on its environmental industry. The ALLOW brand comes with Russian businesses mitigate climate performance according to the CDP guidelines independently verified carbon footprint change and become more environmentally in the nearest future. statements and ships worldwide. responsible. The Climate Partnership encourages companies to launch low carbon In 2017, RUSAL launched its ALLOW brand production processes and promote a greener of low-carbon footprint aluminium as part economy. http://climatepartners.ru/en/ of its carbon-free production strategy. The brand produces less than four tonnes of Both En+ Group and RUSAL are members greenhouse gas emissions in СО₂ equivalent of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), a World Bank initiative aimed at facilitating private sector collaboration 123 on reducing carbon emissions (https:// | www.carbonpricingleadership.org/partners). Since 2015, RUSAL has also been involved EN+ GROUP in the global Carbon Disclosure Project 1. S  melters’ direct emissions (scope 1) and (CDP) initiative that helps companies and indirect energy emissions (scope 2). cities disclose their environmental impact. 2. Smelters’ direct (scope 1) and indirect energy emissions RUSAL, along with other participants (scope 2). ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION En+ Group’s four HPPs, located in Bratsk, Irkutsk, Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse Krasnoyarsk and Ust-Ilimsk, are continuously gases in kt CO2e2 in 2017-20183 improving the efficiency of their turbines, boosting the amount of electricity generated without increasing the water flow. Scope 1 — Metals segment Scope 2 — Metals segment Scope 1 — Power segment The upgrades of HPP equipment will make it possible to increase electricity generation from the same volume of water by 2 TWh by 2022.1 In addition, thermal Power Plants 2017 26,010 3,037 20,893 49,940 modernisation envisages higher efficiency of boilers, turbines and ash removal equipment. 2018 23,865 1,995 22,792 48,652 These measures should cut greenhouse gas emissions by 69,000 tonnes of CO₂ per year and reduce emissions of other pollutants by 9,300 tonnes per year. The modernisation of our Siberian HPPs increases generation efficiency, allowing us to substitute coal-powered generation in the region (and thereby reduce GHG emissions). 1.8 mn tonnes of We are constantly looking for ways to СО2e were avoided in 2018. reduce our carbon footprint and are working with a wide range of partners to enhance global policy and the industry response. 124 | EN+ GROUP 1.  or more detailed information, please refer to p.88, Scientific and technological development. F 2. Metals segment: Aluminium smelters, alumina refineries, bauxite and nepheline mines, silicon production. Power segment: Enser, PJSC Irkutskenergo, LLC EuroSibEnergo — Hydrogeneration, Krasnoyarsk Hydro-Power Plant, Volgaenergo, Baikalenergo. 3. Scope 2 in Power segment is not applicable. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Forestry projects En+ Group has started to implement a new The Company consistently implements best As part of its contribution to the UN forest conservation and restoration project available technologies and governance Sustainable Development Goals related in 2018. As the leading global aluminium practices aimed at preventing and reducing to terrestrial ecosystem preservation and producer, En+ Group’s Metals segment greenhouse gas emission. To set off residual climate change, RUSAL is launching two pilot requires large amounts of energy and water. negative impact, the Metals segment of projects in 2019: tree planting and aerial The production of aluminium, which involves the Group implements forest ecosystem forest protection. Absorption will be primarily carbon anode production, fuel combustion conservation and restoration projects calculated on the basis of 2006 IPCC Guidelines and the anode effect, releases a substantial in conjunction with academic and public for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories amount of GHGs. Decreasing GHG emissions organisations, and representatives of methodology and recorded in the Russian is one of the Company’s main priorities. NGOs and local communities. The forest National Cadastre of Anthropogenic However, due to the physical and chemical projects make a significant contribution Emissions by Sources and Removals by Sinks processes required to produce aluminium, GHG to the development and preservation of boreal of all Greenhouse Gases not controlled emissions cannot be fully eliminated. Therefore, forests, natural complexes that play a critical by the Montreal Protocol, and other reporting the Company has decided to introduce several role in atmospheric CO₂ balancing and which documents submitted by Russia to the UNFCCC. carbon offset projects, with a particular are 6 to 7 times more effective in binding focus on reforestation, to compensate atmospheric carbon. for the unavoidable GHG emitted during production. To set off residual negative impact, the Metals segment of the Group implements forest ecosystem conservation and restoration projects in conjunction with academic and public organisations, and representatives of NGOs and local communities. 125 | EN+ GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GRI 302-1 302-4 Energy EU2 The Group’s power generation and energy En+ Group plans to produce at least 95% of Non-renewable efficiency strategy aims to increase output from hydro power plants, minimise electricity its aluminium using renewable hydropower by 2025, which coupled with other energysources transmission loss and use more energy saving measures, will cut its GHG emissions generated on-site. Target programs and to industry lows. Aluminium production Additional capacity, added in mid-2017, boosted energy efficiency projects are underway at all requires vast amounts of electricity. For this electricity consumption in the Metals segment the Company’s power generation facilities. reason, hydropower plays the crucial role in our in 2018. The Metals segment is constantly These include implementing energy-saving plans to produce our aluminium in the cleanest developing and introducing new energy technologies, optimising energy usage, way possible. efficiency innovations to ensure a sustained improving equipment design and technological reduction in energy consumption. The most processes (reducing heat loss, for example) and The main fuel source for the Company’s important efficiency initiative in 2018 updating regulations. combined heat and power plants (CHPs) is coal was the installation of 626 energy-saving from the Group’s coal segment, which fully electrolysers at our plants, saving a substantial covers internal coal demand and sells to third 160.3 million kWh of electricity per year. parties. In 2018, total coal production reached 16.2 mt while the Group’s thermal power plants Energy consumption at aluminium production generated 14.9 TWh of electricity. reduced by 86,911,354 kWh as a result of implementation of policies and initiatives in the field of energy efficiency, namely due to technological measures in 2018. The average specific energy consumption at the aluminium production decreased by 23 kWh per a tonne of aluminium produced and amounted to 16,211 kWh per a tonne of aluminium produced. Electric power output by Thermal energy output by energy source in 20181,% energy source in 20182,% 2.49 0.02 0.12 0.01 0.10 0.01 17.59 15.44 126 82.04 82.20 | 67% EN+ GROUP Hydropower Coal Gas Coal Gas Biomass Oil products Solar Biomass Oil products COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Fuel consumption from non-renewable sources by type of fuel1 in 2017-2018 Gas, mn m3 Metals segment Power segment 2017 2,808 1,028 3,836 2018 2,898 1,137 4,035 Heavy oil, kt Metals segment Power segment 2017 426 13 439 2018 380 13 393 Coal, kt Metals segment Power segment 2017 3,629 10,870 14,499 2018 3,590 11,876 15,466 127 | EN+ GROUP 1.  LC KraMZ, Enser, Volgaenergo, Baikalenergo, PJSC Irkutskenergo, LLC Eurosibenergo — L Hydrogeneration, Baikalenergo, JSC Krasnoyarsk Hydro-Power Plant. 2. LLC KraMZ, Enser, Volgaenergo, Baikalenergo, PJSC Irkutskenergo, LLC Eurosibenergo — Hydrogeneration, Baikalenergo, JSC Krasnoyarsk Hydro-Power Plant. 3. Power segment: PJSC Irkutskenergo, Enser, Volgaenergo, Baikalenergo. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GRI 305-7 Air emissions As a major industrial holding with various The Metals segment’s key emissions reduction a comprehensive plan to reduce emissions in 12 businesses spread across five continents, initiatives in 2018: Russian cities, including Krasnoyarsk, Bratsk and En+ Group is constantly working to reduce Novokuznetsk, as a part of the National Ecology its operational emissions. We are committed • Implementing the Eco-Søderberg Project and Clean Air Federal Program. This to complying with all the necessary internal technology at KrAZ, BrAZ, IrkAZ, and NkAZ; program aims to reduce air pollutant emissions and government regulations in all countries in these cities by at least 20% in 2024 compared where we have a presence. RUSAL and PJSC •  uilding and modernising gas treatment B to 2017. Selected some of the biggest polluters Irkutskenergo, which are part of En+ Group, plants at BrAZ, IrkAZ, NkAZ, KUBAL, UAZ, in the cities shall develop programs with are responsible for the majority of En+ Group’s Silicon, RUSAL Silicon Urals, and Achinsk a common 20% reduction target. pollutant emissions. Alumina Refinery). Emissions growth in the Power segment is Since 2018, En+ Group’s Metals and Power due to increasing power and heat generation segments have been implementing in 2018 in comparison with 2017. Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions (excluding greenhouse gases emissions and carbon monoxide emissions), tonnes1 in 2017-20182 Metals segment NOx air emissions, SOx air emissions, Particulate matter (PM), kt kt kt Power segment 99 248 98 71 226 68 56 61 47 51 190 212 21 20 36 36 42 38 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 128 | EN+ GROUP 1.  ower segment: Enser, PJSC Irkutskenergo, LLC EuroSibEnergo — Hydrogeneration, P JSC Krasnoyarsk Hydro-Power Plant, Volgaenergo, Baikalenergo, OJSC Irkutsk Electric Grid Company. 2. For more detailed information on air emissions, please refer to p.151 Appendices. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE GRI 303-1 303-2 303-3 Water resources 303-5 306-1 306-3 conservation Minimising the Company’s impact on water The Metals Water resources is one of the main focuses of En+ Group’s environmental protection strategy that segment withdrawal envisages: The Group’s Metals segment annually evaluates In the Metals segment, only the Aluminium • D  ecreasing the amount of fresh water used the impact of its activities on water resources Division uses seawater. Total intake was 22.9 in operational processes; through industrial environmental monitoring. mn m3 in 2017 and 25.5 mn m3 in 2018. In 2018, RUSAL used water resources for its • D  ecreasing the amount of waste water production needs in the Aluminium Division, The main sources of water intake in the Metals produced and the concentration of Alumina Division, New Projects Directorate and segment are: surface water, underground hazardous substances in it; Downstream Division. The Company does not sources, public water systems and seawater consume water from high-water-risk regions. (only at the KUBAL production facility • Increasing water recycling. for cooling castings and air emissions treatment discharges). En+ Group facilities retrieve water from both The Power surface and underground sources for its operational and production needs. Alumina segment The main sources of water intake in the Power segment are: surface water, underground refineries and power facilities are the Group’s sources, and public water systems. biggest water consumers due to their We recognise the impact the operations of technological requirements and processes. our Power segment have on water resources. The Company rarely suffers from water In response, we are reducing our water intake, shortages at its facilities and there are implementing water loss reduction processes, currently no critical water-related risks (water working closely with local and federal water consumption and disposal) in place. management agencies to improve the quality of wastewater treatment and installing new In the Power segment the En+ Group’s key water-efficient equipment. water saving initiatives in 2018 were: Two of our business units EnSer and • Installing a water recycling system at Volgaenergo operate in high-water-risk CHP-16 plant, reducing water consumption regions. Key performance indicators (KPIs) by 171 m3 per year; for branch directors in those units include “avoiding penalties for negative environmental • Installing a mist eliminator at Novoimpact”. We are currently conducting Irkutskaya CHP, reducing water consumption a comprehensive program to boost the resource by 170 m3 per year; and water efficiency of the equipment and operational processes at PJSC Irkutskenergo. •  echnical upgrades to Irkutskenergo T facilities, reducing water consumption by 212.2 m3 per year. 129 | EN+ GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Water consumption In 2018, The Metals segment cut fresh water in 2018 compared to 2017. Water discharge processes are in place to minimise spill risks consumption to 82.6 mn m3, which is 36% has been lowered by 62%, or 55 mn m3, and manage their consequences. less than in 2008. The Company is striving since 2008. to achieve its strategic goal of reaching 100% Water consumption growth in the Power recycled and reused water supply for the main The Metals segment only collects data segment is due to increasing power and heat production processes across the entire on unplanned discharges due to accidents. generation in 2018 in comparison with 2017. Company by 2022. RUSAL recorded no such cases in 2018. RUSAL only discharges waste water There were no significant spills during to surface bodies of water. The Metals the reporting period in the Group. The Metals segment increased water discharge of segment ensures that risk management industrial waste water by 0.6 mn m3, or 2%, Minimising the Company’s impact on water resources is one of the main focuses of En+ Group’s environmental protection strategy. 130 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Total water consumption from all sources in 2017-2018, thousand m3 1 Metals segment Power segment 2017 155,117 564,915 720,032 2018 147,510 642,433 789,943 In 2018, The Metals segment cut fresh water consumption to 82.6 mn m3, which is 36% less than in 2008. The Company is striving to achieve its strategic goal of reaching 100% recycled and reused water supply for the main production processes across the entire Company by 2022. 131 | EN+ GROUP 1.  ower segment: Enser, PJSC Irkutskenergo, LLC P EuroSibEnergo — Hydrogeneration, Volgaenergo, Baikalenergo, OJSC Irkutsk Electric Grid Company. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Lake Baikal Lake Baikal is the world’s deepest and largest freshwater body. The lake was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1996. We are passionate about its environmental protection. The Group has led initiatives to minimise the impact of humans on the lake and help conserve its habitats. The Angara River, the only river that flows from Lake Baikal, drives power generation at some of the Group’s HPPs. The Group focuses on the following areas when directing its efforts to conserve Baikal’s unique ecosystem: • H  ydropower plants (HPPs). The combined capacity of the Group’s cascade of three HPPs (Irkutsk, Bratsk and Ust-Ilimsk), whose construction began in 1958, is now 9 GW with annual electricity output of 36.8 TWh. In addition to Baikal, the HPPs are also fed by the Bratsk and Ust-Ilimsk reservoirs (3050%), which receive their water from other rivers; The Company has pledged to meet all •  ommitment to conservation of the natural C the regulatory requirements and laws environment. Volunteering initiatives • W  ater resource regulation at Baikal. set by the Russian government and local involving local communities, including The Federal Water Resources Agency authorities. The Group carefully monitors a major annual clean-up of the lake’s (FWRA) regulates the use of all water the maximum permissible limits set shoreline; the creation of environmental bodies, including the Angara River, where for fluctuations in Lake Baikal’s water levels. awareness campaigns to promote the Group’s HPPs operate. The FWRA Under the current government decree, which responsible behaviour and consideration regulates and strictly monitors the HPP is valid until 2020, the lake’s water level for nature and cooperation with NGOs cascade’s daily operational mode. Below is is allowed to fluctuate within a one metre to proactively address the main issues a list of the FWRA’s regulatory priorities: range. This limit was set following extensive affecting the lake; research conducted by the Water Problems −−Safety of the local population Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences • Joint research conducted with the Moscow (flood control); (RAS) in 2016 to assess the impact of water State University (MSU). In 2016, En+ Group −− Support the well-being of level changes on the ecosystem. and MSU initiated a series of studies 132 the local population (water on the key issues facing Baikal’s ecosystem. supply, irrigation); The Company is committed to using Baikal’s It was a massive bloom of filamentous algae −− | Water transportation; waters in a sustainable and responsible way. on the lake’s surface that initially caught −− Environmental conservation; The Group’s HPPs constantly monitor their the researchers’ attention. While the algae EN+ GROUP −− Electricity generation. influence on Baikal’s hydrological regime, themselves are not harmful, their presence tracks flooding and the safety of waterfront indicates that Baikal’s ecosystem is reacting settlements. to pollution (eutrophication). Research found that the algae blooming was occurring COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE all over the lake. The research project will for System Dynamics and Control Theory environmental initiatives together with continue in order to uncover the reasons (all three of the Siberian Branch of the RAS) NGOs. We are also collaborating with a local behind this flare-up of algae. We have also jointly carried out laboratory and field organisation, “Protect Baikal Together”, which studied synthetic polymer contamination research to assess the GHG emissions and helps the Company educate children about by measuring the microplastic content absorption of the Irkutsk and Krasnoyarsk the Irkutsk Region’s unique ecosystems and of Lake Baikal’s water and looking into HPP reservoirs. The analysis was also inspire a new generation of nature lovers. En+ its effect on aquatic ecosystems. In 2016, used to develop a method for calculating Group is partners with the “Great Baikal Trail” we sampled the surface layer of water reservoir GHG emissions in collaboration organisation and the “Revival of the Siberian by trawling along Baikal’s western and with researchers from the MSU. Land” Youth Charitable Foundation. RUSAL eastern shores. We are still analysing organises and participates in events such the samples and are continuing to monitor A scientific research and a monitoring expedition as the Yenisei Day environmental clean-up the lake’s water to identify the causes of aimed at protecting Baikal’s unique ecosystem will marathon and the Green Wave grant contest, pollution and develop ways to mitigate its be launched in 2019. The expedition will monitor which are outstanding opportunities for En+ negative impact. Lake Baikal over a three-year period, and will Group to engage with a wide range of its include historical data. stakeholders1. 133 •  easuring GHG emissions from reservoirs. M | Rising concerns about climate change In addition, En+ Group cooperates with its have prompted new initiatives to assess stakeholders on environmental protection EN+ GROUP the impact of HPP reservoirs as sources of issues through joint environmental projects. GHG emissions. In 2017, the Limnological For instance, Project 360 (a program 1. F  or more detailed information please refer to Institute, the Institute of Atmospheric to protect the ecosystem around Lake Baikal) pp. 146-147, Local community development Optics and the Matrosov Institute allows EN+ Group to implement many and p.83, Annual Report 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GRI 306-2 Waste and safe tailings MM3 management En+ Group’s main strategic waste management Alumina and aluminium The Company is investing significant resources target is to increase its share of recycling, safe disposal and storage. To achieve this, production waste in the construction of new waste disposal facilities as well as the reconstruction and the Group is actively developing new waste retrofitting of existing sites. In addition, management sites, as well as renovating and The most substantial types of waste generated the Group’s companies are making every effort modernising existing facilities to make sure by RUSAL are bauxite and nepheline residue, to reduce their impact on the environment waste is disposed of and stored safely. All which account for around 87% of all the waste by decreasing the number of landfills and our waste management sites are compliant created from alumina and aluminium production. using an ash and slag waste mixture to fill-in with the necessary regulations. To minimise RUSAL is working with R&D centres to develop unused mining areas for subsequent land the amount of waste stored in these facilities, and implement innovative methods to cut waste reclamation. we are also working to reduce how much generated during smelting and refining, even bauxite and nepheline residue (alumina waste) though it is considered non-toxic. The Group’s waste management priorities our Metals segment generates and the amount are to reduce the amount of waste generated of ash and slag waste produced by the Power at its production facilities, which is directly segment. Ash and slag influenced by the amount of coal extracted and waste environmentally safe waste disposal methods. The implementation of new technologies Ash and slag waste, generated by coal in coal refining processes reduced burning, account for the vast majority of the waste generated at coal facilities, such as the Power segment’s waste. The Group is the Cheremukhovskaya-Glubokaya mine, by up working intensively to improve its ash and to 60%. slag disposal and recycling processes and to reduce the amount of land used for waste The total amount of formed overburden disposal management. The Company is in the Metals segment was 28,658,486 tonnes cooperating with leading research centres in 2018. In the Power segment1, there were and manufacturing companies to develop and 114,404,232 tonnes of overburden generated implement waste management technologies in 2018. and solutions. Non-hazardous waste generated by each segment in 2017-2018, excluding overburden (from mining), mt2 Metals segment Power segment 2017 14.8 2.9 17.7 2018 13.8 2.8 16.6 134 | EN+ GROUP 1.  ower segment: Enser, PJSC Irkutskenergo, LLC EuroSibEnergo — Hydrogeneration, P Volgaenergo, OJSC Irkutsk Electric Grid Company, Baikalenergo. 2. Power segment: Enser. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Tailing dams The Company is working on strategic plans Persistent organic for the future development of mud and ash dumps in order to maintain safe storage while pollutants As part of its efforts to reduce its expanding production levels. Studies have been environmental impact, the Company conducts carried out to prove the effectiveness of the dry In line with the government’s commitments regular inspections, makes sure all the staff mud disposal process, which uses press filters under the Stockholm Convention on Persistent operating tailing dams are certified, gives to eliminate the liquid phase, significantly Organic Pollutants (POPs), En+ has developed technicians specialised training and studies reducing the impact of mud disposal areas. We a long-term plan to manage polychlorinated the dry bauxite and nepheline residue stacking are already implementing projects to improve biphenyl-containing waste by 2022. process to avoid the potentially harmful liquid our waste treatment processes by: phase at mud disposal areas. The Group’s Metals segment waste •  odernising the dry ash discharge plant M management activities are designed to achieve The Company’s business units use a highly at Novo-Irkutsk CHP to increase the volume specific key strategic goals: increasing the share systematic approach to ensure the safety of fly ash disposal; of recycling and reuse of waste, safe storage of tailing dams at all the stages of their life and disposal of waste, completely eliminating cycle. En+ Group constantly strives to reduce • Installing a pilot plant to extract iron the use of PCB (polychlorinated biphenyl) the environmental impact of tailing dams concentrate at CHP-9; equipment and the safe disposal of PCB waste. throughout the life cycle and monitors their safety on a regular basis. •  elling ash waste to manufacturers of S construction materials. The monitoring process involves the identification of any violations of bauxite mud and ash disposal procedures. All tailing dams undergo annual internal technical and environmental audits to identify potential safety risks. En+ Group’s main strategic waste management target is to increase its share of recycling, safe disposal and storage. 135 | EN+ GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GRI MM1 Land rehabilitation One of our most important responsibilities is the rehabilitation of the land we use in our Aughinish Alumina Ltd waste operations. We ensure the safety of tailings dams by developing comprehensive land management initiatives reclamation schemes as tailings approach the end of their service lives and when decommissioning ash and mud dumps. Mining, refining and smelting disturb land and we recognise our legal and social responsibility to restore and rehabilitate. We develop detailed individual rehabilitation plans for each site to identify their specific risks, scope and resource requirements.  n+ Group aims to rehabilitate any E contaminated or disturbed land resulting from its operations. The Company’s mainly focuses its rehabilitation efforts on disturbed land after open-pit mining activities are finished and waste disposal facilities such as ash dumps and landfills.1 One example of En+ Group’s best in place for many years to improve visual practices in waste management and land perspectives. One of the Company’s priorities rehabilitation is the management of is to develop ways to re-use the bauxite the Bauxite Residue Disposal Area (BRDA) residue. Aughinish is actively participating at Aughinish, Ireland. Aughinish has in European projects to develop and test implemented best available technology technology to prepare bauxite residue’s reto treat the residue by using industrial use, for example as an engineered inorganic mud farming process. Vegetation polymer for construction materials. and screening programs have been 136 | EN+ GROUP 1. F  or more detailed information about the land disturbed and rehabilitated, please refer to p.151, Appendices. COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Biodiversity En+ Group’s production facilities are located For many years, the Company has been an active the current condition of the environment, across Russia and the world. However, member of the Environmental Monitoring project, adjust our environmental protection activities the Group’s main assets are located in Siberia, which monitors specially protected areas located and design solutions to reduce the potential a unique ecoregion with rare plant and animal near the Group’s industrial facilities. Monitoring impact of the region’s industrial development. species only found in this area. Conserving activities are conducted in partnership with Moreover, the research results represent a unique biodiversity is a key principle of sustainability, the Strana Zapovednaya National Foundation, and regularly-updated scientific database which is why En+ Group is leading long-term the Shushensky Bor National Park, and on the ecosystems of Russia’s northern regions. regional projects aimed at achieving this goal. the Khakassky and Sayano-Shushensky natural reserves in several administrative districts (Shushensky, Yermakovsky, Kuraginsky, Karatuzsky, The Power segment The Metals segment and Minusinsky) of the Krasnoyarsk Territory and southern regions of the Republic of Khakassia. Field studies were conducted in 18 pine forests Over the past five years, the Power segment has During the reporting year, we conducted a wide located within the emission impact area of our been running a successful program to restore range of long-term projects aimed at maintaining aluminium smelters and beyond. Our research aquatic biological resources, artificially and preserving the biological diversity of findings have shown that fluorine concentrations reproducing and releasing more than 1.2 million the Stolby Nature Reserve near Krasnoyarsk. in the vegetation cover and soil do not exceed young peled (a type of northern whitefish) Since signing an agreement in 2014, the Stolby permitted levels. into the Belaya River, a tributary of the Angara Nature Reserve and KrAZ have been jointly River, and the Bratsk Reservoir. The peled were monitoring pollution levels in snow, water bodies Scientists at the Komi Research Centre’s released from the Belsky Fishery Plant in 2018 and vegetation at the reserve. This monitoring Biology Institute (Ural Branch of the Russian as part of the Baikal Interregional Environmental program also surveys the quality and condition of Academy of Sciences) monitor fish populations Prosecutor’s Office’s Filling Reservoirs with Life local soils, plants, water, bed sediments and snow in the Vym River around the Timan bauxite event. This initiative aimed to raise awareness cover. deposit development area. The resulting among the public, organisations and industrial data shows that the quality of water and facilities about the importance of conserving We use a comprehensive approach to analyse the natural environment have not been exposed and replenishing fish populations in Lake Baikal the chemical composition of various substances to significant industrial pollution. However, and rivers of the Angara and Yenisei water and identify potential extrinsic pollutants the research did uncover a sustained decline basins. (industrial air pollution, exhaust fumes, in the populations of the main commercial burning fossil fuels), allowing us to distinguish fish species, although this is unrelated In 2018, we focused on breeding ecologically them from the natural chemicals endemic to the operation of the Group’s mines. Monitoring important fish species with almost 290 thousand to the Reserve. provides data that can be used to assess juvenile fish due to be released in 2019. 137 | EN+ GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Goals for 2019 and midterm period While the Group has already introduced new In 2018, there were no major amendments • R  emoval and recycling of all PCB-containing environmental policies across its various units, to environmental legislation in the Group’s equipment; it is also planning to draw up an integrated countries of operation or in its internal policies, environmental and climate strategy that will nor were there any environmental violations • S  tandardisation of corporate and public cover the whole of En+ Group. that could lead to subsequent risks. environmental reporting; Environmental risk assessments are considered En+ Group is planning to set sustainability • Inventory of greenhouse gas emissions a risk management priority. The company targets and long-term strategy for the Group’s for the group and standardised public is currently working on an environmental companies to give them a clear framework reporting on climate change; risk strategy and a standardised approach for reducing their environmental impact. Our to environmental and climate risk assessments. main focus and improvement areas in 2019 •  erification of the carbon footprint of V include: the Group's products and services; The Company’s legal documents are regularly updated to reflect any legislative • Implementation of Best Available •  xpansion of the target market for ALLOW E changes or government instructions Process Techniques (BATs) related to the emissions and ASI aluminium; improvement reviews and other essential of air pollutants, easing burden on fresh policy developments can also prompt changes. water sources and increasing the share of • Improvement of the performance of hydro waste utilisation/recycling; power turbines. • E  asing the effect waste disposal sites and Specific KPIs have also been established mines have on the environment, including from 2019 onwards to further reduce on land rehabilitation; the Company’s impact on the environment. 138 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE While the Group has already introduced new environmental policies across its various units, it is also planning to draw up an integrated environmental and climate strategy that will cover the whole of En+ Group. 139 | EN+ GROUP EN+ GROUP | 140 Local community development En+ Group aims to improve cooperation and partnership across community groups, local authorities and nonprofit organisations. The Company strives to provide social support and implement a wide range of initiatives in areas such as infrastructure and social development, 21 regional and federal businesses joined volunteering, sports and healthy living, culture and arts, the Irkutsk branch of the National Council for Corporate Volunteering education, and social entrepreneurship. ~800 children participated in the RoboSib festival ~16,500 volunteers took part in the eco-event to clean up Baikal’s shoreline over 650 young entrepreneurs have participated in the Environmental Entrepreneurship School Project IN THIS SECTION • Management approach • Socio-economic contribution • Goals for 2019 and midterm period 141 | EN+ GROUP GOOD HEA LTH LIFE AND WEL L-BEING ON LAN D SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT GRI 103-1 103-2 103-3 Management 403-6 413-1 approach We are dedicated to the development of local The Board and the Management team of En+ The Metals segment community initiatives are communities and aspire to make a positive Group play essential roles in determining our formalised by the Social Policy of RUSAL and contribution to the well-being and social overall strategic approach to working with managed by: life of all the regions where we operate. communities, overviewing annual results The Company is focused on maximising and discussing future development plans. • T  he Centre for Social Programs the impact and reach of its social projects The Executive function is performed through (CSP) corporate charity fund; to offer local communities a wide spectrum the Social Policy Committees created in both of support and assistance. Local communities segments. The Social Policy Committee of •  he Centre for Innovations in Social Sphere, T are the people who live near our company's each segment meets monthly and consists an autonomous non-profit organisation sites and are affected in some way by our of experts from the Financial, PR, GR, HR and that runs the educational programs activities. Their main concerns are about Security Service departments. The Committee for development of social entrepreneurship. the state of the environment and the influence determines social investment priorities of our production facilities, economic situation and financing areas, approves budgets and The Power segment has developed a Social in the region, tax contributions to local funding applications sent by the social Investment Regulation. It came into effect budgets, the availability of jobs and decent project committees of production facilities, in 2019 with the aim to build a more wages, social guarantees, access to good and determines strategies to position social robust governance framework for its social education and future employment prospects. projects within a specific region of operation. investments. These are the crucial factors people take into account when deciding where to live, work and The social project committees of our The Company’s community development raise their children. production facilities are collegial bodies programs are based on the needs of the local that review all requests for charitable communities and focus on the following key Our commitment to supporting the quality of assistance from local communities and areas: life and resilience of local communities builds make recommendations to The Social Policy a positive social climate and relationships Committee. • social infrastructure and urban environment; based on respect, understanding and trust. • education; • sports, healthy lifestyles and recreation; • social entrepreneurship; • v olunteering, including corporate volunteering; • a ssistance to socially vulnerable population groups; • healthcare. 142 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Socio-economic contribution The Metals segment carries out an impact Despite significant external challenges work to improve and resume these projects assessment of the community programs in 2018, most notably the inclusion of En+ in the future. The chart below represents executed. A number of indicators are used Group on the US Treasury’s sanction list, data on En+ Group community investment to determine their relevance and sustainability. our social programs kept on functioning in the Metals and Power segments. In the reporting period, RUSAL developed in full accordance with our obligations to our an internal monitoring system of implemented stakeholders. Although unavoidable budget RUSAL Territory competition winning projects. cuts put some of our projects on hold, we will This monitoring system was integrated and tested, and includes methodological recommendations and regulatory documents, We are dedicated to the development including a checklist for managers and instructions to grantees on how to provide of local communities and aspire to reports on project realisation. make a positive contribution to the The Company plans to continue enhancing its community initiatives, assessing their impact well-being and social life of all the and launching new programs to maximise the positive impact they have on the regions regions where we operate. of presence. Community investment in 2017-2018, USD mn Metals segment Power segment 2017 24 11 35 2018 22 9 31 143 | EN+ GROUP LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Projects of the Metals In 2018, a number of public spaces The 'Helping is Easy' program segment in the historical centre of Krasnoyarsk were renewed, creating a modern, comfortable and We launched our 'Helping is Easy' program safe environment for the city’s residents and to encourage volunteering. We held Infrastructure projects visitors alike. This initiative will continue in 2019 a competition in 16 cities and regions where with the addition of modern architectural design we operate to allow entrants to bid for grants The RUSAL Territory program is primarily focused to city centre spaces and the construction of for a wide range of community and charitable on improving the quality of life in the regions a new playground. projects. Following the competition, we gave where the Metal segment operates by supporting out 55 grants to volunteer initiatives totalling urban development, creating new public and RUSAL FestivAL project USD 41,461 and provided another USD 23,920 cultural spaces, renovating social infrastructure in co-financing. facilities and organising cultural, educational and RUSAL FestivAL is a major social and cultural sports events. project encompassing a wide range of events The ‘Helping is Easy’ program features other across the towns where the Company operates. major events, such as The New Year Marathon, Starting in 2011, the program has supported 636 The event aims to stimulate interest in local art which involved more than 1,100 volunteers, and social and infrastructure projects in 22 cities and and culture and inspire the next generation of Yenisei Day, which includes adventure games, small towns. It has helped build and renovate scientists and innovators. lectures, creative workshops and seminars 230 social facilities, enhancing the quality of on environmental issues. The Company is social infrastructure for more than half a million In 2018, students and graduates of the Moscow currently moving away from small events hosted local residents. We closely collaborated with Art Theatre Studio School toured seven Russian by individual institutions to larger, city-wide partners on the ground and invested a total of cities (Sayanogorsk, Bratsk, Achinsk, Shelekhov, formats done in collaboration with partners. USD 11,928 mn to support the implementation Ukhta, Syktyvkar and Krasnoyarsk) with of these projects. RUSL’s support. In addition to assistance with events and workshops, the Company helped the school to hold auditions for young people and select future students in four Siberian cities (Krasnoyarsk, Irkutsk, Abakan, and Bratsk). Despite significant external challenges in 2018 our social programs kept on functioning in full accordance with our obligations to our stakeholders. 144 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE School of Urban Change The School of Urban Change was created in 2017 Combating highly infectious as part of the RUSAL Territory competition to form and train action teams focused diseases (Guinea) on tackling pressing social issues. In 2018, the School of Urban Change became a separate independent social and educational program, providing training to target groups on all the social programs of the Company. In 2018, the program held 119 events costing a total of USD 61,872 and involving 3,128 participants, 79 experts from St Petersburg, Moscow, Tyumen, Novosibirsk, Yekaterinburg, Barnaul, and 66 partners. We conducted one of our most important with local volunteers, gave hope to people initiatives in the Republic of Guinea, where across West Africa that a long-term solution RUSAL is not just one of the largest foreign to the deadly threat of the Ebola virus can be investors in bauxite mining, but also found. As part of the RUSAL-funded testing a leading supporter of social development. program, 2,000 people in the Republic of The Company helped fight the spread Guinea have been vaccinated. of the Ebola virus by quickly organising the construction of medical infrastructure and providing funding to develop the GamEvac-Combi vaccine. The launch of a vaccination program in Guinea, starting 145 | EN+ GROUP LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Projects of the Mounting the Skies Everyone! Power segment A collaborative two-segment project Project 360 En+ continues to conduct Project 360, an ecoevent to clean up Lake Baikal’s shoreline, as part of its conservation efforts to protect the world’s largest freshwater lake. The project brought together about 16,500 volunteers, including participants from 30 international and regional companies such as Nestle, Philip Morris, Alfa Bank, and Tele2, in addition to ordinary people from across the Irkutsk Region and Buryatia. There were 328 clean-up sites all around the lake. As part of the project, environmental awareness campaigns were launched in Irkutsk and Bratsk with the full backing and support of city authorities. Project 360 brings together En+ Group’s other environmental initiatives that are jointly undertaken with NGOs. Cooperation with a local organisation, Protect Baikal Together, One of the Company’s largest projects In 2018, En+ Group upgraded tracks enables the Company to educate children supporting sports and healthy lifestyles is at the Angarsky skiing and biathlon centre. about the Irkutsk Region and its unique ‘Mounting the Skies Everyone!’. The main The centre now has the only floodlit skiing ecosystems. Children are taught to observe goals of the project, jointly run by En+ and roller ski track in the region and can nature, understand environmental processes, Group, RUSAL, and the Russian Cross host summer biathlon competitions. In 2018, and assess the impact of humans on the world Country Ski Federation, are to promote the Group developed and launched an online around us. Through its partnership with skiing and nurture talent in youth and distance-learning platform to promote Great Baikal Trail, an organisation focused junior ski teams. Under the project, the project’s educational course. It has also on environmental education and sustainable the Company formed partnerships with supported the development and pilot launch development, En+ Group supports responsible regional sports administrations, provided in Russia of snow-sealing machines to prepare eco-tourism in the region, creating safe tourist 940 units of skiing equipment to junior ski rolling tracks for cross country skiing. En+ trails and reducing the impact of human teams, and supported the preparation and Group intends to continue projects developing activity on the fragile Baikal ecosystem. launch of educational courses which were winter sports infrastructure in the regions taken by 402 skiing coaches working with where it operates. junior teams and children. In the past three 146 years, about 50,000 winter sports fans En+ Group is the general sponsor of in 15 Russian cities have been involved the Baikal-Energy hockey club and its youth | in the initiative. development program. EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE The Environmental Entrepreneurship the project educated people about eco-friendly Irkutsk branch of the National Council School Project (EESP) living. Local shoppers could also meet artisans, for Corporate Volunteering ask questions and learn new skills. The project The Environmental Entrepreneurship School gave locals residents a chance to make a real En+ founded the Irkutsk branch of the National Project (EESP) is a partnership between En+ contribution to the conservation of the Baikal Council for Corporate Volunteering (NCCV), Group and the Revival of the Siberian Land Nature Reserve. an association that brings together 21 national Youth Charitable Foundation. It is the first and and regional companies to promote corporate only educational Russian project to develop RoboSib volunteering as a key channel for building environmental entrepreneurship. Its main festival sustainable relationships with local communities. goal is to identify new ideas and support The member companies represent a variety small businesses in Irkutsk and the Irkutsk In 2018, En+ Group held the sixth RoboSib of sectors, including FMCG, energy, NGOs, Region that enhance resource saving and are festival, main Siberian event, in Irkutsk. telecommunication, oil, retail, transport etc. environmentally responsible. For the first time that year, competitions were not limited to robotics, but also We are proud that the experience we have The School met for the 14th semester included other professional contests, united accumulated since 2011 by implementing volunteer in autumn 2018. Experts in environmental by the Professionals of the Future program. programs can be useful to other participants of protection, business, finance, consulting, Competitions were set up to allow participants NCCV’s Irkutsk branch. This means that by joining marketing and socio-economic development to envisage the trajectory of their professional our forces we can do even more for the region and helped students organise their ideas into advancement: from the early stages the local community. a real business plan by showing how green to the development of projects that have technologies could make any business more the potential to be implemented in real life. In 2019, the council plans to organise joint volunteer profitable. Over the course of the partnership actions, which we will cover in the next report. since 2012, more than 650 young entrepreneurs The program creates a system of targeted have participated in the project and pitched training for young people considering over 250 new business ideas. a career in engineering by encouraging the development of key competencies of The “Made in Baikal” the future and immersing the participants eco-fair in real business environment and identifying priority regional development areas. The project is a continuation of the EESP project that has been supported The festival was attended by schoolchildren by the Company for many years. On the New and preschoolers, as well as students of Year’s eve, 30 eco-entrepreneurs were provided technical schools and colleges from the Irkutsk, with a platform to sell their goods to the public Kemerovo, Leningrad, Samara and Sverdlovsk in Ulan-Ude. Their produce included taiga berry regions, the Krasnoyarsk and Transbaikal juice, fruit chips, herbal tea, wooden handicrafts, territories, the republics of Buryatia, Khakassia knitted toys, traditional Buryat boots and and Tyva. A total of about 800 people dolls in national Buryat costumes. In addition attended the event, representing 212 teams to an interesting shopping experience, from 20 cities. 147 | EN+ GROUP LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Goals for 2019 and midterm period In 2019, En+ Group plans to finalise The main 2019 goals for the Metals sector are: The main 2019 goals for the Power sector are: the new corporate social strategy and define the projects that will have the biggest •  articipation in creating a comfortable P • R  eview the current social projects and impact on the development of the regions urban environment by supporting assess their efficiency to define new of Company’s presence. The key aim of the construction and reconstruction community strategy and targets; the Company is to focus on large-scale projects of social infrastructure facilities and that have long-term impact and benefit modern public and recreational spaces; •  nhance management approach E for society. to community investment, including • D  evelopment of corporate volunteering, the creation of more robust internal broad involvement in volunteer activities regulation mechanisms; of employees of enterprises and residents of the regions of operation. • Implement a new community program for urban infrastructure projects in the regions of operation. In 2019, En+ Group plans to finalise the new corporate social strategy and define the projects that will have the biggest impact on the regions of Company’s presence development. 148 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE 149 | EN+ GROUP APPENDICES GRI MM1 201-1 Additional 305-7 information Direct economic value generated and distributed, USD mn Metals Power Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 USD mn USD mn USD mn i. Direct economic 11,267 10,606 3,151 3,241 13,368 12,736 value generated Revenue 10,280 9,969 3,147 3,235 12,378 12,094 Share of profits of associates 955 620 (7) 1 948 621 and joint ventures Interest income on loans 32 17 11 5 42 21 ii. Economic value distributed (9,234) (9,053) (2,609) (3,138) (10,795) (10,938) Operating costs (8,202) (7,766) (1,806) (1,915) (8,959) (8,571) including employee wages (739) (718) (396) (415) (1,135) (1,133) Retirement costs (173) (197) (75) (80) (248) (277) Community investments (22) (24) (9) (11) (31) (35) Payments to providers (501) (886) (483) (879) (985) (1,622) of capital including dividends paid 0 (299) (68) (350) (68) (505) including financial expenses (501) (587) (415) (529) (917) (1,117) Payments to government (336) (180) (236) (253) (572) (433) by country 150 including income tax (305) (140) (157) (179) (462) (319) | iii. Economic value retained: EN+ GROUP ‘direct economic value 2,033 1,553 542 103 2,573 1,798 generated’ less ‘economic value distributed’ COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Amount of land disturbed or rehabilitated, hectares Total land disturbed and Total amount Total amount of land Total land disturbed and not yet not yet rehabilitated as of land newly newly rehabilitated rehabilitated as of 31.12.20181 of 01.01.2018 disturbed during during 2018 2018 to the agreed end use Metals segment 2,742.55 204.63 (53.47) 2,893.71 Power segment2 9,533.72 244.10 (0.00) 9,777.82 Total 12,276.27 448.73 (53.47) 12,671.53 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions (excluding greenhouse gas and carbon monoxide emissions), kt Metals segment Power segment3 Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 NOx 20 21 51 47 71 68 SOx 36 36 212 190 248 226 Total fluoride (gaseous 7 7 7 7 and solid fluoride) Particulate matter (PM) 38 42 61 56 99 98 Other standard categories of emissions into 10 10 7 7 17 17 the atmosphere 151 | 1.  otal land disturbed and not yet rehabilitated as of 31.12.2018 = Total land disturbed and not yet rehabilitated as of T EN+ GROUP 01.01.2018 + Total amount of land newly disturbed during 2018 Total amount of land newly rehabilitated during 2018 to the agreed end use. 2. Power segment: Enser, PJSC Irkutskenergo. 3. Power segment is represented by Enser, PJSC Irkutskenergo, LLC EuroSibEnergo — Hydrogeneration, JSC Krasnoyarsk Hydro-Power Plant, Volgaenergo, Baikalenergo, OJSC Irkutsk Electric Grid Company. APPENDICES GRI Content Index GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comments GRI 102 General disclosures 1. Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation At a glance, p. 22 102-2 Activities, brands, About the Report, p. 2 products, and services At a glance, p. 22 102-3 Location of headquarters At a glance, p. 22 102-4 Location of operations Market presence, p.26 102-5 Ownership and legal form About the Report, p. 2 Corporate overview, p. 28 102-6 Markets served Market presence, p. 26 102-7 Scale of the organisation At a glance, p. 22 For a list of significant subsidiaries, please refer to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year Personnel structure, p. 93 ended 31 December 2018 https://www.enplusgroup. Market presence, p. 26 com/en/investors/results-and-disclosure/ 102-8 Information on employees Personnel structure, p. 93 Partially disclosed due to data collection processes and other workers not standardised in the Company as the Report is issued for the first time. Disclosure of this indicators is to be improved in the next reporting period. 102-9 Supply chain Supply chain, p. 75 102-10 Significant changes Supply chain, p. 75 to the organisation and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Risk management system, p. 44 Principle or approach Strategy and sustainability 152 management, p. 57 | 102-12 External initiatives Association membership, p. 64 EN+ GROUP 102-13 Membership of associations Association membership, p. 64 COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comments 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior Message from Executive decision-maker Chairman of the Board, p. 12 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and Risk management system, p. 44 opportunities 3. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Strategy and sustainability and norms of behaviour management, p. 56 Ethics and integrity, p. 49 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Ethics and integrity, p. 49 concerns about ethics 4. Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance system, p. 34 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate governance system, p. 34 102-20 Executive-level responsibility Corporate governance for economic, environmental, system, p. 34 and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders Stakeholder on economic, environmental, engagement, p. 63 and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest Corporate governance governance body and system, p. 34 its committees 153 102-23 Chair of the highest Corporate governance governance body system, p. 34 | EN+ GROUP 102-24 Nominating and selecting Corporate governance the highest governance body system, p. 34 APPENDICES GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comments 102-25 Conflicts of interest Ethics and integrity, p. 49 Partially disclosed 102-26 Role of highest governance Corporate governance body in setting purpose, system, p. 34 values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of Corporate governance highest governance body system, p. 34 102-29 Identifying and managing Strategy and sustainability economic, environmental management, p. 56 and social impacts Internal control, p. 42 Identification of material topics, p. 62 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Risk management system, p. 44 management processes Internal control, p. 42 102-32 Highest governance body’s role About the Report, p. 2 in sustainability reporting 102-36 Process for determining Corporate governance remuneration system, p. 34 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder engagement, p. 63 102-41 Collective bargaining Social benefits, p. 103 agreements Employees — Management Approach, p. 92 102-42 Identifying and selecting Stakeholder engagement, p. 63 stakeholders 154 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Stakeholder engagement, p. 63 engagement | 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder engagement, p. 63 EN+ GROUP Identification of material topics, p. 62 COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comments 6. Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included Boundaries of the Report, p. 2 in the consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content Identification of material and topic Boundaries topics, p. 62 102-47 List of material topics Identification of material topics, p. 62 102-48 Restatements of information About the Report, p. 2 This is the Company's first Sustainability Report since listing on the London Stock Exchange 102-49 Changes in reporting About the Report, p. 2 This is the Company's first Sustainability Report since listing on the London Stock Exchange 102-50 Reporting period About the Report, p. 2 Significant events (excluding numeric indicators) disclosed until 1 July 2019 102-51 Date of most recent report About the Report, p. 2 This is the Company's first Sustainability Report since listing on the London Stock Exchange 102-52 Reporting cycle About the Report, p. 2 Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions Contact information, p. 5 regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting About the Report, p. 2 in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index, p. 152 102-56 External assurance — For the reporting period (2018), external assurance 155 was not carried out. This year En+ Group focused | on improvement of internal sustainability reporting system. The Group made a strategic EN+ GROUP decision to obtain independent assurance for the Report for the next reporting period. APPENDICES GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comments GRI 103 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material Identification of material topic and its boundary topics, p. 62 Ethics and integrity, p. 49 Employees — Management Approach, p. 92 Health and safety — Management approach, p. 108 Environmental protection — Management approach, p. 120 Local community development —Management approach, p. 142 103-2 The management approach Ethics and integrity, p. 49 and its components Employees — Management Approach, p. 92 Health and safety — Management approach, p. 108 Environmental protection — Management approach, p. 120 Local community development —Management approach, p. 142 103-3 Evaluation of Risk management system, p. 46 the management approach Ethics and integrity, p. 49 Employees — Management Approach, p. 92 Health and safety — Management approach, p. 108 156 Environmental protection — Management approach, p. 120 | Local community development — EN+ GROUP Management approach, p. 142 COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comments GRI 200 Economic GRI 201 Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value Additional information, p. 150 generated and distributed 201-4 Financial assistance received Corporate overview, p. 28 Partially disclosed from government GRI 204 Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending Supply chain, p. 75 on local suppliers GRI 205 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training Ethics and integrity, p. 44 about anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI 300 Environmental GRI 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption Energy, p. 126 Partially disclosed within the organisation 302-4 Reduction of energy Energy, p. 126 Partially disclosed consumption GRI 303 Water and effluents 303-1 Interactions with water Water resources Partially disclosed as a shared resource conservation, p. 129 303-3 Water withdrawal Water resources Partially disclosed conservation, p. 129 157 | 303-5 Water consumption Water resources EN+ GROUP conservation, p. 129 APPENDICES GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comments GRI 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Climate change, p.122 Partially disclosed 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope Climate change, p.122 Partially disclosed 2) GHG emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate change, p.122 Partially disclosed 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur Air emissions, p.128 Partially disclosed oxides (SOX), and other Additional information, p. 151 significant air emissions GRI 306 Effluents and waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality Water resources Partially disclosed and destination conservation, p. 129 306-2 Waste by type and Waste and safe tailings Partially disclosed disposal method management, p. 134 306-3 Significant spills Water resources Partially disclosed conservation, p. 129 GRI 307 Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with Segment 2018 2017 environmental laws and regulations Metals (USD) 17,582 35,920 Power (USD) 3,700 685 Total (USD) 21,283 36,605 GRI 308 Supplier environmental assessment 308-1 New suppliers that Supply chain, p. 75 Partially disclosed 158 were screened using | environmental criteria EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comments GRI 400 Social GRI 401 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and Personnel structure, p. 93 Partially disclosed employee turnover 401-2 Benefits provided to fullSocial benefits, p. 103 Partially disclosed time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 403 Occupational health and safety 403-1 Occupational health and Health and safety — safety management system Management approach, p. 108 403-2 Hazard identification, Health and safety risk assessment, and performance, p. 105 incident investigation Health and safety — Management approach, p. 108 Safety culture development, p. 114 403-3 Occupational health services Health and safety — Management approach, p. 108 403-5 Worker training Safety culture on occupational development, p. 114 health and safety 159 | EN+ GROUP APPENDICES GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comments 403-6 Promotion of worker health Learning and development, p. 100 Prevention of occupational injuries and diseases, p. 115 Social benefits, p. 103, Health and safety — Management approach, p. 108, Health and safety performance, p. 105 403-7 Prevention and mitigation Health and safety — of occupational health and Management approach, p. 108 safety impacts directly linked Safety culture by business relationships development, p. 114 403-8 Workers covered Safety culture by an occupational health and development, p. 114 safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries Health and safety Partially disclosed performance, p. 110 Prevention of occupational injuries and diseases, p. 115 403-10 Work-related ill health Health and safety performance, p. 110 Prevention of occupational injuries and diseases, p. 117 GRI 404 Training and education 404-2 Programs for upgrading Safety culture employee skills and transition development, p. 114 assistance programs Learning and 160 development, p. 100 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE GRI Indicator Disclosure Page number (or link) Comments GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance Corporate governance Partially disclosed bodies and employees system, p. 34 Employees — Management Approach, p. 92 GRI 413 Local communities 413-1 Operations with local Local community community engagement, development, p. 141 impact assessments, and development programs GRI 414 Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were Supply chain, p. 79 Partially disclosed screened using social criteria GRI Metals and Mining Supplement Indicators MM1 Amount of land disturbed Land rehabilitation, p. 136 of rehabilitated Additional information, p.151 MM3 Total amounts of overburden, Waste and safe tailings rock, tailings, and sludges management, p. 134 and their associated risks MM4 Number of strikes and Personnel structure, p. 93 Partially disclosed lock-outs exceeding one week’s duration, by country GRI Electric Utilities Supplement Indicators EU1 Installed capacity, broken Energy, p. 126 Installed capacity in the Power segment was down by primary energy source 32,253 MW in 2017 and 31,229 MW in 2018 and by regulatory regime 161 | EU2 Net energy output broken Energy, p. 126 EN+ GROUP down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime APPENDICES Glossary Units of measurement bn Billion Gcal Gigacalorie, a unit of measurement for heating energy GW Gigawatt (one million kilowatts) GWh Gigawatt-hour (one million kilowatt-hours) kt Thousand metric tonnes kV Kilovolt kWh Kilowatt-hour, a unit of measurement for produced electricity m3 Cubic metre mn Million mt Million metric tonnes mtpa Million tonnes per annum MW Megawatt (one thousand kilowatt), a unit of measurement for electrical power capacity RUB Rouble t, tonne One metric tonne (one thousand kilograms) TWh Terawatt-hour (one billion kilowatt-hours) USD United States dollar UAH Ukrainian hryvnia 162 | EN+ GROUP COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Terms and abbreviations Al Aluminium ARC Audit and Risk Committee ASI Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Aughinish Aughinish Alumina Refinery, Aughinish Alumina, or Aughinish Alumina Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of RUSAL incorporated in Ireland BCGI Bauxite Company of Guyana, founded in December 2004 under an agreement between RUSAL (90%) and the Government of Guyana (10%) Board Board of Directors of the Company BrAZ Bratsk Aluminium Smelter or PJSC RUSAL Bratsk, a wholly owned subsidiary of RUSAL incorporated under the laws of the Russian Federation BS Business System CEO Chief Executive Officer CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CGNC Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee CHP Combined heat and power plant CPLC Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition CO₂ Carbon dioxide CO₂e CO₂ equivalent Directorate for Control The Directorate for Control and Internal Audit EN+ GROUP, En+, En+ Group, EN+ GROUP IPJSC and its subsidiaries, whose results are included in the consolidated financial we, the Company, the Group statements prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards 163 EuroSibEnergo JSC EuroSibEnergo, a 100% subsidiary of En+ Group managing its power assets | EN+ GROUP GDR Global depositary receipt APPENDICES GHG Greenhouse gas emissions GHG emissions Scope 1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources owned or controlled by the Company, e.g., emissions from combustion in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, vehicles, etc.; emissions from chemical production in owned or controlled process equipment. Direct CO₂ emissions from the combustion of biomass are not included in Scope 1, as they are reported separately. GHG emissions not covered by the Kyoto Protocol, such as CFCs, NOx, etc., are not included in Scope 1 and may be reported separately GHG emissions Scope 2 Indirect energy greenhouse gas emissions. Scope 2 accounts for GHG emissions resulting from the generation of purchased heat and electricity consumed by a company. Purchased heat and electricity is defined as electricity that is purchased or otherwise brought into the organisational boundary of the company. Scope 2 emissions physically occur at the facility where heat and electricity are generated HPP Hydro power plant HSE Health, safety and environment HSE Committee The Health, Safety and Environment Committee IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Irkutskenergo Irkutsk Public Joint Stock Company of Energetics and Electrification, a power generating company controlled by En+ by more than 30% of Irkutskenergo’s issued share capital IrkAZ Irkutsk aluminium smelter, a branch of RUSAL Bratsk in Shelekhov, Russia ISO 9001 ISO 9001:2015, an international “Quality management systems — Requirements” standard developed by the International Organisation for Standardisation setting the criteria for quality management systems and the only standard in the family that can be certified to ISO 45001 ISO 45001:2018, an international “Occupational health and safety management systems — Requirements with guidance for use” standard developed by the International Organisation for Standardisation setting the criteria for health and safety management systems and can be certified to KrAZ Krasnoyarsk aluminium smelter or JSC RUSAL Krasnoyarsk, a wholly owned subsidiary of RUSAL incorporated under the laws of the Russian Federation KUBAL Kubikenborg Aluminium AB, a wholly owned subsidiary of RUSAL incorporated in Sweden 164 LTIFR The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate, calculated by the Group as the sum | of fatalities and lost time injuries per 200,000 man-hours EN+ GROUP Metals segment The segment comprising of RUSAL (50.1% owned by En+ Group). RUSAL’s power assets are included into the Metals segment COMPANY’S OVERVIEW OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2018 PERFORMANCE Mineral Resource A concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest in or on the earth’s crust in such form, quality, and quantity, that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction. The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a mineral resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge. Mineral resources are subdivided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into inferred, indicated and measured categories Management Team Executive Directors and Officers of the Company National Examination Board A global organisation, which provides health, safety and environmental qualifications in Occupational Safety and Health (NEBOSH) Net debt The sum of loans, borrowings, and bonds outstanding as well as deferred liability for the acquisition of PJSC Irkutskenergo (the Group’s subsidiary) shares less total cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the relevant period Norilsk Nickel PJSC MMC NORILSK NICKEL, incorporated under the laws of the Russian Federation NkAZ Novokuznetsk Aluminium Smelter or JSC RUSAL Novokuznetsk, a wholly owned subsidiary of RUSAL incorporated under the laws of the Russian Federation OFAC The Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the US Department of the Treasury OFAC Sanctions The designation by OFAC of certain persons and certain companies which are controlled or deemed to be controlled by some of these persons into the Specially Designated Nationals List OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Specification (OHSAS) 18001 Ore Reserves The economically mineable part of a measured and/or indicated mineral Resource. It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses, which may occur when the material is mined. Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social, and governmental factors. These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified. Ore reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into probable and proved PCB Polychlorinated biphenyl PCT Patent Cooperation Treaty Power segment The segment predominantly comprising of power assets owned by En+ Group. The Power segment engages 165 in all aspects of the power industry, including electric power generation, power trading, and supply | EN+ GROUP PV Photovoltaic APPENDICES QAL Queensland Alumina Limited, a company incorporated in Queensland, Australia, in which RUSAL indirectly holds a 20% equity stake QMS Quality management system R&D Research and Development RCC Regulation and Compliance Committee RemCom Remuneration Committee RUSAL, the Metals segment United Company RUSAL Plc, incorporated under the laws of Jersey with limited liability (50.1% owned by En+ Group) RUSAL Silicon Urals LLC RUSAL Silicon Urals (formerly LLC SU-Silicon), an indirect, non-wholly-owned subsidiary of RUSAL RusHydro PJSC RusHydro (Public Joint-Stock Company Federal Hydro-Generating Company — RusHydro), organised under the laws of the Russian Federation, an independent third party SDN List, Specially The List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons, published by the OFAC. U.S. persons are Designated Nationals List generally prohibited from dealing with the assets of persons designated in the SDN List which are subject to the U.S. jurisdiction, subject to certain exemptions and exclusions set out in licenses issued by OFAC SDGs Sustainable Development Goals Timan Bauxite Joint Stock Company “Boksit Timana”, a non-wholly owned subsidiary of RUSAL incorporated under the laws of the Russian Federation TIPS Theory of Inventive Problem Solving UAZ Urals Aluminium Smelter, a branch of JSC RUSAL Ural UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change VAP Value-added products. Includes wire rod, foundry alloys, billets, slabs, high purity, and others WEM (the Russian Wholesale Market for the turnover of electric energy and capacity within Russia’s Unified Energy Electricity Market) System and unified economic space, with the participation of large electricity producers and consumers that have the status of wholesale market objects, confirmed in full accordance with 166 the Russian Federal Law “On the Electric Power Industry”. The criteria for determining large | electricity producers and consumers are also established by the Russian Government EN+ GROUP WINDALCO West Indies Alumina Company, a company incorporated in Jamaica, in which RUSAL indirectly holds a 100% stake
