ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER CONTENTS COMPANY PERFORMANCE 04 President & CEO’s statement 58 Sustainability performance 06 Highlights 64 People 08 Key figures 77 Health and safety 10 Group structure 84 Business ethics and anti-corruption 11 Ownership 90 Environment and climate 12 Main services 95 Sustainable procurement 13 Long history, global presence 99 Partnerships for sustainability 14 From vision to impact 16 What is important to us 20 Research and innovation 23 Digitalization and data management 107 Financial performance 28 Executive Committee 137 Board of Directors’ report 147 Board of Directors’ profiles 151 Auditor’s reports 152 Contact information MARKETS 153 GRI index 30 Maritime 36 Oil & Gas 42 Energy 47 Business Assurance 53 Digital Solutions 2 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 COMPANY DNV GL is a global quality assurance and risk management company. Driven by our purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment, we enable our customers to advance the safety and sustainability of their business. Combining technical, digital and operational expertise, risk methodology and in-depth industry knowledge, we empower our customers’ decisions and actions with trust and confidence. We continuously invest in research and collaborative innovation to provide customers and society with operational and technological foresight. With origins stretching back to 1864 and operations in more than 100 countries, our experts are dedicated to helping customers make the world safer, smarter and greener. PRESIDENT & CEO’S STATEMENT PROVIDING TRUST IN A DIGITALIZING WORLD With continued pressure in shipping and in the upstream oil and gas market, 2017 was another challenging year for DNV GL. We endured a further revenue contraction, but with a continued focus on costs and efficiencies, we were able to post a modest profit. We are now well positioned to take advantage of a positive trend in our core markets, which could happen towards the end of 2018. 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PRESIDENT & CEO’S STATEMENT Step changes in digitalization fter successive years of challenging market We placed our customers’ management system and products A conditions, DNV GL has emerged a leaner certificates, some 90,000 of them, in a private blockchain, and organization, with a cost base reduced by are continuing to drive important innovations in areas of supply some 4 billion NOK over the last three years. chain transparency and in medical data within our Business Importantly, we are also more agile, having Assurance entity. invested heavily in our ongoing digital transformation. Our Energy business area is similarly focused on digitalization, from digital twins for optimal power generation to the Internet There were rapid and step-change developments in digitaliof Energy that describes the digital and software-based zation last year in DNV GL. We officially launched our industry technologies enabling greater connectivity and controllability data platform Veracity – a secure, scalable, cloud-based in the power industry. solution for data sharing, analytics and co-innovation. Because over 70% of our business relates to energy in some Our new business area, Digital Solutions, began operating at form, having a clear view of the coming energy transition is of the beginning of this year. Digital Solutions will be responsible strategic importance to us and our customers. We launched for running our Veracity platform and associated data manageour first global Energy Transition Outlook which generated ment, data quality assurance and cyber security services. unprecedented interest and has led to many valuable discussions We rolled our Software business into Digital Solutions, where with customers across several industries. We look forward the focus will increasingly be on offering software-as-a-service. to intensifying our forecasting efforts in the coming year. Each of our other business areas will continue to digitalize and enhance their own service offerings. The foundation, Det Norske Veritas, assumed the sole ownership of DNV GL in December after buying the remaining stake owned by Mayfair. Mayfair was the owner of GL and became a minority shareholder of DNV GL following the DNV and GL merger in 2013. We now have one owner with a long-term view. It also means that 100% of the profit made by DNV GL will There were rapid and step-change remain in the group of companies to further develop and developments in digitalization last position the company globally. year in DNV GL. We officially launched our We will continue to invest 5% of our revenue in research, industry data platform Veracity – a secure, development and innovation and continue our bold moves scalable, cloud-based solution for data on our digitalization journey. sharing, analytics and co-innovation. Our business model is based on trust at all levels and in all business environments. We strive to reflect the DNV GL values in all our work and to demonstrate conscious leadership for Our journey towards being a more efficient, data-led and a safe and sustainable future. automated ship and offshore class society continues apace. We launched a historic first for the ship classification industry: We continue our support for the UN Global Compact principles the rollout of IMO-compliant electronic class and statutory and actively work with customers and partners to deliver on the certificates across the entire fleet of DNV GL classed vessels. UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals. Working with tangible Over 50,000 electronic certificates were delivered in under sustainable solutions – some of which are showcased in this four months. Customers are also saving time and costs with report – is driven by our purpose of safeguarding life, property our Smart Survey Booking tool. Other significant advances in and the environment. This purpose is more valid than ever automating and digitizing aspects of our survey work, together before, and I’m confident that DNV GL is well positioned to with new assurance services associated with onboard sensors be at the forefront in all our industries. and data streams, are described in this report. In Oil & Gas, we have been working closely with customers in helping them cut complexity, drive efficiency and stay safe. Our award-winning myQRA tool is emblematic of this work in providing interactive, advanced risk communication and Remi Eriksen, Group President & CEO visualization. 5 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 HIGHLIGHTS Lloyd) in 2006 and DNV GL’s minority shareholder when Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas assumes full DNV and GL merged in 2013. The transaction only affects the ownership of DNV GL while the organization and operaownership of DNV GL tions of the merged company remain unaffected. The independent foundation, Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas, an autonomous, independent bought the remaining 36.5% of the shares in DNV GL that until foundation, is now the sole owner of DNV GL. Our purpose 14 December 2017 were held by Mayfair, a German family-owned of safeguarding life, property and the environment is mainly investment firm that became the owner of GL (Germanischer achieved through this ownership. The Veracity open industry data platform is launched The Veracity industry data platform was launched to improve safety and business performance through leveraging the value of data. Veracity creates value by connecting industry players, domain experts and data scientists and letting them securely control, share, analyse and combine data in a trusted ecosystem. Veracity is also a market place for accessing digital services from DNV GL and third parties. 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DNV GL publishes its first Energy Transition First assurance provider to use blockchain Outlook technology for certificates DNV GL’s inaugural Energy Transition Outlook created headlines DNV GL certifies companies’ processes, products, facilities across the world by charting the world’s energy future to 2050. and supply chains to national and international standards. This was the first annual, independent outlook report created In 2017, we became the first in the certification industry to take to help customers and other industry stakeholders navigate advantage of blockchain technology and transferred 90,000 the energy future. Some of the findings showed that, even if the certificates to a private blockchain. Every certificate is digitally demand for energy flattens and emissions are halved, our model tagged, traceable and still points to a significant overshoot of the 2°C carbon budget. securely stored, allowing In addition to the main outlook report, we issued three sectorcompanies to communispecific supplements for the oil and gas, power and renewables, cate their certification in a and maritime industries. transparent and secure way and users to more easily uncover false certificates. Smart survey booking and electronic class certificates for ships We introduced a smart survey booking tool that uses machine learning algorithms to help customers find the best time and place to book a ship classification survey. We also became the first classification society to issue electronic certificates. The objective is to achieve significant efficiency gains for ship owners, charterers, regulators and crew, cutting down processing time and document handling costs. New organization to accelerate digital drive DNV GL established a dedicated Digital Solutions organization by consolidating its digital business across the Group. The new organization consists of almost 800 digital experts and aims to capture the opportunities that lie in data sharing, advanced analytics, automation and machine learning as well as address challenges related to data quality and security. The new organization absorbed DNV GL – Software, which has built a strong reputation as a vendor of trusted third-party software and become one of the world’s leading software providers within the oil and gas, power and renewables and maritime industries. World’s first ultra-high-voltage testing facility Following a EUR 70 million investment, the newly extended test lab in Arnhem, the Netherlands, is the world’s first – and currently only – facility capable of testing ultra-high-voltage electrical grid components. The new laboratory will help the power industry successfully transition to so-called “super grids”, ensuring a safe and reliable supply to meet the rapidly growing demand for sustainable electricity. 7 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 KEY FIGURES REVENUE (MILLION NOK) 19 475 LAST FIVE YEARS PER BUSINESS AREA 23,390 MARITIME 24,000 21,623 7,021 20,834 19,475 OIL & GAS 20,000 4,594 ENERGY 16,000 15,234 3,677 BUSINESS 12,000 ASSURANCE 3,278 DIGITAL 8,000 SOLUTIONS* 852 4,000 OTHER 53 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 * Figures for software business only. Software became part of the new business area Digital Solutions on 1 Jan 2018. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 12 715 LAST FIVE YEARS PER BUSINESS AREA 16,107 MARITIME 15,712 14,954 3,776 15,000 13,550 OIL & GAS 12,715 2,484 12,000 ENERGY 2,348 9,000 BUSINESS ASSURANCE 1,976 6,000 OTHER * 1,495 3,000 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS** 636 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 * Global shared services and Group functions. ** Figures for software business only. 763 employees in Digital Solutions when first operational on 1 Jan 2018. 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 EBITA (MILLION NOK) EBITA MARGIN (%) 993 5.1% LAST FIVE YEARS LAST FIVE YEARS 2,400 2,203 2,274 10.1% 10.2% 10 9.7% 2,000 8 1,600 1,535 6 5.1% 1,200 984 993 4.7% 4 800 400 2 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 EBIT / OPERATING PROFIT (MILLION NOK) EQUITY RATIO (%) 474 65.4% LAST FIVE YEARS LAST FIVE YEARS 1,800 1,738 70 1,612 65.4% 61.0% 62.3% 64.8% 1,500 60 58.1% 1,332 50 1,200 40 900 30 600 474 20 300 154 10 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 9 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GROUP STRUCTURE DNV GL GROUP STRATEGIC RESEARCH HEADQUARTERS: OSLO NORWAY GROUP CENTRE BUSINESS DIGITAL MARITIME OIL & GAS ENERGY ASSURANCE SOLUTIONS HEADQUARTERS: HEADQUARTERS: HEADQUARTERS: HEADQUARTERS: HEADQUARTERS: HAMBURG OSLO ARNHEM LONDON OSLO GERMANY NORWAY NETHERLANDS UK NORWAY GLOBAL SHARED SERVICES DNV GL is structured into five business areas plus organization and a selection of digital experts from a Global Shared Services organization and a Group the other four business areas, Group Technology Centre that includes a strategic research unit and Research and IT. In addition to a wide portfolio (Group Technology and Research). No significant of software solutions, the new Digital Solutions changes were made to the organization in 2017. business area includes the Veracity industry data However, in the third quarter, it was announced that platform and also offers data management, cyber a new business area named Digital Solutions would security and smart city services. It became operabe formed. This comprises the former Software tional on 1 January 2018. 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OWNERSHIP UNTIL 14 DECEMBER 2017 63.5% Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas 36.5% Mayfair Beteiligungsfunds II GmbH & Co KG DNV GL FROM 15 DECEMBER 2017 100% Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas DNV GL On 14 December 2017, Det Norske Veritas Holding AS, Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas is an autonomous, a fully owned subsidiary of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas, independent foundation and is now, through bought the remaining 36.5% of the shares in DNV GL Det Norske Veritas Holding AS, the sole owner that until then were held by Mayfair Beteiligungsfonds II of DNV GL. See more details in the Corporate GmbH & Co KG. Mayfair had been the minority shareholder Governance report. of DNV GL since the merger of DNV and GL in 2013. 11 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 MAIN SERVICES Maritime SERVICES INCLUDE: Classification of ships and mobile We help enhance the safety, offshore units Certification of materials and components efficiency and sustainability Technical, safety, business risk and of our customers in the environmental advisory global shipping industry, Training and competence-related services covering all vessel types and mobile offshore units. Oil & Gas SERVICES INCLUDE: Risk management advisory From the drawing board to Technical advisory Noble Denton marine services decommissioning, we provide Technical assurance technical advice to enable – Certification and verification oil and gas companies to – Inspection enhance safety, increase reliability and manage costs in projects and operations. Energy SERVICES INCLUDE: Power testing, inspections and certification We deliver testing and Renewables advisory Renewables certification advisory services to the energy Transmission and distribution advisory value chain including Energy management renewables and energy Investment advisory management. Business Assurance SERVICES INCLUDE: Management system certification We help customers in Product assurance Supply chain assessment and assurance all industry sectors build Sustainability strategy and assessment sustainable business Certification of persons performance and create Training stakeholder trust. Food & beverage certification and assessment Healthcare accreditation and assessment Digital Solutions SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS INCLUDE: Generic and industry specific software We provide digital solutions Tailored analytics solutions Digitalization and data management advisory for managing risk, improving Cyber security assurance, advisory and safety and performance penetration testing across industries, including Veracity open data platform maritime, oil and gas, energy and healthcare. 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 LONG HISTORY, GLOBAL PRESENCE OSLO, NORWAY (GROUP HEADQUARTERS) > MORE ON OUR LOCATIONS CUSTOMERS ESTABLISHED ≈ 100 000 1864 > MORE ON OUR HISTORY OFFICES WORLDWIDE COUNTRIES 350 100+ EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY (31.12.2017) Norway 2,164 Singapore 377 Brazil 230 NORWAY United States 1,590 Italy 357 Japan 137 Germany 1,548 South Korea 333 Malaysia 126 United Kingdom 1,050 India 318 France 120 UNITED China 881 United Arab Em. 312 Australia 117 STATES POLAND Netherlands 819 Spain 261 Canada 110 Poland 527 Denmark 236 NETHERLANDS GERMANY CHINA UNITED Contries > 100 shown in table KINGDOM Contries > 500 shown in pie chart 13 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 FROM VISION TO IMPACT SAFER, SMARTER AND GREENER SOLUTIONS Our vision of having a global impact for a safe and sustainable future expresses OUR PURPOSE our ambition and sets the direction of our To safeguard life, property and the environment business. Our commitment to customers and society is driven by our purpose. Guided by our values, we strive to do OUR VISION the right things and to do things right. Global impact for a safe and sustainable future OUR VALUES We build trust and confidence We never compromise on quality or integrity We are committed to teamwork and innovation We care for our customers and each other We embrace change and deliver results 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 FROM VISION TO IMPACT UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS DNV GL supports the Sustainable Development Goals, which are well aligned with our purpose, vision and values. We aim to use this framework to create customer value through solving societal needs. These global goals stimulate us to run our own Our extensive research into the Sustainable business sustainably, to enable our customers Development Goals, including forecasts for to enhance their sustainability and to promote the likelihood of them being met globally and sustainable business with partners. opportunities in pursuing the goals, guide us going forward. We already provide strong business solutions to achieve many of the Sustainable Development Goals, including: SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy SDG 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure SDG 13: Climate action Going forward, we consider the global goals to be relevant indicators of market trends and will pursue stronger business positions for the following goals: SDG 3: Good health and well-being SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production SDG 14: Life below water More information on how our services have supported the Sustainable Development Goals in 2017 is presented in the Market section. 15 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO US DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND SOCIETY AT LARGE With our strong global foothold in many We engage with external and internal stakeholders to identify DNV GL’s most important risks, opportunities and impacts industries, close to 100,000 customers, on economic, environmental and social topics. more than 12,000 employees and To direct our activities to what our stakeholders find important, involvement in a range of partnerships, we assess materiality regularly. This process is defined in a governing document and aligned with our riskand brandwe aspire to deliver value in the short management processes. In 2017, the 2016 review directed and long term. our priorities. We executed a broad stakeholder survey late in the year to identify the most important sustainability topics amongst customers, owners, suppliers, partners, the media and employees. The replies from some 1,000 respondents will help to shape DNV GL’s priorities for 2018–2020. 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO US We welcome all input regarding important topics and take our DNV GL’s materiality matrix reflects our key sustainability risks, stakeholders’ views into consideration in our operations and impacts and opportunities. We set the priorities and report business development work. on the sustainability topics that are identified as being most important to both external and internal stakeholders. DNV GL’S IMPORTANT TOPICS REPORTED TOPICS – People Environment and climate – Health and safety Sustainable procurement – Business ethics and Partnerships for sustainability anti-corruption – Employee competence and – Economic contribution engagement – Employee diversity – Employee safety and health – GHG emissions – Business ethics and anti-corruption – Partnerships and social – Recruitment and retention investments – Privacy and security IMPORTANT TO EXTERNAL – Supply chain management STAKEHOLDERS – Impact of services – Waste management – Product and service packaging – Use of natural resources and labelling – Customer health and safety – Water and biodiversity – Political contributions and lobbying – Impact on local communities IMPORTANT TO INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 17 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO US When assessing external and internal stakeholders’ views, we have researched why the identified topics are important: WHY TOPICS ARE IMPORTANT DNV GL IMPORTANT TOPIC 01 02 03 04 05 EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE SAFETY BUSINESS ETHICS AND RECRUITMENT PRIVACY AND COMPETENCE AND AND HEALTH ANTI-CORRUPTION AND RETENTION SECURITY ENGAGEMENT CORRESPONDING GRI TOPIC Training and Occupational Socioeconomic Employee hiring, Customer privacy. education. health and safety. compliance. turnover, benefits, Labour / manageLabour practices. Anti-corruption. retention after leave. ment relations. Grievance mechanisms. Anti-competitive behaviour. IMPORTANT EXTERNALLY BECAUSE Our customers Our suppliers perform All stakeholders expect Our customers rely Our customers use us due to our better in a safe workus to demonstrate on our ability to recruit expect us to protect expertise and ability ing environment. sound business ethics, and retain experts, their privacy. to deliver solutions. Our customers buying upholding our ability and appreciate having safety services expect to act as a trusted long-term relations a high safety independent party. with these experts. performance. IMPORTANT INTERNALLY BECAUSE Responsibility and Safety is embedded “We never comproA good workplace The trust of our development of in our purpose mise on integrity” environment and customers is crucial expertise provide and vision. is a company value. cost-efficient people to our business. motivation to excel and processes ensure innovate in all parts experts for existing of the company. and new business. WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO US WHY TOPICS ARE IMPORTANT CONTINUED DNV GL IMPORTANT TOPIC 06 07 08 09 ECONOMIC EMPLOYEE PARTNERSHIPS AND GHG EMISSIONS CONTRIBUTION DIVERSITY SOCIAL INVESTMENTS CORRESPONDING GRI TOPIC Economic Diversity and equal Emissions. Society. performance. opportunity. Environmental Non-discrimination. compliance. Equal remuneration. IMPORTANT EXTERNALLY BECAUSE Our owner requires Our customers Our stakeholders Industry associations profitable operations and stakeholders expect us to contribute and non-governmental and society at large appreciate that the to science-based organizations seek appreciates employdiversity in our business targets to reduce greeninsights and funding ment, taxes and other environments is met house gas emissions from cooperating economic activity. by diversity of our and to pursue opportuwith us. employees. nities related to climate change resilience. IMPORTANT INTERNALLY BECAUSE Economic sustainability We want the best Environmental sustainaWe make better is a prerequisite for people, regardless bility is embedded in decisions and develop running our business of background, and we our purpose and vision. better services, standards and for retaining want to be an attractive Science based actions and best practices our independence. place to work in more to build climate change in cooperation with than 100 countries. resilience is important customers, associations, to our people. regulatory bodies and other stakeholders. RESEARCH AND INNOVATION CO-CREATING THE FUTURE In an era characterized by speed and complexity, DNV GL’s sustained investment of 5% of its revenues in research and development, and our role as an expert catalyst of collaborative innovation and standardsetting across businesses and industries has never been more relevant. 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 RESEARCH AND INNOVATION The present research portfolio includes programmes on: Joint industry projects Maritime – research and innovation that contributes to safer, smarter and greener shipping, while preparing DNV GL for Advances in digitalization and the urgency of decarbonization future developments in technology and regulations are twin forces driving our innovation in safety, cost and efficiency improvements. Oil and gas – helping to position DNV GL at the forefront of risk-based and model-centric services on system level Through 2017, there were close to 100 joint industry projects (JIPs) and joint development projects active across the DNV GL Energy transition – help DNV GL and its stakeholders to group. DNV GL initiates and runs more JIPs than any other understand the changing energy landscape organization in the industries we serve: they are vital mechanisms linking the private sector, academia and regulatory Power and renewables building competence, methods and authorities in co-creating technological solutions, and global tools to achieve competitive advantage and prepare DNV GL rules, standards and guidelines. for the future of the rapidly changing energy industry Life sciences – build knowledge that will help to establish a position for DNV GL within quality assurance and data sharing to enable the implementation of precision medicine Strategic research and innovation Digital assurance – focusing on emerging Digital Technologies and Cyber-Physical Systems in Autonomous Applications Our long-term research programmes are intended to help prepare our customers and ourselves for the future by genOcean space – positioning DNV GL at the forefront of selected erating new knowledge in key technology areas that have a ocean technologies long-term impact on the industries we serve. We devote 1% of our revenue to this strategic research and innovation effort. Most of our research programmes are staffed with experts on We constantly evaluate the impact of our findings on assignment from business operations, and all our programmes our customers and their markets, and tailor our research involve a wide range of collaborative projects leveraging programmes to respond to developing trends. Current co-funding from a range of sources. research activities are directed towards mastering digital technologies and complex cyber-physical systems, and The programmes also regularly issue position papers to highlight in developing future business and delivery models. research findings and advance knowledge and progress on safer, smarter and greener operations. During 2017, a dozen position papers were published and broadly shared with the public. The 2017 Group Technology and Research Review provides a guide to recent position papers, selected research projects, technical competence building activities and our collaboration with universities. In addition, the review includes a comprehensive publications list. Of these publications from 2017, one stands out, as described more fully below: the DNV GL Energy Transition Outlook 2050. 21 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 RESEARCH AND INNOVATION Our Outlook models the energy future through to 2050 and Energy Transition Outlook is presented as a forecast, not a scenario. Over 100 DNV GL experts were involved in the production of the outlook, which was reviewed by a large network of external experts. More than 70% of DNV GL’s business relates to energy in one Broadly speaking, we forecast a rapid energy transition, with form or the other. That is why having a clear view of the business renewables and fossil sources split roughly equally by 2050. implications of the ongoing energy transition is of strategic Pervasive electrification and energy efficiency gains are likely importance both to DNV GL and to our customers. to lead to a flattening of overall energy demand, despite continued growth in population and GDP. DNV GL has an equal, substantial footprint, in both the oil and gas and power and renewables industries and is well placed to In addition to global forecast figures, our Outlook covers produce a technology-centric and neutral view of the energy 10 world regions. The main publication, together with its future. With this in mind, we researched and released our three supplements looking at the implications of our foreinaugural Energy Transition Outlook in September 2017. cast for the maritime, oil and gas, and power and renewables industries, have been very well received and have generated many valuable discussions with customers and other stakeholders around the world. We will be releasing the 2018 version of our outlook at the end of August. ENERGY TRANSITION OUTLOOK 2017 A global and regional forecast of the energy transition to 2050 SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIGITALIZATION AND DATA MANAGEMENT TREATING DATA AS AN ASSET Digitalization is one of the top priorities in DNV GL’s 2020 strategy. It can be split into three main categories: the efficiency and agility of our own operations, digitalizing our services and service delivery to customers, and completely new revenue streams and business models. 23 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIGITALIZATION AND DATA MANAGEMENT Using drones for inspections, moving our software to the cloud and digitalizing our auditing processes are just some of the many initiatives that accelerated the digitalization of our own operations in the past year. In addition to digitalizing our own operations, we continued digitalizing services to our customers. We introduced smart The Veracity industry data platform survey booking and e-certificates for our maritime customers and continued to push for a more modern and data-driven classification concept. Our Business Assurance customers saw The launch of the Veracity industry data platform in 2017 their DNV GL issued certificates being powered by a private represented a completely new business model for DNV GL. blockchain to increase their traceability, validation and security. Veracity is an open industry data platform, with a marketplace where applications and data sets from DNV GL, other companies Across all our business areas, we continuously offered and even competitors are made available to owners and customers new ways of accessing, processing and visualizing operators of ships, rigs, wind farms, pipelines and other data captured by DNV GL through audits, surveys, inspections, industry assets. Customers are offered an ecosystem for software and advisory services. Examples included services controlling, combining and enriching data and for securely such as MyQRA, the Lumina benchmarking portal and digital sharing their data with third parties for analysis and insights twins, just to mention a few. to optimize performance, efficiency and safety. UNLOCKING DATA PROVIDES NEW BUSINESS VERACITY OPPORTUNITIES DATA FABRIC MARKETPLACE PROVIDERS CONSUMERS OF DATA AND DEVELOPER’S TOOLBOX OF DATA AND SERVICES SERVICES MULTI-SIDED INDUSTRY DATA PLATFORM Asset owners Asset owners APP DEVELOPERS, ANALYTICS AND SOFTWARE PROVIDERS 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIGITALIZATION AND DATA MANAGEMENT Data as an asset Data management and cyber security An integral part of undergoing a digital transformation is the In 2017, we launched standards, frameworks, tools and services realization that data is a valuable asset in itself and should be relating to data management and data quality, thus helping treated as such. Improving data management and data quality our customers, and ourselves, obtain the best value from data increases the value of data assets, just as effective financial assets. In order to enable the reuse of data and provide trustmanagement optimizes the value of fiscal assets. worthy analytics or reliable automation of advanced industrial operations, the data must meet high quality expectations. Data assets will generate new revenue streams and improve value, utilization, control and costs when combined with other assets. Our experience with data quality assessments has been built through A key driver is also to be compliant with new European data regumany years of providing quality assurance related to ships, oil rigs, lations such as General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for smart grids, processes, software, products, and organizations. personal data, with standards for data/information security and The methodology and experience obtained from this work were the Sarbanes–Oxley Act for transparency, trust and openness. used to build a portfolio of data management services. We are not only working on applying this internally. We also We have also developed a broad offering to help our customers offer services related to all of these aspects for our customers, manage the security of their data and information systems. In including certification of Information Security Management 2017, we continued to expand our recommended practices and System according to the ISO 27001 standard. services enabling our customers to manage cyber security risks. New capabilities are being built for automation of processes, shortening of decision lead-time and increased ability to create value for our customers. THE BIG DATA CHALLENGES VOLUME VULNER AVELOCIT Y BILIT Y Scale of data Security and Speed and safety of change of data data VALIDATION VARIET Y Data fit for use within Complexity and acceptable risk heterogenity tolerances of data DATA MANAGEMENT ADVISORY Uncertainty Business SERVICES and inaccuracy VALUE value of data of data VER ACIT Y Data platforms Data’s and accessibility compliance with of data requirements Meaning, Organization’s relation and ability to underdescription stand and utilize VENUE of data data’s possibilities VERIFICATION 4 SERVICES VOCABUL ARY MATURIT Y Data quality assessment Organizational maturity assessment Data usage risk assessment Data management advisory services 25 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee is the Group In 2017, the Executive Committee consisted From 1 January 2018, further changes were President & CEO’s management team. of nine people: the Group President and CEO, made to the Executive Committee: Liv Hovem It deals with issues and decisions related the CEOs of the five business areas, the Chief was appointed CEO of Oil & Gas, replacing to strategy, markets and customers, Financial Officer, Chief HR Officer and Chief Elisabeth Tørstad, who was appointed CEO target setting, financial development, Group Development Officer. In November, of the new Digital Solutions organization. investments, performance management, the Chief HR Officer Cecilie B. Heuch decided The Group Development Officer function was mergers and acquisitions, pricing strategy to pursue her career outside DNV GL and discontinued with the retirement of David Walker. and major management appointments. was replaced by Gro Gotteberg. Chief Communications Officer Ulrike Haugen joined the Executive Committee together with the newly created position of Chief Digital Transformation Officer (this position is not yet filled). REMI ERIKSEN KNUT ØRBECK-NILSSEN ELISABETH TØRSTAD Group President & CEO CEO Maritime CEO Digital Solutions Remi Eriksen (Norwegian) became Group Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen (Norwegian) has Elisabeth Tørstad (Norwegian) has President and CEO of DNV GL in August been heading our Maritime business area two decades in management positions 2015, succeeding Henrik O. Madsen. since August 2015. Prior to that he was at DNV GL, most recently as CEO in He was previously the Chief Operating the Chief Operating Officer and President business area Oil & Gas. Prior to that role, Officer of the DNV GL Group, having of Maritime and Director of Division she served as Chief Technology Officer, served as CEO of DNV Maritime and Europe, Africa & Americas. as well as Chief Operating Officerfor Oil & Gas and in other senior roles in Maritime and Oil & Gas the Americas Asia, Europe and the Americas. Knut has held senior management posiand Sub-Saharan Africa division. tions within both maritime and oil & gas. Amongst many other leadership roles, He holds a Bachelor of Engineering degree Elisabeth has a cross-disciplinary he is on the Executive Committee of from Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh, background and has held management World Business Council for Sustainable Scotland, where he was awarded a First positions with global responsibilities Business Development (WBCSD), and Class Honour’s Degree in Civil Engineerwithin the Maritime, Oil & Gas and provides critical guidance to the WBCSD ing in 1990. Knut joined DNV GL in 1990. Renewable Energy business areas. Low Carbon Technology Partnerships Her academic background includes initiative (LCTPi). a Cand. Scient. degree in Physics from the University of Oslo and a degree He holds a Master’s in Electronics and of Business Administration from the Computer Science from the Norwegian Norwegian School of Management. Institute of Technology and executive Elisabeth joined DNV GL in 1995. education from Rice University, IMD and INSEAD. Remi joined DNV GL in 1993. 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE DITLEV ENGEL LUCA CRISCIOTTI LIV A. HOVEM CEO Energy CEO Business Assurance CEO Oil & Gas Ditlev Engel (Danish) was Group President Luca Crisciotti (Italian) became the CEO Liv A. Hovem (Norwegian) has experience & CEO of global wind turbine manufacturer of Business Assurance in March 2012. from several managerial roles in DNV GL, Vestas Wind Systems A/S from 2005 to In addition, he currently holds the position most recently as Regional Manager for 2013. Prior to joining Vestas, he had 20 as the president of the IIOC (Independent Continental Europe, Eurasia, Middle East, years of experience at the global coatings International Organization for CertificaIndia and Africa in Oil & Gas. She has served manufacturer Hempel A/S, the last five tion Bodies), the trade body of many key as board member in several research and years as Group President & CEO. international certification bodies. innovation related institutions. She currently serves on the Board of the NTNU Research Ditlev has driven many global green With a background in the certification Centre AMOS – Centre for Autonomous investment initiatives as chair of Denmark’s industry, Luca started his career in Marine Operations and Systems. Green Investment Fund, a member of the DNV GL as a Sales Manager in Rome, Italy. Energy Partner Network of the World He continued as the Business DevelopLiv’s technical background is risk and proEconomic Forum, advisor to the Internament Manager for Division South Europe babilistic modelling, hydrodynamics and tional Energy Agency, chair of the Green before moving to Japan for three years strength of ships and offshore structures. Growth Working Group at G20 Summits, as Country Manager. He then moved She has a MSc in Naval Architecture and co-founder of the Green Growth Action to Shanghai, Greater China, taking over Offshore Engineering from UC Berkeley Alliance and member of UN’s Sustainable as Director of Operations in Business and a MSc in Civil Engineering from the Energy for All. He has degrees in business Assurance Asia & Australia. Norwegian Technical University. Liv joined administration, finance & accounting from DNV GL in 1988. Copenhagen Business School and the Luca has a master’s degree in Business General Management Programme from Economics from the University ‘La Sapienza’ INSEAD. Ditlev joined DNV GL in 2016. in Rome. Luca joined DNV GL in 2001. 27 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE THOMAS VOGTH-ERIKSEN GRO GOTTEBERG ULRIKE HAUGEN Chief Financial Officer Chief HR Officer Chief Communications Officer Thomas Vogth-Eriksen (Norwegian) has Gro Gotteberg (Norwegian) has been the Ulrike Haugen (German) joined DNV GL as been Chief Financial Officer since 2012. He Chief HR Officer at DNV GL since December Chief Communications Officer in May 2017. held several senior management positions 2017. Prior to that she has had several She has more than 15 years of communicain DNV GL before that, most recently as the roles within DNV GL, as HR Director and in tions, marketing and business development CEO of Business Assurance, the certification Leadership Development, most recently as experience within international corporations arm of the DNV GL Group. Thomas brings HR Manager in South East Asia & Australia. with positions in Norway, UK, Germany international experience of almost 15 years Prior to that she had several roles within and Italy. from New York, London, Shanghai, and Milan. organizational and competence development in shipping, management consultancy Ulrike was previously VP Marketing & He has served as board member in Internaand developing aid & rescue relief. Communications for ABB Marine, and tional Association of Certification bodies has also held marketing and business and the Norwegian Chambers of Commerce Gro has a Master of Business & Economics development positions in international in London, Oslo and Shanghai. Thomas has from NHH Norwegian School of Economics energy companies and law firms. a Master of Business & Economics, Business and brings 15 years of international experiAdministration from the Norwegian Business ence from Africa, Americas and South East Ulrike holds a Master of Business AdminisSchool. Thomas joined DNV GL in 1988. Asia. Gro joined DNV GL in 2008. tration degree from London South Bank University in the UK and a Law Degree from the University of Bonn in Germany. Ulrike joined DNV GL in 2017. 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 MARKETS We assist our customers in identifying, assessing and managing their most critical risks. We enhance their business performance by assessing and advising on safety, quality, technology, business and sustainability aspects. We certify or verify compliance and drive new standards, best practices and digital ecosystems within five business areas: Maritime, Oil & Gas, Energy, Business Assurance, and Digital Solutions. MARITIME MODERNIZING CLASSIFICATION For the shipping industry, 2017 began with little promise, with most people expecting another year of weak growth and tight markets. As the year progressed, however, both the world economy and shipping demand picked up. Since customers were looking for new opportunities, DNV GL offered them a raft of new options and services designed to maximize their business. 7 021 3 776 REVENUE EMPLOYEES Maritime’s share Maritime’s share of total (19,475) of total (12,715) NOK MILLION EMPLOYEES 30 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 MARITIME 2017 REVIEW 40 000 The future of classification In 2017, we implemented many modern classification solutions that will enhance our class services and improve communication with customers. From electronic certificates, machine learning tools and drone surveys to the launch of the Veracity open electronic statutory certificates had platform, we presented a range of innovative services and been issued by the end of 2017. products that can help customers to improve their operations and performance, reduce maintenance and operational costs and enhance safety. However, digitalization is not an end in itself, but another means to fulfil our main purpose of ensuring safe operations at sea and protecting life, property and the environment. By the end of 2017, more than 52 flag state administrations had authorized DNV GL to issue electronic statutory certificates on their behalf and over 40,000 certificates for more than 2,000 vessels had been issued — and these numbers are continuing to grow fast. Smart survey booking We also introduced the new Smart Survey Booking tool. This uses smart algorithms and machine learning to help customers find the best time and place to book a survey. The algorithms identify when the maximum number of survey items can be combined by assessing the initiation and expiration dates for class surveys, audits and conditions. An estimate of the required time that the ship needs to be available for the survey/audit, along with the associated travel and costs, is also generated. The tool will even recommend a port of call based on all these factors. Finally, after The end of the paper chase a customer makes the booking, the Smart Survey Booking tool provides a set of survey preparation documents for the vessel’s crew, enabling them to prepare more effectively. In 2017, we were the first classification society to roll out IMOcompliant electronic class and statutory certificates across the entire DNV GL-classed fleet. Certificates are published on our customer portal as soon as an onboard survey is completed, so that all relevant parties can access the latest certificates from anywhere in the world. The electronic certificates are secured with a digital signature and unique tracking number, which can be checked online, assuring their validity and authenticity. Customers can choose to share access to their certificates with stakeholders (charterers, ports, flag administrations, insurers) by providing temporary access codes. With the temporary code, the stakeholder can directly access the customer’s secure certificate folder, reducing the ship owner’s administrative burden to the absolute minimum. 31 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 MARITIME Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen — new IACS chairman A vessel for a new ‘green corridor’ In January 2017, we entered into a joint industry project in Singapore with BHP Billiton, Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Rio Tinto, SDARI and Woodside to build and assess the business case for LNG as fuel for Capesize bulkers trading between Australia and China and develop an efficient LNG-fuelled Capesize concept design. The ‘Green Corridor’ joint industry project resulted in an innovative LNG-fuelled Newcastlemax design. The project showed that bringing together partners from across the industry can result in unique solutions that fulfil owners’ and operators’ requirements, as well as being in full compliance with international rules and regulations. DNV GL Maritime’s CEO Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen was appointed chairman of the International Association of Classification Societies (IACS) in 2017 and announced an agenda focussed on improving IACS quality systems and the assessment of IACS members against those standards. He also pushed for modernizing class in anticipation of the developments created by digitalization, and for deepening IACS’ ongoing commitment to transparency. Maritime forecast to 2050 4 408 certificates issued related to the EU The ‘Maritime Forecast to 2050’ was launched as a supplement to DNV GL’s Energy Transition Outlook. It provides a new long-term forecast for the shipping industry through to 2050, including factors such as population and GDP growth, energy use, trade forecasts, geographical differences and the impact of policy and technology. The forecast contains several notable Monitoring, Reporting and Verification projections, including an overall increase in the demand for regulation for ships’ CO2 emissions. seaborne traffic of 60% by 2050. And that shifting fuel use, as well as incremental gains in efficiency, mean that despite the growth of the global fleet and trade, the shipping industry will reduce its overall carbon emissions by 20%. 60% increase in demand for seaborne transport is projected by our Maritime Forecast to 2050. 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 MARITIME FORECAST TO 2050 MARITIME 200 000 First offshore drone survey customer requests to our technical experts were processed by a new machine learning tool. Veracity pilots show potential DNV GL’s new open data platform Veracity was launched in 2017 DNV GL surveyors carried out their first offshore drone survey to improve data quality and manage the ownership, security, on the semisubmersible vessel Safe Scandinavia in the North Sea. sharing and use of data. By creating frictionless connections This 25,383 GT tender support vessel (TSV) is owned and operated between data owners and users, Veracity will open up new by Prosafe, supporting Statoil’s drilling operations off the coast opportunities for improving ship performance and safety, of Norway. We have built a network of trained drone pilots based while at the same time reducing operational costs. in Gdynia, Piraeus, Singapore, Houston and Shanghai. At the same time, we are developing guidelines and updates to our rule set In one of the first data-sharing pilot projects on the new open to reflect the use of remote inspection techniques. platform, Wilhelmsen is testing a system to share ship compliance and condition data with a port state authority to reduce paperwork and physical inspections when entering ports. Wilhelmsen has created a secure data container on Veracity, where it can collect compliance, condition and other relevant Cyber security — an increasing threat data on its vessels. Through the platform, the company is then able to grant the port state authority access to this data, The cyber security of maritime assets is a topic that is growing reducing paperwork and speeding up port entry. in importance as digitalization spreads through the industry. Alongside our recommended practice on cyber security, we worked with customers on several projects to enhance security and awareness. In a pilot project with Greek owner Consolidated Marine Management, we undertook a series of tests on a vessel’s communication and control systems in order to strengthen the systems’ overall robustness and resilience. And, working with Kongsberg, we developed a new type approval programme and issued the first cyber security assessment certificates for control system components, verifying both the technical reliability and cyber security of control systems. NYK and DNV GL together with engine manufacturer MAN Diesel & Turbo presented the first results of an ongoing pilot project. Operational data from NYK vessels is collected on Veracity for use in the evaluation of vessel performance. By dashboards and further drilling down into the data, the users can continuously monitor that all sensors on board the vessel are working properly and can easily identify non-performing sensors which may lead to low data quality or missing data during a voyage. 33 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 MARITIME DNV GL FACTS & FIGURES CRUISE SHIPS: DNV GL 39% 4% A GROWTH MARKET Bureau 8% GLOBAL GT in cruise sector Veritas MORE THAN 70 Close to 360 cruise vessels are navigating the seas, and more than 70 are in shipyards’ orderbooks. While smaller, expedition-type ships are currently especially 26,139,140 Class shares; popular, the average number of beds on board is increasing. An overview of key orderbook & 36% facts and figures, including DNV GL’s position in the cruise market. 13% fleet in service combined ORDERS are in the global order book, to be delivered by 2023. More than half of these vessels will be built by yards in Italy and Germany. Development of average size in PAX numbers, existing cruise fleet 1,791 1,811 1,599 1,654 1,493 1,543 Photos/Illustrations: AIDA Cruises, denisdubrovin – Fotolia, Icons by Madebyoliver/ 1,265 1,027 748 575 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2012 2014 2016 2020 2023 Freepik from www.flaticon.com, MV Werften, Royal Caribbean International 357 Size of the current active global fleet CRUISE SHIPS Sources: Clarksons research, IHS Fairplay 2 CRUISE UPDATE CRUISE UPDATE 3 ESV / HIL QA system FMEA / Innovative methods and schemes will FMD eventually change the way classification On-board surveys are conducted. Self-verifying survey systems, automation, remote testing and other technologies will reduce scheduling issues and the need for Remote testing a physical presence. survey Self-veriﬁcation Automated reporting Automated testing Simulations 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 MARITIME SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS To help maritime customers enhance the sustainability of their businesses, DNV GL supports the development, implementation, certification and enablement of new technologies, systems and practices that let them improve their safety level, environmental performance and efficiency. Sustainable solution highlights include: OFFSHORE VESSEL — ONSHORE POWER: KL Sandefjord, owned by K Line Offshore AS, is the first offshore vessel with the DNV GL class notation Shore Power. The Shore Power notation verifies the design and installation of a vessel’s on-board electrical shore connection. When in port, the vessel can shut down its engines and rely on a shore-based electrical supply for its needs at berth – so called “cold ironing”. Read more > ECO SOLUTIONS: designed to improve efficiency, reduce emissions and improve our customers’ vessels and operational competitiveness. Read more > ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE SERVICES: ensures safe implementation and compliance with regulations like the Ballast Water Management Convention and EU Monitoring, Reporting and Verification (MRV) Regulation. Read more > 35 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OIL & GAS ENABLING COST EFFICIENCY AND SAFETY Early signs of stability and cautious optimism returned to the oil and gas industry in 2017. In this improving climate, DNV GL assisted customers to become more cost-effective while enhancing the safety and sustainability of their operations. 4 594 2 484 REVENUE EMPLOYEES Oil & Gas’ share Oil & Gas’ share of total (19,475) of total (12,715) NOK MILLION EMPLOYEES 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OIL & GAS 2017 REVIEW During the year, our customers started to rebalance their busiOil and gas companies starting to look long term ness portfolios to ensure long-term growth. Around a quarter of senior oil and gas professionals expected their business to invest or increase investments in energy from less carbonintensive sources in 2017. More than three-quarters believed gas will become increasingly important in the global energy mix over the next decade, as the transition to a less carbonintensive mix gathers pace. This sentiment was supported by DNV GL’s first-ever Energy Transition Outlook, our independent model of world energy supply and demand. It forecasts that oil and gas will continue to play a crucial role in meeting world energy demand through to the middle of the century; that gas will become the largest energy source towards 2050; and that significant investment in new oil and gas production capacity will be needed. According to DNV GL research, cost containment remained a top or high priority for 85% of senior oil and gas industry professionals in 2017. Increasing stability While Brent spot prices were USD 26-55/b in 2016, they were in a narrower, though still broad, band of USD 44–67/b in 2017. Gas spot price averages for NBP and Henry Hub were respectively 24.1% and 18.4% higher last year than in 2016. Despite this increased stability compared to previous years, there was no rebound in capital expenditure within the market, and operating expenditure remained constrained as market conditions continued to be volatile. Encouragingly though, signs of longer-term thinking emerged as the industry began adjusting to ensure cost efficiency and grow margins in an environment – the ‘new normal’ – where oil prices will likely remain lower for much longer. Our research indicated an increasing appetite for industry collaboration, standardization and digitalization: three areas core to DNV GL’s strategy and value proposition. Some stability returned to DNV GL’s Oil & Gas business area in 2017 as resizing and restructuring efforts that started in 2016 began to bear fruit. Our external revenue was ahead of forecast across all quarters. Chargeability was at its highest since 2014. 85% We focused our efforts on increasing efficiency while maintaining technical expertise, and did not need any further significant resizing or restructuring in 2017. We reinforced our business strategy by growing our position in midstream and downstream sectors and continuing to of senior oil and gas professionals support customers upstream. saw cost containment as a top priority in 2017. Seventy per cent of our employees reported that their units were using digitalization to improve ways of working with customers, demonstrating progress as we increase our strategic focus on this area. 37 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OIL & GAS 39% Leading the way on the smarter use of data We also increased our focus on developing services to support the industry’s digital transformation, aided by our commitment to invest 5% of revenue in research and innovation. Our digital innovations and services are changing how the industry innovates so that data-driven technologies such as real-time barrier of senior industry professionals management, automated emission monitoring and predictive expected their organization’s spending maintenance become valuable and cost-effective realities. on digitalization to increase in 2017. We further developed our quantitative risk assessment (QRA) visualization tool MyQRA to allow users to conduct near-instantaneous online sensitivity simulations for assets, based on scenarios. Results can now be visualized in minutes. In September, the Chinese Chemical Safety Authority (CCSA) 69% recognized DNV GL and its MyQRA services with an Excellent Achievement Award for safety in the industry. The CCSA commented: “MyQRA upgrades traditional QRA services to digital services, which can make QRA more efficient and convenient, and improve the understanding of risk.” The global demand for our technical expertise in the oil and gas and other industries was highlighted by DNV GL signing of senior oil and gas professionals a Memorandum of Understanding with parties in Singapore to expected the sector to increase global collaborate on developing disruptive applications in additive standardization activities in 2017. manufacturing (3D printing), drone, and digital twin technologies. The focus is on technology that could revolutionize solutions for that country’s offshore and marine sector and boost its global competitiveness. The safety of information has moved up the global agenda. As the result of a DNV GL-led joint industry project (JIP), we To enhance our digital services, we have chosen the widely launched Recommended Practice (RP) DNVGL-RP-G108 Cyber used Siemens’ Teamcenter® portfolio of product lifecycle security in the oil and gas industry based on IEC 62443 to management (PLM) software to help our customers manage the outline a tailored approach for the industry on how to build performance and safety of all information over an asset’s lifecycle. cyber security. Crucially, it emphasizes a combination of This collaboration combines DNV GL’s deep technical domain operational technology and IT. knowledge from oil and gas projects and operations with Siemens’ PLM technology to create a powerful digital asset model. In another example of how we use digital technologies to enhance our services, we started conducting verification surveys applying remote witnessing to help reduce compliance-related costs. This involves equipping a technician onsite with a camera or smartphone and dedicated software to enable remote, real-time support from a DNV GL surveyor to execute an independent verification survey. In addition, our Inspection Services Division conducted its first offshore drone survey in 2017 – on a semi-submersible vessel offshore Norway. The survey proved the ability of drones to check the condition of remote external components in challenging conditions. We continue to work on developing guidelines and updating our rule set to reflect remote inspection techniques. 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OIL & GAS Our continued drive to develop and publish best practices Increased midstream and downstream focus in the offshore pipeline sector included launching a new RP, DNVGL-RP-F114 Pipe-soil interaction for submarine pipelines. We updated the most used and recognized offshore pipeline standard in the world — now called DNVGL-ST-F101 — and the widely-used DNVGL-RP-F105 for solving issues related to free spans in offshore pipeline design and operation. In China’s refining and petrochemical sector, we assisted companies such as Wanhua Chemical Group to benchmark health, safety, environmental and quality (HSEQ) performance against international standards using our International Safety Rating System (ISRS). Identifying gaps in HSEQ management allows companies to plan how to enhance their safety management, safety culture and risk assessment. Supporting efficiency and safety upstream We continued to support new and existing operators to achieve their goals of safe, efficient, cost-effective upstream operations. Among new contracts, OneSubsea awarded our Offshore Technology and Approval Center in Houston, US a project for the independent third-party verification of 20,000-psi subsea equipment for the Gulf of Mexico. In Europe, we secured a combined engineering services agreement with Chrysaor Holdings, a leading independent exploration and production company in the UK. We continued to widen our involvement with the oil and gas transmission, refining, petrochemical and gas-distribution Our support for operational efficiency and sustainability in the sectors in line with our strategy to enhance our footprint in North Sea also included working with Lundin Norway to develop markets with the strongest growth opportunities. the first step in a solution for predicting unplanned shutdowns of the operator’s Edvard Grieg production platform offshore Key projects included a study showing huge potential for Norway. In our continuing work with new operators in Norway, liquefied natural gas as a marine fuel in the Iberian Peninsula. DEA Norge, the first operator to implement DNVGL-RP-O101 UK regulator OFGEM awarded National Grid and DNV GL a Technical documentation for subsea projects, publicly validated major innovation contract to enable consumer use of lowerthe recommended practice’s value in reducing the cost of carbon gas and improve gas-bill calculations. – and time spent on – such documentation. The international HYREADY JIP led by DNV GL was launched to help the gas industry explore the introduction of new, lowercarbon gas compositions in the energy transition. HYREADY will develop practical processes and procedures for introducing hydrogen to grids. Our decarbonization work was recognized by French natural gas transmission system operator GRTgaz, which awarded our low-carbon emission solution for pipeline purging operations first place in its annual innovation competition. Significant innovation and business impact have been achieved in our midstream business in North America. For example, experts based at our specialist pipelines laboratory in Ohio, US, are conducting a preparatory study drawing upon our previous pipeline failure investigations for operators in order to support safer, more reliable pipeline projects and operations. This study validates that using DNV GL as an independent custodian of multiple operators’ data on historical pipeline failures can enable the reliable analysis of causes and trends to help optimize line pipe manufacture and the design, construction and operation of pipelines. 39 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OIL & GAS In an example of collaboration across DNV GL’s activities, the DNV GL’s updated standards DNVGL-ST-N001: Warranty approval Oil & Gas and Maritime business areas together provided BP of marine operations and DNVGL-ST-N002 Site specific assesswith a broad range of technical skills for the challenging condiment of mobile offshore units in 2017. tions in which the Glen Lyon FPSO vessel will operate west of Shetland. This vessel is classed by DNV GL. The updated standards are the first to be available from our online Noble Denton marine services’ Standards Wizard. This allows Collaboration and innovation to produce and update best users to input details about asset types, operations and structural practice guidelines and standards that enable cost-efficient codes to receive simple, clear documents detailing elements of and sustainable operations were also evident. Thousands of the standards most pertinent to their projects and operations. professionals in the marine and offshore sector engaged with Source: Short-Term Agility, Long-Term Resilience: The outlook for the oil and gas industry in 2017: dnvgl.com/industryoutlook2017 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OIL & GAS SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS To help oil and gas customers enhance the sustainability of their businesses, DNV GL, in collaboration with partners, supports the development of industry best practices and technology innovations that enable customers to meet regulatory requirements, maintain a social licence to operate and forge a pathway in the transition to a lower carbon energy mix. Sustainable solution highlights include: ENABLING LARGE-SCALE DECARBONISATION OF THE UK GAS NETWORK: DNV GL is working with gas transmission and distribution system operators on innovation projects to introduce lower-carbon gas mixes into the British gas network and improve consumers’ gas bill calculations. Read more > SUPPORTING CHINA’S PETROCHEMICAL AND REFINING INDUSTRY TO RAISE HSEQ STANDARDS: our International Safety Rating System is helping China’s downstream sector benchmark its safety, environmental and quality performance against international standards. Read more > DEVELOPING BEST PRACTICE IN CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE: we developed a framework for certifying the geological storage of carbon dioxide (CO2) and a recommended practice for the design and operation of CO2 pipelines. The certification framework serves to improve stakeholder dialogue and investor predictability, and the recommended practice provides a recipe for the safe transportation of CO2. Read more > 41 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ENERGY MAKING RENEWABLES SMARTER While an era of abundant renewable energy lies ahead of us, multiples actions are needed to move towards a cleaner, more electrified world. Larger flows of renewable energy, digitalization and the electrification of transport, industry and households make power networks more complex. To ensure a reliable electricity supply, we are helping the energy industry and large energy users manage the complexity of this fast-changing environment. 3 677 2 348 REVENUE EMPLOYEES Energy’s share Energy’s share of total (19,475) of total (12,715) NOK MILLION EMPLOYEES 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ENERGY 2017 REVIEW New players A bright future for renewables Renewable energy sources are no longer expensive alternatives to fossil fuel power generation. Renewables are becoming more competitive as a result of the decreasing cost of generating electricity from them. At the same time, there is increasing political and business pressure to transfer to cleaner energy sources. Although the cost of investing in renewable assets is decreasing, the extent of the growth in their usage needed to meet climate policy goals means that financing requirements will continue to increase. Financiers, however, are relatively new players in a renewable energy market based on complex technologies and variable generation capacity. RENEWABLES, POWER AND ENERGY USE FORECAST TO 2050 Energy Transition Outlook 2017 SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER Watch the Energy Transition Outlook video In its 2017 Energy Transition Outlook report, DNV GL predicts that solar photovoltaic (PV), onshore wind, hydropower, and offshore wind, in that order, will account for 85% of global electricity production in 2050. The installed wind power capacity will reach 9000 GW in 2050, and the offshore wind capacity in China and the US will outstrip that of Europe in the 2020s. We help our customers to understand the technical aspects and implications of renewable power plant investments, whether Cost competitiveness is driving intense efforts across the they concern a new project, a stock swap, or the acquisition industry to reduce the levelized cost of energy for wind and of assets by performing due diligences to mitigate a project’s introduce new technologies. One of the findings in the subsefinancial risks. In parallel, we review and test new technologies quent report ‘Certification for the wind energy of tomorrow’ relating to generation, storage and transmission & distribution. suggested that certification by DNV GL could add more value if it continued to deepen the technical insight into the design, In 2017, we updated our global GRIDSTOR recommended in-service or lifetime-extension phase. DNV GL is taking practice for energy storage and further developed our these valuable messages from the industry seriously by devsolar irradiance database Sunspot. We also launched the eloping and adapting the certification schemes, including 2017 edition of our solar module reliability scorecard and shop approval certification at the manufacturer’s facilities. created Navigator for geothermal projects. 43 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ENERGY 14 GW Digitalization of the energy system See the WindGEMINI infographic of solar PV and wind power from 2,300 assets in 51 countries worldwide is monitored by DNV GL. A lifetime in high-voltage testing In 2017, we officially opened our upgraded ‘Queen Máxima High-Power Laboratory’ in Arnhem, the Netherlands. This newly extended KEMA test laboratory is the world’s first and only facility capable of testing power transformers up to 800 kV and switchgear up to 1200 kV. As the renewables industry matures, there is constant pressure The new laboratory will help the power industry successfully to reduce costs and increase revenue. There is little room transition to so-called ‘super grids’ to meet the rapidly growing for downtime and under-performance is no longer tolerated. demand for sustainable electricity and the transportation of Our wind energy customers’ challenges are to actively power over long distances. manage turbine performance and reduce downtime whilst simultaneously decreasing maintenance costs and extending In the field of high-voltage direct current (HVDC), we have the life of assets beyond their original design life. conducted the first type test of a 320 kV cable system at our laboratories. No technical standards for HVDC switchgear We developed WindGEMINI as a digital twin which models currently exist. different aspects of an operating wind turbine. It uses a range of innovative algorithms and physics-based simulation models We chair the EU R&D programme PROMOTioN, we are committed to analyse the vast amounts of Supervisory Control And Data to demonstrating the testing of HVDC circuit breakers using our Acquisition (SCADA) data and provide prognostic analytics existing AC short-circuit generators. The project outcomes will and remaining-life estimates. pave the way for the standardization of DC switchgear testing, with an eye on the development of HVDC offshore grids. Our services add value in the field of monitoring and managing solar PV and wind assets producing 14 gigawatts of installed power at 2,300 facilities in 51 countries. In addition, we offer integrated tools for financial, operational and maintenance management. We also launched an upgraded Smart Cable Guard 2.0, which is a data-driven online monitoring solution that locates weak spots and faults in power cables within minutes, avoiding costly repairs and downtime in power supply. 65 million smart meters in Europe are certified by DNV GL. 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ENERGY Cyber security of critical energy infrastructure Energy management and energy efficiency The electricity grid is a critical infrastructure providing essential A sustainable energy economy requires major commitments services for the smooth functioning of modern society and to both energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy serves as the backbone for economic activities. A smarter sources. Implementing energy efficiency and energy conserenergy system can perform generation, grid-management vation measures is highly cost effective. Besides investing and market-related tasks with better precision and faster in renewables, these topics are the core of policy debates response times than a human-dependent system, but is over climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. more vulnerable to cyber attacks. Our B-READY building resilience assessment tool translates New technologies introduce intelligent components that climate-related risks into building-specific resilience strategies. communicate in more advanced ways. Utilities, independent Global enterprises wish to be 100% renewable, like Google power producers and system operators need to be able to which has powered its data centres and the offices for its proactively address cyber-security related concerns to ensure 60,000 staff entirely by renewable energy since 2017. their systems are immune from attack. In the US, we run several energy efficiency programmes, like Our risk-based advisory and testing services bridge the gap the one for ComEd in Illinois. We also received the ‘Supplier between information technology and operational technology of the Year Award‘ from the Arizona Public Service Company to enable operators of critical infrastructures to be prepared for after achieving energy efficiency savings and customer and protected against cyber threats. We support our customers satisfaction goals. with SCADA implementation and upgrade projects, development of smart grids and smart meter testing, cyber vulnerability In Europe, our energy management services are mainly focused assessments and NERC compliance. on changing the energy culture and performing energy audits. We help customers to reduce their organization’s energy consumption through a change in their operational excellence culture. 150 000+ 13 000 MVA people listen to the ‘DNV GL Talks Energy’ installed short-circuit power in our podcast series featuring top managers high-power laboratories in the energy industry. 45 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ENERGY SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS To help power and renewables customers enhance the sustainability of their businesses, DNV GL supports the decarbonization of the energy markets. Renewables are attracting investors, creating jobs and connecting people to electricity globally. We help customers to develop, operate and maintain renewable energy projects, adapt and keep the grids operational and manage the use of energy by inspecting, testing and certifying products and running climate-action and energy-saving programmes. Sustainable solution highlights include: WIND ENERGY: we launched the digital twin tool WindGEMINI and the upgraded WindFarmer: Analyst. Read more > SOLAR ENERGY: we published the PV module scorecard 2017 and increased the power monitored by DNV GL owned Green Power Monitor from 6 to 14 GW, meanwhile integrating the solar and wind monitoring tools. Read more > ENERGY MANAGEMENT: to achieve sustainable buildings and communities, we have developed the B-READY building resilience assessment tool. Read more > 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS ASSURANCE ENABLING DIGITAL TRUST The adoption of digital technologies combined with digital connectivity is impacting societies, enterprises and consumers, while making it more complex for companies to address multi-dimensional compliance. Companies are increasingly expected to demonstrate and communicate their commitment to and credibility regarding both performance and compliance, creating a growing need for assurance services. 3 278 1976 REVENUE EMPLOYEES Business Assurance’s Business Assurance’s of share of total (19,475) total (12,715) NOK MILLION EMPLOYEES 47 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS ASSURANCE 2017 REVIEW 90 000 Management system certification standards evolving Management system certification constitutes the major share of our Business Assurance portfolio. DNV GL continues to hold a leading market share and the growth of this service portfolio customer certificates (the majority related persisted in 2017, mainly related to ISO standard certification. to ISO standards) were stored to a secure, New editions of the major ISO standards, i.e. ISO 9001 (quality) private blockchain for better transparency and ISO 14001 (environment), and sector-specific standards such and validity check. as AS/EN 9100 (aviation, space and defence) and IATF 16949 (automotive) have been launched and companies certified to these standards must transition to the new versions by 15 September 2018. While the transition progressed slowly in 2016, we saw a significant increase in 2017, which also led to more demand for our transition training services. Lumina benchmarking tool We continued our work to advance the value of assurance by developing concepts, services and roles in the digital space. With the launch of Lumina™ in 2017, customers gained access to a suite of benchmarking tools based on advanced analytics and data gathered from DNV GL’s thousands of company audits. It provides unique market-based insights and support to identify and prioritize improvement areas in management systems and business performance. Whether addressing environmental, quality or safety aspects or targeting energy, information security or food safety, Lumina allows companies to identify weak spots and creates valuable insight to discover improvement areas and understand where to invest time and resources. By the end of 2017, Lumina contained two million audit findings. A self-service tool (Lumina app) was made available via DNV GL’s Veracity platform and the benchmarking tool will be further developed and expanded throughout 2018. The new ISO 45001 (occupational health & safety) will replace OHSAS 18001 in 2018. We actively participated in the ISO Working Group and consultation rounds. As a co-founder of OHSAS 18001, we fully support its replacement. ISO standards provide for a more transparent development process and broader stakeholder involvement. Converting to an ISO standard allows for efficient integration with companies’ other management systems, e.g. quality and environmental, and helps create safer and healthier workplaces. Watch a video on Lumina, the performance benchmarking tool 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS ASSURANCE 40 000 Industry 1st: using blockchain technology for certificates users have access to Lumina, our new performance benchmarking tool, which contains information from more than 2 million audit findings raised by DNV GL in companies across all industry sectors. Watch a video on certificates in the blockchain Digital drives new assurance opportunities In September, we announced that all management system, product and supply chain certificates issued to our customers are stored in a secure, private blockchain. This was the first blockchain application in production in the assurance industry, as well as outside the finance industry. Every certificate is digitally tagged, traceable and stored in the blockchain. The technology blocks counterfeit certificates, allowing companies to communicate their certification in a transparent and secure way. A unique QR code allows anyone to instantly confirm that a certificate is valid. Building digital trust into every certificate is the first step towards building digital assurance concepts in supply chains and other areas. Increasing impact in food and beverage sector Together with customers and partners, we are exploring how our Veracity industry data platform and ecosystem of services, as well as blockchain technology, can be used for advanced analytics to ensure better decision-making and address traceability and increased transparency and trust in our customers’ supply chains. A growing interest in services related to food safety culture and food fraud poses new challenges and digital solutions offer interesting opportunities for effective improveFood and beverage sales continued to grow strongly, by 15% in ments. We see the digital transformation as a major challenge 2017. We expanded our aquaculture portfolio to include system and opportunity for all industries in the years to come. and product certification and aquaculture inspection services in addition to technical assurance services. Technical assurance, such as risk management, project development and classification of floating structures, has been applied to new, innovative aquaculture structures and concepts. By combining our aquaculture-, industryand assurance competence with our expertise in the maritime and oil & gas industries, we developed into a significant partner for the aquaculture industry in Northern Europe. 49 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS ASSURANCE Double-digit growth in healthcare Companies focus on sustainable supply chains Sales of supply chain services grew by 29% in 2017. The demand for sustainable supply chains is continuing to put pressure on companies, from both a risk and business opportunity perspective. Companies with a high degree of supply chain maturity tend to be more in control of their operational risks, responding to increasing legislative and stakeholder requirements and demands and deriving benefits from more sustainable operations throughout their value chain. Helping companies sustainably manage their supply chains continues to be a focus area for us in 2018, combining our core assurance and industry expertise with digital solutions to create new digital assurance arenas. Sales of healthcare accreditation and certification services grew by 14% in 2017 and we continued to make headway within precision medicine. In 2016, DNV GL became a partner in BIGMED, a key Norwegian innovation project exploring the IT bottlenecks that inhibit the implementation of precision medicine. In 2017, we used our Veracity data platform technology to build a prototype for sharing anonymous information on genetic variants between hospitals in Norway and Sweden. Leveraging Veracity’s ability to securely share data between hospitals, the solution can be used for genetic analysis in laboratories and lead to a safer and more efficient service for patients. Product assurance grows in automotive 80 000 companies, including many of the largest and most famous brands in the world, are relying on DNV GL to certify their management system, products or supply chains. Our product assurance portfolio sales grew by 7% in 2017, driven by the assurance of medical devices, hazardous area services and functional safety services. The latter particularly continues to grow in the field of autonomous vehicles and vehicular systems, especially in Japan and Korea. We successfully expanded into the emerging Chinese market in 2017. 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS ASSURANCE Is your supply chain fit for the future? DNV GL’s ViewPoint survey among 1,408 professionals worldwide about their supply chain sustainability maturity and how they approach and manage sustainability in their value chains. Main beneﬁts from implemented actions 1 in 2 improved their ability to meet customers’ needs 49% Improved ability 41% to meet customer needs 38% Improved relationship with Reduced social stakeholders or environmental 33% risks Gained brand reputation Cost/beneﬁt ratio for actions undertaken For 76% beneﬁts are greater than or equal to costs SUPERMALL 83% 85% For companies that For companies that invested in external audits extended their actions and in training for suppliers across the full supply chain See all key findings 51 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS ASSURANCE SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS To help customers across all industries enhance the sustainability of their businesses, DNV GL assures the performance of management systems, products, personnel and supply chains through our diverse portfolio of certification, verification, assessment and training services. Beyond integrating sustainability into everything we do, specific solutions were developed in 2017. Sustainable solution highlights include: FOOD SAFETY AND SUPPLY CHAIN AUDITS: that address hunger, clean water and climate by assuring compliance to high standards. Our aquaculture assurance services also help customers contribute to life below water and in 2017 we released our project on advanced analytics in the aquaculture sector to help fish farmers improve feed efficiency and fish health and reduce mortality levels. Read more > PRODUCT CERTIFICATION: that enables trust in the safety and quality of products. In 2017, DNV GL together with UNIDO launched a water calculation tool for the textile industry to help companies evaluate the water footprint of their manufacturing process. Read more > MANAGEMENT SYSTEM CERTIFICATION: that assures compliance with best-practice standards and requirements, ranging from quality, safety and environmental to social, ethical and climate change. In 2017, we launched Lumina™, a suite of benchmarking tools to help customers identify and prioritize improvement areas in management systems and business performance. Read more > 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS A NEW FOUNDATION FOR INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS Digital Solutions was formed as a new business area in 2017, and includes our software house. However, it only became operational from January 2018, so this annual review focuses exclusively on our 2017 software business. 852 636 REVENUE EMPLOYEES Digital Solutions’ * Digital Solutions’ * share of total (19,475) of total (12,715) NOK MILLION EMPLOYEES * * Figures as of 31 Dec 2017. Figures as of 31 Dec 2017. Only covering our Software business. Only covering our Employees in Digital Solutions 53 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Software business. as of 1 Jan 2018 was 763. DIGITAL SOLUTIONS 2017 REVIEW The structure ecosystem team developed Structure Insight, which will support 3D asset models and cloud-enabled analysis Strong growth in a challenging market building on our Sesam software as well as wider collaboration in the design and engineering process. The development involved strong customer interaction, with key customers testing pilot versions of Structure Insight. Sesam was enhanced to address engineering efficiency and expand the number of standards supported and types of analyses available. Our software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings were also further developed and commercialized in 2017. For DNV GL’s software house, 2017 was a year of accelerating our software’s transition to integrated digital asset ecosystem solutions. The digitalization of the shipping industry gathered further speed in 2017. Although the shipping market was generally weak due to overcapacity in tonnage and a record low number of new vessels under construction, investments in software solutions for fleet management and operations increased. The strong growth in sales of maritime software solutions in 2016 continued in 2017. Our maritime software solutions were deployed to almost one Strengthening analytical capabilities thousand additional vessels in 2017, taking the total number of vessels using DNV GL software to 6,200. The software market in the downstream oil and gas segment A prototype for a new cloud-based solution called Navigator performed well, driven by customers looking to reduce costs Shore was developed and deployed on Microsoft Azure for through optimization and digitalization. Increased regulation testing by customers, who provided valuable feedback before also contributed to greater demand for asset performance the release in 2018. management solutions. Sales of plant ecosystem software increased, with China standing out as the area with most growth for the year. 910 new vessels deployed In 2017, we acquired ComputIT, a Norwegian company that our maritime software owns KFX software for computational fluid dynamics (CFD). solutions in 2017, This particularly strengthened our position in the Asian market, bringing the total number where customers increasingly request 3D modelling capabilities. of vessels using DNV GL The acquisition also added leading CFD analysis capabilities to software to over 6,200. our digital asset ecosystems, specifically for plants, pipelines and structures. Integration and collaboration The offshore newbuilding market is experiencing a downturn, but we are beginning to see more upcoming projects, within structure design and engineering. We retained the number of structure ecosystem customers in 2017 and registered increased interest in our software products for offshore wind turbines. 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS In addition to a new high in licence sales and 40% growth in Steps towards cloud-based solutions revenue in 2017, the year was a major milestone in the development of the electric grid digital asset ecosystem offering. More than 55% of customers engaged actively through usergroup meetings, helping to shape the development. The technology stack is becoming more cloud-based, open and modular. The release of Synergi Electric 6.0 brought a new mobile inspection solution, a business intelligence product and a forward-looking health and risk management application. QHSE investments in SaaS technologies Watch video In a highly competitive market with broad investment in new Upcoming regulation is driving changes in the pipeline market. technologies, DNV GL’s QHSE software solutions saw doubleIn the United States, the Transmission Integrity Management digit growth in 2017. Synergi Life was the first of our products Program (TIMP) is expected to implement new regulations in to come with a fully cloud-enabled solution and is the front 2019 related to pipeline risk management. runner in the transformation of our business from the traditional on-premise software model to the cloud, mobile and softwareWe sustained our market share for software in the pipeline as-a-service (SaaS) model. ecosystem in 2017. Acceptance of cloud technology is becoming more prevalent across the industry. Customers are also We expect the change towards the SaaS subscription offering looking to benefit from a shift towards probabilistic risk models, to be critical in the market in the coming years and in 2017 allowing a more targeted approach to risk management. we professionalized and optimized our SaaS business. In 2017, Synergi Pipeline development included both cloudbased technology and a new probabilistic risk model. A new design for improved user experience was also developed in 2017 and the number of new customers more than doubled in Several new pipeline products were launched in 2017, including 2017 compared to 2016. Synergi Pipeline — Ticket Risk Assessment (TRA) which was then licensed to the largest distribution company in the US. With Enterprise Leak Detection, we grew our market share in Watch video leak detection and anticipate continued growth in that area. Transformation of the energy value chain 70% The energy value chain is in the midst of a significant transformaof new customers tion with new energy resources and increasing digitalization. of our Synergy Life This takes place in the context of ageing infrastructure and software in Europe continuously tight operational budgets. DNV GL continued to chose SaaS solutions. expand its electric grid software market and the target in the main market, North America, was surpassed. 55 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS To help customers across industries enhance the sustainability of their businesses, DNV GL develops software and data management solutions which are used by thousands of customers to manage risk and improve safety and asset performance. Sustainable solution highlights include: SYNERGI LIFE: QHSE software, which provides a platform for recording, tracking and responding to incidents and enables the reduction of operational risk related to human safety and environmental impact. Read more > NAVIGATOR INSIGHT: software facilitating the reporting of ships’ voyage data from departure to arrival. It includes options for fully integrated bunkering and Remaining on Board management. Read more > SMART CITIES: digital solutions help city leaders to reap the social and environmental benefits of a distributed energy model while also meeting their climate action objectives and becoming more resilient. Read more > 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 In this section: – Sustainability performance – Financial performance – Board of Directors’ report PERFORMANCE Our vision of having global impact for a safe and sustainable future sets the direction of our business and our conduct. We use the Global Reporting Initiative Standards and the SDGs to report on sustainability and the Norwegian Accounting Act and regulations on simplified IFRS for our financial performance. The Board of Directors’ report provides a comprehensive review of DNV GL’s strategy, performance and future outlook. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Our vision of having global impact for a safe and sustainable future sets the direction of our business. Our commitment to customers, ourselves and our partners are guided by our purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment. 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE TARGETS AND RESULTS We report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards at the Comprehensive Level, and a third party has conducted a limited assurance of this report. Based on our materiality assessment, we set our priorities, run our business and report targets, results, plans, our management approach, and reviews in relation to the following topics: KEY SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE PEOPLE HEALTH AND SAFETY BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION 87% OF EMPLOYEES 1.2 IN INJURY RATE 98% OF EMPLOYEES have a higher education at PhD, due to sickness completed Code Master or Bachelor degree levels of Conduct training 25% female managers 2.4 in absentee rate due 9  7% completed anti-corruption 112 nationalities among to sickness and anti-trust training our employees OHSAS 18001 certification 62 potential compliance cases ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT PARTNERSHIPS FOR SUSTAINABILITY 70 THOUSAND TONNES 100% OF NEW EMPLOYEES 18 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS OF CO2 EMISSIONS involved in indirect procurement trained where we have a leading position, in the Supplier Code of Conduct and and engagement with the UN Global procurement governance Compact, Red Cross and WWF 118 GWh in energy 1  00% of contracts with new G  roup President and CEO is on the consumption suppliers included the Supplier Executive Committee of the World Business ISO 14001 certification Code of Conduct Council for Sustainable Development M  aritime CEO is Chair of International 0 non-compliance cases Association of Classification Societies 59 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE APPROACH We strive to deliver safer, smarter and greener solutions to customers across industries globally – and to deliver value to society at large in the short and long term. management processes. Our extensive research into the UN Commitments Sustainable Development Goals provide important insights into our materiality assessment. We set our priorities, run our business and report our performance in relation to the Our ambition is to be recognized as a leader in sustainable following defined material topics: People; Health and Safety; business – in terms of how we manage and disclose performance Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption; Environment and Climate; in our own operations, the research and innovation we invest in, Sustainable Procurement; and Partnerships for Sustainability. as well as the services we deliver and how we work with customers We also present our management approach as well as important to improve their sustainability performance. service offerings for Sustainable Solutions. At DNV GL, we try to continuously improve our sustainability performance and have our management systems certified to the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHASAS 18001 standards. Stakeholder engagement We support the UN Sustainable Development Goals and aim Maintaining a close dialogue with our stakeholders is critical for to use this framework to create customer value through solving the successful delivery of DNV GL’s strategy and achievement societal needs. These global goals stimulate us to run our own of our vision. Through daily business relationships and partnerbusiness sustainably, to enable our customers to enhance their ships across markets, we aim to engage our stakeholders and sustainability and to promote sustainable business with partners. improve together. Our stakeholders are identified as our owner along with our customers, employees, suppliers, government We have been committed to the UN Global Compact since 2003 bodies, industry associations, civil society organizations, and continue to integrate its ten principles on human rights, labour research institutions and the media. standards, environmental performance and anti-corruption work into our business strategy and operations. We report externally on our sustainable business performance Governance through our Annual Report and aim to maintain an independently assured “Comprehensive Level” in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards. We follow the Norwegian CorpoThe ultimate responsibility for our sustainability performance rate Governance Board Code of Practice and our Annual Report lies with the Board of Directors, who also signs DNV GL’s annual constitutes our “Advanced Communication on Progress” to the UN sustainability report. The Executive Committee constitutes the Global Compact. We strive for open and honest communication Sustainability Forum, which reviews the Group’s sustainable and welcome input regarding our strategy, policies and operations. business priorities and performance. Sustainability is embedded in our management system through the Code of Conduct, the Group Strategy, topic-specific policies, Materiality operating plans and instructions across the company. Activities and training are managed by local business units, the business areas and Group functions. To direct our efforts to what our stakeholders find important, we regularly assess our key economic, environmental and social We expect our suppliers, subcontractors, contractors and interrisks, impacts and opportunities. This review process is defined mediaries to uphold high standards of human rights, labour in a governing document and aligned with our riskand brandpractices, environmental performance and anti-corruption work. 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW Financial robustness is fundamental to sustainable operations and contributing to society at large. Our full financial reporting is included in this Annual Report. TABLE 01 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION The economic value we generated and distributed globally in 2017 was: West, India, South Middle Central and East Great North South North South East and AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION Nordics Europe Europe Britain America America Asia Asia Africa Revenues1 4044 2412 2833 1545 3620 405 2319 1082 1242 Operating costs2 881 604 1149 631 1555 202 931 458 469 Employee wages and benefits 3041 1466 1636 971 1958 223 1100 627 658 Payments to providers of capital3 12 21 1 2 3 4 Payments to governments 152 21 49 14 77 14 68 4 47 Community investments 12 1 1 Economic value retained -55 301 -1 -74 30 -36 221 -6 64 The financial assistance we received from governments in 2017 was: West, India, South Middle Central and East Great North South North South East and AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION Nordics Europe Europe Britain America America Asia Asia Africa Total tax relief 1 1 Government subsidies 1 19 1 Investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant 5 7 5 3 7 types of grants from governments Awards from governments 1 Other financial benefits received or receivable from any government 5 2 for any operation 1 External revenue and interest income 2 Operating costs excluding employee wages and benefits and amortizations 3 External interest expenses 61 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES 2017 People Health and safety Improve clarity and direction inside the Be the benchmark of our industries organization, including how individual employees Establish a global health and wellbeing framework contribute to the achievement of our strategic goals to shift the focus from reactive stress management Support the company’s digital transformation, to a proactive and positive approach to employee including employees’ competence development wellbeing and the attraction of new types of expertise Strengthen the ability to learn, and actively avoid Secure sustainable diversity in terms of gender and and recover, from serious incidents nationality in customer-facing and operational roles Business ethics and anti-corruption Environment and climate Reflect the findings from a risk assessment Implement a global plan with measures and introduce express training sessions addressing to become carbon neutral regarding travel the needs of employees in their daily work and buildings by 2020 Set up an export control network Measure greenhouse gas emissions from air travel for 100% of employees Provide awareness training on the reporting of misconduct Include more locations in the environmental and climate reporting Monitor the implementation of the new Supplier Code of Conduct and Instruction on Subcontractors Add waste to environmental reporting and establish and Intermediaries a reporting baseline Engage in initiatives to understand our customer services’ impact on the environment Sustainable procurement Partnerships for sustainability Implement procurement software which UN Global Compact: continued collaboration enables supplier data to be tracked and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development: introduction of sustainable procurement Executive Committee processes to be monitored. The tool will initially cover indirect suppliers Global Opportunity Explorer: platform with UN Global Compact partners Initiate systematic sustainability risk assessments of selected supplier categories WWF: joint project with Statkraft on a digital tool for sustainable multi-purpose hydropower Red Cross: expert, voluntary and funding activities worldwide 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES 2018 People Health and safety COMPETENCE ZERO HARM Support the company’s digital transformation The overall goal is zero harm to people through having 500 managers attend a leading HEALTH AND WELLBEING digital transformation training programme Conduct a global health and safety culture survey Selected top technical people to participate in a digital for all employees, with action plans. Develop improved programme at University of California, Berkeley, US fit-for-work requirements for high risk activities. Focus 60% of our investments in research and innovation Implement the global health and wellbeing framework on digitalization, including employees’ competence development and the attraction of new types of expertise LEARNING FROM INCIDENTS Injuries with lost time involving other workers ORGANIZATION (non-DNV GL employees) to be reported separately Implement the new Digital Solutions business area CRISIS MANAGEMENT Recruit a Chief Digital Transformation Officer Improve the process for interacting with and supporting as member of the Executive Committee employees’ next of kin in the event of a crisis Business ethics and anti-corruption Environment and climate TRAINING AND AWARENESS GOVERNANCE Preparation and roll out of an e-learning course Establish environmental goals in all countries for subcontractors Roll-out of an awareness session for all employees CARBON NEUTRALITY on the reporting of misconduct Develop programmes to reduce our emissions Anti-corruption measures for identified high-risk countries from travel and operations Drive awareness on export control and sanction requirements Become verified as carbon neutral by 2018 Express learning about DNV GL as a data processor STRATEGY GOVERNING DOCUMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION Identify opportunities to become a climate positive Further implementation of requirements related company that contributes to reducing greenhouse to the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation gases from the atmosphere Activities to ensure the protection of customers’ personal data Sustainable procurement Partnerships for sustainability IMPLEMENTATION OF PROCUREMENT SOFTWARE INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS Upload all indirect suppliers to our procurement Continue with key partnerships in all business areas database UN GLOBAL COMPACT Continue close cooperation, including update SUPPLIER AUDITS of The Future of Spaceship Earth Carry out audits based on systematic sustainability WORLD BUSINESS COUNCIL FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT risk assessments of selected supplier categories Group President and CEO is member of the Executive Committee PERFORMANCE REPORTING RED CROSS Based on the implementation of the procurement Activities in several countries software, report on supply chain performance for WWF indirect procurement Finalize project with Statkraft on a digital tool for sustainable multi-purpose hydropower 63 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE ENABLING OUR DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION Trust and expertise are at the core of our relationship with customers and stakeholders. We have a strong company culture, and our people upheld and delivered on these key attributes through challenging market conditions and downsizing. We prioritize developing digital competence across the company. With the establishment of our new business area Digital Solutions, we have strengthened our digital offering to customers. DNV GL supports Sustainable Development Goals 4, 5, 8 and 10 and strives to promote quality education, gender equality, decent work and economic growth, and reduced inequalities. 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE TARGETS AND RESULTS We want to be a company which attracts, retains and further develops competent people who are committed to our purpose, vision and values. A high-quality recruitment process, along with an attractive employee value proposition and varied capability and career opportunities, is crucial to attract, engage and retain our people. We want to be ‘the best place to develop your competence.’ Targets Plans Improve clarity and direction inside the organization, COMPETENCE including how individual employees contribute to the Support the company’s digital transformation through achievement of our strategic goals. having 500 managers attend a leading digital transformation training programme. Support the company’s digital transformation, including employees’ competence development and the attraction Selected top technical people to participate in a digital of new types of expertise. programme at the University of California, Berkeley, US. Secure sustainable diversity in terms of gender and nationFocus 60% of our investments in research and innovation ality in customer-facing and operational roles. on digitalization, including employees’ competence development and the attraction of new types of expertise. ORGANIZATION Results Implement the new Digital Solutions business area. Recruit a Chief Digital Transformation Officer The internal perception of clarity and direction declined as a member of the Executive Committee. by 2 percentage points from 2016. An increase of 3% in the annual People Engagement survey result regarding serving our customers in a more digital way. First female Regional Manager in 150 years in our Maritime business area. More women on the Executive Committee (four out of nine) – and two of the five operational CEOs are women. 112 nationalities are represented among our employees, and 23 countries have 100 or more employees. 87% of employees have a higher education at PhD, Master or Bachelor degree levels 65 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE APPROACH Our role as a professional service provider and source of expertise relies on the knowledge and skills of our people. We strive to foster a company culture with people who are committed to our purpose, vision and values. Strategy and management system Human rights Our Group strategy and management system, including our Our Code of Conduct upholds the principles of non-discrimiPeople Policy, provides the overall governance for how we nation, equal opportunity, the right to join labour unions, and attract and develop experts and build a strong company culture. fair employment. All employees are introduced to the company’s This system also directs our value-based leadership expectations policies during the onboarding process, and human and labour and facilitates the operations of the business areas, regions rights are part of this introduction. DNV GL’s Statement on Modern and Group units, as well as the overall development of DNV GL. Slavery and Human Trafficking has been issued further to section 54 (1) of the UK’s Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the The people processes are designed to support a common DNV GL UK’s slavery and human trafficking statement for the culture and to create a flexible work environment with career financial year ending 31 December 2017. The statement is and competence development opportunities across the available on the company website. organization, regardless of geography and career track. DNV GL is a company with global service deliveries that require Diversity and equal opportunities teamwork, high consistent competence level and flexibility of the workforce. The need for teamwork is reflected in the DNV GL value “We are committed to teamwork and innovation” and it has To realize the potential in the organization, we seek diversity in resulted in a strong “‘We”-thinking embedded in our organization. terms of age, gender and nationality. We strive for the diversity of our workforce to be reflected at all management levels. We conduct mentoring programmes, including the reverse mentoring of senior leaders by ‘next generation’ colleagues. We also hold Responsibilities an annual global summit for up-and-coming talent. The Group President and CEO approves our People, Leadership, and Roles & Responsibilities policies. The Group HR function Freedom of association establishes our policies and sets the direction for how HR is to be managed. Group HR works closely with the HR teams in the business areas and Global Shared Services to ensure aligned All employees have a documented right to freedom of association implementation across the company. People management is through DNV GL’s management system and commitment to the a line responsibility, and our line managers are supported by UN Global Compact. Most of our supply chain consists of highly HR managers and a range of tools facilitating the HR processes. educated subcontractors, who are typically self-employed but to a lesser degree part of an employee association, though there We value dialogue and have broad geographic employee are no requirements imposed in this regard. representation on DNV GL’s Board of Directors. Our management works constructively with employee organizations through the Global Employee Forum, regional and local works councils and unions, and in daily operations. 90% of employees agree with this statement: “I have the competence I need to do my job well” 66 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE The review procedure for members of the Executive Committee Collective agreements differs slightly as a review is conducted and recommendations made by the Board’s Compensation Committee before the procedure is concluded. The final decision on the remuneration Most collective agreements cover elements related to health and of the Group President and CEO is taken by the Board of Directors safety, e.g. overtime hours and employee education as well as the based on the input from the Board’s Compensation Committee. company’s focus on HSE topics. Since DNV GL has comprehensive internal HSE instructions and some of these are even further Profit-share schemes are the most appropriate variable pay to detailed in the business areas, there has not been a need to include support our values. We have two major global schemes: these in local collective agreements as well. Profit Share (Grades 1-9): all eligible employees receive the same percentage of their base salary in bonus, based on DNV Competence development GL Group results. We have internal governing documents detailing competence Bonus Bank (Grades 10–15): the annual individual profit share and training. We follow the 70:20:10 learning model, with 70% accrual is determined based on grade and a correlated earnings from experience and doing the job, 20% through interaction with percentage, individual assessment rating, annual base salary other people, and 10% from e-learning and classroom courses. and DNV GL Group and Business Area EBITA at reference rates Business-area-specific training takes place to ensure the required versus targets. competencies within our different services. In addition to these two global schemes, sales schemes are In addition to a range of mandatory training, there are crossavailable in some business areas. No employee can be a member DNV GL programmes to develop leadership and technical of more than one scheme. stewardship. Mentoring is a key part of how we work, and we enable learning from colleagues around the globe through various mentoring programmes. Career endings Our global career model facilitates employees’ competence Due to the global nature of our operations, transition assistance development. Competence development planning includes programmes are implemented locally to meet local legislation an individual development plan, which is a key element of the and requirements. Local assistance programmes are set up performance management process. in the case of large downsizing programmes. All employees are assessed annually on results and behaviour At all times, ways are sought to retain the employees in the through a structured performance management process. The organization, including but not limited to: assessment, development and selection of new managers are based on DNV GL’s expectations for leaders: Respect and Care, All available positions are advertised internally. Foresight, Customer Centricity, and Result Orientation. External recruitment restrictions are implemented to facilitate internal transfers. All employees should have a development plan which should Remuneration focus on DNV GL’s future capability needs and the employee’s own career ambitions. The DNV GL Management System stipulates that mitigating As a knowledge company whose main resources are our employactions are to be sought before manning reductions are ees, we depend on cooperation, teamwork and knowledge sharing. considered or executed. The annual salary review and remuneration process is common for all employees, including management, and is documented in the DNV GL Management System. Approximately 45% of the Notice periods employees are covered by some form of collective agreement. No vote on remuneration policies is applicable. DNV GL’s minimum notice periods are typically 4-8 weeks for External remuneration consultants are used to collect and analyse substantial operational changes. Notice periods vary by country, relevant market data for benchmarking purposes. For around often guided by national legislation and additional provisions. the 20 largest countries in which we operate, this is done through However, the notice period for such changes is not normally access to country-specific salary and benefit databases covering specified in collective agreements. thousands of people. There is no relationship between the remuneration consultant/data collector and the management. 67 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE REVIEW Despite the continued difficult markets, we are investing in our digital transformation and taking positions to keep the company strong in the future. Investment in digital transformation Declining employee engagement The new business area Digital Solutions was established on We still have a 90% response rate to our people engagement 1 January 2018. 60% of our investment in technology and survey, but the downsizing has continued to have a negative research is in our company’s digital transformation, building impact on employee engagement. The results remain broadly competence, services and infrastructure to launch our new industry comparable with those of other companies undergoing similarly data platform Veracity. A new global HR system was launched, difficult organizational changes. The engagement score is now supporting people analytics capabilities and improved efficiency. 71% and has dropped below the Global Norm of the Korn Ferry Hay Group. Engaging employees in the strategy Characteristics of our employees To engage employees in our strategy and provide feedback to leadership, a Strategy Champions initiative was launched. The following tables provide detailed information on categories, Almost 100 strategy champions from all business areas and types, ages, genders, regions, new hires, payments and benefits more than 20 countries were selected and executed three for our employees and other workers. strategy-related ‘missions’ which reached 30% of employees. FIGURE 01 EMPLOYEES’ ENGAGEMENT AND ENABLEMENT Downsizing Engagement We have continued to reduce costs but have also had to rightsize the organization in line with the lower level of activity in several of our markets. We are now 3,000 fewer colleagues than we were three years ago. When headcount reductions have been Enablement necessary, it has been emphasized that these processes are to be handled in line with our values and principles, as well as local legislation. 68% 69% 70% 71% 72% 73% 74% DNV GL General industries High-performing companies norm norm FIGURE 02 EMPLOYEES BY NATIONALITY Norwegian 1,798 Italian 402 Malaysian 154 NORWEGIAN German 1,487 South Korean 331 French 154 American 1,408 Spanish 289 Japanese 137 British 1,000 Brazilian 255 Greek 136 GERMAN Chinese 884 Danish 235 Canadian 114 POLISH Dutch 779 Singaporean 220 Egyptian 112 Indian 645 Swedish 167 Australian 111 INDIAN AMERICAN Polish 578 Mexican 100 DUTCH BRITISH CHINESE Nationalities > 100 shown in table Nationalities > 500 shown in pie chart 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE TABLE 02 EMPLOYEES BY REGION FIGURE 03 EMPLOYEES’ LEVEL OF EDUCATION Employees per Global Shared Permanent Temporary Services regions Total employees employees Nordics 2 633 15 2 648 West, South and East Europe 2 359 71 2 430 North America 1 800 8 1 808 Central Europe 1 534 18 1 552 North Asia 1 267 84 1 351 Great Britain 1 041 12 1 053 India, Middle East and Africa 805 46 851 South Asia 723 32 755 South America 267 267 Master 43% Grand Total 12 429 286 12 715 Bachelor 38% Basic education 8% Doctorate / PhD 6% College (2 years) 3% Technical (0-3 years) 2% TABLE 03 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE Employees with Doctorate/ Employees by employment PhD, Master and Bachelor contract and gender Female Male Total degrees: 87% Permanent Employee 3 897 8 532 12 429 Education levels are largely captured through an employee self-service system. Time Limited Employee 113 173 286 Total 4 010 8 705 12 715 Permanent employees by employment type and gender Female Male Total Full-time 3 388 8 195 11 583 Part-time 509 337 846 Total 3 897 8 532 12 429 Other workers Female Male Total Temporary Staff 174 279 453 External Business Support Staff 325 1 630 1 955 Suppliers 53 110 163 Subcontractors 1 033 3 365 4 398 Total 1 585 5 384 6 969 69 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE TABLE 04 EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY, GENDER AND AGE GENDER AGE Grade Female Male < 31 31–40 41–50 51–60 > 60 1 1 3 2 1 1 2 13 19 11 11 5 5 3 120 63 50 71 29 27 6 4 298 121 100 157 97 46 19 5 619 276 248 301 198 121 27 6 755 674 462 492 274 163 38 7 651 1 028 367 747 361 164 40 8 575 1 565 97 1 182 558 251 52 9 419 1 681 6 760 849 396 89 10 306 1 514 288 858 517 157 11 141 933 57 445 435 137 12 77 490 13 178 284 92 13 18 196 1 57 111 45 14 13 97 26 54 30 15 4 45 3 29 17 Grand Total 4 010 8 705 1 343 4 081 3 938 2 604 749 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE TABLE 05 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER AND NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES – TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES BY AGE, GENDER AND REGION AGE GENDER Employee turnover <31 31–40 41–50 51–60 >60 Total Employee turnover Male Female Total number 248 582 403 274 141 1648 Total number 1 088 560 Rate 22% 14% 10% 10% 15% 13% Rate 12% 14% Opening Count 2017 1 121 4 196 4 116 2 810 938 13 181 Opening Count 2017 9 106 4 075 New employee hires New employee hires Total number 322 20 340 150 52 884 Total number 517 367 Hires 36% 2% 38% 17% 6% Hires 58% 42% GLOBAL SHARED SERVICES REGIONS West, India, South Middle and East North Central North Great East and South South Grand Employee turnover Nordics Europe America Europe Asia Britain Africa Asia America total Total number 220 232 312 152 270 181 69 165 47 1 648 Rate 8% 10% 16% 9% 18% 15% 8% 20% 15% 13% Opening Count 2017 2 771 2 272 1 907 1 625 1 493 1 169 830 808 306 13 181 New employee hires Total number 86 333 207 33 47 61 57 46 14 884 Hires 10% 38% 23% 4% 5% 7% 6% 5% 2% 100% Only permanent employees are included, as the other employment categories by contract are intended to join or leave. Turnover is based on the number of employees having left the company during the year divided by the number of employees at the beginning of the year. 71 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE TABLE 06 BENEFITS PROVIDED TO EMPLOYEES FOR THE 10 COUNTRIES WITH MOST EMPLOYEES NORWAY UNITED STATES Permanent / Permanent / Temporary / Permanent / Permanent / Temporary / BENEFITS Full-time Part-time Fulland Part-time Full-time Part-time Fulland Part-time Life insurance Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Health care Yes, voluntary1 Yes, voluntary1 No Yes, voluntary1 Yes, voluntary1 Yes, voluntary2 Disability cover Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes, maternity Parental leave Yes Yes Yes Yes, maternity Yes, maternity per legislation Statutory + Statutory + Statutory + Statutory + Statutory + Statutory + Retirement provision DB or DC DB or DC 2 DC 2 DC matching DC matching DC matching Stock ownership N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Profit share/bonus Yes Yes No Yes Yes No 1) No employer contribution 2) If 20%+ FTE 1) Employer pays 85% for employee 2) Employer pays 85% for employee (some exeptions) GERMANY UNITED KINGDOM Permanent / Permanent / Temporary / Permanent / Permanent / Temporary / BENEFITS Full-time Part-time Fulland Part-time Full-time Part-time Fulland Part-time Life insurance Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Health care Yes, voluntary Yes, voluntary Yes, voluntary Yes, voluntary1 Yes, voluntary1 Yes, voluntary1 Disability cover Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes, maternity Parental leave Yes Yes Yes Yes, maternity Yes, maternity per legislation Statutory + Statutory + Statutory + Statutory + Statutory + Statutory + Retirement provision DB or DC DB or DC DB or DC DC matching DC matching DC matching Stock ownership N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Profit share/bonus Yes Yes No Yes Yes No 1) Employer pays 100% for employee CHINA THE NETHERLANDS Permanent / Permanent / Temporary / Permanent / Permanent / Temporary / BENEFITS Full-time Part-time Fulland Part-time Full-time Part-time Fulland Part-time Life insurance Yes Yes, excl. interns Yes, excl. interns Yes Yes Yes Health care Yes Yes, excl. interns Yes, excl. interns Yes, voluntary Yes, voluntary Yes, voluntary Disability cover Yes Yes Yes, excl. interns Yes Yes Yes Parental leave Per legislation Per legislation Per legislation Yes Yes Per legislation Statutory + Statutory + Statutory + Statutory + Statutory + Statutory + Retirement provision DC matching DC matching DC matching ABP or DC ABP or DC ABP or DC Stock ownership N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Profit share/bonus Yes Yes No Yes Yes Yes, per legislation 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE TABLE 06 BENEFITS PROVIDED TO EMPLOYEES CONTINUED FOR THE 10 COUNTRIES WITH MOST EMPLOYEES POLAND SINGAPORE Permanent / Permanent / Temporary / Permanent / Permanent / Temporary / BENEFITS Full-time Part-time Fulland Part-time Full-time Part-time Fulland Part-time Life insurance Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Health care Statutory Statutory Statutory Statutory Statutory Statutory Disability cover Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Parental leave Yes Yes Yes, per legislation Yes Yes Yes, per legislation Retirement provision Statutory + DC Statutory + DC Statutory + DC Statutory Statutory Statutory Stock ownership N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Profit share/bonus Yes Yes No Yes Yes No ITALY SOUTH KOREA Permanent / Permanent / Temporary / Permanent / Permanent / Temporary / BENEFITS Full-time Part-time Fulland Part-time Full-time Part-time Fulland Part-time Life insurance Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Health care Statutory Statutory Statutory Statutory Statutory Statutory Disability cover Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Parental leave Yes Yes Yes, per legislation Yes Yes Yes, per legislation Statutory Statutory Statutory Retirement provision Statutory Statutory Statutory EoS or DC EoS or DC EoS or DC Stock ownership N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Profit share/bonus Yes Yes No Yes Yes No DB: Defined Benefit plan DC: Defined Contribution plan Contributions to defined benefit plans are not percentage-based, and all defined benefit plans are closed to new members. Detailed information about pension costs, plan assets and defined benefit pension liabilities is available in the financial statement in this annual report. The pension liabilities recorded in the balance sheet was 10,198 million NOK for the 10 countries with most employees. The net liability was 1,866 million NOK for the same selection. These pension liabilities are reflected in the balance sheet according to commonly accepted International Accounting standards. We follow the national regulations and policies related to the required funding. It is in particular in Germany, and to some extent in countries with statutory End of Service plans, where the liabilities are recorded in the balance sheet. Please see Note 8 for details on defined benefit plan obligations. 73 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE TABLE 07 AVERAGE BASE SALARY FEMALE/MALE BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY. FOR THE 10 COUNTRIES WITH MOST EMPLOYEES Average Weight Grade female/ (No of male women) NORWAY GERMANY CHINA SINGAPORE 6 97% 54 5 114% 30 06 76% 49 08 95% 24 7 98% 93 6 110% 59 07 101% 58 09 92% 16 8 96% 86 7 104% 34 08 94% 32 Average 94% 9 100% 75 8 101% 36 09 112% 21 10 101% 88 9 95% 27 Average 93% ITALY 11 99% 77 10 99% 17 12 102% 47 Average 105% 7 94% 11 THE NETHERLANDS 13 98% 12 8 98% 14 Average 99% 05 89% 10 9 103% 15 UNITED KINGDOM 06 100% 10 Average 99% 05 97% 23 07 97% 10 UNITED STATES 06 110% 23 Average 95% SOUTH KOREA 05 101% 14 07 97% 28 06 102% 38 08 99% 34 For South Korea we do not POLAND report as we do not have 07 101% 69 09 103% 21 the minimum 10 employees for both genders. 08 95% 58 10 100% 23 06 86% 36 09 101% 34 11 96% 14 07 91% 34 WEIGHTED AVERAGE 10 102% 39 Average 100% 08 90% 13 Average 100% Average 89% 99% To ensure sufficiently statistical significance, only Grades with minimum 10 employees of each gender are included. To remove sources of error, the following are not included: Subcontractors, as DNV GL has no knowledge of their salary. Temporary staff, as salaries are generally not registered and the number is low. Employees with time limited contracts, as many of these are direct international hires with different compensation packages. Employees with part time contracts, as the salary paid may not be exactly proportional to the full time salary. 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE TABLE 08 HIGHEST PAID INDIVIDUAL TO THE AVERAGE RATIO AND PERCENTAGE INCREASE FOR THE 10 COUNTRIES WITH MOST EMPLOYEES Ratio Salary Increase Ratio Highest/ Average highest Increase Average Increase paid Highest/ Number of Country Currency 2017 2016–17 2016–17 Average employees Norway NOK 7.0 2.4% 2.0% 0.82 1 893 United States USD 3.3 3.9% 2.0% 0.52 1 053 Germany EUR 3.7 2.8% 1.4% 0.50 1 074 United Kingdom GBP 3.8 3.7% 1.8% 0.49 830 China CNY 5.3 2.9% 0.0% 677 The Netherlands EUR 3.4 3.1% 0.0% 510 Poland PLN 3.2 5.9% 1.0% 0.17 306 Singapore SGD 3.1 2.2% 0.0% 282 Italy EUR 4.0 1.9% 1.3% 0.71 260 South Korea KRW 2.4 1.4% 1.9% 1.41 260 The average salary increases equal the approved salary frames for a country, including promotions. The number of salary increases for the most highly paid relates to the highest-paid individual during the reporting year, who was also employed the previous year. TABLE 09 EDUCATIONAL LEVEL FOR THE 10 COUNTRIES WITH MOST EMPLOYEES Basic Technical College Doctorate/ Country education (0-3 years) (2 years) Bachelor Master PhD Norway 121 34 59 380 1 319 193 United States 178 4 80 669 481 103 Germany 75 8 21 143 320 50 United Kingdom 33 19 22 249 312 121 China 12 2 45 494 268 13 The Netherlands 47 39 8 248 217 38 Poland 20 3 4 98 393 7 Singapore 44 3 5 180 111 18 Italy 87 2 21 113 68 20 South Korea 4 1 201 80 17 75 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PEOPLE TABLE 10 INTERNAL CLASSROOM TRAINING AVERAGE HOURS PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE BY GENDER AND BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY HOURS / EMPLOYEE HOURS / EMPLOYEE Employee Employee category Female Male category Female Male 1 23 13 9 8 15 2 1 10 11 15 3 3 2 11 9 13 4 3 4 12 12 12 5 5 6 13 10 7 6 8 9 14 8 7 7 8 8 15 13 2 8 8 13 Total 7 12 The overview includes permanent and time limited employees and excludes on-the-job training, internal e-learning, and external training. We aim at 70% on-the-job training in our competence development. TABLE 11 EMPLOYEES RECEIVED REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS BY GENDER FOR PERMANENT EMPLOYEES Rated Completed Rated Completed performance performance performance performance Female process Male process Permanent Employee 100% 87% Permanent Employee 100% 90% Time Limited Employee 100% 72% Time Limited Employee 99% 92% Female / male Total 100% 89% 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 HEALTH AND SAFETY SAFEGUARDING OUR PEOPLE Our health and safety performance is considered sound and stable. We continue to strengthen our culture through the resilience framework, focusing on attitudes, beliefs and behaviour of our employees. The commitment to and robustness of DNV GL’s health and safety management is particularly important in tough times. DNV GL supports Sustainable Development Goal 3 and strives to ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages. 77 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 HEALTH AND SAFETY TARGETS AND RESULTS We are working to strengthen our attitudes, beliefs and behaviour, and striving to learn from experience and improve our way of working accordingly. This is to ensure that we safeguard our people and maintain a healthy and resilient workforce. Crisis management Targets Complex global scenario exercises conducted to test the ability to respond in a crisis, with lessons learned addressed across the company. Zero harm Be the benchmark of our industries. A global internal next of kin support resource pool established to ensure that employees’ dependants receive Health and wellbeing professional and timely information and support. Establish a global health and wellbeing framework to shift the focus from reactive stress management to a proactive and positive approach to employee wellbeing (2017). Plans Measure the maturity of our health and safety culture in a re-run of a global survey of all employees (2018). Zero harm Incident reporting and investigation Our overall goal is zero harm to people. Strengthen our ability to learn and actively avoid and recover from serious incidents. Health and wellbeing Conduct a global health and safety culture survey Crisis management for all employees to measure maturity. Perform a full-scale exercise with the Next of Kin Call Centre provider (2018). Develop and implement action plans to address the potential needs identified in the survey to be run. Develop improved fit-for-work requirements for Results high-risk activities. Continue to implement the global health and wellbeing Zero harm framework to strengthen the resilience of our workforce. Continued stable and positive health and safety performance trends. Injury Rate: 1.2 (1.4), Occupational Learning from incidents Disease Rate: 0.9 (1.0), Lost Day Rate: 30.3 (38.4) From 2018, injuries with lost time involving other workers and Absentee Rate: 2.4 (2.5). (non-DNV GL employees) will still be reported and investigated, with the sharing of lessons learned. These will be Health and wellbeing reported separately from the injury rates for employees, Resilience programme developed and successfully launched, as we do not register worked hours for other workers. with the purpose of shifting the focus from reactive stress management to a more proactive and positive approach Crisis management to employees’ wellbeing and motivation. Improve the procedure for interacting with and supporting employees’ next of kin in the event of a crisis. Incident reporting and investigation Initiated a simplified and more objective approach to the classification of incidents and hazards to ensure incident investigations at an appropriate level. A continuous focus on creating a culture with a low threshold for reporting and high interest in learning to ensure improvements. 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 HEALTH AND SAFETY APPROACH Our purpose since 1864 has been to safeguard life, property and the environment. We do this through the services we provide and the way we operate. The backbone of our occupational health and safety management system is that all employees feel empowered to say ‘No’ when they consider a situation to be unsafe. Health and safety management system Knowledge sharing We are committed to continuously improving our occupational A significant objective of incident and hazard reporting is to health and safety performance. Our comprehensive, global share and learn from experience gained across organizational occupational health and safety management system is certified units. Learning is shared through quarterly presentations of according to the OHSAS 18001 standard and embedded in our incidents assessed as having medium or high loss potential for Group management system. The health and safety organization the people involved, and there is open access to the incident is structured along two lines of responsibility; geographically and hazard database internally. We focus on transparency, and per business area. Health and safety performance is reported training and tools when working towards a mature health to the Executive Committee on a bi-monthly basis. Quarterly and safety culture. reports are made available to all employees on the intranet. Involving employees Incident reporting tool DNV GL shares health and safety information and has consultaFor reporting and managing incidents and hazards, we use tions with the representatives of local works councils and unions our in-house developed, commercial software Synergi Life. in accordance with collective agreements and local legislation. This includes the use of the Synergi Life Mobile App for DNV GL recognizes representatives elected by local works councils immediately reporting an occurrence at any time or place. and unions with which we have a collective agreement, as well Employees can also anonymously report incidents and hazards. as representatives that have been appointed in accordance with Our health and safety incident-recording system complies with local legislation or procedures to represent the employees in local laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. In a local works council or suchlike. The involvement is detailed countries with little legislation, the DNV GL Group requirements, in our internal procedures and applicable to all employees. which comply with Norwegian regulations, are adhered to. These are aligned with the ILO Code of Practice on Recording and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases. 79 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 HEALTH AND SAFETY REVIEW Our health and safety performance is considered sound and stable, with slight improvements in the injury rate, occupational disease rate, lost day rate and sickness absentee rate. The results are comparable with those of our peers; however, we are continuously attempting to improve. We have revised our goal from being the benchmark of our industries to striving for zero harm to people. The significant increase in the injury rate for Region North Asia Injury rate is related to two additional lost time injuries reported in 2017 compared to 2016. Four of the five reported injury cases in 2017 are related to field work. Field work continues to be a focus area In 2017, we achieved an injury rate of 1.2 (1.4). We see a decrease in this region and all major incidents are shared. The significant in the injury rate over several years and will continue to work on decrease in the injury rate for Region Central Europe is due improving safety by maintaining a top-down focus and employee to fewer injuries related to office work being reported in 2017 involvement. compared to 2016. No injuries were recorded for Region South The results of investigations into injuries and near-injuries, with America, which is partly explained by reduced business a potential high loss to the employees involved, are shared across activities in the area. the company. The sharing of best practices and lessons learned is key to minimizing the risk of recurring injuries and learning In 2017, 4 (2) injuries with lost time recorded were related from near-misses to prevent injuries. to other workers (non-DNV GL employees). FIGURE 04 INJURY RATE PER REGIONS 1.0 NORDICS 0.4 3.8 CENTRAL EUROPE 1.4 WEST, SOUTH AND 1.6 EAST EUROPE 1.9 1.8 GREAT BRITAIN 0.5 0.0 NORTH AMERICA 0.6 0.0 SOUTH AMERICA 0.0 1.0 NORTH ASIA 1.9 0.0 SOUTH ASIA 1.4 INDIA, MIDDLE EAST, 1.9 AND AFRICA 2.0 1.4 DNV GL 1.2 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Number of cases per million worked hours Injury rate, total workforce 2016 Injury rate, total workforce 2017 80 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 HEALTH AND SAFETY 1.2 Occupational disease rate Injury Rate due to lost day injuries per In 2017, we achieved an occupational disease rate of 0.9 (1.0). million working hours Approximately half of the cases reported in 2016 and 2017 are related to stress and a high workload. Other types of diseases reported in the past two years are mainly due to ergonomic stressors and exposure to hazardous indoor and outdoor environ2.4% ments. A global resilience framework was implemented in 2017 to enhance employees’ physical, mental and social wellbeing Absentee Rate and shift the focus from reactive stress handling to a more due to sickness proactive approach. The significant decrease in the occupational disease rate for Region Nordic and Region India/Middle East/Africa is mainly related to fewer stress cases reported in these regions in 2017. 0.18 Region India/Middle East/Africa has implemented specific health measures, such as proactive health checks for employees working incidents and in the office and newsletters aiming to make employees more hazards reported confident about discussing their workload and stress levels with per employee their line manager. The increases in the occupational disease rates for Regions Great Britain, South America and South Asia are due to cases assessed as having low loss potential for the people involved. The high level in South Asia is due to nonrecurrent cases, related to food and workplace hygiene. FIGURE 05 OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE RATE PER REGIONS 2.5 NORDICS 1.0 0.6 CENTRAL EUROPE 0.7 WEST, SOUTH AND 0.0 EAST EUROPE 0.5 0.9 GREAT BRITAIN 2.5 0.9 NORTH AMERICA 0.3 0.0 SOUTH AMERICA 2.0 0.7 NORTH ASIA 0.4 0.6 SOUTH ASIA 3.5 INDIA, MIDDLE EAST, 1.2 AND AFRICA 0.0 1.0 DNV GL 0.9 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Number of cases per million worked hours Occupational disease, total workforce 2016 Occupational disease, total workforce 2017 81 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 HEALTH AND SAFETY Lost day rate Incidents and hazards reporting There were 702 sick days due to injuries and occupational diseases, During the year, 2,342 incidents and hazards related to occupasignificantly down from 957 in 2016. The Lost Day Rate was 30.3 tional health, safety and the environment were reported. This (38.4). The decrease is mainly related to fewer severe stress and represents 0.18 reports per employee (0.20), explained by natural workload cases reported in 2017, particularly for Region Nordic. variations over the rolling 12-month average. Twenty-eight per cent of the reported incidents and hazards were assessed as having The main cause of the significant increase in the lost time rate medium or high loss potential for the people involved. for Region India/Middle East/Africa is unfortunately one major car accident in Kenya. Due to the unstable situation in Kenya, we Reported incidents and hazards are work-related cases involving have not been able to perform a root-cause analysis for the car employees. Incidents involving other workers (non-DNV GL employaccident. In Region Great Britain, one severe stress-related case ees) are also included, but corresponding hours are excluded in was reported and thoroughly investigated, with measures taken. the reported injury rate and lost day rate. Hence the injury rate and lost day rate are slightly too high. However, this is not significant for the understanding of our health and safety performance. From 2018, injuries with lost time involving other workers will still be Absentee rate reported and investigated, with sharing of lessons learned, but these injuries will not be included in the injury rate. We plan to report injury rates for other workers when the HR and financial The absentee rate continues to be at a low level, calculated to systems can fully capture the number of -hours worked. No workers be 2.4% (2.5%). The absentee rate per region is not available since are involved in occupational activities with a high incidence our current systems are not configured to extract sickness data of specific diseases. for the whole company across DNV GL’s nine Global Shared Services regions. This issue has been addressed to further improve our reporting. FIGURE 06 LOST DAY RATE PER REGIONS NORDICS 112.2 35.6 CENTRAL EUROPE 37.1 36.6 WEST, SOUTH AND 33.3 EAST EUROPE 20.2 GREAT BRITAIN 18.3 79.8 3.2 NORTH AMERICA 2.1 0.0 SOUTH AMERICA 15.8 NORTH ASIA 6.0 17.6 1.2 SOUTH ASIA 21.9 INDIA, MIDDLE EAST, 29.9 AND AFRICA 60.3 DNV GL 38.4 30.3 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 Lost day rate, total workforce 2016 Lost day rate, total workforce 2017 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 HEALTH AND SAFETY TABLE 12 HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE 2017 2016 2015 Fatal accidents 0 0 0 Injuries with lost days 27 34 40 Injuries with no lost days 149 162 183 Occupational diseases with lost days 22 25 1 36 Occupational diseases with no lost days 99 106 80 Near-accidents 313 408 2 582 Hazards 1 621 2 013 3 2 588 Injury rate (IR) 1.2 1.4 1.5 Occupational disease rate (ODR) 0.9 1.0 1 1.0 Lost day rate (LDR) 30.3 38.4 4 49.2 Absentee rate (%) 2.4 2.5 2.2 Corrections to previous reporting 1) Occupational diseases with lost time reported for 3) Hazards reported for 2016 has been corrected To minimize restrictions and maximize the number 2016 is corrected from 23 to 25 due to one new from 1982 to 2013. 30 hazards were reported of recorded incidents in the Synergi Life system, we case recorded after the deadline for external after the deadline for external reporting. do not set any cut-off date for registering incidents reporting, and one case not correctly reported in and hazards in the reporting tool. Our annual external 2016. Both cases are investigated and actions are 4) The lost day rate reported for 2016 has been reporting may consequently be corrected with implemented. The occupational disease rate for corrected from 29.3 to 38.4. One injury was registrations made after the reporting deadlines, 2016 is corrected accordingly from 0.9 to 1.0. updated with lost days and one occupational and such corrections are commented. Injuries disease case was recorded and updated with and diseases with high loss potential for people 2) Near-accidents reported for 2016 is corrected lost days after deadline for external reporting. involved, are investigated independently from 410 to 408 due to change in the case type of the recording date in Synergi Life. after the deadline for external reporting. DEFINITIONS Absentee rate (%): (Total hours of absence Lost day rate (LDR): Number of days’ absence musculoskeletal load), exposure to which over a due to sickness/worked hours) x 100 due to injuries with lost days and occupational period results in diseases to employees or other diseases with lost days / million worked hours. workers, or a work activity resulting in illness, Hazard: An unsafe situation, object and/or with no lost days (back to work the next day). practice with the potential to cause an incident. Near-accident: A sudden unintentional event which, under slightly different circumstances, Work-related cases: An incident or hazard Injury rate (IR): Number of injuries with lost could have resulted in an accident. that occurs or arises during the performance days/million worked hours. First aid injuries of duty on behalf of DNV GL. Duty includes work are included in the injury rate. Occupational disease rate (ODR): Number at, or travel to and from, any location on behalf of occupational diseases with lost days/million of DNV GL, or participation in a social event Injuries with no lost days: Number of worked hours. First aid diseases are included organized by DNV GL. Occurrences during travel accidents resulting in personal injury but no in the occupational disease rate. between the employee’s home and DNV GL lost time (back to work the next day). home office are classified as not work-related Occupational diseases with lost days: in Synergi Life. A case is not considered workInjuries with lost days: Any work-related Workplace environment conditions (including related if an injury or disease involves signs or injury which prevents an injured employee or the psychosocial workplace environment and symptoms that surface while at work, but result other workers from doing any work on any day musculoskeletal load), exposure to which over a solely from a non-work-related event or exposure (or shift) after the day (or shift) on which the period results in disease to employees or other that occurs outside the workplace environment. injury occurred, including weekends and workers, or a work activity resulting in disease, A case considered by DNV GL as not work-related holidays. with lost days (not back to work the next day). per the above, may still be subject to a country’s statutory reporting and is recorded in Synergi Loss potential: Evaluation of the most Occupational diseases with no lost days: Life when a formal report is made to the relevant probable consequence and frequency of loss Workplace environment conditions (including authorities. to the employees and other workers involved. the psychosocial workplace environment and 83 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION SAFEGUARDING OUR CULTURE OF INTEGRITY DNV GL’s business model is based on trust at all levels and in all business environments. Trust can only be achieved when we persistently maintain high standards of business and personal conduct. We endeavour to reflect DNV GL’s values in everything we do to demonstrate ethical leadership and uphold our reputation for integrity. DNV GL supports Sustainable Development Goal 16 and strives to promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION TARGETS AND RESULTS Relevant measures to achieve a high level of integrity have been further implemented through respective e-learnings, classroom training and communication measures, as well as improvements to the governing documents, observing and taking into consideration the latest legal developments. Targets Plans Reflect the findings of a risk assessment and introduce TRAINING AND AWARENESS express training sessions, addressing the needs Preparation and roll out of an e-learning course of employees in their daily work. for subcontractors. Set up an export control network. Roll-out of an awareness session for all employees Awareness training on the reporting of misconduct. on the reporting of misconduct. Monitor the implementation of the new Supplier Code Anti-corruption measures for identified high-risk of Conduct and the instruction on Subcontractors countries. and Intermediaries. Drive awareness on export control and sanction requirements. Express learning about DNV GL as a data processor. Results GOVERNING DOCUMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION Express learning on the reporting of misconduct Further implementation of requirements related prepared for roll-out in 2018. to the EU General Data Protection Regulation. Monitored implementation of a governing document Activities to ensure the protection of customers’ on Subcontractors and Intermediaries, including the personal data. finalization of risk assessments per business area. Export Control Network set up. E-learning on export control law and sanctions prepared for roll-out in 2018. Express learning on personal data protection (refresher) rolled out. 2 500 employees trained on the 98% completed code of conduct training, compliance programme 97% completed anti-corruption and antitrust training 85 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION APPROACH We seek to provide reliable protection against non-compliance risks and are continuously developing a common understanding of our integrity performance. Regular reports on developments are presented to the Board’s Audit Committee and CEO. We regularly evaluate risks reported in our risk management system and develop tailor-made awareness initiatives for these. Code of Conduct Governance Our Code of Conduct outlines high-level principles in two Effective compliance is based on the global governance of our main areas: DNV GL’s conduct of its business; and the personal compliance organization and clear-cut reporting lines, as well conduct of people involved in DNV GL’s business at all levels, as close cooperation between our Group Compliance unit, all both in ordinary work situations and when there are challenges business areas and Global Shared Services, ensured through to our personal or professional integrity. an international compliance network. Zero tolerance Top management focus We do not tolerate any violation of applicable laws, including antiThe Board of Directors get regular updates through presentations, corruption, privacy and export control laws, our Code of Conduct training and information on DNV GL’s compliance programme. or internal instructions. Violations may result in disciplinary proA special focus on this is part of the latest legal and political cedures, including termination of employment or contract as well developments. as potential legal proceedings. As a global company with activities in a range of sectors, we face differing local regulations and practices, which in turn results in a diverse risk picture. FIGURE 07 COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME ACCORDING TO ISO 19600 Top level commitment Regular risk assessment Lessons learned Code of Conduct and instructions REACT Training programme Actively manage and follow up on cases, Monitoring and control PREVENT case register Driven by Communication group compliance Global compliance network DETECT Regular audit programme Procedures for reporting of misconduct Ombudsmen system 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Compliance programme Customer privacy Our compliance programme with its related instructions is Customer data are handled in accordance with the confidentibased on the Code of Conduct and owned by the Board of ality obligations that follow from the terms and conditions of Directors. All focus areas, anti-corruption and antitrust efforts, our contracts with customers. Comprehensive instructions are export control law and sanctions, and personal data protection in place outlining our standards to protect the personal data are based on the ISO standard 19600, creating an interlinked, of employees and customers in line with the EU General Data integrative and tailor-made approach. Lessons learned Protection Regulation. are systematically used to build competence and resilience. This enables our employees to understand the structure and requirements of the compliance management system and meet customer requirements. Antitrust The Antitrust instructions are supplemented by a guideline Risk management on “Dos and Don’ts for competition law”. Antitrust is also part of the mandatory training programme. The management of corruption and fraud risks is integrated into the regular risk management processes and the Group Compliance Officer is a member of DNV GL’s Group Risk Forum. Supply chain All business areas conducted a risk assessment in 2017. The DNV GL risk management tool included 32 identified and active fraud and corruption risks in 2017. The risks were identified as We expect our suppliers and subcontractors to uphold the being in Business Assurance (12), Global Shared Services (11), same business ethics standards as DNV GL and instructions Oil & Gas (6), Maritime (2) and Energy (1). Identified high-risk on our requirements are in place. We provide subcontractors countries report separately on risks identified in a separate with the Supplier Code of Conduct and carry out due diligence risk reporting process. checks as decided in the business areas. Communication Reporting of misconduct Communication, including the tone from the top, is a key success Our employees and customers are encouraged to report factor in the programme. We are constantly developing our actual or suspected misconduct, such as, but not limited to, communication channels to create an ongoing high level concerns related to bribery, fraud, labour grievances, discrimiof awareness in the organization. The latest information nation or other ethical issues concerning colleagues, suppliers, as well as FAQs can be found on the intranet. subcontractors or agents working on behalf of our company. The different channels for reporting misconduct are set out in our instruction on the reporting of misconduct. Internally, issues should be handled through the normal line-management route. Training If this is not feasible, the Group Compliance Officer or one of the Ombudsmen should be contacted. In our tailor-made training programme, we build competence The Group Compliance Officer has a direct reporting line by using customized awareness sessions and web-based to the Board of Directors, guaranteeing direct access to the training, including actual compliance cases to include lessons Board in the case of misconduct in the Executive Committee. learned. All employees, regardless of category and region, are to complete the mandatory e-learning modules on Code Information on how customers, employees and other stakeof Conduct and Anti-Corruption and Antitrust. For this reason, holders should report potential misconduct is published on the we do not monitor completion by category and region. company website and intranet. Concerns may be reported to the internal and external Ombudsmen, ensuring the anonymity of the whistle-blower. 87 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION REVIEW Based on the findings of a risk assessment we introduced express training sessions, addressing the needs of employees in their daily work, and ensured export control compliance, subcontractor due diligences and further awareness building around the reporting of misconduct. Compliance Governing documents No critical concerns were reported in 2017. There were no legal A major revision of the Reporting of Misconduct instructions actions pending or completed during the reporting period was published, further emphasizing the role of the Internal regarding anti-competitive behaviour or violations of antiand External Ombudsmen. trust and monopoly legislation in which DNV GL was identified as a participant. We have not identified any significant fines or The existing procedure for implementing the requirements non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/or of the EU General Data Protection Regulation in line with the regulations in the environmental, social or economic area. Binding Corporate Rules approved by the Norwegian data protection authorities, is revised. TABLE 13 REPORTED NEW, POTENTIAL COMPLIANCE CASES TABLE 14 COMPLETION RATES FOR BUSINESS ETHICS TRAINING Code of Anti-corruption Conduct & antitrust Case type 2017 2016 2015 Business Area 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Labour (suspicion of harassment, Maritime 100 100 99 99 89 88 9 10 7 discrimination or breach of other labour-related instructions) Oil & Gas 96 95 89 88 78 77 Financial 11 7 10 (suspicion of financial misconduct) Energy 95 94 89 88 87 87 Data Protection (suspicion of breach of data 5 10 4 Business Assurance 100 100 90 87 71 68 protection laws) Digital Solutions 100 100 98 97 81 79 Ethical Behaviour 25 10 3 (suspicion of unfair treatment) Global Shared Services 96 94 91 89 84 80 Other (all other suspicions of breach 12 7 16 of law or internal instructions) Group functions 100 100 91 89 74 67 Total 62 44 40 Total 98 97 93 92 83 81 88 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION 9 Subcontractors and intermediaries times was compliance status We have monitored the implementation of the Instruction on presented to the Executive Subcontractors and intermediaries, as well as the application Committee of due diligence checks in the different business areas. Respective training is planned for 2018 and there are still some more improvements to be made. Local gift guidelines Training We have evaluated the roll-out of our local gift guidelines. The existing e-learning modules for the Code of Conduct and Most local implementations were satisfactory, while several Anti-Corruption and Antitrust are mandatory for all permanent countries need further guidance. Suitable actions have been taken. and temporary employees. 98% (97%) of all employees had completed the Code of Conduct e-learning module, while 97% (83%) had completed the Anti-Corruption and Antitrust e-learning module. Rules for investigations Interactive team training on anti-corruption and fraud for highrisk countries was rolled out in all high-risk countries in 2017. Guidelines for front-desk officers regarding rules in the case By the year-end, 91% of employees in the designated high-risk of investigations have been distributed in the organization. countries for 2015–2017 had been trained. In the discussions, employees described typical corruption scenarios, and actions for avoiding these scenarios were developed in subsequent Measures for high-risk countries discussions. The result of this feedback will be incorporated into further awareness measures in 2018. We continued to implement extra measures in countries with A new e-learning module on export controls and sanctions was a high risk of fraud and corruption. As part of the inter-active developed to help employees handling export control matters e-learning training for employees provided in high-risk countries, in all business areas to learn about the main aspects of export we gathered feedback on theoretical fraud and corruption control laws and sanctions. This module will be rolled out in 2018. scenarios in our organization. This feedback will be used A new express learning on the reporting of misconduct was in awareness initiatives in 2018. prepared to create further awareness. This training will be mandatory for all employees and is to be rolled out in 2018. To further increase awareness of relevant staff handling of Export control network personal data, the e-learning on personal data protection was also rolled out in the HR units in all business areas. The process of establishing an extended global export control A new express learning on personal data protection was rolled network, which started in 2016, continued in 2017 with the out in 2017 as a refresher for employees in relevant functions, nomination of responsible persons by business area CEOs. explaining central principles of personal data protection and Furthermore, locally improved processes were developed, providing examples of where they are relevant and important starting in Germany. Classroom training on export control in everyday work. law took place and an e-learning on export control laws and sanctions was developed. Measures to ensure compliance with export controls and sanctions were increased in key countries, starting with classroom training. An internal document was Communication published to provide an overview of existing sanctions and guidance for all business dealings with a connection to Russia The Compliance Officer continued to present updates and and/or Crimea and Sevastopol. highlights concerning the compliance programme to the Control Committee, Board of Directors, and Executive Committee as well as at several Country Chair meetings. The global compliance Automatic sanctions checks network continues to actively raise awareness of compliance issues in its members’ respective countries and to help communicate the compliance programme. Automatic sanctions checks were extended to include another of our customer relationship management tools used by operational business. 89 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE ESTABLISHED BASELINE FOR GREENER OPERATIONS A plan to become carbon neutral was included in DNV GL’s Group Strategy towards 2020. Climate action is an increasingly crucial task for society and also a priority for DNV GL. DNV GL supports Sustainable Development Goal 13 and strives to take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. 90 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE TARGETS AND RESULTS We aim to deliver safer, smarter and greener performance in everything we do. We take a precautionary approach and are committed to managing and continually improving our environmental and climate performance. This is to ensure that we safeguard the environment and climate and comply with regulations and expectations. Targets Plans Implement a global plan with measures to become climate GOVERNANCE neutral regarding travel and buildings within 2020 Establish environmental goals in all countries Measure greenhouse gas emissions from air travel for CARBON NEUTRALITY 100% of employees Develop programmes to reduce our emissions from travel and operations Include more locations in the environmental and climate Become verified as carbon neutral by 2018 reporting STRATEGY Add waste to our environmental reporting and establish Identify opportunities to become a climate positive a reporting baseline company that contributes to reducing greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. Engage in initiatives to understand our customer services’ impact on the environment. Results Global plan to become climate neutral in our operations by 2020 established Greenhouse gas emissions from air travel are measured for 97% of employees and estimated for the remaining employees Emissions from offices and operations are estimated for 100% of our employees, directly provided from locations representing 86% of employees A reporting baseline for waste has been established for the biggest locations A project has been established to understand our customer services’ impact on the environment. 91 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE APPROACH We aim to foster a safer, smarter and greener culture in which we continuously improve our environmental and climate impact. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, taking a precautionary approach in managing environmental and climate aspects is embedded in how we run our business. Climate neutral strategy Environmental reporting system and tool In line with our vision for a safe and sustainable future, we will Environmental measurements, incident reporting and perforreduce our negative impact on the environment. We will implement mance monitoring of material topics, such as energy consumption, programmes to reduce our emissions and consumption from emissions to air and waste management are followed up annually travel and operations, including sustainable procurement using the Synergi Life tool. programmes. From 2018, our operations will be verified as being carbon neutral. Climate and environmental governance Code of Conduct Our approach, processes and systems for managing our environmental performance throughout the Group are defined Our Code of Conduct states that we are to work to reduce the in a series of governing documents. The Global Shared Services environmental impact of our own operations, procurements, unit supports line management, and the Group HSE function investments and property management. Further, we are to is responsible for governing and controlling environmental minimize our emissions and consumption of energy and natural performance across business units using the Synergi Life tool resources, and actively contribute to environmental protection and dedicated travel agencies. by promoting the development and deployment of environmentally friendly technologies. Green solutions Environmental management system Our operational priorities are to reduce our operations’ energy consumption and emissions to air, and the measuring and moniWe have been certified in accordance with ISO 14001 since toring of these aspects are recorded and followed up annually. 2008 and this certification is key to ensuring that the Group We seek appropriate and sustainable approaches and choose operates in a safer, smarter and greener manner. The certificagreen solutions. If no such solution can be found, we shall tion also contributes to DNV GL being trusted as a leader that as far as possible apply the solutions with the least negative enables the safe and sustainable performance of its customers. environmental impact. If we undertake work which may have To implement environmental initiatives, internal and external environmental impacts that are different to those of our normal audits are undertaken at test sites and laboratories. operations, such impacts shall be identified and evaluated. 92 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE REVIEW 2017 is the first year for which DNV GL reports emissions from offices, operations and air travel for 100% of its employees. Compliance and risk The greenhouse gas emissions from air and car travel (Scope 3) were 43,665 tonnes CO2e No risk related to climate change is considered material. Action has been taken to mitigate the potential risk of flooding at the Of these, 36,444 tonnes CO2e were from air travel. The travel Arnhem laboratory, which is situated on reclaimed land beside agencies currently cover 97% of the permanent and temporary the River Rhine. This includes an early-warning system as well employees, and an estimate is made for the remaining as the purchase of protection material. The related financial employees. Additional 6.5 tonnes CO2e Scope 3 emissions implications are limited. from waste are reported for Norway. Zero non-compliance cases involving environmental regulations and zero fines related to environmental aspects were reported in 2017. TABLE 15 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS GHG Emissions (tCO2e) The total energy consumption was 118.3 GWh 2017 2016 Environmental numbers are reported by 112 locations with Scope 1: 86% of our employees. Energy consumption is estimated for Direct GHG emissions 10,535 11,223 the remaining employees, based on the global average energy from operations consumption per square metre. The Netherlands operations used energy with green certificates in 2017. Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions 15,287 12,144 from consumed energy The greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) Scope 3: were 25,822 tonnes CO2e Direct GHG emissions from 43,665 17,282 air and car travel The reported greenhouse gas emissions are from our energy consumption, burning of fuels and use of gases in lab operations. The Arnhem Power TIC Laboratory is one of the major contributors to our greenhouse gas emissions due to its use of SF6 gas. The specific greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) from the reporting locations were 2 tCO2 per person in 2017. 93 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 118.3 Calculation of greenhouse gas emissions GWh used, including 37.5 GWh green energy with The greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated in line green certificates with the GHG Protocol (World Business Council for Sustainable Development and World Resources Institute). For 2017, we adopted the financial and operational control approach, with the operational control criteria defining the boundary for 69.5 consolidating the greenhouse gas emissions. Location-based emissions are reported globally, while market-based emissions thousand tonnes of CO2e emitted from offices, are reported for Norway and several EU countries. Emission lab operations, factors for air and car travel, chemical consumption and fossil air and car travel fuels are based on Defra CO2 emission factors (https://www.gov. uk/government/publications/greenhouse-gas-reporting-conversion-factors-2017). Indirect emissions from electricity and zero district heating have been calculated using country-specific grid average emission factors published by the IEA in a 2017 revision. Market-based emissions for EU countries are taken from AIB material climate-risk or non-compliance (https://www.aib-net.org/) “European Residual Mixes 2016”. cases Emissions not included in the reporting For 2017, we have not reported emissions of the greenhouse gases CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, NOx or SOx. 94 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT STRENGTHENING SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT PRACTICES We continue to strengthen our global governance systems by preparing systematic sustainable procurement practices group-wide. Our focus on environmentally sound buildings and related energy and greenhouse gas emissions reductions, resulted in the development of a green office plan outlining key targets and actions to reduce waste and the use of energy and water. DNV GL supports Sustainable Development Goal 12 and strives to ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. 95 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT TARGETS AND RESULTS The sustainability and ethical standards to which we commit also extend to our suppliers. Our current ambition is to fully implement a consistent sustainability procurement programme which will enable us to effectively engage with our suppliers worldwide and monitor performance. Performance reporting Targets The procurement software will enable us to report on supplier performance. An assessment of supplier performance is a functionality of the system and will be implemented in 2018. Implementation of procurement software Guidelines and a template for a supplier risk review were Implement procurement software which enables supplier prepared during 2017 and a short list of suppliers to be data to be tracked and the introduction of sustainable audited will be prepared in early 2018. procurement processes to be monitored. The tool will initially cover indirect suppliers. Supplier risk assessments Plans Initiate systematic sustainability risk assessments of selected supplier categories. Implementation of procurement software Performance reporting Upload all indirect suppliers to our procurement database to Based on the implementation of the procurement software, enable supplier data to be tracked and the implementation we aim to report on indirect-procurement supply chain of sustainability procurement requirements to be monitored. performance in 2018. Supplier audits Carry out audits based on systematic sustainability risk assessments of selected supplier categories. Results Performance reporting Based on the implementation of the procurement software, we aim to report on indirect procurement supply chain Implementation of procurement software performance for 2018. Procurement software has been implemented and all supplier information, contracts and other related documents are to be uploaded to this system. This enables us to track and monitor suppliers globally. Supplier risk assessments All contracts entered into with new suppliers in 2017 included the Supplier Code of Conduct. At times, we need to accept the supplier’s code, in which case this code overlaps with ours. All Group procurement procedures were updated and aligned with the Supplier Code of Conduct. All procurement staff were trained in new and updated policies and procedures for procurement and all new staff attended a 2-day training programme on procurement governance. 96 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT APPROACH Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines our expectations for suppliers and is aligned with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour standards, environmental performance and anti-corruption work. We procure most services and products locally. The responsibility for governing documents, strategies, processes, tools and global procurement projects is organized centrally in our Global Shared Services unit. process, and is carried out if and when required. We believe that Characteristics of our supply chain our supplier portfolio, which is basically service-related, has a low risk of non-compliance. To manage risk and ensure cost savings and transparency, we are working to consolidate suppliers globally We divide our suppliers into two main groups: and select trustworthy suppliers whose values and service quality Direct suppliers that provide services which are part of our are as required. deliveries to customers. These suppliers are, for example, subcontractors that provide technical expertise or conduct management system certifications on our behalf. Competence development Indirect suppliers that provide goods and services related to our overall business activities, such as the facility management of We train new employees involved in procurement centrally every our office buildings, travel, ICT hardware and software, financial year. General governance and the Supplier Code of Conduct are services, insurance, and office supplies. on the agenda. Regional procurement managers attend global The largest categories by expenditure are Subcontractors; alignment meetings twice a year, at which the latest information Office and real estate expenses; ICT; and Travel. on governance is communicated. The regional managers then communicate this to their teams. In addition to these face-to-face meetings, bi-weekly Skype meetings of regional procurement managers and the central team also help to ensure that the whole All suppliers shall accept our Supplier Code of Conduct team is updated and aligned. We shall use suppliers which accept our Supplier Code of Conduct. Suppliers are required to sign the Supplier Code of Conduct or High sustainability standards accept it as a mandatory attachment to the contract. In addition, subcontractors must comply with HSE requirements that are equivalent to our own requirements. Further, checklists are in place Our commitment to corporate sustainability extends to our relationto ensure an appropriate ethical standard of hired subcontractors ships with suppliers, subcontractors, contractors and intermediin line with our Supplier Code of Conduct. New indirect suppliers aries. Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines our expectations shall be screened for inherent sustainability risks. Where needed, for suppliers and is aligned with the UN Global Compact’s ten suppliers are requested to conduct self-assessments. principles on human rights, labour standards, environmental performance and anti-corruption work. Further instructions that inter alia support sustainability principles are given in managementsystem documents, such as the instructions for procurement, Global governance, local purchasing instructions for contracting subcontractors and intermediaries, real-estate management policy and real-estate leasing guidelines We procure most services and products locally. However, the responsibility for policies, processes and tools as well as global procurement projects is centralized. The business areas are responsible High environmental standards for office buildings for direct procurement which is part of our deliveries to customers. Indirect procurement is managed by Global Shared Services. DNV GL has an overall goal to do its utmost to minimize its impact on the environment. Renting green offices and reducing the office area per employee helps to reduce the impact on people and Risk management the environment. Our Global Real Estate Leasing Guidelines state that “We will use office premises and other properties which are in New suppliers need to complete a standard risk assessment compliance with our environmental policies, e.g. increased energy questionnaire, and we assess the risk relating to suppliers before efficiency of buildings, sustainable energy sources, and reduced contractual engagements. The risk assessment is a continuous energy consumption and atmospheric emissions”. 97 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT REVIEW In 2017, we continued to implement sustainable procurement practices. The review of all relevant governance documents was completed and software to enable the tracking, monitoring and reporting of supplier data was selected and started to be implemented. The consolidation of travel agencies from 200 to 2 enables the transparent reporting of greenhouse gases. Moreover, a green office plan was developed. Our first near-zero emission building in Shanghai was officially opened with the attendance of the Norwegian Prime Minister and senior Chinese officials. Implementation of the Supplier Code of Conduct Green offices All contracts entered into with new suppliers included the DNV GL Based on our ambition of reducing our carbon footprint, we Supplier Code of Conduct. This code covers social, environmental have prepared a green office plan that covers the following: and ethical criteria. We now have in place a system which enables a reduction in our carbon emissions through renting green consolidated reporting on the percentage of new suppliers that offices, the development and implementation of a green office were screened on these criteria. However, these data will not be guide as well as the strict application of the space requirements available until a complete upload has been carried out in 2018. outlined in our global office design manual. Furthermore, A system which enables risk assessment was created in 2017 we purchase green energy where available. and will be fully implemented in 2018. Green buildings are estimated to consume 30 to 50% less energy than ‘non-green’, use 40 per cent less water, emit 30 to 40% less CO2 and produce about 70% less solid waste. New procurement database ready for The green building performance is documented by Green implementation building certifications. Today, DNV GL rents 19 offices with a green label. This includes all our larger offices and accounts The work of establishing a more systematic approach to sustainfor 20% of our total rented area. As an example, the new Group able procurement management continued in 2017. The review of headquarters is rated as BREEAM Excellent. By reducing all procurement instructions was completed. Further, we selected the average square metres per employee to 12 globally in integrated procurement software which will enable supplier data a few years’ time, we will reduce our energy consumption to be tracked and the implementation of sustainable procureand environmental footprint in addition to saving costs. ment processes to be monitored. A green office guideline is being developed to promote sustainable performance for all offices. The guideline will provide practical suggestions to all employees for their daily environmental protection actions, such as saving energy ~100% of contracts entered through heating, cooling and lighting; saving water; avoiding into with new suppliers included the supplier waste and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. code of conduct. ~100% of new employees in indirect procurement are trained in the updated Group governance documents and supplier code of conduct. zero reported cases of noncompliance or unacceptable supplier performance 98 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PARTNERSHIPS FOR SUSTAINABILITY TOGETHER WE ACHIEVE MORE As part of our vision to have a global impact for a safe and sustainable future, we strive to act faster and achieve more in collaboration with others. We provide technology and sustainability expertise as well as funding in local and global partnerships that focus on climate, social and governance innovation. DNV GL supports Sustainable Development Goal 17 and endeavours to strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. 99 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PARTNERSHIPS FOR SUSTAINABILITY Through our daily business in more than 100 countries, we work together with customers, suppliers and competitors in industry associations and on initiatives at national, regional and global levels. We strive to bring our technical insight and market foresight into the work of industry associations to create sustainable business environments. GROUP ENERGY United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) International Council on Large Electric Systems (CIGRE) World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Wind Energy Council (GWEC) Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise (NHO) Solar Power Europe MARITIME BUSINESS ASSURANCE International Association of Classification Societies (IACS) Independent International Organisation for Certification (IIOC) Entity for the Quality Assessment and Certification of International Confederation of Inspection and Certification (CEOC) Organisations Recognised by the European Union (QACE) Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) International Council on Combustion Engines (CIMAC) DIGITAL SOLUTIONS OIL & GAS Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Norwegian Oil and Gas Association (NOROG) Pipeline Simulation Interest Group (PSIG) International Gas Union (IGU) American Gas Association (AGA) Oil and Gas UK We also participate in several global and local multi-stakeholder initiatives supporting economic, environmental and social principles across sectors. 100 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PARTNERSHIPS FOR SUSTAINABILITY UN Global Compact DNV GL became a signatory to the UN Global Compact annual report with this framework. In 2017, we continued in 2003 and we are committed to embedding the ten our strong collaboration with the UN Global Compact principles on human rights, labour, environment and through initiatives on global opportunities and solutions anti-corruption in our corporate strategy, management to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals, system and day-to-day operations. We also align our including: GLOBAL OPPORTUNITY NETWORK “BUSINESS SOLUTIONS TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT” DNV GL was a founding partner of the Global Opportunity Network UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT together with the UN Global Compact and Sustainia in 2013. This We contributed to this report, which evaluates the contribunetwork presents the Global Opportunity Report annually, showtions of business participants to the UN Global Compact casing how global risks can be turned into opportunities targeting and advances towards the attainment of the UN Sustainable the Sustainable Development Goals. We have yearly canvassed Development Goals. The report assesses progress, highlighting 5,500 leaders in business, government and civil society across five focus areas where further business engagement is needed, continents and asked them to rank 15 sustainability opportunities. and featuring interviews with disruptive business leaders. Based on this, we have found 120 projects around the globe to showcase practical solutions to global challenges. ADVANCED REPORTER We achieved the ‘UN Global Compact Advanced’ reporting THE GLOBAL OPPORTUNITY EXPLORER level for Communication on Progress in our 2017 Annual In 2017, the UN Global Compact, Sustainia and DNV GL launched Sustainability Report. the Global Opportunity Explorer, a digital community including 600 of the most promising solutions that will change the world for the better. The platform was soft launched in India in April and the global launch took place in New York in September. FUTURE OF SPACESHIP EARTH – BUSINESS FRONTIERS This report presents our forecast of the likelihood of humanity achieving each of the 17 SDGs by 2030. It also dives into privatesector solutions for attaining the goals and, for each SDG, we highlight a UN Global Compact signatory company that is pioneering progress. During 2017, the report has been shared on various platforms and a testimonial attesting to DNV GL’s assessment of the UN Sustainable Development Goals was handed over to the UN Secretary-General António Guterres in July 2017. 101 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PARTNERSHIPS FOR SUSTAINABILITY World Business Council for Sustainable Development DNV GL has been an active member of the World Business sustainable and responsible business practices globally. Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) since 1999. In 2017, we continued to engage in several climateOur Group President and CEO is a member of its Executive and energy-related programmes to explore and deploy Committee. Our membership of the WBCSD provides new technologies and solutions, including: a partnership platform for our advocacy of more LOW CARBON TECHNOLOGY PARTNERSHIPS INITIATIVE ZERO-EMISSION CITIES This is an action-oriented programme, led by the WBCSD, InternaWe are co-lead for a programme in which 10 global and local tional Energy Agency (IEA) and Sustainable Development Solutions companies collaborate with city officials to reach zero emissions Network (SDSN), that gathers over 150 global companies and in cities by focusing on smart mobility, buildings and energy 70 other partners. We contributed to the work on scaling up infrastructures. renewables with two business solutions: Our engagement in the zero-emission cities programme includes Corporate renewable power purchase agreements: the development of replicable and scalable models for pilots for scaling up globally Amsterdam, San Diego and Singapore and active stakeholder Low-carbon microgrids outreach related to these. 102 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PARTNERSHIPS FOR SUSTAINABILITY Climate Technology Centre and Network Since 2014, DNV GL has been a strategic partner of the We have played a central role in operationalizing the Climate Technology Centre and Network (CTCN), supporting CTCN, with a specific focus on its knowledge manageits operations by utilizing our extensive experience of ment and private sector engagement. It is envisaged technology transfer, knowledge management and capacity that the collaboration will continue under a new mandate, building. The CTCN is the operational arm of the UNFCCC with more focus on technology and knowledge transfer Technology Mechanism, hosted by UN Environment to developing countries. Highlights of 2017 work with and the UN Industrial Development Organization. the CTCN include: KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER TO DEVELOPING COUNTRIES model canvases to attract private sector interest in CTCN technical DNV GL offices around the globe have worked with the CTCN assistance projects. We have also engaged CTCN’s network to to develop tools and assist various developing countries in their develop online climate technology opportunity analytics dashtransition to sustainable and resilient societies, with a focus on boards. These aim to help both governments and businesses to the market potential of energy-efficient appliances, uptake of identify opportunities for developing climate technology projects renewable energy and replication of good practice in maintaining in regions around the world. biodiversity. KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT PRIVATE SECTOR ENGAGEMENT We continued to build CTCN’s knowledge management platform We supported the development and implementation of tools that (www.ctc-n.org), focusing on further improving the functionality help developing countries engage with the private sector with the for managing CTCN’s work, taxonomy development and the objective of leveraging much needed investments and technology inclusion of third-party content. innovation. To achieve this, we have introduced the use of business 103 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PARTNERSHIPS FOR SUSTAINABILITY The Red Cross DNV GL has partnered with the Red Cross since 2004 with as well as extraordinary donations. Our employees also the objectives of strengthening the organization’s capacity provide technical, digital, safety and sustainability expertise to carry out humanitarian work and creating opportunities to Red Cross projects that are related to our core business. for our employees to volunteer for Red Cross projects. Our partnership involves annual financial contributions to In 2017, we were engaged in a range of local projects the Norwegian, Dutch and British Red Cross organizations, with the Red Cross, including: NORWAY THE UK Our employees were involved in volunteering and fundraising, Since our partnership with the British Red Cross began in 2014, including for homework support and activity holidays for less we have provided support through donations from the company privileged children and their families, and as blood donors. and employee fundraising. In 2017, we supported two important First Aid training tailored for children was conducted for the programmes: second year at our kindergarten. The Disaster Fund, which enables the Red Cross to respond THE NETHERLANDS rapidly when a disaster strikes and provide direct funding where The partnership with the Dutch Red Cross began in 2014. it is needed most. Last year, the partnership mainly shifted its focus from disaster UK Emergency Response, which supports the response efforts preparedness to disaster relief activities as we became part of the Red Cross working alongside the emergency services of a greater business network for disaster relief activities. and local authorities to deliver the help needed when a crisis occurs in the UK. THE PHILIPPINES The VCA CEP MAP is a data-led digital cloud platform for risk and VIETNAM hazard mapping, emergency management and preparedness. It Our employees supported a community water and sanitation has been developed in collaboration with Norwegian Red Cross project in Ha Giang province. Employees from Vietnam, Singapore experts as a comprehensive system for collecting, analysing and and Malaysia were involved in the annual Volunteer Day to support presenting data digitally for decision support during a disaster. the development of agriculture, hygiene and education in poor The state-of-the-art app enables the Red Cross to address comparts of the country. munity resilience and emergency needs. The app was presented and featured in the Norwegian Government White Paper on the Sustainable Development Goals and Norwegian Development Policy (Meld. St. 24 (2016/17)). It is now being tested as a pilot by the Philippine Red Cross. 104 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PARTNERSHIPS FOR SUSTAINABILITY WWF DNV GL has been OnePlanetBusiness partners with sustainably. Our partnership also serves as an arena WWF since 2012, with the aim of ensuring a safe and in which to build competence and challenge each sustainable future in which biodiversity and ecological other about a low-carbon society and climate change processes are conserved and resources are used adaptation. MORE POWER, BETTER NATURE Is relevant for the Sustainable Development Goals, including: Together with WWF and Statkraft, we are running a joint project 7. Affordable and clean energy; 11. Sustainable cities and comto develop a digital tool that collects and presents current knowmunities; 13. Climate action; 14. Life below water; 15. Life on land; ledge to identify challenges, opportunities and solutions related and 17. Partnerships for the goals. to hydropower projects. By cooperating, we build on our different strengths and can develop a platform for engagement that: ADVISORY BOARD OF THE GLOBAL OPPORTUNITY NETWORK The CEO of WWF Norway is a member of the Advisory Board of the Addresses society’s need for sustainable multi-purpose Global Opportunity Network, guiding the process to assess risks hydropower and opportunities and bring insight to the network’s deliverables. Provides value to stakeholders by allowing shared access to the latest knowledge about risks and opportunities 105 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The financial statements for DNV GL Group AS include consolidated income statement, statement of comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of cash flow, statement of changes in equity and notes for DNV GL Group AS and all companies in which DNV GL Group AS directly or indirectly has actual control. 106 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 KEY FIGURES AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2017 2016 2015 2014 20131 DEFINITION OF RATIOS INCOME STATEMENT Operating revenue 19 475 20 834 23 390 21 623 15 234 Profitability EBITDA 1 342 1 352 2 649 2 551 1 807 EBITDA: Depreciation 350 368 375 348 271 Earnings before financial items, tax, depreciation, EBITA 993 984 2 274 2 203 1 535 amortization and impairment Amortization and impairment 519 830 536 592 203 EBITDA margin: EBIT/ Operating profit 474 154 1 738 1 612 1 332 EBITDA x 100 / Net financial income (expenses) (110) (18) (12) 70 (14) Operating revenue Profit before tax 364 136 1 726 1 681 1 318 EBITA: Earnings before financial Profit (loss) for the year 61 (216) 1 014 1 007 825 items, tax, amortization and impairment EBITA margin: BALANCE SHEET EBITA x 100 / Non-current assets 16 631 15 469 16 575 15 447 14 135 Operating revenue Operating margin: Current assets 12 112 11 533 13 705 12 930 11 395 Operating profit x 100 / Total assets 28 743 27 002 30 279 28 377 25 530 Operating revenue Pre-tax profit margin: Profit before tax x 100 / Equity 18 810 17 509 18 850 16 496 15 561 Operating revenue Non-current liabilities 4 010 3 798 4 046 4 939 4 232 Net profit margin: Profit (loss) for the year Current liabilities 5 924 5 695 7 383 6 942 5 736 x 100 / Operating revenue CASH FLOW ITEMS. WORKING Liquidity CAPITAL AND INVESTMENTS Cash flow: Net change in liquidity Purchase of tangible fixed assets 346 365 695 583 450 from cash flow statement Working capital 6 188 5 838 6 321 5 988 5 659 Liquidity reserves: Cash and bank deposits Cash flow 32 (628) 207 57 (570) Leverage NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 12 715 13 550 14 954 15 712 16 107 Equity ratio: Equity x 100 / Total assets FINANCIAL RATIOS PROFITABILITY EBITDA margin 6.9% 6.5% 11.3% 11.8% 11.9% EBITA margin 5.1% 4.7% 9.7% 10.2% 10.1% EBIT/ Operating margin 2.4% 0.7% 7.4% 7.5% 8.7% Pre-tax profit margin 1.9% 0.7% 7.4% 7.8% 8.7% Net profit margin 0.3 % -1.0% 4.3% 4.7% 5.4% LIQUIDITY Liquidity reserves 3 660 3 628 4 193 3 978 3 875 1) The business combination LEVERAGE with GL SE Group was effective from 1 October 2013 and GL SE Equity ratio 65.4% 64.8% 62.3% 58.1% 61.0% Group is consolidated from this date onwards. 107 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2017 2016 2015 NOTE 2017 2016 2015 OPERATING REVENUE 25.4 25.8 25.0 Sales revenue 19 474.9 20 834.0 23 390.3 25.4 25.8 25.0 Total operating revenue 4 19 474.9 20 834.0 23 390.3 OPERATING EXPENSES 0.0 0.0 0.0 Payroll expenses 5,7,8 11 678.3 12 554.2 13 116.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Depreciation 14 349.6 368.2 374.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amortization and impairment 12,13 518.7 829.7 535.8 32.6 29.3 30.5 Other operating expenses 6,7 6 454.4 6 927.9 7 625.5 (7.2) (3.5) (5.5) Operating profit (loss) 474.0 154.0 1 738.1 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES 0.0 0.0 0.0 Income/ (loss) from associates 15 (1.1) (1.7) 5.6 372.1 226.6 4 386.9 Other financial income 9 39.1 96.5 96.4 (26.1) (21.2) (357.8) Financial expenses 9 (147.7) (112.7) (114.4) 346.0 205.4 4 029.1 Net financial income (expenses) (109.8) (17.9) (12.4) 338.8 201.9 4 023.6 Profit (loss) before tax 364.2 136.1 1 725.7 (69.7) (50.0) (7.1) Tax expense 11 (302.7) (352.0) (711.9) 269.1 151.9 4 016.5 Profit (loss) for the year 61.5 (215.8) 1 013.8 Profit for the period attributable to: Non-controlling interest 11.7 12.9 11.1 Equity holders of the parent 49.8 (228.7) 1 002.7 Total 61.5 (215.8) 1 013.8 108 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 269.1 151.9 4 016.5 Profit (loss) for the year 61.5 (215.8) 1 013.8 Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans 423.6 (85.8) 540.5 Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Currency translation differences / Translation differences foreign operations 885.1 (1 056.7) 1 335.5 Share of other comprehensive income from associates 0.0 60.8 (22.7) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 1 308.8 (1 081.6) 1 853.4 269.1 151.9 4 016.5 Total comprehensive income for the period 1 370.2 (1 297.5) 2 867.2 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Non-controlling interest 11.7 12.9 11.1 Equity holders of the parent 1 358.5 (1 310.3) 2 856.2 Total 1 370.2 (1 297.5) 2 867.2 109 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET ASSETS DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 31 DEC. 2017 31 DEC. 2016 31 DEC. 2015 NOTE 31 DEC. 2017 31 DEC. 2016 31 DEC. 2015 NON-CURRENT ASSETS INTANGIBLE ASSETS 0.0 6.1 9.0 Deferred tax assets 11 1 119.7 1 087.1 1 103.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 Goodwill 12,13 8 716.6 8 023.4 8 632.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other intangible assets 12 3 006.2 2 992.3 3 313.6 0.0 6.1 9.0 Total intangible assets 12 842.6 12 102.9 13 050.1 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 0.0 0.0 0.0 Land, buildings and other property 965.4 967.4 1 039.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Office equipment, fixtures and fittings 1 578.9 1 487.8 1 624.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total tangible fixed assets 14 2 544.3 2 455.2 2 663.9 NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS 11 805.3 11 744.6 11 606.7 Investments in subsidiaries 2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investments in associates 15 188.3 189.5 130.4 0.5 0.2 0.2 Available for sale investments 27.8 40.7 42.4 411.0 411.0 516.0 Other investments 8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net pension assets 8 626.7 321.7 283.0 2 056.7 1 339.9 1 385.6 Loan to subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.5 Other long-term receivables 18 401.6 358.9 404.8 14 273.5 13 496.1 13 509.0 Total non-current financial assets 1 244.5 910.8 860.6 14 273.5 13 502.2 13 518.0 Total non-current assets 16 631.4 15 468.9 16 574.5 CURRENT ASSETS DEBTORS 0.0 0.0 0.0 Trade debtors 17 4 313.7 4 228.3 5 240.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 Work in progress 3 149.5 2 668.4 3 388.2 40.7 24.2 430.9 Other receivables group companies 11.0 30.6 37.2 13.9 0.4 0.6 Other debtors 977.9 977.2 845.8 54.6 24.6 431.5 Total debtors 8 452.1 7 904.6 9 511.8 1 474.4 694.3 476.4 Cash and bank deposits 20 3 659.7 3 628.0 4 193.0 1 529.0 718.9 907.9 Total current assets 12 111.9 11 532.6 13 704.8 15 802.5 14 221.2 14 425.9 TOTAL ASSETS 28 743.2 27 001.5 30 279.3 110 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET EQUITY AND LIABILITIES DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 31 DEC. 2017 31 DEC. 2016 31 DEC. 2015 NOTE 31 DEC. 2017 31 DEC. 2016 31 DEC. 2015 EQUITY PAID-IN CAPITAL 100.0 100.0 100.0 Share capital 23 100.0 100.0 100.0 9 323.5 9 323.5 9 323.5 Share premium 9 323.5 9 323.5 9 323.5 RETAINED EARNINGS 4 345.2 4 078.8 3 926.9 Other equity 9 347.0 8 051.5 9 386.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-controlling interest 39.7 33.9 40.0 13 768.7 13 502.3 13 350.4 Total equity 18 810.1 17 508.9 18 850.2 LIABILITIES NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 0.0 0.0 100.0 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 21 0.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension liabilities 8 2 560.0 2 451.3 2 408.8 0.6 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax liabilities 11 601.3 644.1 994.9 610.3 130.5 416.5 Loan from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current provisions 19 392.5 273.5 106.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other non-current liabilities 455.8 428.8 435.5 611.0 130.5 516.5 Total non-current liabilities 4 009.6 3 797.7 4 045.8 CURRENT LIABILITIES 0.0 0.0 0.0 Overdrafts 44.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.3 Trade creditors 509.0 465.3 477.1 42.5 0.0 0.0 Taxes payable 11 413.0 384.2 741.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 Public duties payable 381.8 380.9 506.4 1 379.9 571.7 25.0 Short-term liabilities group companies 5.8 21.7 23.5 0.0 0.0 506.9 Dividend declared to shareholders 0.0 0.0 506.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Current provisions 19 480.7 671.5 475.5 0.5 16.8 25.8 Other current liabilities 16 4 088.5 3 771.3 4 652.1 1 422.9 588.4 559.0 Total current liabilities 5 923.5 5 694.9 7 383.3 2 033.8 718.9 1 075.5 Total liabilities 9 933.1 9 492.6 11 429.1 15 802.5 14 221.2 14 425.9 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 28 743.2 27 001.5 30 279.3 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF DNV GL GROUP AS, HØVIK, 26 APRIL 2018 LEIF-ARNE LANGØY MORTEN ULSTEIN BIRGIT AAGAARDLIV AUNE HAGEN NINA IVARSEN CLEMENS KEUER CHAIRMAN VICE CHAIRMAN SVENDSEN REMI ERIKSEN LISELOTT KILAAS LASSE KRISTOFFERSEN NIKOLAOS PAPANIKOS SILVIJA SERES DA WEI TIAN GROUP PRESIDENT & CEO 111 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2017 2016 2015 NOTE 2017 2016 2015 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS 338.8 201.9 4 023.6 Profit before tax 364.2 136.1 1 725.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 Gain/loss on disposal of tangible fixed assets (17.5) (5.8) (23.6) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Gain on divestments (1.6) (131.9) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Loss (gain) from change of defined benefit pension plans 8 (20.3) (64.1) 30.6 0.0 0.0 (365.0) Group contributions recorded as financial income 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Depreciation, amortization and impairment 14 868.3 1 197.9 910.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Tax payable (490.6) (600.2) (858.1) Change in work in progress, trade debtors 0.0 (1.3) 1.3 and trade creditors (369.8) 1 289.8 44.9 (8.2) 88.7 85.6 Change in accruals, provisions and other 323.3 (1 160.3) 384.2 330.6 289.3 3 745.5 Net cash flow from operations 656.0 661.6 2 214.3 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTMENTS 0.0 0.0 0.0 Acquisitions (business combinations) 3 (24.0) (234.6) (82.4) 0.0 0.0 (118.0) Settlement minority share owners Marine Cybernetics AS 0.0 0.0 (118.0) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Divestments of subsidiaries 0.0 155.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investments in tangible fixed assets 14 (345.8) (365.1) (694.9) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investments in intangible assets 12 (370.7) (327.1) (256.0) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Sale of tangible fixed assets (sales value) 60.3 80.8 52.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Change in other investments 11.3 8.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 (118.0) Net cash flow from investments (669.0) (682.3) (1 098.9) CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (236.8) (240.3) (713.2) Change in loan from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Change in overdraft 44.7 0.0 (4.5) Change in net position towards participants 870.1 305.8 (2 302.9) in the cash pool system 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 105.0 0.0 Repayment of loan to DNV GL Pension Fund 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (100.0) (400.0) Borrowings 0.0 (100.0) (400.0) 0.0 (506.9) (503.5) Dividend paid 0.0 (506.9) (503.5) (183.8) 365.0 176.0 Group contribution (paid)/received 0.0 0.0 0.0 449.5 (71.4) (3 743.6) Net cash flow from financing activities 44.7 (606.9) (908.0) 780.1 217.9 (116.0) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and bank deposits 31.7 (627.6) 207.4 694.3 476.4 592.5 Liquidity at beginning of period 3 628.0 4 193.0 3 978.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Cash in acquired companies 0.0 62.6 7.4 1 474.4 694.3 476.4 Liquidity at end of period 3 659.7 3 628.0 4 193.0 112 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY CHANGES IN EQUITY IN DNV GL GROUP AS CURRENCY NONSHARE SHARE OTHER TRANSLATION CONTROLLING AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION CAPITAL PREMIUM EQUITY DIFFERENCES INTEREST TOTAL Equity at 1 January 2016 100.0 9 323.5 3 926.9 0.0 0.0 13 350.4 Profit for the period 151.9 151.9 Equity at 31 December 2016 100.0 9 323.5 4 078.8 0.0 0.0 13 502.3 Profit for the period 269.1 269.1 Group contribution (2.7) (2.7) Equity at 31 December 2017 100.0 9 323.5 4 345.2 0.0 0.0 13 768.7 CHANGES IN EQUITY IN DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED CURRENCY NONSHARE SHARE OTHER TRANSLATION CONTROLLING AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION CAPITAL PREMIUM EQUITY DIFFERENCES INTEREST TOTAL Equity at 1 January 2016 100.0 9 323.5 5 467.1 3 919.5 40.0 18 850.2 Profit for the period (228.7) 12.9 (215.8) Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans (85.8) (85.8) Exchange differences (1 056.7) (1 056.7) Share of other comprehensive income from associates 60.8 60.8 Other equity changes (24.9) (19.0) (43.8) Equity at 31 December 2016 100.0 9 323.5 5 188.6 2 862.9 33.9 17 508.9 Profit/(loss) for the period 49.8 11.7 61.5 Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans 423.6 423.6 Exchange differences 885.1 885.1 Adjustment of payroll tax defined benefit pension plans Norway ¹ (63.1) (63.1) Other equity changes (5.9) (5.9) Equity at 31 December 2017 100.0 9 323.5 5 599.0 3 748.0 39.7 18 810.1 1) In previous years, the IAS 19 actuarial calculations have not shown a split between the pension liabilities for the Norwegian funded and unfunded pension plans. Thus, payroll taxes have historically been reflected on the total net pension liabilities for these plans. For 2017, the IAS 19 actuarial calculations have been made for the funded and the unfunded pension liabilities separately resulting in an increase of payroll tax of NOK 63.1 million as per 1 January 2017. The amount has been adjusted to other equity in 2017. 113 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES 01 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS FOR PREPARATION. The financial statements are prepared in Balance sheet statement and the corresponding cost is recognized accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act § 3-9 and Regulations in the income statement. Impairment losses recognized in prior periods on Simplified IFRS as enacted by the Ministry of Finance 3 November are reversed if the basis for the impaired value no longer exists or have 2014. In all material aspects, Norwegian Simplified IFRS requires that the decreased. IFRS recognition and measurement criteria (as adopted by the European Union) are complied with, but disclosure and presentation requirements In the accounts of the parent company, dividends, group contributions (the notes) follow the Norwegian Accounting Act and Norwegian and other distributions are recognized in the same year as they are Generally Accepted Accounting Standards. recognized in the financial statement of the subsidiary according to the Norwegian Regulation of simplified IFRS § 3-1. If dividends / group The financial statements are presented in Norwegian Kroner (NOK) contribution exceed withheld profits after acquisition, the excess amount and all values are rounded to the nearest million (NOK million), represents repayment of invested capital, and the distribution will be except when otherwise indicated. deducted from the recorded value of the acquisition in the Balance sheet statement for the parent company. CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES. The consolidated statements include the parent company DNV GL Group AS and all companies in which the DIVIDEND TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY. parent company directly or indirectly has controlling interest. The group Dividends declared to shareholders are recognized as a liability at the controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable end of the reporting period according to the Norwegian Regulation return from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect of simplified IFRS § 3-1. those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES. An associate and deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. The group accounts is an entity in which the Group has a significant influence but does not show the Group’s consolidated Income statement, Statement of Comprecontrol the management of its financial and operating policy decisions hensive Income, Balance Sheet, Statement of Changes in Equity and (normally when the Group owns 20%-50% of the company). Statement of Cash Flow as a single economic entity. Subsidiaries follow the same accounting principles as the parent company. All intra group A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the to transactions between Group entities are eliminated in the consolijoint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control dated accounts. of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of going concern. The considerations made in determining significant influence or joint control, are similar to those necessary to determine control over BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL. Business combinations subsidiaries. are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition Investments in associated companies and joint ventures are accounted is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured for using the equity method. at the acquisition date at fair value. Acquisition-related costs are expensed in Income statement as incurred. Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognized at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized adjusted to recognize changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the at their fair value at the acquisition date. Goodwill is recognized as associate or joint venture since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating the residual value between fair value of the consideration transferred to the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount and the fair value of the identifiable net assets. of the investment and is not tested for impairment individually. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated The income statement reflects the Group’s share of profits after tax impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill of the associate or joint venture. Any change in OCI of those investees acquired in a business combination is from the acquisition date, allocated is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit a change recognized directly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities the Group recognizes its share of any changes, when applicable, in the of the acquire are assigned to those units. statement of changes in equity. Unrealized gains and losses resulting The allocation of costs in a business combination is changed if new from transactions between the Group and the associate or joint venture information on the fair value becomes available and is applicable on are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture. the date when control is assumed. The allocation may be altered within When the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its one year from acquisition date. interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the group does not recognize further losses, unless it has incurred legal or SUBSIDIARIES. Investments in subsidiaries are recognized at cost in the constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. accounts of the parent company. Investments carried at cost are measured The aggregate of the Group’s share of profits (or losses) of an associate at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. and a joint venture is shown in the income statement as financial items. The fair values of the investments are tested annually based on external and/or internal indicators implying revaluation. If estimated fair value The financial statements of the associate or joint venture are prepared is less than the carrying amount, the investments are impaired in the for the same reporting period as the Group. 114 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 The recognized value of the associate or joint venture in the Statement TAXES. Income tax expense comprises both current tax and deferred of Financial Position is tested for impairment annually or more frequently tax, including effects of changes in tax rates. Current and deferred tax when deemed necessary. is recognized in income statement, except to the extent that they relate to items recognized in equity or other comprehensive income, of which NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST. The non-controlling interest in the the tax is also recognized in equity or other comprehensive income. consolidated financial statements, represent the minority’s share of the carrying amount of the equity in entities with minority shareholders. Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. CLASSIFICATION AND VALUATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES. The current and deferred income tax is calculated based on tax rates The Group presents assets and liabilities in statement of financial position (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted, in the based on current/non-current classification. An asset is current when it is: countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income Expected to be realized or intended to be sold or consumed in normal at the end of the reporting period. Management periodically evaluates operating cycle positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which Held primarily for the purpose of trading applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes Expected to be realized within twelve months after the reporting period provisions where appropriate. or Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged Deferred tax is recognized on temporary differences between the carrying or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after the amount of assets and liabilities and the corresponding tax bases as well reporting period as on tax losses carried forward at the reporting date. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognized for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax All other assets are classified as non-current. assets for temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available Current and non-current liabilities are classified correspondingly. at the level of the relevant tax authority for utilization. Tax increasing and tax reducing temporary differences expected to reverse in the same period Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets are offset and calculated on a net basis as far as this relate to the same and liabilities. taxable entity and the same taxation authority. Current assets are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting Short-term debt is recognized at fair value and subsequently measured date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient at amortized cost. Transaction cost on short-term borrowings are usually taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset minor, and the value of short-term debt at amortized cost is therefore to be utilized. Unrecognized deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each normally identical with face value. reporting date and are recognized to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Fixed assets are valued at cost. However, if a decline in value is expected not to be temporary, fixed assets are impaired to the recoverable amount. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are Fixed assets with a limited useful economic life are depreciated in accordexpected to apply in the year when the asset is realized or the liability ance with a linear depreciation plan. is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. REVENUE RECOGNITION. Revenue is recognized when it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can FOREIGN CURRENCIES. The Group’s consolidated financial statements be measured reliably, regardless of when the payment is being made. are presented in Norwegian Kroner (NOK), which is also the parent Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or company’s functional currency. The functional currency of an entity receivable, taking into account contractually defined terms of payment is the currency of the economic environment in which the company and excluding taxes or duties. primarily operates. For each entity the Group determines the functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity Revenue from services is recognized by reference to the stage of completion are measured using that functional currency. (percentage of completion method). Stage of completion is measured by reference to hours incurred/ contract costs incurred to date as a percentTransactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group’s age of total estimated hours/ total estimated contract costs for each entities at their respective functional currency spot rates at the date the contract. When the contract outcome cannot be measured reliably, transaction first qualifies for recognition. Monetary assets and liabilities revenue is recognized only to the extent that the expenses incurred denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency are recoverable. spot rates of exchange at the reporting date. Differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognized in the Income stateWhen it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract ment. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost revenue, the expected loss is recognized as an expense immediately. in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions. When the selling price of a software product includes an identifiable amount for subsequent servicing (e.g. after sales support and product Forward exchange contracts are included at market value at the enhancement/ maintenance on the sale of software products), that reporting date. amount is deferred and recognized as revenue over the period during which the service will be performed. The amount deferred covers the On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including expected costs of the services under the agreement together with goodwill and fair value adjustments are translated into NOK at the rate a reasonable profit on those services. of exchange prevailing at the reporting date. The Income statements are translated at the average exchange rate for the financial year. Exchange rate DEBTORS. Trade receivables and other current receivables are recorded differences arising are recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). in the balance sheet initially at fair value and subsequently measured at On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of OCI relating to that amortized cost less provision for impairment. Provisions for doubtful debts particular foreign operation is recognized in the Income statement. are calculated on the basis of individual assessments. Impairments of trade receivables are recognized in the income statement if objective Realized and unrealized currency effects not reflected in OCI are included indicators suggest that the due amounts cannot be covered in full. on a net basis in either other financial income or other financial expenses. 115 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT. Property, plant and equipment IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS. The Group assesses, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may impairment losses. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis be impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing over the expected useful life of the assets. The estimated useful life, for an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. residual values and depreciation method are reviewed, and adjusted An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generatif appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. Periodic maintenance ing unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. costs are capitalized and depreciated over the expected maintenance The recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless period. Other repair and maintenance costs are recognized in the Income the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent statement as incurred. Improvement and upgrading are assigned to the of those from other assets or groups of assets. When the carrying purchase cost/ carrying amount and depreciated along with the asset. amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted continued use of the asset. Any gains or losses is determined as the to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to of the asset and is recognized in profit or loss. the asset. In determining fair value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can be identLEASES. Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards fied, an appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations are of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. corroborated by valuation multiples or other available fair value indicators. Operating lease payments are recognized as an operating expense in the Income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of lease. The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared separately for each of the Group’s BORROWING COSTS. Borrowing costs are recognized in the Income CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated. These budgets and statement in the period in which they are incurred. Borrowing costs forecast calculations generally cover a period of five years. For longer consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to project with the borrowing of funds. future cash flows after the fifth year. INTANGIBLE ASSETS. Intangible assets acquired separately are measured For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in date to determine whether there is an indication that previously recognized a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition. impairment losses no longer exist or have decreased. If such indication Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less exists, the Group estimates the asset’s or CGU’s recoverable amount. any accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. A previously recognized impairment loss is reversed only if there has been Except for capitalized development costs, all other internally generated a change in the assumptions used to determine the asset’s recoverable intangibles are reflected in the Income statement in the period in which amount since the last impairment loss was recognized. The reversal the expenditure is incurred. is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss or indefinite. been recognized for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognized in the Income statement. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as part of the Group’s annual intangible asset may be impaired. The amortization period for an intangible plan process and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each may be impaired. reporting period. Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are amount of each CGU to which the goodwill relates. When the recoverable tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-generating amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to deteris recognized. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed mine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable. If not, the in future periods. change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS. Research costs are expensed annually at the CGU level, as appropriate, and when circumstances as incurred. Development expenditures on an individual project are indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. recognized as an intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate: The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that CASH AND BANK DEPOSITS. Cash and bank deposits in the Balance the asset will be available for use or sale sheet comprise petty cash and cash at bank and short-term deposits Its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use with a maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant or sell the asset risk of changes in value. Cash and bank deposits are initially and subseHow the asset will generate future economic benefits quently measured at fair value. The availability of resources to complete the asset The ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development PROVISIONS. Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, (more likely than not) that the Group will be required to settle the obligation the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated amortization and and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. accumulated impairment losses. Amortization of the asset begins when development is complete and the asset is available for use. The asset If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted is amortized over the period of expected future benefit. During the period using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the risks of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually. specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as a financial expense. 116 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 RESTRUCTURING PROVISIONS. Restructuring provisions are recognized Actuarial gains and losses are recognized through other comprehensive only when the Group had a constructive obligation, which is when income (OCI). Actuarial gains and losses are not reclassified to profit or loss a detailed formal plan identifies the business or part of the business in subsequent periods. concerned, the location and number of employees affected, a detailed estimate of the associated costs, and an appropriate timeline, and the Changes to existing defined benefit plans that will lead to changes in employees affected have been notified of the plan’s main features. pension obligation are recognized in the statement of income as they occur. Gains or losses linked to changes or terminations of pension ONEROUS LEASE. Provision for onerous lease contracts represents the plans are also recognized in the statement of income when they arise. present value of the future lease payments that the Group is presently obligated to make under non-cancellable onerous operating lease Net interest on the net defined benefit/ assets is presented as part contracts, less revenue expected to be earned on the onerous lease, of financial items. including estimated future sub-lease revenue, where applicable. The estimate may vary as a result of changes in the utilisation of the leased Service costs comprising current service costs, past-service costs, premises and sub-lease arrangements where applicable. gains and losses on curtailments and non-routine settlements is presented as part of payroll expenses. POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS. The group operates various postemployment schemes, including both defined benefit and defined USE OF ESTIMATES. The preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial contribution pension plans. statements in accordance with simplified IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amount A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group of assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting period that are not pays fixed contribution into a separate entity (a fund/insurance company) readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contribuassumptions are based on historical experiences and other factors that tions. The pension cost related to the defined contribution plans is equal are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates. to the contributions to the employee’s pension savings in the accounting The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing period. basis. Update of accounting estimates are recognized in the period of which the estimate is updated, if the update affects only that period, or in the Multi-employer plans are accounted for as defined contribution plans. period of the update if the update affects both current and future periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND ASSETS. Contingent liabilities are not plan. In the defined benefit plans, the Group’s obligation is to provide recognized in the annual accounts. Significant contingent liabilities are the agreed benefit to current and former employees, actuarial risk and disclosed, with the exception of contingent liabilities that are unlikely to investment risk fall in substance on the Group. The Group’s defined be incurred. Contingent assets (unless virtually certain) are not recognized benefit plans are both funded and unfunded. in the annual accounts but are disclosed if the inflow of economic benefits is probable. Actuarial assumptions are made to measure the pension obligation and the pension expense. Actuarial assumptions are mutually compatible EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD. New information on the and reflect the economic relationship between factors such as inflation, company’s financial position on the end of the reporting period which rate of salary increase and discount rate. The actuarial assumptions becomes known after the reporting period is recorded in the annual comprise: demographic assumptions such as mortality and employee accounts. Events after the reporting period that do not affect the turnover and financial assumptions such as discount rate, rate of salarycompany’s financial position on the end of the reporting period and pension benefit increase. but which will affect the company’s financial position in the future are disclosed if significant. The pension obligations are measured on a discounted basis. Pension plan assets are valued at their fair value. The fair value of plan assets CASH FLOW STATEMENT. The cash flow statement is presented is deducted from the present value of the defined benefit obligation using the indirect method. Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, when determining the net defined benefit liability or assets. bank deposits and other short-term, highly liquid financial assets with maturities of three months or less. 02 GROUP INFORMATION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED CONSISTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY DNV GL GROUP AS AND THE FOLLOWING SUBSIDIARIES: SHARE CAPITAL BUSINESS OFFICE OWNERSHIP BOOK VALUE AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION IN 1000 LOCAL CURR.1 DNV GL AS Bærum, Norway NOK 5 000 100% 9 567.5 DNV GL Business Assurance Group AS Bærum, Norway NOK 1 033 100% 1.1 DNV GL Netherlands B.V. Arnhem, Netherlands EUR 9 015 100% 2 236.7 Total investment in subsidiaries 11 805.3 1 incl. share premium 117 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 03 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND SALE OF OPERATIONS SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN GROUP STRUCTURE 2017 28 September 2017, DNV GL acquired 100% of the shares in Trondheim, Norway. The ComputIT software is used by oil and Computational Industry Technologies AS (“ComputIT”). ComputIT gas industry worldwide. For DNV GL Group, the acquisition is a specialist independent company for Computational Fluid of ComputIT is a good strategic fit in both analytical and sales Dynamics (CFD) software and R&D with headquarters in capabilities in the oil and gas industry. ACQUISITIONS 2017 ACQUISITION EXTERNAL COST REVENUE INCL. PURCHASE MILL LOCAL IN 2017 ACCT. COMPANY / ACTIVITIES TRANSACTION DATE OWNERSHIP CURRENCY CURRENCY MILL NOK ComputIT 28.09.2017 100% NOK 30.0 5.0 The acquisition cost in excess of net book value of the equity, NOK 31 million has been allocated to goodwill. CASH FLOW ON ACQUISITION AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION Net cash acquired with the subsidiary Consideration paid in cash (24.0) Net cash flow on acquisition (24.0) The difference between NOK 30 million acquisition cost and NOK 24 million consideration paid is consideration to be paid one year after the acquisition date. 118 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND SALE OF OPERATIONS SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN GROUP STRUCTURE 2016 18 January 2016, DNV GL acquired 100% of the shares in Gothia space. The company is a leading provider of solar monitoring, Power AB. Gothia Power is an established consulting company with control and asset management systems. For DNV GL Group, the a strong market position and network in the electric power field in acquisition of GreenPowerMonitor fits strategically by bringing Sweden. The company offers advanced analysis and measurements together world leading domain knowledge, technical expertise for power production, power transmission and power consumption. as well as digital delivery platforms and data-driven services. For DNV GL Group, the acquisition of Gothia Power establishes DNV GL’s technical and strategic power systems in the Swedish and In October 2016, the Oil & Gas Material & Failure Analysis laboratory Baltic energy markets and further strengthens DNV GL’s leading in Germany (Germanischer Lloyd Prüflabor GmbH) was sold to position worldwide. Element Materials Technology Herne GmbH. Germanischer Lloyd Prüflabor GmbH offers material testing, metallurgical examinations In July 2016, DNV GL acquired 100% of the shares in GreenPowerand failure investigations through its four labs in Germany. A sales Monitor. GreenPowerMonitor is an international company, with gain of NOK 125 million from the transaction is included in the headquarter in Barcelona, that offers products and services in the income statement for 2016. The divestment was settled in cash. renewable energy sector, with a specific focus in the photovoltaic ACQUISITIONS 2016 ACQUISITION EXTERNAL COST REVENUE INCL. PURCHASE MILL LOCAL IN 2016 ACCT. COMPANY / ACTIVITIES TRANSACTION DATE OWNERSHIP CURRENCY CURRENCY MILL NOK Gothia Power AB 18.01.2016 100% SEK 83.3 21.9 GreenPowerMonitor 07.07.2016 100% EUR 16.2 41.5 ACQUISITION COST OF WHICH: PRELIMINARY PURCHASE PRICE ALLOCATION (PPA) CUSTOMER CUSTOMER AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION RELATIONS CONTRACTS DEF. TAX NET ASSETS GOODWILL Gothia Power AB 84.3 12.4 4.9 (4.7) 6.1 65.7 GreenPowerMonitor 150.3 34.7 3.1 (10.6) 45.4 77.7 CASH FLOW ON ACQUISITION AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 62.6 Consideration paid in cash (234.6) Net cash flow on acquisition (172.0) 119 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN GROUP STRUCTURE 2015 13 February 2015, DNV GL acquired ISC (100% of the shares in through certification to become safer and more sustainable. International Standards Certification Pty Ltd., Australia and 100% Noomas primarily delivers accredited certification services to help of the shares in International Standard Certification Japan Co. Ltd). the industry meet regulations and requirements for floating fish ISC is an international certification body, with a particular presence farms and related equipment. in Australia and Asia. ISC is a full-service international certification and training body accredited by JAS-ANZ (Joint Accreditation System For the DNV GL Group, the acquisition of Noomas increases the – Australia New Zealand) and Exemplar Global as a certified training capability in the aquaculture section, in particular in Norway which organization. It provides extensive certification and training services has a strong position in global marine aquaculture. Noomas’ technical for products and systems across key industry sectors, including services targeting the operations of fish farms compliment the existing healthcare and food & beverage. portfolio for the aquaculture value chain. For the DNV GL Group, the acquisition of ISC will increase DNV GL’s 70% of the shares in Marine Cybernetics AS (Norway) were acquired presence and growth in key industries such as the healthcare May 2014. In addition, DNV GL AS entered into an agreement with industry. The acquisition is also strengthening the DNV GL brand, the owners of the remaining 30% of the shares, where DNV GL AS positioning and growth within the Assurance sector. had an obligation to acquire the remaining shares after three years at an agreed price. 100% of Marine Cybernetics AS was included in 31 August 2015, DNV GL acquired 100% of the shares in Noomas the DNV GL Group AS consolidated accounts from 1 May 2014 with Sertifisering AS. Noomas is Norway’s leading inspection and no minority interest. The expected payment for the remaining shares certification body within aquaculture and equipment used within was reflected as a liability. In December 2015 this liability was settled. the industry. Their objective is to support aquaculture farms ACQUISITIONS 2015 ACQUISITION EXTERNAL COST REVENUE INCL. PURCHASE MILL LOCAL IN 2015 ACCT. COMPANY / ACTIVITIES TRANSACTION DATE OWNERSHIP CURRENCY CURRENCY MILL NOK International Standard Certification Japan Co., Ltd. 13.02.2015 100% JPY 1.0 7.6 International Standards Certification Pty Ltd, Australia 13.02.2015 100% AUD 6.0 21.1 Noomas Sertifisering AS 31.08.2015 100% NOK 43.5 8.5 The acquisition cost in excess of net book value of the equity has been allocated to goodwill. CASH FLOW ON ACQUISITION AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 7.4 Consideration paid in cash (82.4) Net cash flow on acquisition (75.0) 120 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 04 EXTERNAL OPERATING REVENUE DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED GEOGRAPHICAL AREA AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2017 2016 2015 Nordic countries 3 967.2 4 006.8 4 438.4 Europe and Africa 6 945.9 7 325.5 7 642.9 Asia Pacific 4 544.6 5 349.8 6 710.8 North and South America 4 017.2 4 151.9 4 598.2 Total operating revenue 19 474.9 20 834.0 23 390.3 BUSINESS AREA AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL – Maritime 7 021.2 8 216.1 9 885.9 DNV GL – Oil & Gas 4 593.7 4 954.5 6 053.6 DNV GL – Energy 3 677.0 3 582.5 3 522.6 DNV GL – Business Assurance 3 278.4 3 145.9 3 024.0 DNV GL – Software 852.0 859.1 823.9 Other 52.6 76.0 80.3 Total operating revenue 19 474.9 20 834.0 23 390.3 For management purposes, the Group is organized into business areas based on the industries in which the Group operates. DNV GL is structured into five business areas; Maritime, Oil & Gas, Energy, Business Assurance and Software. The operating revenue in DNV GL Group AS of NOK 25.4 million (NOK 25.8 million in 2016) mainly consist of global liability insurance expenses charged to subsidiaries. 05 PAYROLL EXPENSES DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2017 2016 2015 Salaries 9 254.2 10 030.0 10 309.5 Payroll tax 1 101.7 1 233.1 1 244.5 Pension costs 879.8 905.5 940.5 Effect of pension plan changes/ curtailment effects (20.3) (64.1) 70.0 Other contributions 462.9 449.7 551.5 Total payroll expenses 11 678.3 12 554.2 13 116.0 Man years 12 716 13 298 14 682 Total bonus expenses 214.0 53.0 67.0 121 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 06 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2017 2016 2015 Travel expenses 1 111.8 1 164.1 1 304.5 ICT and communication expenses 748.5 875.5 889.4 Rent and real estate expenses 983.9 1 020.8 1 032.2 Losses on accounts receivables 51.5 46.9 98.5 Expenses Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS and Det Norske Veritas Holding AS 218.4 211.1 225.1 Other expenses 3 340.2 3 609.5 4 075.9 Total other operating expenses 6 454.4 6 927.9 7 625.5 The Group recognized expenses of NOK 613.4 million in relation to operating leases in 2017. Operating lease relates mainly to office rent, with lease terms between 1-15 years and company cars, with lease terms between 1-5 years. MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS RELATING TO OPERATING LEASE 2017 2016 2015 Within one year 711.4 670.7 742.9 After one year but not more than five years 2 423.7 1 890.7 2 138.2 More than five years 4 070.0 4 293.2 1 3 657.1 1 Total 7 205.0 6 854.6 6 538.2 1 Due to more accurate information obtained, the figures for 2015 and 2016 have been updated. 07 REMUNERATION AND LOANS TO GROUP CEO, EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF DIRECTORS ETC. REMUNERATION GUIDELINES FOR THE GROUP CEO AND THE base salary. This is aligned with the guidelines for all companies MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The remuneration guideorganised as ASAs in Norway. The earned bonus is divided in three lines for the members of the Executive Committee (EC) including the parts, with the first part paid the following year, and another third each of Group CEO support DNV GL’s vision of being a global organization following two years. The pay-outs are forfeited if the executive resigns. with a focus on sustainability and a long-term perspective. The main compensation elements are centred around a market based salary, EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION DURING 2017 a bonus scheme with a retention element, and a few standard Ahead of the salary review process taking effect as of 01 April every employee benefits in line with the local markets. year, the senior executive compensation was compared to external benchmarks using Korn Ferry Hay Group’s data collected on a The Group CEO and Executive Committee participate in the standard European basis. Korn Ferry Hay Group also provides details for pension and insurance schemes applicable in the country where the specific countries represented in the EC, as well as for the German their employment contracts are signed (currently Italy, Netherlands, labour market in relation to Group CEO and CEO Business Area Norway, and United Kingdom). All members of the Executive Maritime. Information publicly accessible from other comparable Committee have standard employment contracts and standard companies are also reviewed in this process. terms and conditions regarding notice period and severance pay, with the exception of the Group CEO, who has an extended notice Remi Eriksen, the Group CEO, is not part of the general bonus period of 6 instead of 3 months. programme, but has a discretionary bonus determined on an annual basis by the Board of Directors. Such bonus should not DNV GL has a bonus scheme in place with a retention component exceed 50% of annual base salary. Bonus pay-out for the Group for employees in higher employment grades. The bonus is based CEO for 2017 was NOK 250.000. The Compensation Committee on a combination the DNV GL results at Group and Business Areas has reviewed the bonus scheme for the Group CEO with an aim levels; namely achievement of financial targets (EBITA) at Group level to make it more specific and directly tied to the annual goals. accounts for 60%, and achievement of financial targets (EBITA) at Business Area level accounts for 40%. Target bonus and cap Compensation package for Remi Eriksen consist of: Annual salary varies by grade and performance assessment and is tailored to the of NOK 5 610 thousand and a car allowance of NOK 250 thousand. two highest levels of management. Target bonus for the Executive Eriksen has a right to retire at 65 years. If terminated from DNV GL, Committee is 25% of base salary with maximum value at 50% of Group CEO is entitled to 12 months of base salary beyond the notice period of six months. 122 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 REMUNERATION AND LOANS TO GROUP CEO, EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF DIRECTORS ETC. REMUNERATIONS LOANS AT 31 DEC. 2017 REMUNERATIONS AND LOANS TO THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FOR 2017 4 SALARY OTHER BONUS PENSION LOAN INTEREST REPAYMENT SECURITY AMOUNTS IN NOK THOUSAND BENEFITS COST AMOUNT RATE PERIOD Remi Eriksen 5 757 263 426 3 369 Thomas Vogth-Eriksen 2 906 182 153 322 1 146 0.83 % Apr. 2024 Mortgage Gro Gotteberg¹ 97 14 0 9 Luca Crisciotti 1 986 298 48 736 2 Elisabeth Tørstad 2 787 171 73 312 851 0.83 % May 2035 Mortgage Ditlev Engel 3 468 414 0 158 Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen 2 741 98 199 278 1 Member of the Executive Committee from 1 December 2017, remuneration disclosed for December 4 A  re Føllestad Tjønn, David Walker and Cecilie B. Heuch were members of the executive committee 2 Statutory payments to the Italian social security institute INPS until December 2017 and are not included in the overview 3 Includes payment of bonus bank settlement from previous years REMUNERATIONS TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PAID OUT IN 2017 REMUNERATION REMUNERATION REMUNERATION REMUNERATION REMUNERATION REMUNERATION BOARD OF BOARD BOARD BOARD OF BOARD BOARD DIRECTORS AUDIT COMPENSATION DIRECTORS AUDIT COMPENSATION AMOUNTS IN NOK THOUSAND COMMITTEE COMMITTEE AMOUNTS IN NOK THOUSAND COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Leif-Arne Langøy 424 32 Christelle G.V. Martin 3 163 Morten Ulstein 5 282 20 Mette Bandholtz Nielsen 3 163 Wolfhart Hauser¹ 333 20 Nikolaos Papanikos 4 119 Sami Badarani² 282 63 C. Thomas Rehder 3 163 Liv Aune Hagen 282 Silvija Seres 4 119 Rebekka Glasser Herlofsen 3 163 26 Birgit Aagaard-Svendsen 4 119 13 Nina Ivarsen 282 Da Wei Tian 4 119 Clemens Keuer 282 Markus Wandt² 282 20 Liselott Kilaas 282 51 Xu Bei Betty3 163 Lasse Kristoffersen 4 119 1 Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors until 14 December 2017 4 Member of the Board of Directors from 1 August 2017 2 Member of the Board of Directors until 14 December 2017 5 Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors from 14 December 2017 3 Member of the Board of Directors until 1 August 2017 GROUP AUDITOR GROUP AUDITOR FEES TO THE AUDITORS FOR 2017 OTHER NORWEGIAN NON-NORWEGIAN OTHER AMOUNTS IN NOK THOUSAND DNV GL GROUP AS ENTITIES ENTITIES AUDITORS TOTAL Statutory audit 2 200 1 374 14 814 2 527 20 915 Tax consulting services 2 161 641 2 802 Other audit related services 19 290 309 Non-audit services 3 404 559 42 4 005 Fees to Group Auditor includes audit fees to KPMG and EY. 123 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 08 PENSION COSTS, PLAN ASSETS AND DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION LIABILITIES DNV GL Group AS has both defined contribution pension plans and Of the other defined benefit pension plans, the major UK plans defined benefit pension plans. 10 299 employees are covered by the (closed in 2017) are financed through a separate pension fund, defined contribution pension plans while 3 736 persons (employees while the other plans are mainly financed through independent and pensioneers) are covered by defined benefit pension plans. administrative funds/insurance companies. The pension cost and All defined benefit pension plans are closed for new entrants, the pension liabilities as included in the accounts and in this note, however active members still build up their pension rights under is based on the presented actuarial assumptions, together with these plans. End of service benefit schemes in some countries outside remuneration of the employee and length of service. Norway (mainly Middle East and Asian countries with statutory defined benefit plan requirements) are still open for new entrants. Contribution to the Group’s pension plans are made in accordance These end of service benefit schemes are required by law and fully with common actuarial methods and statutory regulations in the settled at retirement/ resignation. country where the pension plan is administered. Total pension costs for 2017 are NOK 859.5 million of which NOK 208.5 million are related The structure of the defined benefit pension plans depends on the to the defined benefit pension plans and NOK 651.0 million are related legal, tax and economic conditions in the respective country, and is to the defined contribution pension plans and end of service benefit usually based on length of service and remuneration of the employee. schemes. The defined benefit pension plans are covered through separate pension funds, through arrangements with independent insurance The Norwegian companies in the Group are subject to the Norwegian companies or through unfunded plans. Pension Act. The companies’ pension schemes fulfil the requirements of the law. Norwegian employees are covered either by the Norwegian The defined benefit pension plans in Norway are financed through defined contribution pension plan (mainly employees employed a separate pension fund. For defined benefit pension plans in after 1 January 2005), or the defined benefit pension plan organized Germany, the major plans are unfunded with the gross liability in one Norwegian pension fund (employees employed before reflected as a pension liability, however there are also pension plans 1 January 2005) and in one unfunded pension plan (employees in Germany financed through independent insurance companies. employed before 1 January 2005). The pension assets in the Norwegian pension fund are invested as follows: MARKET VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS IN NORWAY AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 15 Buildings and property 181.0 181.0 290.0 Mutual equity funds and hedge funds 3 567.1 3 010.1 2 399.9 Norwegian bonds and bond funds 1 539.1 1 693.6 1 785.7 Non-Norwegian bonds and bond funds 100.5 208.6 197.0 Bank accounts, other assets and liabilities 1 039.7 869.6 1 316.5 Total market value of plan assets Norway (DNV GL Pension fund) 6 427.4 5 962.9 5 989.0 Actual return on plan assets 674.4 272.9 210.3 Capital contributed from DNV GL Group AS to the Norwegian Pension Fund, NOK 411 million, is reflected as other investments in the balance sheet for DNV GL Group AS. 124 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PENSION COSTS, PLAN ASSETS AND DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION FUNDED NORWEGIAN DEFINED GERMAN DEFINED OTHER DEFINED PENSION COST – BENEFIT PENSION PLANS BENEFIT PENSION PLANS BENEFIT PENSION PLANS DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION SCHEMES AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Net present value of this year’s pension contribution 138.8 148.7 176.6 40.1 47.5 50.5 30.4 41.9 51.2 Effect of plan changes/curtailments 0.0 (56.0) 0.0 0.0 (8.1) 0.0 (20.3) 0.0 30.6 Payroll tax 19.6 13.1 24.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net present value of this year’s pension contribution 158.4 105.8 201.4 40.1 39.4 50.5 10.1 41.9 81.8 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (10.4) (12.3) 1.6 41.3 47.7 48.6 2.9 3.0 4.6 Payroll tax (1.5) (1.7) 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (11.9) (14.0) 1.9 41.3 47.7 48.6 2.9 3.0 4.6 FUNDED NORWEGIAN DEFINED GERMAN DEFINED OTHER DEFINED NET PENSION ASSET (LIABILITIES) BENEFIT PENSION PLANS BENEFIT PENSION PLANS BENEFIT PENSION PLANS – DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION SCHEMES AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 15 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 15 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 15 Market value of plan assets 6 427.4 5 962.9 5 989.0 66.1 62.7 60.7 2 059.9 1 857.8 2 276.7 Actuarial present value of pension liabilities (5 767.7) (5 630.2) (5 680.6) (2 559.3) (2 359.0) (2 347.7) (2 060.7) (2 012.8) (2 394.6) Payroll tax (98.8) (11.0) (29.3) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net pension asset (liabilities) 560.9 321.7 279.1 (2 493.2) (2 296.3) (2 287.0) (0.9) (155.0) (117.9) END OF SERVICE BENEFIT SCHEMES NORWEGIAN SCHEMES GERMAN SCHEMES OTHER SCHEMES AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 15 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 15 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 151 Net liability 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (171.1) (183.5) (214.5) Hereof recorded in the balance sheet as: Net pension asset 560.9 321.7 279.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 65.9 0.0 3.9 Pension liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 (2 493.2) (2 296.3) (2 287.0) (66.7) (155.0) (121.8) Other non-current liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (171.1) (183.5) (214.5) 1 Regrouped from pension liabilitites to other non-current liabilities in the balance sheet statement 31 December 2015 125 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PENSION COSTS, PLAN ASSETS AND DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION The assumptions (discount rate, covered bonds) for calculation of NOK 423.6 million actuarial gains on defined benefit pension the pension liabilities in Norway have been changed from 2.5% to 2.4%. plans have been reflected in other comprehensive income/ The changed assumptions led to increased pension liabilities other equity in 2017. of NOK 100 million in 2017. The defined benefit pension plan in UK was closed in 2017, resulting in a curtailment effect of NOK 20 million refleted in the income statement in 2017. THE CALCULATIONS OF THE PENSION LIABILITIES ARE BASED ON THE FOLLOWING ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS: NORWEGIAN SCHEMES2 GERMAN SCHEMES OTHER SCHEMES 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 15 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 15 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 15 Discount rate1 2.40% 2.50% 2.60% 1.8% 1.8% 2.2% 1.3-10.5% 1.0-8.1% 1.0-9.5% Projected annual salary adjustment 2.75% 2.75% 2.75% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.0-9.0% 2.5-10.0% 2.0-10.0% Projected annual increase in pension benefit 1.75% 1.75% 1.75% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 0.0-2.9% 0.0-3.1% 0.0-3.0% Projected annual increase of Norwegian government basis pension 2.25% 2.25% 2.25% Expected annual return on plan assets 2.40% 2.50% 2.60% 1.8% 1.8% 2.2% 1.3-10.5% 1.0-7.9% 1.0-9.5% 1 Covered bond rate for Norwegian schemes. 2 The pension liability calculations for the Norwegian schemes are based on K2013BE (standard best estimate mortality table). The retirement age in the group differs from country to country. In the most on the year of birth of the plan members. Some managers significant pension plans the ordinary retirement age is 67 years (Norway) and employees are entitled to early retirement before 67, and 65 67 years (Germany). To align with German regulations, the major with full pension rights earned. German pension plans are gradually shifting from 65 to 67 years based SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF PENSION CALCULATIONS. The sensitivity reporting period, while keeping all other assumptions unchanged. analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible Sensitivities decrease (increase) defined benefit obligation year-end. changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the DISCOUNT RATE FUTURE SALARY INCREASES ASSUMPTIONS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 0.5% INCREASE 0.5% DECREASE 0.5% INCREASE 0.5% DECREASE Impact on defined benefit obligation Norwegian plans 473.0 (540.0) (160.0) 197.0 Impact on defined benefit obligation German plans 174.9 (178.9) (17.4) 17.3 126 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 09 FINANCIAL INCOME AND FINANCIAL EXPENSES DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 50.4 7.7 4 000.5 Dividend from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 365.0 Group contribution received 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Profit (loss) from investment in associates (note 15) (1.1) (1.7) 5.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Gain from sale of avaliable for sale investments 1.6 7.2 0.0 Net interest on the net defined benefit 0.0 0.0 0.0 liability (asset) (note 8) (32.3) (36.6) (55.0) 3.5 2.3 5.7 Other interest received 35.5 35.4 38.6 32.4 76.8 6.9 Net interest income (expense) group companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 (8.1) (8.2) (17.2) Other interest expenses (45.3) (45.9) (23.7) 271.6 132.7 (327.9) Currency gains (losses) (37.4) 49.7 49.3 (3.8) (5.9) (3.8) Other financial items (30.8) (25.9) (27.2) 346.0 205.4 4 029.1 Net financial income (expenses) (109.8) (17.9) (12.4) 10 FINANCIAL MARKET RISK The Group’s main financial market risks are liquidity risk, foreign A change in EUR exchange rate of +/1 percentage point will lead currency risk, credit risk, interest rate risk and pension plan risk. to a change in operating revenue of approximately +/NOK 52 million and a change in operating profit (EBIT) of approximately +/4 million. LIQUIDITY RISK. The Group monitors its liquidity risk on an ongoing basis. The liquidity forecasting considers planned investments in nonCREDIT RISK. Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing current assets, financing activities, working capital needs, as well basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is limited. as projected cash flows from operations. There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK. The Group has revenues and expenses Group, which comprises cash and cash equivalents and certain derivative in approximately 65 currencies. Of these, six currencies (EUR, USD, instruments, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default NOK, GBP, CNY and KRW) make up for 77% of the total revenue. In of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the market many currencies the group has a natural hedge through a balance value of these instruments. of revenue and expenses. The policy of the Group is to hedge significant project exposures and future cash flows through forward exchange INTEREST RATE RISK. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes contracts. As part of the hedging strategy, the Group has forward in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s forward exchange exchange contracts equivalent to NOK 968 million. The Group does contracts and the multi-currency revolving credit facility. Both risks not apply hedge accounting and realized and unrealized gains and are considered to have limited effect. losses are recognized in the income statement. Unrealized net gain at year end is NOK 5.9 million. PENSION PLAN RISK. The Group is exposed to volatility in the financial market affecting the value of the pension plan assets. The Group is also A change in USD exchange rate of +/1 percentage point will lead exposed to interest rate volatility effecting the pension liabilities. to a change in operating revenue of approximately +/NOK 33 million In addition, inflation and real wages development will have impact and a change in operating profit (EBIT) of approximately +/NOK 2 million. on the pension liabilities. 127 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 11 TAX DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Tax expense consists of: 43.3 0.0 0.0 Norwegian income tax 66.2 0.0 101.5 19.2 46.0 0.0 Tax effect group contribution 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 1.2 0.2 Income tax outside Norway 422.2 626.4 722.0 62.9 47.1 0.2 Total tax payable 488.4 626.4 823.5 6.8 2.9 7.0 Change in deferred tax in Norway 36.8 (59.9) (141.0) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Effect of changed tax rate 52.5 12.9 13.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Change in deferred tax outside Norway (275.0) (227.4) 15.4 6.8 2.9 7.0 Total change in deferred tax (185.7) (274.4) (111.6) 69.7 50.0 7.1 Tax expense 302.7 352.0 711.9 81.3 50.5 1 086.4 Tax on profit at 24% (25% in 2016 and 27% in 2015) 87.4 34.0 465.9 Tax effect of: 0.0 0.0 0.0 Foreign tax exempt branches 1.0 0.0 1.3 0.4 0.0 0.0 Non refundable foreign withholding taxes 82.0 153.8 60.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Gain sale of shares (0.4) (30.1) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Impairment of goodwill 0.0 74.8 0.0 (12.0) (0.7) (1 080.0) Other permanent differences 46.7 45.4 76.8 (0.0) 0.3 0.7 Effect of changed tax rate 52.5 12.9 13.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Changes of previous years taxes (12.4) (2.8) 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Tax assets not recognized current year 38.8 55.3 99.9 Differences between tax rates in Norway 0.0 0.0 0.0 and abroad 7.1 8.8 (6.3) 69.7 50.0 7.1 Tax expense 302.7 352.0 711.9 Effective tax rate 83 % 259% 41% Net tax-reducing/tax-increasing temporary differences: 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current assets 1 345.4 1 645.5 2 717.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Current assets 357.5 254.0 94.4 3.0 (25.5) (36.1) Liabilities (2 510.4) (2 620.9) (2 474.7) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Tax loss to be carried forward (993.5) (993.4) (1 086.5) 3.0 (25.5) (36.1) Basis for deferred tax asset/liability (1 801.0) (1 714.9) (749.2) 23 % 24 % 25 % Tax rates applied 17%-42% 17%-42% 17%-42% 0.0 6.1 9.0 Deferred tax asset 1 119.7 1 087.1 1 103.7 0.6 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax liability (601.3) (644.1) 994.9 In addition to deferred tax asset of NOK 1 119.7 million and deferred NOK 123 million deferred tax cost related to actuarial gains tax liability of NOK 601.3 million, the Group has accumulated tax-loss on defined benefit pension plans, has been reflected in other to be carried forward amounting to NOK 606 million. As the future comprehensive income/ other equity, together with the related utilization of these tax losses cannot be demonstrated, the related actuarial gain. deferred tax asset (DTA) of NOK 124 million, is not recognized in the balance sheet. 128 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS OTHER CUSTOMER CUSTOMER INTANGIBLE AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION GOODWILL CONTRACTS RELATIONS TECHNOLOGY TRADEMARKS ASSETS TOTAL Acquisition cost 1 January 2016 8 693.8 431.8 2 202.5 912.5 549.9 724.4 13 514.9 Additions 143.3 7.9 47.1 0.0 4.7 0.0 203.1 Additions from internal developments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 322.3 322.3 Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Currency translation differences (456.0) (22.6) (133.6) (48.4) (36.3) (19.1) (715.9) Total acquisition cost 31 Dec. 2016 8 381.1 417.2 2 116.0 864.1 518.3 1 027.7 13 324.5 Additions 30.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 6.0 36.7 Additions from internal developments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 364.5 364.5 Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Currency translation differences 664.2 30.9 176.4 64.9 40.0 27.4 1 003.7 Total acquisition cost 31 Dec. 2017 9 075.9 448.1 2 292.4 929.0 558.5 1 425.6 14 729.4 Accumulated amortization and impairment 1 January 2016 (61.1) (300.1) (569.0) (427.6) 0.0 (210.9) (1 568.6) Amortization 0.0 (77.7) (220.6) (181.8) 0.0 (39.0) (519.1) Impairment (299.0) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (11.6) (310.6) Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Currency translation differences 2.3 17.4 35.6 25.7 0.0 8.6 89.6 Total accum. amortization and impairment 31 Dec. 2016 (357.7) (360.4) (754.1) (583.6) 0.0 (252.9) (2 308.7) Amortization 0.0 (22.3) (221.8) (180.5) 0.0 (78.8) (503.3) Impairment 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (15.3) (15.3) Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Currency translation differences (1.6) (30.4) (76.6) (56.9) 0.0 (13.8) (179.2) Total accum. amortization and impairment 31 Dec. 2017 (359.3) (413.1) (1 052.4) (821.0) 0.0 (360.8) (3 006.6) Net book value 31 December 2017 8 716.6 35.0 1 239.9 108.0 558.5 1 064.8 11 722.8 31 December 2016 8 023.4 56.8 1 361.9 280.5 518.3 774.8 11 015.7 31 December 2015 8 632.7 131.7 1 633.5 484.9 549.9 513.6 11 946.3 Useful life 1–5 years 6–16 years 5–7 years Indef. 5–10 years Other intangible assets are amortized linearly, based on evaluation of useful life. Other intangible assets mainly consist of capitalized software development costs and acquired software. Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested annually for impairment (note 13). Trademarks has an indefinite useful life and are not amortized but tested for impairment annually. 129 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 13 IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL Goodwill obtained through acquisitions is allocated to the Group’s business areas and followed up and tested collectively for the group of cash-generating units that constitute the business area. The cash-generating units correspond to DNV GL’s business areas Maritime, Oil & Gas, Energy, Business Assurance and Software. The test is performed at year end. An impairment loss is recognized if the estimated recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount of the cash generating unit. Goodwill is allocated to the business areas as follows: AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2017 2016 2015 Maritime 3 124.7 2 900.7 3 052.3 Oil & Gas 3 492.4 3 224.1 3 405.7 Energy 1 901.2 1 735.8 2 004.8 Business Assurance 150.4 145.4 152.5 Software 47.9 17.4 17.4 Total goodwill 8 716.6 8 023.4 8 632.7 The Group has used value in use to determine recoverable amounts for the cash-generating units. Value in use is determined by using the discounted cash flow method. The expected cash flows are based on the business areas’ budgets and long term plans, which are approved by the Board of Directors and executive management. Budgets and long-term plans cover maximum a five year period. After the five years of explicit plans, the cash flows are stipulated by extrapolation. COST OF LONG-TERM KEY ASSUMPTIONS PER CAPITAL (WACC) NOMINAL CASH-GENERATING UNIT – POST TAX GROWTH RATE Maritime 7.4% 1.5% Oil & Gas 7.8% 1.5% Energy 7.7% 1.5% Business Assurance 7.4% 1.5% Software 8.4% 1.5% SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS. In connection with impairment test of goodwill, sensitivity analysis are carried out for each individual cash-generating unit. For Energy a decrease in EBITA-margin of 1.0% or an increase in WACC of 0.7% will leade to impairment. For Oil & Gas a decrease in EBITA-margin of 1.7% or an increase in WACC of 1.4% will lead to impairment. None of the other cash-generating units will be in an impairment situation before there are material changes in the key assumptions, and these changes are considered to be outside the probable outcome. 130 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 14 FIXED ASSETS LAND, BUILDINGS AND OTHER OFFICE EQUIPMENT, FIXTURES PROPERTY AND FITTINGS TOTAL AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION Acquisition cost 1 January 2016 1 586.5 4 133.5 5 720.0 Additions 140.7 222.3 363.0 Additions from business combinations 0.0 2.2 2.2 Disposals (38.1) (269.7) (307.8) Divestment of a subsidiary (note 3) 0.0 (76.2) (76.2) Currency translation differences (107.7) (138.6) (246.3) Total acquisition cost 31 December 2016 1 581.4 3 873.5 5 454.9 Additions 77.1 263.9 341.0 Additions from business combinations 0.4 4.4 4.8 Disposals (34.6) (159.2) (193.8) Currency translation differences 76.9 143.5 220.3 Total acquisition cost 31 December 2017 1 701.2 4 126.0 5 827.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1 January 2016 547.3 2 508.9 3 056.1 Depreciation 105.6 258.2 363.8 Impairment 0.7 3.7 4.4 Disposals (12.5) (243.1) (255.7) Divestment of a subsidiary (note 3) 0.0 (53.4) (53.4) Currency translation differences (27.1) (88.6) (115.6) Total accumulated depreciation and impairment 31 December 2016 614.0 2 385.7 2 999.7 Depreciation 106.8 228.8 335.7 Impairment 13.9 0.0 13.9 Disposals (18.6) (132.4) (151.0) Currency translation differences 19.6 65.1 84.7 Total accumulated depreciation and impairment 31 December 2017 735.8 2 547.2 3 283.0 Net book value 31 December 2017 965.4 1 578.9 2 544.3 31 December 2016 967.4 1 487.8 2 455.2 31 December 2015 1 039.2 1 624.7 2 663.9 Useful life 15-67 years 3-15 years indefinite (land) Depreciation plan Linear Linear 131 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 15 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES DNV GL Group AS’ ownership (through DNV GL AS) in StormGeo Holding AS is 27%. The ownership (through DNV GL Business Assurance Group AS) in DNV Nemko Presafe AS is 50% and the investment is considered to be a joint venture. The investments are recognized in accordance with the equity method in the consolidated financial statements. COMPANY SHARE OF PROFIT AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION BUSINESS OFFICE OWNERSHIP ACQUISITION COST FOR THE YEAR BOOK VALUE DNV Nemko Presafe AS Oslo 50% 14.1 (4.0) 4.3 StormGeo Holding AS Bergen 27% 145.5 2.9 184.1 Total investment in associates (1.1) 188.3 16 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 15 Advances from customers 2 256.9 1 995.9 2 492.7 Accrued bonus to employees 262.8 120.7 253.9 Accrued holiday allowances 415.8 495.4 542.2 Unrealized loss and interest related to forward contracts 0.0 25.2 35.7 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 1 152.9 1 134.0 1 327.5 Total other current liabilities 4 088.5 3 771.3 4 652.1 17 TRADE DEBTORS DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 15 Gross trade debtors 4 483.6 4 408.9 5 609.3 Provision for bad debts (169.9) (180.5) (369.2) Net trade debtors 4 313.7 4 228.3 5 240.1 18 OTHER LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 15 Loans to employees 42.5 46.4 54.7 Other long-term receivables 359.1 312.5 350.0 Total other long-term receivables 401.6 358.9 404.8 132 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 19 PROVISIONS CLAIMS AND DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED OTHER AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION ONEROUS LEASE TOTAL CONTINGENCIES PROVISIONS Balance at 1 January 2015 188.7 0.0 86.4 275.1 Currency translation differences 6.9 0.0 0.0 6.9 Additions 50.0 0.0 396.5 446.5 Utilization (6.0) 0.0 (74.5) (80.5) Reversal (65.8) 0.0 0.0 (65.8) Balance at 31 December 2015 173.7 0.0 408.4 582.1 Current 100.0 0.0 375.5 475.5 Non-current 73.7 0.0 32.9 106.6 Balance at 1 January 2016 173.7 0.0 408.4 582.1 Currency translation differences (4.0) 0.0 (16.3) (20.2) Additions 3.0 367.3 600.5 970.8 Utilization 0.0 0.0 (581.0) (581.0) Reversal 0.0 0.0 (6.7) (6.7) Balance at 31 December 2016 172.8 367.3 404.9 945.0 Current 103.0 202.0 366.5 671.5 Non-current 69.8 165.4 38.4 273.5 Balance at 1 January 2017 172.8 367.3 404.9 945.0 Currency translation differences 5.9 2.9 22.7 31.4 Additions 0.0 86.1 261.7 347.8 Utilization (32.0) (68.1) (311.3) (411.4) Reversal (25.0) (5.8) (8.8) (39.6) Balance at 31 December 2017 121.6 382.4 369.1 873.2 Current 46.0 106.1 328.6 480.7 Non-current 75.6 276.3 40.6 392.5 Provisions for claims and contingencies concern fair value under the onerous lease contracts at year-end 2017. of pending legal disputes from acquisitions and provisions The provisions have been discounted. for other pending legal disputes. Included in other provisions are provisions for restructuring, Onerous lease provisions represent best estimates of the net lease termination benefits and onerous contracts. obligations (net of incoming cash flows expected from sub-lease) 133 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 20 CASH AND BANK DEPOSITS DNV GL Group AS has the following cash pool systems: BALANCE OVERDRAFT 31 DEC. 17 BANK FACILITY (MILL) PARTICIPATING ENTITIES (MILL NOK) Danske Bank NOK 100 Most of the DNV GL subsidiaries in Norway, Denmark, Sweden, 447 Finland, UK, Ireland, Faroe Islands, and the Baltics Deutsche Bank EUR 10 Some subsidiaries in Europe 267 Bank of America USD 10 Most of the DNV GL subsidiaries in US 442 DNB ASA NOK 50 Most of legacy DNV legal entities 312 Handelsbanken Some DNV GL subsidiaries in Sweden, Poland, Finland, Estonia, 24 Latvia, Lithuania and Germany Citibank Some legacy DNV legal entities in the Euro-countries -19 Balances on bank accounts participating in the cash pooling systems are considered as internal assets or liabilities vis-à-vis other Group participants. Cash pool balances 31 December are included in Cash and bank deposits in the balance sheet at 31 December. The following DNV GL Group AS’ wholly owned subsidiaries have the following local credit facilities guaranteed by DNV GL Group AS or DNV GL AS through parent company guarantees: DRAWN OVERDRAFT 31 DEC. 17 BANK FACILITY (MILL) PARTICIPATING ENTITIY (MILL) Citibank China CNY 50 Det Norske Veritas China Company Ltd Undrawn Citibank India INR 40 + INR 30 DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Ltd INR 9.7 Citibank India INR 200 Garrad Hassan India Private Ltd INR 200 Citibank Korea KRW 17 000 DNV GL Korea Ltd Undrawn Citibank Brazil BRL 15 DNV GL Classificacao Certificacao e Consultoria Brasil Ltda BRL 7.2 Cash and bank deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 134 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 21 LONG-TERM LOANS DNV GL Group AS has an agreement for a NOK 1 000 million The credit agreement supporting this facility has certain covenants, multi-currency revolving credit facility with Handelsbanken including a negative pledge clause, and also restrict DNV GL Group AS’ Norwegian branch of Svenska Handelsbanken AB. The facility ability to freely dispose of material assets. The credit agreement expires in May 2022 and was undrawn per year-end 2017. further requires that DNV GL Group AS on a consolidated basis maintains a certain minimum level of equity and that the net interest bearing debt does not exceed a set level relative to total equity. DNV GL Group AS was well within all covenants at year-end. 22 GUARANTEES DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 15 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 16 31 DEC. 15 5.7 0.0 0.0 Guarantee commitments not included in the accounts 268.8 272.6 369.8 These guarantees are not secured by mortgage. Guarantee commitments are mainly related to customer contracts entered into by DNV GL Group subsidiary companies. 23 SHARE CAPITAL AND OWNERS The share capital of DNV GL Group AS consist of 1 000 000 shares, by Det Norske Veritas Holding AS, with business office in Bærum, with par value of NOK 100 each. The company is owned 100% Norway. 24 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS DNV GL AS has a lease agreement for the office buildings at Høvik, DNV GL AS has a service agreement with the related party Norway with the related party Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS (wholly DNV GL Pension fund for management and administrative owned subsidiary of the majority shareholder of DNV GL Group, services. The revenue recognized for these services in 2017 Det Norske Veritas Holding AS), the rent expensed in 2017 amounts is NOK 0.3 million. to NOK 244.3 million. Several subsidiaries of DNV GL Group AS have business transactions DNV GL AS has a lease agreement for the office building in Stavanger, with the related party DNV Nemko Presafe AS (associated company). Norway with the related party DNV GL Pension fund, the rent Total revenue recognized in 2017 was NOK 10.8 million and total expensed in 2017 amounts to NOK 7.7 million. purchases amount to NOK 20.7 million. DNV GL AS has a management services agreement for the delivery of general management and administrative services with the related party Det Norske Veritas Holding AS (100 % shareholder). The revenue recognized for these services in 2017 is NOK 6.2 million. 135 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 25 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 31 DECEMBER 2017 31 DECEMBER 2016 DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS OTHER INSTRUMENTS OTHER AT FAIR VALUE LOANS AND AVAILABLE FINANCIAL AT FAIR VALUE LOANS AND AVAILABLE FINANCIAL AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION THROUGH P&L RECEIVABLES FOR SALE LIABILITIES THROUGH P&L RECEIVABLES FOR SALE LIABILITIES ASSETS Non-current assets Available for sale investments 27.8 40.7 Loans to employees 42.5 46.4 Other long-term receivables 359.1 312.5 Current assets Cash and bank deposits 3 659.7 3 628.0 Trade debtors 4 313.7 4 228.3 Other debtors 988.9 1 007.8 Forward contracts 3.0 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Non-current Other non-current liabilities 455.8 428.8 Current Trade creditors 509.0 465.3 Forward contracts 25.2 26 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS At the extraordinary general meeting 15 February 2018, a dividend ments for 2016. As the dividend was not declared 31 December distribution of NOK 3 000 million from DNV GL Group AS to the 2017, the dividend has not been recognized as a liability in the 2017 sole shareholder Det Norske Veritas Holding AS was declared. financial statements. The dividend was based on the DNV GL Group AS financial state136 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT The Board of Directors believes that DNV GL’s performance in 2017, against a backdrop of difficult markets, demonstrates that the company has responded well to the challenges posed throughout the year while defending its global position. 137 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT he company achieved operating revenues T of NOK 19,475 million in 2017. The continued Market contraction of the business volume in the Maritime and Oil & Gas business areas was the main reason for the reduced earnings MARITIME. Although the outlook appeared bleak at the beginning before interest, taxes and amortization (EBITA), of 2017, by the end of the year many segments had enjoyed earnings which totalled NOK 993 million. This development reflects the growth and newbuild orders had picked up somewhat from the fact that many of DNV GL’s customers continue to face tough record lows of 2016. Growth in seaborne trade increased markedly market conditions. (4.1% in 2017 vs 2.8% in 2016), in line with the global economy. The Board sincerely thanks the management and employees for the The global fleet grew by 1% in terms of number of ships and 3% in hard work and commitment they have displayed throughout 2017. terms of gross tonnage (GT), in line with the growth seen in 2016 but notably slower than in previous years. Record low prices for ship newbuildings, with a newbuild Very Large Crude Carrier (VLCC) costing the equivalent of a five-year-old vessel just 18 months ago, Strategy saw ordering pick up. Even so, while an improvement over 2016, ordering in 2017 was lower than in any of the first five years of DNV GL’s strategy sets ambitious goals for further developing the the decade. company as a world leading quality assurance and risk management company within the maritime, oil & gas and energy industries, DNV GL was again one of the leading classification societies in terms as well as within management system certification services and of order intake, with over 19.4% of global newbuildings based on digital solutions across industries. GT. DNV GL performed particularly well in the container market, winning nearly 40% of all orders by GT. The addition of 15 operaTowards the end of 2017, a new business area, Digital Solutions, tional mobile offshore units (MOUs) to DNV GL class demonstrated was established to help achieve some of DNV GL’s strategic the company’s strong position in the offshore sector. ambitions. This signals DNV GL’s strong commitment to strengthening the breadth and depth of its digital capabilities for the benefit At the end of 2017, the DNV GL-classed fleet stood at 12,160 vessels of its customers. Digital Solutions combines these capabilities with and MOUs, totalling 282.6 million GT. DNV GL retained its leading DNV GL’s well-established domain expertise to create efficienposition in the industry and was honoured by the Lloyd’s List newscies and new revenue streams across all business areas and to paper as the top classification society. maintain DNV GL’s leading position in an increasingly digital world. The new organization will also maximize the impact of DNV GL’s Liquefied natural gas (LNG) continued to rise in importance, with digital investments, including the company’s open industry data significant new export terminals, liquefaction capacity and FSRUs platform, Veracity, and rich portfolio of software ecosystems. coming online, most notably in Australia and the US as well as the Yamal project in Russia. DNV GL undertook many projects for new DNV GL will continue to invest in R&D and develop the skills and vessel designs and components with customers in 2017, including knowledge of its employees to stay at the forefront of technology new types of LNG tanks, an LNG-fuelled bulker for the Australiaand innovation and to fulfil its purpose and vision. China trade and large LNG-fuelled container vessels. 138 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Several digitalization initiatives were launched over the year to help As customers increasingly embraced digital technologies, DNV GL customers maximize the efficiency of their vessels and operations. launched the first-ever recommended practice for customizing This included a smart survey booking tool, adding a machine existing international standards to build cyber security into oil and learning system to better direct customer queries through the gas operational technology systems. Further focus was placed DATE (Direct Access to Technical Experts) service and the rollout on growing the company’s footprint in the midand downstream of IMO-compliant electronic class and statutory certificates across sectors in 2017, while maintaining DNV GL’s market-leading DNV GL’s entire classed fleet – a first for the industry. The feedback position in the upstream sector. on electronic certificates was very positive as it increases efficiency and transparency, and by the end of the year more than 40,000 Key projects included a major innovation contract with National such certificates had been issued. Grid to enable consumer use of lower-carbon gas and improve gasbill calculation in the UK; studies to benchmark safety, environmental and quality (HSEQ) performance against international standards using DNV GL’s International Safety Rating System in DNV GL’s strategy sets ambitious China; collaboration with Lundin Norway to predict unplanned production shutdowns offshore Norway; and independent thirdgoals for further developing the party verification of high-pressure, high-temperature subsea company as a world leading quality assurance equipment for OneSubsea in the Gulf of Mexico. and risk management company. DNV GL’s digital solutions have seen growth, with an increased market share in all market segments – upstream, midstream and downstream. Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) offerings were further The topic of digital classification was also driven by DNV GL’s Maritime developed in 2017, with a focus on integration and collaboration. CEO Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen in his role as Chairman of the InternaHazard and risk analysis software saw strong growth, especially tional Association of Classification Societies (IACS) in 2017. in China, where the level of regulation is increasing. DNV GL’s software for ship management and operations showed The purchase of computational fluid dynamics software developer further growth as customers in the maritime industry continued ComputIT in 2017 was a key strategic acquisition which increases to focus on integrated fleet management solutions to support leverage with customers requiring 3D modelling solutions within Opex reduction. The year-on-year increase in the number of a larger software ecosystem. vessels supported worldwide by this software was 15%, reaching 6,200 vessels. OIL & GAS. Signs of increased confidence in the oil and gas industry began to emerge in 2017 amid more stable oil and gas prices. However, market volatility persisted and there was no sharp rebound in capital and operational expenditures across the sector. Several digitalization Companies across the oil and gas supply chain continued to assign initiatives were launched high priority to keeping costs in check, aiming for permanent cost over the year to help customers containment to support competitiveness even if oil prices remain low. maximize the efficiency of their vessels and operations. In 2017, DNV GL focused on increasing efficiency while maintaining technical competencies for long-term growth. Some stability returned to the Oil & Gas business area in 2017, as resizing and restructuring efforts from 2016 began to bear fruit. External revenue was ahead of forecast across all quarters, chargeability was at its highest since 2014 and the sales order book remained largely robust. The Oil & Gas business area increased its focus on developing digitally enabled services to support efficient operations across the supply chain. For example, its quantitative risk assessment visualization tool MyQRA was further developed for online users to conduct near-instantaneous, scenario-based sensitivity simulations for assets. DNV GL also launched a digital Pipeline Evaluation Portal to speed up the testing and development of its data-driven models and software tools – for predicting and preventing pipeline corrosion, for example – through online collaboration with customers. 139 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT ENERGY. Political changes causing uncertainties, such as Brexit, subsidy-free windfarm auctions and the withdrawal of the US from the Paris Agreement, played a major role in the power and renewables industry in 2017. In line with the need for decarbonization and clean energy sources, many countries are continuing the shift to more renewables in their energy mix and pushing the electrification of energy demand. Improving energy efficiency continues to be the best way to save energy and DNV GL runs energy management programmes to free up energy for other uses and reduce carbon emissions. Ageing electricity grids and the growth of wind and solar assets continued to drive the demand for digital asset management advisory and monitoring services. Consolidation in the wind turbine market slowed the demand for DNV GL’s wind certification services, DNV GL’s digital solutions whereas activity increased related to the company’s solar-asset have seen growth, with an monitoring services. increased market share in all market segments. Traditional utilities are under pressure and continue to look for new business models. This drives the need for DNV GL to digitalize its services supporting traditional and new stakeholders. DNV GL opened the world’s first – and currently only – ultra-high voltage testing facility for super grid components this year. The energy value chain is being transformed owing to the impact of ageing infrastructure, new energy resources, increasing digitaliThe uncertainties in a more digital world, increasing complexity zation and cost cutting. The electric utilities markets were therein business value chains, increasing international trade and higher fore positive to DNV GL’s software solutions addressing these issues. public expectations are strong drivers for assurance services DNV GL is renewing its technology stack to become more cloudprovided by trusted parties. based, open and modular with its introduction of an electric grid digital asset ecosystem. In a volatile macroeconomic environment, which has affected many of our customers’ industries, Business Assurance benefited 2017 also saw increased customer interest in structural engineering from a growth in the ISO management system market and continued software for the offshore wind market, bringing in new customers to develop its larger role of assurance provider. This has resulted for DNV GL’s Sesam software for offshore wind turbines. in a stronger footprint in the areas of both supply chain management and management system certification, where the latter remains BUSINESS ASSURANCE. DNV GL’s Business Assurance business the flagship line of service. area continued to diversify its market exposure by extending its assurance offerings in industry sectors such as aquaculture, Revenue related to the food & beverage industry continued to agriculture, food and healthcare as well as expanding the scope grow strongly, making DNV GL one of the major business assurance of its supply chain assurance and product assurance services. players in this industry. Sustainability services also continued to grow providing opportunities in a wide range of industries. DNV GL Further, the changing face of trade and adoption of digital became the first certification body to use block-chain technology technologies are causing a rapidly increasing amount of transwhen issuing certificates, allowing customers and any interested actions in various forms. Recognizing that these require trust and parties to check the validity of certificates by simply scanning give rise to new assurance needs, the company has embarked a QR code or through a publicly available User Interface. on building new digital assurance positions and service offerings. As an example, in 2017, DNV GL started to use and explore the The overall ISO management system certification market is estimated opportunities created by blockchain technologies. to have grown by approximately 3%. Within this market, DNV GL maintained a leading position in terms of market share and DNV GL is maintaining its position as a leading provider of innovation in 2017. DNV GL’s assurance portfolio continued to Management System Certification services. In addition, service expand, with growth of 13% in Product Assurance and 14% in offerings beyond Management System Certification, such as Supply Chain Management and other assurance services that help sustainability assurance, supply chain management and product companies work towards responsible consumption and production. certification, are becoming increasingly important in the service Within the food and beverage industry, growth exceeded expectaportfolio. tions once again. Similarly, healthcare services continued to grow strongly in 2017. 140 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT SOFTWARE. The largest markets for DNV GL’s software solutions expenses were NOK 110 million in 2017, compared to NOK 18 million continued to face challenges in 2017, although there are signs of in 2016. The change from 2016 is primarily due to negative currency a recovery, with customers planning new projects and a generally effects incurred in 2017 with weaker USD and stronger EUR develmore positive outlook for DNV GL’s core industries. The shift towards opment in 2017. The other main financial items were net interest digitalization and cloud-based solutions continued, and DNV GL costs from defined benefit pension plans (NOK 32 million), other responded to this by fully restructuring its development and delivery interest costs and financial expenses. organization in the Software business area from product lines to digital ecosystems. The 2017 tax expense was NOK 303 million. The high tax level is partly due to non-tax-deductible items, withholding taxes on Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) is outpacing the growth of traditional remitted earnings, and losses from operations without recognition software licensing in some segments. In the QHSE software domain, of tax assets. The after-tax profit for the year was NOK 61 million, most new customers of DNV GL’s Synergi Life software chose compared to last year’s net loss of NOK 216 million. SaaS solutions. The net cash flow for the year was positive by NOK 32 million. Sales to new customers accounted for 30% of the total new sales The cash flow from operations ended at NOK 656 million in 2017, during the year, and 281 new accounts were secured. Software but was negatively influenced by the net increase in working consulting services again experienced strong annual revenue capital despite the 5% organic decline in operating revenues. growth. The cash flow from investments was NOK 669 million in 2017 of which net investments of NOK 286 million in tangible fixed assets From 2018, the Software business unit became part of the newly were mainly in laboratories in Arnhem, the Netherlands, as well created Digital Solutions business area. as office-related and IT-equipment investments. Of the NOK 371 million investments in intangible assets, NOK 280 million was primarily related to new software platforms. Acquisitions amounted to NOK 24 million in 2017. Financial performance At the year-end, the DNV GL Group had liquidity reserves of DNV GL Group AS achieved operating revenues of NOK 19,475 NOK 3,660 million plus a credit line of NOK 1,000 million. million in 2017, a decline of NOK 1,359 million from 2016. This 6.5% The Group has a strong balance sheet, with an equity ratio of 65% revenue contraction reflects a decline in the business volume from of total assets. Due to a weaker NOK against currencies where the the maritime and oil & gas markets. The organic growth was minus Group has its major balance sheet exposure, foreign currency gains 5.1%, while the relative strengthening of the NOK contributed to of NOK 885 million relating to net investments in foreign subsidiaries a negative currency effect of 1.7%. The acquisition of Green Power were reflected in equity in 2017. Monitor contributed 0.3% non-organic growth. Net actuarial gains of NOK 424 million from defined benefit pension The Maritime business area recorded revenues of NOK 7,021 million, plans were reflected in equity at the year-end, primarily from the corresponding to a contraction of 14.5% compared to 2016. The actual return on the plan assets in the Norwegian pension scheme. Oil & Gas business area reported revenues of NOK 4,594 million, representing a contraction of 7.3%. The decline in these two The accounts of the parent company, DNV GL Group AS, show business areas’ volumes improved in the second half of the year, a profit for the year of NOK 269 million. The profit is mainly with a reduced contraction in Maritime and the flattening out generated from financial items. The Board proposes to transfer of the negative growth in Oil & Gas. the profit for the year to other equity. The Energy business area recorded revenues of NOK 3,677 million, reflecting growth of 26% that includes the acquisition of Green Power Monitor. Business Assurance ended the year with growth of 4.2% and revenues of NOK 3,278 million, driven primarily by management system certification services. The Software business area saw its growth flatten out in 2017 and delivered external revenues of NOK 852 million, which are on a par with last year. Lower business volumes in Maritime and Oil & Gas in 2017 were almost entirely offset by cost and capacity reductions in these two business areas, as well as continuous cost reductions in group-wide DNV GL Group AS achieved support functions. Overall, this led to a slight improvement in operating revenues of NOK the earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and impairment 19,475 million in 2017, a decline (EBITA) from NOK 984 million in 2016 to NOK 993 million in 2017, of NOK 1,359 million from 2016. reflecting an EBITA margin of 5.1%. After the NOK 519 million amortization of intangible assets, the operating profit (EBIT) increased by NOK 320 million, from NOK 154 million in 2016 to NOK 474 million in 2017. The net financial 141 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT With this platform, DNV GL will not only accelerate its digital service offerings but also provide a foundation for new revenue One of the most significant streams, business models, and co-innovation with customers digital innovations from DNV GL and other partners. in 2017 was the launch of Veracity, an open industry data platform. Corporate risk management The Board underlines the importance of continuously having At the extraordinary general meeting 15 February 2018, a dividend a comprehensive understanding of the risks facing DNV GL that distribution of NOK 3,000 million from DNV GL Group AS to the could affect corporate values, reputation and key business objecsole shareholder Det Norske Veritas Holding AS was declared. tives. DNV GL has processes in place to proactively identify such The dividend was based on the DNV GL Group AS financial staterisks at an early stage and initiate adequate mitigating measures ments for 2016. As the dividend was not declared 31 December and actions. 2017, the dividend has not been recognized as a liability in the 2017 financial statements. DNV GL’s risk management policy is part of the management system and ensures that the risk management processes and The Board confirms that the going concern assumption applies culture are an integral part of everything the company does. and that the financial statements have been prepared on this basis. The policy is aligned with the ISO 31000 framework. Although the Board regards DNV GL’s financial performance for 2017 as modest, the equity ratio remains strong and constitutes The Board formally reviews the risk management status and outa robust platform to achieve our strategic targets and maintain our look twice a year. The review of risks and opportunities is conducted independence as a financially strong and trusted company. The as part of both the strategy revision process and the annual plan Board also confirms that, to the best of its knowledge, the information process. presented in the financial statements gives a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of the DNV GL DNV GL calculates its risk-adjusted equity on an annual basis, Group for the period. Apart from the NOK 3,000 million dividend taking into consideration the most important risk factors. Based distribution, there are no material events after the balance sheet on value-at-risk methodology, the analysis includes potential losses date affecting the 2017 financial statements. from operations, foreign-exchange exposure, financial investments and pension plan assets and liabilities. The book equity less the maximum calculated loss illustrates DNV GL’s total risk exposure and the amount that can be lost in a worst-case scenario. This Innovation exercise gives the Board a measurable overview of the key quantified risks and DNV GL’s capacity to take on additional risk. Innovation is a cornerstone of DNV GL’s business model. It is also central to the differentiation strategy that enables DNV GL to meet The relatively low oil price and its effect on the demand for DNV GL’s its strategic goals and has made the company a preferred and services were a focus area in the Board’s risk assessments throughtrusted quality assurance and risk management provider to the out the year. Developments in the maritime sector were another maritime, energy and other industries for many decades. issue of great concern. The relatively low ship newbuilding market and more competitive situation in the classification industry have Consequently, the company is upholding its commitment to invest been assessed as major elements of the risk picture facing DNV GL. 5% of its annual revenues in research and innovation activities, Mitigating actions addressing overcapacity and the cost base have including the strategic research unit, despite ongoing cost-cutting been prioritized. measures. The purpose is to deliver the best insight and technical capabilities to help its customers work in safer, smarter and greener Severe quality, safety and integrity risks in the company represent ways. Innovative solutions and foresight are co-created and shared another focus area. Numerous barriers exist to minimize the chance with the industries in which DNV GL is active. One strong example of such events occurring, and DNV GL’s management system of foresight provided by the strategic research unit was the first is constantly being scrutinized to ensure that the company is annual Energy Transition Outlook, which was positively received managing this risk satisfactorily. by customers and other stakeholders all over the world. The company’s ambitions to play a role in the emerging digital Of the total investment in research and innovation, one-fifth, i.e. 1% economy entail an increased cyber security risk. Among other of the company’s annual revenues, is allocated to long-term strategic mitigating actions is the work to achieve ISO 27001 certification. research. To support the company’s strategic ambition of becoming The Board will review the cyber security risk annually going forward. a data-smart company, 60% of the research and innovation activities are dedicated to digitalization. DNV GL’s main financial risks are its market risk (interest rate and foreign currency risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and political risk One of the most significant digital innovations from DNV GL in related to trade sanctions. 2017 was the launch of Veracity, an open industry data platform. 142 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT DNV GL reports annually on corporate governance in accordance with the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance (“Code of Practice”), and applies these principles to the extent relevant for the DNV GL Group as a private limited company. The Code of Practice relates to 15 topics, and DNV GL’s Corporate Governance report covers each of these topics and describes DNV GL’s adherence to the Code of Practice. The Corporate 60% of the research Governance report also describes the legal basis and principles and innovation for DNV GL’s corporate governance structure. The full report activities are dedicated can be accessed on the company website. to digitalization. The management company of the DNV GL companies is DNV GL Group AS, registered in Norway and governed by the Norwegian Private Limited Liability Companies Act. Between the merger of the DNV Group and GL Group in 2013 and 14 December 2017, this company was owned by Det Norske Veritas Holding AS (63.5%) and Mayfair Beteiligungsfonds II GmbH & Co. KG (“Mayfair”) (36.5%). On 14 December 2017, Det Norske Veritas Holding AS acquired Mayfair’s 36.5% shareholding in DNV GL Group AS to become the sole owner of the company. Interest rate risk: as the company has had limited external borrowings, its exposure to interest rate risk is primarily due to its defined After the three board members appointed by Mayfair resigned in benefit pension commitments. Lower interest rates over the past connection with the share transaction in December 2017, DNV GL’s few years have led to an increase in the pension commitments. Board was reduced from 14 to 11 members. Of these, six members The company has closed all existing defined benefit pension are elected by the General Meeting based on nominations by schemes to new entrants. In addition, there is limited exposure Det Norske Veritas Holding AS and five members are elected to the risk of changes in market interest rates for DNV GL’s by and from among DNV GL employees worldwide. The Board forward exchange contracts. consists of six men and five women representing five nationalities, with an average age of 53 years. The Board’s combined expertise Foreign currency risk: DNV GL has revenues and expenses in represents a range of stakeholders, markets and disciplines. approximately 70 currencies. Of these, six (NOK, EUR, USD, CNY, KRW and GBP) make up for 77% of the total revenue. In most currencies, the company has a natural hedge through a balance of revenues and expenses. The foreign currency policy is to focus The Board consists of six men on hedging expected cash flows, primarily in US dollars. However, and five women representing DNV GL is also materially exposed to the re-evaluation of balance sheet items, including net investments in foreign subsidiaries. five nationalities. Credit risk: receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis, with the result that the company’s exposure to bad debts is limited. There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the In addition to the reduction in the number of board members in company. With respect to the credit risk arising from the other December 2017, the composition of the Board of Directors also financial assets, which comprise cash, cash equivalents and certain changed in August 2017 due to new appointments by Det Norske derivative instruments, DNV GL’s exposure to this arises from any Veritas Holding AS and the election of new employee representatives. default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to The Board welcomed Birgit Aagaard-Svendsen, Lasse Kristoffersen the market value of these instruments. and Silvija Seres as new members appointed by Det Norske Veritas Holding, and Nikolaos Papanikos and Da Wei Tian as new members Liquidity risk: DNV GL monitors its liquidity risk on a continuous elected by and from among DNV GL employees. The Board would basis. The liquidity planning considers the maturity of both the like to thank Wolfhart Hauser, C. Thomas Rehder, Christelle G. V. financial investments and financial assets (e.g. accounts receivable, Martin, Rebekka Glasser Herlofsen, Sami Badarani, Betty Bei Xu, other financial assets) and projected cash flows from operations. Markus Wandt and Mette Bandholtz Nielsen for their past contributions as board members. The Board held six ordinary board meetings and one extraordinary Corporate governance meeting in 2017. The average attendance at these board meetings was close to 100%. The Board’s Audit Committee held four meetings DNV GL considers sound corporate governance to be fundamental in 2017 and the attendance at these was 100%. The Board’s in securing trust in the company and a cornerstone for achieving Compensation Committee held three meetings in 2017 and the sustainable value creation in the best interests of DNV GL’s attendance at these was 100%. customers, employees, owner and other stakeholders. 143 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Corporate sustainability Organization and people DNV GL’s vision of having a global impact for a safe and sustainable The DNV GL Group has operations in close to 100 countries future sets the direction of the business. The company’s commitand headquarters located at Høvik, just outside Oslo, Norway. ments to customers, employees and business partners are guided DNV GL is organized in a group structure with five business areas: by DNV GL’s purpose of safeguarding life, property and the Maritime, Oil & Gas, Energy, Business Assurance, and Digital environment. Solutions. The new business area Digital Solutions became operational on 1 January 2018, building on the capabilities DNV GL pursues continuous improvement in its sustainability in the previous business area Software as well as in specialist performance and its management systems are certified to the digital units across the DNV GL Group. ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. The total number of employees at year-end 2017 was 12,715 DNV GL has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (13,550 at year-end 2016), of which 98% are permanent employees. since 2003, and the Board sees the integration of the 10 principles In addition, 6,969 (6,369) qualified subcontractors and expert on human rights, labour standards, environmental performance personnel were engaged. Employee turnover was 12.5% (13%), and anti-corruption as critical for capturing long-term value. with voluntary turnover at 5.7% (5.5%). The continuous decline in In 2017, DNV GL continued its partnerships with the World the number of employees reflects that DNV GL still had to adjust Business Council for Sustainable, the Global Opportunity to the contraction in the maritime and oil & gas markets. A headNetwork, the Red Cross, and WWF. count reduction was carried out in numerous business and support units, and the cost base was thoroughly scrutinized. New digital systems for financial and HR processes were implemented. A career in DNV GL should not be hindered by nationality, gender The company’s commitments or age if the employee has the competence, attitude and values needed for the role. The Board considers the company’s purpose, to customers, employees vision and values to be instrumental in attracting and retaining and business partners are guided by the diverse workforce necessary in global markets. The Board also DNV GL’s purpose of safeguarding emphasizes the importance of sound management of human and life, property and the environment. labour rights. The DNV GL statement pursuant to the UK Modern Slavery Act is signed by the Board and published on the company website. The employees represent 112 (115) nationalities, and DNV GL has DNV GL supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals and 100 or more employees in 23 (20) countries. The largest regions aims to use this framework to create customer value through in terms of number of employees are the Nordics, West and Southmeeting societal needs. The Board considers the UN Sustainable East Europe, North America, Central Europe, Northern Asia, Great Development Goals to be a framework for strengthening the Britain, India/Middle East/Africa, South Asia and South America. company’s market positions. DNV GL provides strong business Of the permanent employees, 87% (87%) have higher education. solutions for many of these global goals, including 7) Affordable The weighted average female vs. male salary is 99% (99%), and Clean Energy; 9) Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure; and ranging from 89% to 105% in the largest countries where opera13) Climate Action. The Group strategy also reflects relevant market tions take place. The proportion of female employees is 32% opportunities for the goals 3) Good Health and Well-being, 12) (31%) and the proportion of female managers is 25% (23%). Responsible Consumption and Production and 14) Life below Water. As of 1 January 2018, the Executive Committee consists of 4 (2) women and 5 (7) men, with women accounting for 2 of 5 (1 of 5) In 2017, DNV GL conducted a broad stakeholder survey to identify operational CEOs. the most important sustainability topics amongst customers, owners, suppliers, partners, media and employees. The replies from some 1,000 respondents will contribute to the shaping of DNV GL’s priorities Health and safety for 2018-2020. The Board refers to the Annual Report, available on the company website, for a complete account of corporate sustainability, including information on the priorities, management DNV GL’s overall goal is to ensure zero harm to, and a healthy working approach, targets and performance within the topics of sustainable environment for, its workforce. Expectations for suppliers include leadership, health and safety, business ethics and anti-corruption, compliance with equivalent health and safety requirements for people, environment and climate, sustainable procurement as well services rendered on the DNV GL premises and subcontracted as partnerships for sustainability. DNV GL reports in accordance survey-type work outside normal office locations. with the GRI Standards at the Comprehensive Level, and a third party has conducted limited assurance of the report. 144 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT during the reporting period. No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/or regulations in the environmental, social or economic areas were identified. As an independent provider of professional services, DNV GL Relevant measures to achieve a high level of integrity were further bases its business model on trust at all implemented in 2017 through training, communication and improvelevels and in all business environments. ments of governing documents, taking into consideration the latest legal developments. The company started to finalize risk assessments regarding subcontractors and intermediaries and implement these in the business areas, and an export control network was set up. Code of Conduct training has been completed by 98% of employees, 97% of employees have completed anti-corruption In 2017, there were no work-related fatalities involving DNV GL and antitrust training and around 2,500 employees in manageemployees. The long-term trend for injuries and occupational ment and exposed positions received individual training on diseases was stable, with a slight improvement. At year-end, the compliance programme topics. 12-month rolling average was 30.3 (38.4) for the Lost Day Rate, 1.2 (1.4) for the Injury Rate, 0.9 (1.0) for the Occupational Disease Rate and 2.4 (2.5) for the Absentee Rate. The number of injuries leading Environment and climate to lost days was 27 (34), the number of occupational disease cases resulting in lost days was 22 (25), the number of injuries with no lost days was 149 (162) and the number of near-accidents was 313 (408). The Group is committed to taking a precautionary approach, All in all, DNV GL’s health and safety performance is average managing and continually improving its environmental and climate compared with industry benchmarks, and a programme is in performance. Assessments, improvement actions, incident reporting place to continuously strengthen the resilience of the workforce and performance monitoring of material topics such as energy and foster a learning health and safety culture. consumption, emissions to air and waste management are followed up annually. Internal and external audits are undertaken to assure performance. DNV GL prefers suppliers and subcontractors that provide services in compliance with the Group’s environmental Business ethics and anti-corruption and climate policies. The DNV GL value “We never compromise on quality or integrity” Climate change mitigation and adaptation are prioritized, and the is the leading principle for fostering a common culture of integrity Board is monitoring the implementation of the Group strategy to across all operations. As an independent provider of professional ensure that DNV GL will be verified as carbon neutral in relation to services, DNV GL bases its business model on trust at all levels and office buildings, laboratories and travel activity. Carbon neutrality in all business environments. The Board emphasizes the necessity is to be achieved in 2018, two years ahead of schedule. No risk of reflecting the DNV GL values and demonstrating ethical leaderrelated to climate change is assessed as material and the financial ship in society at large. The Group has a zero-tolerance policy for implications are considered to be limited. corruption and unethical behaviour that applies to all employees, subcontractors, agents and suppliers. In 2017, zero cases of non-compliance with environmental regulations and zero fines related to environmental aspects were DNV GL’s compliance programme and related instructions are registered. The recorded energy consumption was 118.3 GWh based on the Code of Conduct for which the Board is responsible. (87.5 GWh), of which 37.5 GWh (40.6 GWh) was purchased energy Anti-corruption, antitrust, export controls, sanctions and personal with green certificates. The higher reported energy consumption data protection are the programme’s focus areas, and respective is due to the increased number of locations included in the reporting, instructions are in place. Information on how to report potential up from 73 to 112. DNV GL’s carbon footprint was 69,494 tCO2e misconduct is published on the company website and the intranet, (29,993 tCO2e). The Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions from and there is also an ethical helpline and anonymous whistleoffices and lab operations came to 25,822 tCO2e (29,993 tCO2e). blowing channel. Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions from air and car travel were Compliance risks are regularly assessed as part of the corporate 43,665 tCO2e (17,282 tCO2e). The increased emissions from air risk management process and measures are taken accordingly. travel are explained by more employees being covered by the The Group Compliance Officer reports performance to the travel agencies’ measurements and by increased travel activity Board’s Audit Committee quarterly, as well as to the Executive related to customer work. Committee when relevant. 2017 is the first year in which DNV GL reports its carbon footprint In 2017, 62 (44) potential compliance cases were reported and for all its employees. Greenhouse gas emissions are measured handled. No legal action regarding anti-competitive behaviour for 97% of air travel and for buildings where 86% of employees or violations of antitrust or monopoly legislation in which DNV work, with the rest of the emissions being estimated. Measures GL was identified as a participant was pending or completed are taken to improve data quality and the group-wide processes for environmental and climate reporting. 145 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT as the oversupply of drilling rigs and offshore supply vessels Outlook continues, accompanied by a drop in new large complex offshore projects. The global economic outlook for 2018 seems slightly more optiThe energy sector market continues to be demanding in several mistic than 2017, with higher expectations not only for growth segments and geographies due to energy and climate politics, and commodity prices but also of increased interest rates. However, but there is an overall trend of continued decarbonization of the globalization is being challenged in several major countries and world’s energy systems, which should drive demand for the company’s we see greater uncertainty regarding the introduction of national renewables and energy storage services. DNV GL’s energy advisory and regional free-trade protection measures, the movement services are expected to stage a recovery and the power testing of people and the transfer of technology. and certification services are also expected to grow, fuelled by the high-power laboratory in Arnhem, which will see its first full The Board detects modest signs of growth in both seaborne trade year at its expanded capacity. and energy demand and thus a slowdown in the company’s revenue contraction. However, 2018 will be another challenging year for Management system certification services will continue to dominate DNV GL, as the optimistic signs in the maritime and offshore markets Business Assurance’s revenue the coming years. The food and are expected to produce a positive effect from 2019. Over the past beverage, health and automotive industry sectors are now the three three years, cost restructuring has been implemented across all dominant sectors within this business area, and are expected to grow the business areas, shared services and support organization, further in 2018. Supply chain assurance services are predicted to have thus making DNV GL better prepared to cope with the prevailing double-digit growth. Business Assurance will continue to focus on market conditions. efficiency measures coupled with investment in its next-generation production system as well as digital assurance. After a few years of recession, the predicted increase in seaborne trade, coupled with scrapping, means the ship newbuilding order Digitalization is central to the Group’s 2020 strategy and, in book is finally expected to turn positive during 2018, but too late response to the accelerated pace of digital transformation in the for a major impact on the financial year. Competition will continue core industries, the company formed the new Digital Solutions to be fierce, but the company is maintaining its goal of minimizing business area in late 2017. Digital Solutions will build on the legacy the transfer of class to other classification societies, without business area Software’s solutions for the maritime, oil & gas and compromising quality and safety standards. energy sectors, coupled with new data management platform services and expanded data analytics and cyber security services. In the oil and gas market, the stabilized oil prices and essentially Digital Solutions is also responsible for helping the rest of the flat gas prices will have a positive impact. Many oil companies organization to develop digital solutions for customers. expect to slightly increase their capital spend in the upstream sector as they adapt to this new normal. However, the new offshore The Board of Directors believes DNV GL’s performance in 2017, upstream oil and gas developments are focused on smaller and against a backdrop of difficult markets, demonstrates that the shorter-payback-time projects. The existing extensive infrastructure company has responded well to the challenges posed throughacross the value chain, including pipelines and refineries, continues out the year. The company has developed, and will continue to need operations support services. In this low-growth market, to expand, a broad competence and resource base to provide DNV GL’s Oil & Gas business area expects flat revenue developguidance and support to customers in a business environment ments in 2018. Meanwhile, the external revenue of the offshore where the need for technical and digital expertise, trust and newbuilding activities is predicted to shrink by more than 50% risk management is evident. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF DNV GL GROUP AS, HØVIK, 26 APRIL 2018 LEIF-ARNE LANGØY MORTEN ULSTEIN BIRGIT AAGAARD-SVENDSEN LIV AUNE HAGEN CHAIRMAN VICE CHAIRMAN NINA IVARSEN CLEMENS KEUER LISELOTT KILAAS LASSE KRISTOFFERSEN REMI ERIKSEN NIKOLAOS PAPANIKOS SILVIJA SERES DA WEI TIAN GROUP PRESIDENT & CEO 146 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROFILES LEIF-ARNE LANGØY MORTEN ULSTEIN Chair Vice-Chair BIRGIT AAGAARD-SVENDSEN Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1956 Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1953 Nationality: Danish Born: 1956 Position: Position: Position: Managing Director, LAPAS AS Managing Director, Borgstein AS Professional Board member Education: Education: Education: MSc Norwegian School of Economics Rolls Royce Business Leadership Program, Constructional Engineering, The Technical and Business Administration 2000. Training programmes at IMD, University of Denmark, 1980. Graduate Lausanne 1990–92. The University of Diploma in Business Administration, 1985. Member of the board: Trondheim, The Norwegian Institute of INSEAD, Paris, 1988. IMD, Lausanne, 1998. Since 2010 Technology, Master of Science in Naval IESE, Barcelona, 2001. Chair since 2011 Architecture and Marine Engineering 1973–77 Member of the board: Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Since 2017 Chairman of Kværner ASA; Chairman Member of the board: of Sparebanken Møre; Vice Chairman of Since 2011 Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: The Resource Group AS (TRG); Member Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; of the Board of Farstad Shipping ASA; Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Det Norske Veritas Holding AS; Chairman of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; Chairman of the Island Offshore Group Deputy Chairman of Dalhoff Chairman of Det Norske Veritas Holding AS of companies; Vice Chairman of Stiftelsen Larsen & Horneman A/S; Det Norske Veritas; Vice Chairman of Det Audit Committee Chairman of Presafe SE; Norske Veritas Holding AS; Member of the Board member of Otto Mønsted A/S; Board of Directors of Norwegian Hull Club Board member of Axis Offshore Pte. Ltd.; Audit Committee Chairman of West of England; Ship Owners Mutual Insurance Ass. 147 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROFILES LISELOTT KILAAS CLEMENS KEUER NINA IVARSEN Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1959 Nationality: German Born: 1959 Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1962 Position: Position: Position: CEO, Aleris Group Chair of German Works Council, DNV GL Chair of VEFF and Head of Global Employee Forum, DNV GL Education: Education: MBA, IMD International; MSc in Math. Degree in Computer Science, Education: Statistics University of Hamburg Master of Management, Stavanger University; a number of courses from other Member of the board: Member of the board: universities, incl. University of Denver, US, Since 2016 Since 2013 and a PhD programme in Psychology from the University of Oslo Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; Member of the board: Det Norske Veritas Holding AS Det Norske Veritas Holding AS Since 2016 Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS 148 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROFILES LIV AUNE HAGEN NIKOLAOS PAPANIKOS DA WEI TIAN Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1988 Nationality: Greek Born: 1971 Nationality: Chinese Born: 1972 Position: Position: Position: Consultant, DNV GL Key Account Manager, DNV GL Station Manager, DNV GL Education: Education: Education: MSc Industrial Economics and MSc in Naval Architecture and Marine Bachelor of Science (Naval Architecture), Technology Management Engineering, NTUA, 1996 HuaZhong University of Science and Technology, 1994. Master of Science Member of the board: Member of the board: (Structural Analysis), Harbin Engineering Since 2016 Since 2017 University, 1997 Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Member of the board: Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; Since 2017 Det Norske Veritas Holding AS Det Norske Veritas Holding AS Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS 149 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROFILES LASSE KRISTOFFERSEN SILVIJA SERES Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1972 Nationality: Norwegian (originally Hungarian and Yugoslavian) Born: 1970 Position: President and CEO, Torvald Klaveness Position: Group Independent Investor and Board Member Education: Education: Executive Manager Program, INSEAD, Top Leadership Course at the Norwegian Paris, 2004. Senior Manager Program, Defence College, Oslo, 2015. MBA IMD, Lausanne, 2002–2003. MSc Naval Program, INSEAD, France and Singapore, architecture and marine engineering, 2013. PhD and MA in Mathematical NTH, 1995. Sciences, Oxford University, UK, 2001. MSc and BSc in Computer Science, Member of the board: University of Oslo, 1996. Since 2017 Member of the board: Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Since 2017 Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS; Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: President and CEO; Board Member of the following: Various board positions in daughter Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; companies of Torvald Klaveness Group; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS; Vice President / Vice Chairman of Oslo Børs ASA; Eidsiva Energi AS; Norwegian Shipowners’ Association; Stiftelsen Kavli Fondet; NRK; Board member of Ulsteingruppen; Syncron Intn’l AB; Academedia AB; Board member of ECSA (European Shipowners’ Association). Owner of Technorocks AS; President of Polyteknisk Forening; Corporate Assembly Member of Telenor ASA; Committee Member of Digital21; Advisory Board of Digital Norway 150 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the General Meeting of DNV GL Group AS REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence OPINION. We have audited the financial statements of DNV GL Group AS. the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with laws, regulations, and auditing standThe financial statements comprise: ards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including ISAs, we exercise The financial statements of the parent company DNV GL Group AS (the professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the Company), which comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2017, income audit. We also: statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, statement of cash flow for the year then ended, and notes to the financial stateidentify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, and ments, whether due to fraud or error. We design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and approThe consolidated financial statements of DNV GL Group AS and its subsidiaries priate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material (the Group), which comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2017, income misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, statement of cash flow for the year then ended, and notes to the financial stateor the override of internal control. ments, including a summary of significant accounting policies. obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to In our opinion: design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the law and regulations. the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s The accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial or the Group’s internal control. position of the Company as at 31 December 2017, and its financial performance evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableand its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with simplified application ness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. of international accounting standards according to section 3-9 of the Norwegian Accounting Act. conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a The accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast sigof the financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2017, and its financial nificant doubt on the Company and the Group’s ability to continue as a going performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to simplified application of international accounting standards according to section draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial 3-9 of the Norwegian Accounting Act. statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date BASIS FOR OPINION. We conducted our audit in accordance with laws, regulations, of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the and auditing standards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including Company and the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements Company and the Group as required by laws and regulations, and we have represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. fair presentation. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and approobtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial informapriate to provide a basis for our opinion. tion of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, OTHER INFORMATION. Management is responsible for the other information. supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible The other information comprises the information in the Annual Report, but for our audit opinion. does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information We communicate with the Board of Directors regarding, among other matters, and we do not and will not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. OPINION ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT. Based on our audit of the We have nothing to report in this regard. financial statements as described above, it is our opinion that the information presented in the Board of Directors’ report concerning the financial statements RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE MANAGING DIRECTOR and the going concern assumption is consistent with the financial statements FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The Board of Directors and the Managing and complies with the law and regulations. Director (Management) are responsible for the preparation in accordance with law and regulations, including fair presentation of the financial statements in accordOPINION ON REGISTRATION AND DOCUMENTATION. Based on our audit of the ance with simplified application of international accounting standards according financial statements as described above, and control procedures we have to the Norwegian Accounting Act section 3-9, and for such internal control as considered necessary in accordance with the International Standard on Assurmanagement determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial stateance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or ments that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Reviews of Historical Financial Information, it is our opinion that management In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing has fulfilled its duty to produce a proper and clearly set out registration and the Company’s and the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, documentation of the Company’s accounting information in accordance with the as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis law and bookkeeping standards and practices generally accepted in Norway. of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Oslo, 26 April 2018 AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. KPMG AS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or Mona Irene Larsen error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance State Authorized Public Accountant is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with laws, regulations, and auditing standards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 151 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S ASSURANCE REPORT To the Board of Directors of DNV GL Group AS We have been engaged by the management of DNV GL Group AS (‘DNV GL’) to LIMITED ASSURANCE OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 2017. The procedures provide limited assurance in respect of the sustainability reporting in the Annual selected depend on our understanding of the sustainability reporting and other Report 2017 (hereafter sustainability reporting 2017) of DNV GL. The scope excludes engagement circumstances, and our consideration of areas where material future events or the achievability of the objectives, targets and expectations of misstatements are likely to arise. Our procedures for limited assurance on the DNV GL and information contained in webpages referred to in the sustainability sustainability reporting 2017 included, amongst others: reporting 2017 unless specified in this report. A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability OUR CONCLUSION. Our conclusion has been formed on the basis of, and is issues for DNV GL in the reporting period; subject to, the matters outlined in this report. Interviews with senior management and relevant staff at corporate level We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate concerning sustainability strategy and policies for material issues, and to provide a basis for our conclusions. the implementation of these across the business; Based on the limited assurance procedures performed and the evidence Enquiries to management to gain an understanding of DNV GL’s processes obtained, as described below, nothing has come to our attention, to indicate for determining material issues for key stakeholder groups; that the sustainability reporting 2017 is not presented, in all material respects, Interviews with relevant staff at corporate level responsible for providing in accordance with the criteria as defined by the GRI Sustainability Reporting the information, carrying out internal control procedures and consolidating Standards’ Comprehensive level. the data in the sustainability reporting 2017; Reviewing relevant internal and external documentation, on a limited test MANAGEMENT OF DNV GL GROUP AS’ RESPONSIBILITY. The management of basis, in order to determine the reliability of the sustainability reporting 2017; DNV GL is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the sustainability Reading the sustainability reporting 2017 to determine whether there are reporting 2017 in accordance with the criteria as defined by the GRI Sustainability any material misstatements of fact or material inconsistencies based on Reporting Standards’ Comprehensive level. It is important to view the information our understanding obtained through our assurance engagement. in the sustainability reporting 2017 in the context of these criteria. These responsibilities include establishing such internal controls as management The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature determines are necessary to enable the preparation of the information in the and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagesustainability reporting 2017 that are free from material misstatement, whether ment, and consequently the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance due to fraud or error. engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. OUR RESPONSIBILITY. Our responsibility is to provide a limited assurance conclusion on DNV GL’s preparation and presentation of the sustainability reporting 2017. PURPOSE OF OUR REPORT We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard In accordance with the terms of our engagement, this assurance report has been for Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): “Assurance Engagements other than prepared for DNV GL for the purpose of assisting the management in determining Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”, issued by the International whether DNV GL’s limited assurance sustainability information is prepared and Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. presented in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and ISAE 3000 requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited for no other purpose or in any other context. assurance about whether the information in the sustainability reporting 2017 is free from material misstatement. The firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly Oslo, 26 April 2018 maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented KPMG AS policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Mona Irene Larsen We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements State Authorized Public Accountant of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental Anette Rønnov principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, Director confidentiality and professional behavior. CONTACT INFORMATION PUBLISHED BY: SUBSCRIPTION: FEEDBACK: CONCEPT AND DESIGN: Group Communications, You can subscribe to annual Please let us know your views or DNV GL Group AS and half-year reports from comments on this report by email fasett.no Editor: Per Busk Christiansen DNV GL on dnvgl.com/ to communications@dnvgl.com publications/annual-report or write to us at: DNV GL, Group Communications, NO-1322 Høvik, Norway. COMPANY MARKETS PERFORMANCE DNV GL: front page, page 6 DNV GL / Magnus Oil & Gas: Business Assurance: Getty Images: page 84, 90, 102, 103, DNV GL / Holger Martens: page 3 Dorati: page 29 Page 37: DNV GL / Rozemarijn Page 48: DNV GL / 104, 105, 139. iStock: page 143, 143 DNV GL / Nina Rangøy: page 4 Keuning (1). Getty Images (2) Holger Martens Shutterstock: page 99, 101, 140 Main images: iStock Page 38: DNV GL / Nina Rangøy Page 49: Highlights, page 6–7: iStock (no.1), UN Global Compact / (page 30, 36, 42), Getty Page 39: Shutterstock (no1) Shutterstock (1), NEWSLINE MEDIA LTD/Derek Ironside (no.4), Marc McAndrews: page 100 Images (page 47, 53). DNV GL / Holger Martens (no2) iStock (2) Shutterstock (no.5), Holger Martens (no.6), DNV GL / Magnus Dorati: page 58 Alain Baars (no.7). Main services, page 12: Page 41: Nina Rangøy (1), Page 50: Offset by DNV GL / Holger Martens: Maritime: Wanhua Chemical Group (2), Shutterstock (1), page 57, 64, 77, 95 iStock (no.1–3), Getty Images (no.4–6). Page 31: iStock (1), Getty Images (3) Shutterstock (2), DNV GL / Max Emanuelson: page 106 DNV GL / Magnus Dorati: page 16 DNV GL / Nicolas Chibac (2), iStock (3) Getty Images: page 14. iStock: page 20, 23 Page 32: Shutterstock (3) Energy: DNV GL / Markus Krüger: page 138 Johs Bøe, Jo Michael de Figueiredo Page 33: DNV GL / Page 43: Offset by Shutterstock Digital Solutions: DNV GL / Nina Rangøy: page 137 and Nina Rangøy: page 26–29 Astronaut (1), Page 44: Alain Baars Page 56: Getty Jo Michael de Figueiredo and Shutterstock (3) Page 45: Shutterstock Images (1) (2) Johs Bøe: page 147–150 152 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI INDEX The report is externally assured by KPMG. The external assurance, as outlined in the Independent Auditor’s Assurance report, concludes that the report is presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards at the comprehensive level. GRI GRI DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE TITLE WHERE REPORTED NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE TITLE WHERE REPORTED UNIVERSAL STANDARDS 102–35 Remuneration policies People 102–1 Name of the organization Company People 102–36 Process for determining remuneration 102–2 Activities, brands, products, and services Company and Markets People 102–37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 102–3 Location of headquarters Company People 102–38 Annual total compensation ratio 102–4 Location of operations Company People 102–39 Percentage increase in annual total Company compensation ratio 102–5 Ownership and legal form 102–40 List of stakeholder groups Sustainability Performance 102–6 Markets served Company and Markets 102–41 Collective bargaining agreements People 102–7 Scale of the organization Company 102–42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Sustainability Performance 102–8 Information on employees and other workers People 102–43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Sustainability Performance 102–9 Supply chain Sustainable Procurement 102–44 Key topics and concerns raised Sustainability Performance 102–10 Significant changes to the organization Sustainable Procurement and its supply chain 102–45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Financial Review Sustainability Performance statements 102–11 Precautionary Principle or approach 102–46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Sustainability Performance 102–12 External initiatives Sustainability Performance 102–47 List of material topics Sustainability Performance 102–13 Membership of associations Sustainability Performance 102–48 Restatements of information Health and Safety and 102–14 Statement from senior decision-maker President and CEO Environment and Climate 102–15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Sustainability Performance 102–49 Changes in reporting Sustainability Performance 102–16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Business ethics 102–50 Reporting period Sustainability Performance 102–17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Business ethics 102–51 Date of most recent report Sustainability Performance 102–18 Governance structure Corporate Governance Report 102–52 Reporting cycle Sustainability Performance 102–19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance Report 102–53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Information and Contact 102–20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Corporate Governance Report 102–54 Claims of reporting in accordance with Sustainability Performance environmental, and social topics the GRI Standards 102–21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Corporate Governance Report 102–55 GRI content index GRI Index environmental, and social topics 102–56 External assurance Assurance Statement 102–22 Composition of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Report and its committees 102–23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Report MANAGEMENT APPROACH 102–24 Nominating and selecting the highest Corporate Governance Report Sustainability Performance 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary governance body 103–2 The management approach and its components Sustainability Performance 102–25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Report 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability Performance Role of highest governance body in setting 102–26 Corporate Governance Report purpose, values, and strategy 102–27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Corporate Governance Report ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 102–28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s Corporate Governance Report 201–1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Sustainability Performance performance 201–2 Financial implications and other risks and Sustainability Performance 102–29 Identifying and managing economic, Corporate Governance Report opportunities due to climate change environmental, and social impacts 201–3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Sustainability Performance 102–30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Corporate Governance Report retirement plans 102–31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate Governance Report 201–4 Financial assistance received from government Sustainability Performance 102–32 Highest governance body’s role Corporate Governance Report in sustainability reporting 102–33 Communicating critical concerns Corporate Governance Report 102–34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Corporate Governance Report 153 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI INDEX GRI GRI DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE TITLE WHERE REPORTED NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE TITLE WHERE REPORTED ANTI–CORRUPTION OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 205–1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Business ethics 403–1 Workers representation in formal joint manageHealth and Safety ment–worker health and safety committees 205–2* Communication and training about anti-corruption Business ethics policies and procedures 403–2* Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Health and Safety diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 205–3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Business ethics number of work-related fatalities 403–3 Workers with high incidence or high risk Health and Safety ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR of diseases related to their occupation 403–4 Health and safety topics covered in formal Health and Safety 206–1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, Business ethics agreements with trade unions anti-trust, and monopoly practices TRAINING AND EDUCATION EMISSIONS 404–1 Average hours of training per year per employee People 305–1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment and Climate Environment and Climate Programmes for upgrading employee skills 305–2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 404–2 People and transition assistance programmes 305–3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environment and Climate Percentage of employees receiving regular 404–3 People 305–4 GHG emissions intensity Environment and Climate performance and career development reviews 305–5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment and Climate 305–6* Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Environment and Climate DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 305–7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other Environment and Climate 405–1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees People significant air emissions 405–2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration People of women to men ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 307–1 Non-compliance with environmental laws Environment and Climate NON–DISCRIMINATION and regulations 406–1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective People actions taken SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 308–1* New suppliers that were screened using Sustainable Procurement SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT environmental criteria 414–1* New suppliers that were screened using Sustainable Procurement 308–2* Negative environmental impacts in the Sustainable Procurement social criteria supply chain and actions taken 414–2* Negative social impacts in the supply chain Sustainable Procurement and actions taken EMPLOYMENT 401–1 New employee hires and employee turnover People CUSTOMER PRIVACY 401–2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are People 418–1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches Business ethics not provided to temporary or part-time employees of customer privacy and losses of customer data 401–3* Parental leave People SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE LABOR/MANAGEMENT REALTIONS 419–1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations Business ethics in the social and economic area 402–1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational People changes *Omissions from the GRI Standards 308–2 DISCLOSURE NOT REPORTED. The reason for the omission 414–1 DISCLOSURE NOT REPORTED. The reason for the omission is a lack of consolidated information regarding the screening is a lack of consolidated information regarding the screening 205–2 DISCLOSURE PARTLY REPORTED. The reason for the of new suppliers and negative impacts and actions taken in the of new suppliers and negative impacts and actions taken in omission is a lack of information on employee category and supply chain. This will be introduced with the new procurement the supply chain. This will be introduced with the new procureregion for our communication of anti-corruption policies and tool in 2018 and further rolled out in 2019. ment tool in 2018 and further rolled out in 2019. procedures. As 98% and 97% of all employees across categories and regions have completed the mandatory Code of Conduct 401–3 DISCLOSURE NOT REPORTED. The reason for the omission 414–2 DISCLOSURE NOT REPORTED. The reason for the omission and Anti-corruption and Antitrust e-learning respectively, is a lack of information on parental leave. We are considering is a lack of consolidated information regarding the screening we will not register more details. more detailed reporting on this in 2018. of new suppliers and negative impacts and actions taken in the supply chain. This will be introduced with the new procure305–6 DISCLOSURE NOT REPORTED. The reason for the 403–2 DISCLOSURE PARTLY REPORTED. The reason for the ment tool in 2018 and further rolled out in 2019. omission is that we are not aware of having any emissions omission is that our health and safety performance on purpose of ozone-depleting substances. We are considering is and will not be reported by gender. An important objective confirmation of this in 2018. of incident and hazard reporting is to increase reporting Reporting period and format and share the experience gained across organizational units. 308–1 DISCLOSURE NOT REPORTED. The reason for the For this reason, there is open access to, and an improved user The reporting period for the information provided is the 2017 omission is a lack of consolidated information regarding interface with, our incident and hazard database, Synergi Life. calendar year. The sustainability reporting is integrated into the screening of new suppliers and negative impacts and Reference to gender is not included in the reporting system the digital Annual Report and the last report was made available actions taken in the supply chain. This will be introduced to limit the possibility of disclosing someone’s identity. on 4 May 2017 on the company website. with the new procurement tool in 2018 and further rolled out in 2019. 154 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER HEADQUARTERS: ABOUT DNV GL DNV GL AS DNV GL is a global quality assurance and risk management company. Driven NO-1322 Høvik, Norway by our purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment, we enable Tel: +47 67 57 99 00 www.dnvgl.com our customers to advance the safety and sustainability of their business. We provide classification, technical assurance, software and independent expert advisory services to the maritime, oil & gas, power and renewables industries. We also provide certification, supply chain and data management services to customers across a wide range of industries. Combining technical, digital and operational expertise, risk methodology and in-depth industry knowledge, we empower our customers’ decisions and actions with trust and confidence. We continuously invest in research and collaborative innovation to provide customers and society with operational and technological foresight. With origins stretching back to 1864 and operations in more than 100 countries, our experts are dedicated to helping customers make the world safer, smarter and greener. dnvgl.com The trademarks DNV GL®, DNV®, the Horizon Graphic and Det Norske Veritas® are the properties of companies in the Det Norske Veritas group. All rights reserved. ©DNV GL 04/2018 Design: Fasett
