İşbank 2018 Integrated Report İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 1 Introduction to 2018 Integrated Report The board of İşbank has used its collective mind to It gives me pleasure as Chairman Emeritus of steer its business to the junction of the three critical the International Integrated Reporting Council to dimensions for sustainable development, namely congratulate İşbank on its first integrated report the economy, society and the environment. taking account of the IIRC’s Framework. It is clear from İşbank’s integrated report that the İşbank has set a precedent for other companies in board has adopted integrated thinking and no Turkey to follow suit. longer looks at the sources of value creation and the relationship between the company and its stakeholders in isolation. In reading the report there is a symphony between how the company makes its bottom line and how it deals with the impacts of Prof. Mervyn King SC doing so on those three critical dimensions for value creation but in a sustainable manner. Chairman Emeritus of the International Integrated Reporting Council It is also clear that İşbank’s corporate leaders have got buy-in to its business model and strategy from the tone at the top to the beat of the feet at the bottom of the company. With this buy-in İşbank should achieve extraordinary things. 2 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Contents 3 About This Report 6 Chairperson’s Message 8 Message from the CEO 12 About İşbank 14 Sustainability Approach 20 İşbank Banking 22 Value Creation Model 24 Capitals 26 Financial Performance 30 Ethical and Transparent Banking 34 Responsible Banking 50 Customer Focus 56 Digital Transformation 68 Working Life 76 Environmental Impact 82 Social Investment Programs 88 Risks and Opportunities 94 Annexes 105 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 106 Independent Assurance Report 108 GRI Content Index İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 3 About This Report Presenting a holistic overview of İşbank’s suggested by the International Integrated environmental, social and governance performance Reporting Council (IIRC), in addition to the headings in the period from 1 January 2018 through 31 dealing with financial, environmental and social December 2018, this is the first integrated report performance. published by İşbank. The report encompasses the Bank’s activities in Turkey, and excludes subsidiaries İşbank’s 2018 Integrated Report has been submitted and overseas operations. for review by an Academic Panel constituted by Prof. Güler Aras, Yıldız Technical University faculty İşbank pursues transparent and respectful member, and Prof. Zeynep Gürhan Canlı, Koç communication built on ethical principles with all University faculty member. The Panel’s comments its stakeholders. The integrated report, which, in regarding the report’s scope and construction have our opinion, will serve as an important enabler of been obtained along with recommendations for the this dialogue, espouses a sophisticated and circular future. approach in addressing İşbank’s corporate strategy, goals and permanent value creation capability Performance indicators and statements in the 2018 summed up in the motto “Turkey’s Bank”. Integrated Report are presented in comprehensive format as defined in the GRI Standards 2018 Integrated Report presents detailed (Comprehensive) (please refer to GRI Content Index, information about the way İşbank internalizes page 108). This report also includes the progress integrated thought, its interactive dialogue with report required by the UN Global Compact (UNGC) stakeholders, material issues and the value created of which İşbank is a signatory. (Please refer to UN by the Bank within the context of its operational Progress Report, page 105). cycle. Produced on the center of material issues deemed to be of extreme importance by the Bank The Report made use of the GRI Standards Financial and its shareholders, the report covers a section Services Sector Supplement and the Provisional titled “İşbank Banking” elaborating on İşbank’s Value Standard for Commercial Banks released by the Creation Model within the frame of six different Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). capitals in line with the capital classification 102-46 Please send any questions and suggestions regarding the content of the report to surdurulebilirlik@isbank.com.tr. 4 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report We are Building the Future… We deem it an inevitable responsibility upon us to leave a prosperous, safe, clean and fair world where human rights are respected, in short, a livable world to our children, the most valuable assets of us as individuals and as a community. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 5 6 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Chairperson’s Message Our first Integrated Report that provides a combined overview of the economic, social and environmental values İşbank produced in 2018, offers integrated information about the financial and non-financial performance of our Bank. Esteemed stakeholders of İşbank, This year, we are sharing our first Integrated Report that provides a combined overview of the economic, social Having celebrated its 94th year in operation and moved and environmental values İşbank produced in 2018. The one step closer to its centennial in 2018 , İşbank keeps report offers integrated information about the financial creating value with its business philosophy formulated to and non-financial performance of our Bank that observes blend its experience and future vision. the interests and priorities of all of its stakeholders in its operations, while also giving us the chance to convey our With our value creation model devised with our culture forward looking projections and targets. of being members of İşbank family and which is based on our respectful and principled banking approach that As we help our customers build their financial futures, we is passed on from one generation to the other and that offer them the necessary support to achieve their goals we call “İşbank Banking”, we fulfill our responsibilities with a business partner concept, and we stand by them at towards our society, employees, shareholders and other all times. We are working to minimize our environmental stakeholders, as well as our customers. As compelled by footprint in our sphere of influence through our work this approach, we espouse it as our fundamental goal to processes that we implement in the banking industry be an environmentally sensitive and socially responsible which meet the needs arising from the current and global organization, an attentive employer, and most importantly, trends. a business partner that individuals and businesses can rely on when building their futures. 102-14 | 103-2 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 7 Second century As an establishment that has stood for prestige and trust for We are getting ready for our second century with our significant investments in digital transformation. nearly one hundred years, İşbank holds a hopeful, determined and confident outlook for the future. As we carry İşbank into the future as a permanent Almost coeval with the Turkish Republic, İşbank has value, we continue to generate the necessary funding been an establishment that has invariably stood for to support our operations thanks to our internal capital prestige and trust for nearly one hundred years. The generation capacity. We recognize the importance of our meticulous and hard work of its employees who have human resources that represent one of our most valuable devoted themselves to the “İş” brand name and who have capitals, and we always work to maximize employee been raised with the culture of being members of the satisfaction as we move forward. We fulfill our social İşbank family are the reason why İşbank holds a hopeful, responsibility through systematic, long-lasting projects determined and confident outlook for the future. As in the to further strengthen the future of the society that we past and today, İşbank will continue to contribute to our belong to. country with the sense of duty and responsibility of its employees who represent its most valuable asset in the We are getting ready for our second century. future. Our operations and each and every project we carry out I extend my thanks to all our stakeholders and primarily serve to our goals of making banking an easily accessible to my colleagues who have driven our Bank to where it service for all members of the society and of producing stands as one of the most eminent financial institutions more value for all our stakeholders. not just in our country but also in the world, and pursues its activities with the vision of creating permanent value Our age is the scene to a fast-paced, worldwide for the national economy and for its stakeholders alike. transformation in almost every sector, and proactivity is a must for sustaining performance in a healthy and strong Yours sincerely, manner. At İşbank, we are getting ready as an organization for our second century with our competencies, assets, strength and accurately formulated strategy backed by significant investments in technology and digital transformation. I am convinced that this perspective which is critical for a sustainable growth strategy will further solidify the pioneering position of İşbank, an establishment which we will bequeath to future Füsun Tümsavaş generations, in various areas. Chairperson 8 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Message from the CEO İşbank is an establishment that has taken on critical roles through every phase of Turkey’s economic history, witnessed all the transformations and changes involved, and has a past that is identical with the history of the Turkish Republic. Esteemed stakeholders, force of sustainable development to comprehend the change including its positive and negative aspects, and Besides the volatilities in global markets, there are to internalize business opportunities with a proactive numerous parameters that define the global economic approach while correctly managing the risks and the agenda such as climate change, depletion of natural capitals. resources, population growth and inequalities. In this context, we, as İşbank, continue to produce value Correct management of these variables that indicate for all our stakeholders with our activities and efforts risks for the business world as much as opportunities if aimed at contributing to the Sustainable Development properly addressed calls for an integrated approach. While Goals in keeping with our commitment as put forth by the worldwide rapid change brings about new modes becoming a signatory of the UN Global Compact that of doing business, there is a transition to the circular covers universal principles for sustainability. When doing economy, which is based on efficient use and recycling of that, we adopt a financing approach that simultaneously resources. observes environmental and social axes and a service concept that puts customer experience at the center. The banking industry in which we operate leads this major transformation with the role it takes on. The transformation also forces banks that act as the driving 102-14 | 103-2 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 9 TL 416.4 billion We kept allocating our resources to the sectors generating added In 2018, we increased our total assets to TL 416.4 billion, up 14.9% compared to the previous year. value in our ecosystem and to households in 2018. İşbank is a visionary establishment that gears up for that points out our extensive approach in doing business the changing market conditions. and is summed up in the tagline “Turkey’s Bank”, priorities, stakeholder anticipations, risks and opportunities with an Displaying a comprehensive approach in a number of integrated approach, allows us to produce value for all our areas including supporting small artisans and SMEs that stakeholders in the short, medium and long term. With make the backbone of the economy, driving exports, the variety of channels and products, we offer an inclusive strengthening the place of women in the business approach to all segments of the society. world, financing of renewable energy investments and fighting against the climate change, İşbank is an We are Turkey’s leading private bank. establishment that has taken on critical roles through every phase of Turkey’s economic history, witnessed all In spite of all the volatilities experienced, we kept the transformations and changes involved, and has a past allocating our resources to the sectors generating added that is identical with the history of the Turkish Republic. value in our ecosystem and to households and strongly materialized our support to the national economy in 2018 Our financial structure is not the sole element that as well, as we always have. prepares our Bank for the competitive environment and positions it according to the future market conditions. In 2018, we increased our total assets to TL 416.4 billion, Equally important as our solid tangible capital are our up 14.9% compared to the previous year, and preserved qualified human resource, our physical and digital service our position as Turkey’s largest private bank in terms of platforms designed with an integrated approach, “İş” brand total assets. We remained Turkey’s leader private bank also accompanied by our leading products in various segments in terms of total lending, deposit base and shareholders’ of banking, our strength in corporate governance and equity based on 2018 performance. Our support has been our prestigious position in the face of the society, and ongoing in every part of the economy through the loans they altogether form the foundation of the İşbank value we extended to the SMEs that hold a priority place for our creation model that is built upon the six capitals of the Bank and form the backbone of the national economy, to International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Our the households, industrial enterprises and infrastructure business model which lets us take our corporate strategy projects. 10 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Message from the CEO We adopt a global vision when putting into life our customer-centric efforts in digital trends and technological innovations that affect the whole world. Digitalization is the future. that make life easier for them. For instance, Maxi, our personal assistant application launched in 2018 has We are realizing comprehensive structures and been successfully integrated in our service platforms and investments for the future within the frame of our Digital quickly achieved a record number of customer contacts. Transformation Program that puts customer expectations On the other hand, we began deploying the humanoid in its focus, and is intended to fulfill personalized robot Pepper in our branches, representing the first step demands, to upgrade customer experience and to create of our target of enriching customer service experience a difference. We have covered important distance in delivered at branches with robotic technology. recent years with our efforts in this direction. As İşbank’s pioneering position in digital banking is increasingly The organizational link of our digital transformation anchored by every year, the new features we introduce efforts is the Agile Atelier. With this mode of working further enhance the satisfaction of our customers. that is becoming more widespread across the world, our employees from different disciplines and having different We adopt a global vision when putting into life competencies produce rapid and effective results within our customer-centric efforts in digital trends and a horizontal structure based on end-to-end responsibility technological innovations that affect the whole world. Our and ownership model. innovation centers that became operational in the Silicon Valley, U.S. in 2016 and in Shanghai in 2018 reveal to our We will keep improving our organizational structure and stance in this respect. We are determined to carry on the value we offer to our customers by focusing on digital with our investments in technology and thus, to support banking. I believe that the projects we implement will play the services we provide to our customers with novelties a big part in increasing the total value we produce for our İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 11 We will keep improving our organizational structure and the Maxi Maxi, our personal assistant application, value we offer to our customers has been launched in 2018. by focusing on digital banking. stakeholders and will trigger increased efficiency in all our Outlook... capitals. As İşbank, we have a clear view of the great potential Steadfast in consistent and strong balance sheet presented by the national economy and the neighboring management under any circumstance, our Bank authors geography in the medium and long term despite the exemplary efforts with its ethical and transparent mode short-term fluctuations. Hence, we are devising our of doing business, and exhibits a sustainable and solid forward-looking strategy in accordance with the dynamic financial performance. market. Our responsible approach to financing simultaneously I would like to thank my colleagues for their dedicated encompassing economic, environmental and social axes work, and all our stakeholders who have associated İşbank and our service concept focused on customer experience for generations with trust and prestige, and extended constitute our fundamental principles. The effective risk unyielding support. management and compliance policies in place provide us with the resilience and protection we need amid the Yours sincerely, volatile and variable setting of the global economy. Our qualified human resource is our most important asset that has carried İşbank to the point it now stands and that gears our Bank for the future. Our working environment that supports employee engagement backs our long-term Adnan Bali growth and the culture of being members of the İşbank Chief Executive Officer family passed on from one generation to the other takes place among our key values. 12 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report About İşbank Having turned 94 years old in 2018, İşbank has been a firm constantly growing digital service channels, as well as supporter of development by producing permanent value broad branch network. Having introduced numerous for the Turkish economy and for all stakeholders since 1924. “firsts” since its incorporation including the Bankamatik Its robust capitalization coupled with the Bank’s focus on ATMs, Internet Branch and mobile banking applications in profitable, healthy and sustainable growth make the most keeping with its pioneering mission in the sector, the Bank important elements that support İşbank’s activities. With total uninterruptedly continues to invest in technology and keeps assets worth TL 416.4 billion as at year-end 2018, İşbank making a difference also in new generation digital banking is Turkey’s largest private bank. Targeting to be the bank applications. closest to customers, İşbank steers the banking industry in Turkey with the products and services offered in corporate, İşbank Members’ Supplementary Pension Fund, an institution commercial, SME, personal and private banking segments. that has the membership of nearly 50,000 current and retired bank employees, holds 40.47% of İşbank’s capital. Standing for trust, respectability and prestige in the eyes of The broad shareholder base made up of approximately the society, İşbank serves 19 million customers with 24,570 170,000 shareholders and institutional investors represents employees as of 2018 year-end. İşbank has the largest one of the most important dignities of İşbank. branch network and the largest ATM network among private banks with 1,333 domestic branches and 6,560 Bankamatik İşbank Group is an integrated group with its domestic and ATMs, respectively. overseas subsidiaries operating in various areas. As at yearend 2018, İşbank had direct participations in 24 companies, The Bank also offers service with 22 overseas branches in many of which are active in the financial services sector, and total, 15 of which in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus had direct or indirect control over 110 companies. (TRNC), two each in the UK, Iraq and Kosovo, and one in Bahrain. Detailed information about İşbank’s subsidiaries is available on İşbank further sharpens its competitive edge as it the website and on page 58 of 2018 Annual Report. consistently carries on with its activities based on its vision of being Turkey’s best digital bank backed by its Shareholding Structure (*) Atatürk Shares (Republican People’s Party) 28,09% İşbank’s Members’ Supplementary Pension Fund 40,47% Free Float 31,44% (*) The shareholding structure is provided as of 31 December 2018. 102-2 | 102-7 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 13 İşbank’s Vision, Objectives, Values and Strategy For Our Employees Our Vision • to be a preferred employer and to offer our employees programs and training opportunities that will foster To be the most preferred bank in Turkey by customers, their personal and professional development, shareholders and employees by maintaining our leading, pioneering and trusted position • to propagate our customer-focused approach among all our personnel, Our Objectives • to support and encourage loyalty, assuming For Our Customers responsibility and creativity, • to be the bank that is the most preferred service • to deploy an employee hiring, evaluation, appointment provider in all the sectors and customer groups that we and advancement system that is based on target, competencies and performance and that is fair and trustworthy. • to provide our customers comprehensive, reliable and high-quality service with our competent employees, In Summary, extensive branch network and non-branch banking channels, İşbank’s goal is “to consistently increase the value it creates for shareholders as a bank that responds to its • to abide by our high business ethics and principles customers’ needs quickly, effectively and with high-quality without compromise. solutions and that encourages its employees to achieve a high level of performance in their jobs”. For Our Shareholders Our Values • to consistently increase the value of our shares, Our values that represent our corporate identity, guide • to operate with an effective risk management us to reach our vision and objectives, and that are approach. internalized by our employees as their way of work and life are; “Leadership, that is powered by a Shared Mindset generated in Solidarity, and that is Trusted under all conditions with a strong Service orientation.” Our Strategy Our strategy is achieving sustainable and profitable growth based on “the bank closest to customers” philosophy in an effort to fulfill our vision and objectives. 14 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Sustainability Approach İşbank handles its activities with an integrated and long-term perspective in line with its founding philosophy and sustainability approach. İşbank is focused on managing the following with an Sustainability Management at İşbank integrated approach and on producing value: Thanks to the Sustainability Management System in place, İşbank carries out various activities such as the its financial capital based on its robust financial management of environmental impact, assessment of structure, environmental and social impact resulting from lending operations, and constant improvement of the human its human capital molded by its competent and resources potential through training programs with a experienced employees, holistic perspective. The operation of this system is underpinned by İşbank’s Sustainability Policy and other policies complementary to it. its natural capital covering its resource management concept, environment-friendly products and services, The Corporate Governance Committee, operating under the Board of Directors, is the highest management body that is responsible for sustainability-related activities at İşbank. The Head of Investor Relations Division acts its intellectual capital nurtured by its digital as the Sustainability Coordinator, and is responsible for transformation capabilities as well as its know-how coordinating the related activities among the executive generated by its deep-rooted history and facilitating bodies. The Sustainability Working Group covering various innovative product and service development by the Bank, departments ensures the execution of sustainability activities and information flow. its social and relationship capital creating added value for its stakeholders, Policies describing İşbank’s sustainability approach is available at https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ our-policies/Pages/our-policies.aspx its manufactured capital made up of its physical infrastructure that enriches its service quality. Material Issues 2018 Integrated Report has been organized in view of the interaction between capitals and the priority matters deemed to be of the highest importance by İşbank and its stakeholders. Given the fact that global trends and headings making an implication on the banking industry do not change in the short-term or rapidly, İşbank continued in 2018 to focus on the priorities that resulted from the stakeholder analysis administered in 2017. 102-20 | 102-21 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 102-19 | 102-32 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 15 The materiality analysis in 2017 was conducted with The operating environment embodies a high number of a multi-faceted approach in line with the AA1000 financial, social and environmental issues that the Bank Stakeholder Engagement Standard. The analysis covered closely monitors. Out of these issues, İşbank gives the both the expectations of internal shareholders of a broad priority to those that: sample comprised of İşbank employees and the opinions of external stakeholders. • are directly related to its activities, • have priority for its stakeholders and Detailed explanations about the materiality analysis can be found on pages 26 through 29 of İşbank 2017 • can create change in or influence. Sustainability Report. https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/ about-isbank/sustainability/our-reports/Documents/ SustainabilityReport2017.pdf Hence, the topics identified in the materiality analysis are categorized by using a three-level scale of important, very Attaching much importance to stakeholders’ opinions, important and extremely important. İşbank uses the feedbacks received to plan its strategic actions, to enhance the value offered to stakeholders, and to carry out a variety of development and improvement activities. IMPORTANT VERY IMPORTANT EXTREMELY IMPORTANT Importance for Stakeholders Responsible finance integrating Stakeholder environmental, social and dialogue Responsible products governance (ESG) criteria and services portfolio Financial Risk performance and management Transparency profitability Financial and reporting Business literacy ethics Financial inclusion Employee rights and satisfaction Digital Talent management transformation Customer orientation Equal opportunity Social investment and diversity programs Compliance with Data safety and changing regulations customer confidentiality Responsible marketing Responsible procurement Environmental footprint of the Bank 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Importance for İşbank 102-42 | 102-43 | 102-44 | 102-47 | 103-1 16 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Sustainability Approach Seeking to create permanent values for all of its stakeholders 15 goals İşbank contributes directly or indirectly when carrying out its activities, to 15 goals in its sphere of influence. İşbank supports the United Nations SDGs. Sustainable Development Goals and Material Issues gains significance in the utilization of the transformative power of banks in the face of the economy. Resolution of many global problems such as climate change, migration waves, and ageing population requires joint Seeking to create permanent values for all of its action by multi-stakeholder platforms including the private stakeholders when carrying out its activities, İşbank sector. Announced in 2015 to provide global guidance to supports the United Nations Sustainable Development investments and initiatives turned towards sustainable Goals. Supporting these Goals is important in terms development, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of growing the Bank’s business potential, as well as were a summons to all stakeholders including governments, presenting the opportunity to create environmental and companies and civil society organizations to collaborate and social values for the community. take action in areas that are critical for the common future. İşbank contributes directly or indirectly to 15 goals in its An important duty falls upon the private sector in sphere of influence. resolving all environmental and social issues. The banking industry is in a significant position and has important On the other hand, 6 of the SDGs that become prominent resources to offer both direct and indirect solutions to in line with the Bank’s operations and priorities, that are global and regional issues of our day. In this context, related to higher number of capitals and where the Bank adoption of Sustainable Development Goals as a guide can make more influence, are mentioned below. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 17 Relationship of Extremely Important Issues with the Capitals and Supported SDGs Sustainability İşbank’s Related Supported priorities approach capital SDG İşbank believes that it can enhance its corporate performance and customer Employee rights and satisfaction through dedicated employees who love their jobs. Aiming to be the Human capital 3, 4, 5, 8, 10 satisfaction bank most preferred by the employees, İşbank provides a working environment where employee rights are protected. Responsible finance integrating İşbank observes environmental, social and governance criteria when delivering Natural capital, environmental, the products and services it has developed. Environmental and social impact of 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, financial capital and social and financed projects is carefully evaluated, and it is ensured that measures are taken 12, 13, 14, 15 intellectual capital governance (ESG) to minimize/eliminate the risks stemming from the projects. criteria Maintaining its focus on the expectations of different customer segments, İşbank works with the objective of delivering a better banking experience to Financial capital, Digital its customers and of designing the future banking already today. In keeping manufactured capital 8, 9, 10, 17 transformation with this objective, the Bank continuously invests in digital transformation that and intellectual capital presents opportunities in many areas including effective customer relations, personalized products and services. İşbank supports access to financial services through its products and services Financial capital and developed for underprivileged customer segments, as well as through its Financial inclusion social and relationship 1, 4, 5, 8, 10, 17 extensive branch network and digital banking applications, and contributes to capital social welfare. Financial İşbank generates permanent value for the Turkish economy and all stakeholders. performance and Focused on profitable, healthy and sustainable growth with its robust capital Financial capital 1, 8, 9 profitability structure, the Bank regards the same as the key element that backs its activities. In all of its activities, İşbank remains adhered to business ethics, uncompromising Business ethics from respectable and principled banking concept. This notion positions İşbank as Intellectual capital 8, 17 a respected and prestigious institution that instills trust. İşbank’s risk management approach that is part of its transparent, fair and accountable corporate governance structure allows the Bank to evaluate and Risk management Financial capital 8, 17 manage the risks inherent in its activities in a comprehensive and integrated manner. İşbank diversifies the financial products and services that it offers in order to contribute to inclusive and sustainable growth. The Bank offers different Financial capital, Responsible product products that make a social benefit, give disadvantaged groups access to social and relationship 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, and service portfolio financing and contribute to low-carbon economy. The Bank’s long-lived capital and natural 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17 partnerships with international financial institutions are also important in terms capital of funding the financing of activities that support sustainable development. Transparency and The Bank considers it as its corporate responsibility to inform its stakeholders Intellectual capital and 8, 17 reporting about its performance in a fair and transparent manner. financial capital Employees make up the most valuable capital, contributing to the Bank’s longterm success. It is among the high priority matters for İşbank to retain good Talent management Human capital 4, 5, 8, 10 and qualified employees within the Bank’s organization, to contribute to their occupational development and to attract new talents to the Bank. The relationship of the SDGs with the high priority issues of İşbank and with the capitals, along with the value generated in the reporting period are addressed in detail in the relevant sections of this report. 18 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report With the Value We Create As İşbank, we are focusing on generating sustainable value for driving the development of the national economy and the society. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 19 20 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report İşbank Banking İşbank Banking is a powerful and productive business model structured with a focus on “Producing Shared and Sustainable Value”. Creating Shared and Sustainable Having assumed pioneering roles and Value major duties in every phase of the Turkish economy, İşbank produces İşbank produces added value with its permanent value for its stakeholders banking products and services offered not just in the short term but also in to a large and broad-based customer the medium and long term, drawing on group. Ever since its incorporation, the its deep-rooted and powerful business Bank has been delivering need-oriented model. and pioneering services designed to drive the development of the national economy and the society, and has maintained its focus on producing shared and sustainable value for all of its stakeholders. 103-3 | 417-1 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 21 Directing a part of its produced value to the development and improvement investments, İşbank nurtures the associated capitals and constantly increases its value creation capacity. The notion of İşbank Banking is shaped by; İşbank secures optimum scales in the way it brings together the opportunities • Digital transformation emanating from its robust financial • Permanent undertaking to Turkey structure, its human resource and their • Responsible finance competencies, its strong relationships with stakeholders, its know-how, its • Customer focus brand equity associated with prestige • Effective risk management and trust, its extensive physical and • Solid financial performance digital service network, its environmentfriendly products and services, and • Ethical and transparent banking creates all-round value. • Happy and qualified employees İşbank nurtures the associated • Long-lasting and inclusive social capitals and constantly increases investment programs. the value creation capacity through The Bank delivers its products and directing a part of its produced value services with a mode of doing business to the development and improvement molded according to the framework investments. drawn by the above. 22 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Value Creation Model Stakeholder Priorities Financial Capital Digital Customer focus transformation Human Capital İşbank’s Vision and Strategy Natural İşbank Long-lasting and Capital inclusive social Banking investment Producing shared and programs sustainable value Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital Happy and Effective risk qualified management employees Manufactured Capital Externalities 201-1 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 23 Average return on equity: 14.8% Total loans (cash & non-cash): TL 260.3 billion Permanent undertaking to Turkey Women ratio in management: 41% Turnover ratio: 2% Responsible Share of renewable energy projects in total energy generation projects finance portfolio: 66% Value Created Clean energy generated by-financed projects: 16.9 million MWh Number of digital banking clients: 7.2 million Solid financial Share of non-branch channels: 88.5% performance Customers: 19.1 million Customer satisfaction ratio: 84.5% Ethical and transparent banking Total number of branches: 1,355 Number of Bankamatik ATMs: 6,560 24 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Capitals Capital Prominent Capitals for İşbank (Inputs) Value Created for İşbank Broad and stable customer and shareholder bases Brand name associated with trust, prestige and Robust equity structure respectability, Sustainable profitability facilitating internal capital Solid financial infrastructure that is maintained in the generation long term Financial Broad deposit base and capability to access Sustainable growth capacity and competitive strength Capital alternative funds Corporate culture Human resources management focused on equal opportunities Retention of investment in human resources within the organization Human resource with high occupational competencies Contribution of highly-competent human resources to Superior employee satisfaction and engagement added-value product and service development Human Investment in employees supporting continuous Qualified “İşbank People” capable of keeping pace with Capital development the change An understanding to continuously improve the Broadening the Bank’s product and service portfolio organization’s environmental performance Increased access to new resources in differentiated Environmental and social risk management in loans areas such as environment-friendly thematic loans Environmental contribution resulting from financing Mitigation of direct and indirect environmental impact Natural renewable energy/energy efficiency projects Low operating costs Capital Know-how and capacity stemming from the deepPioneering and leading position backed by intellectual rooted corporate history assets Expertise in lending processes Solid market positioning maintained thanks to Banking applications developed within the scope of pioneering services enabled by advance monitoring of digital transformation the needs in the society Intellectual Customer satisfaction guaranteed by continuous Internal innovation and collaborations supporting Capital improvement and development capability continuous investment in innovation Effective stakeholder communication capacity Broad sphere of influence created by collective capital Customer satisfaction created by complementary and subsidiaries products and services offered in conjunction with A banking approach facilitating access to financial subsidiaries Social and services Relationship İşbank brand value Far-reaching, long-lasting and sustainable corporate Capital social responsibility projects Extensive and easy-to-reach service network Reaching more customers thanks to the broad service Infrastructure that guarantees service quality and network security Manufactured Capital İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 25 Value Created for the External Outputs 2018 Results Environment and All Stakeholders Uninterrupted support to the Turkish economy and the industries producing added value Average return on equity: 14.8% Responsible banking approach mindful of the society Average return on assets: 1.70% and the future NPL ratio: 4.1% Services that drive enhanced awareness of saving up Capital adequacy ratio: 16.5% Contribution to expand the population with access to Total loans (cash & non-cash): TL 260,316 million banking services Being an organization providing a decent working Female employee ratio: 56%* environment Female ratio in management: 41% An “İşbank Culture” embraced by the employees in all Turnover ratio: 2% departments of life Annual average training hours per employee: 23.1 Talent, knowledge and experience sharing Unionization ratio: 98.6% Increasing the society’s access to clean energy through Share of renewable energy projects in total energy environment-friendly loans generation projects portfolio: 66% Alternative responsible finance products offered to Share of renewable energy projects in total financing: customers and contributing to product diversity in the 6.5% sector Number of projects subjected to Environmental and Activities contributing to the combat against climate Social Risk Assessment Model: 15 change and efforts to alleviate the impact of climate 11.9 million sheets of paper saving with digital change processes Impartial and clear intellectual knowledge made available to stakeholders from different backgrounds via economy reports YoY increase in the number of digital customers: 22.5% Facilitating the society’s access to financial products Share of non-branch channels: 88.5% and services through digital transformation Number of users reached by Maxi: 1.3 million Workup Entrepreneurship Program extending support Number of questions answered by Maxi: 2.3 million to startups Economic reports delivered to approximately 14 Traditional “İş’le Buluşmalar” gatherings supporting thousand subscribers commercial progress “İŞ’TE KOBİ” website for SME customers Facilitating the society’s financial access via extensive distribution network and subsidiaries Instilling the concept of saving up in the society and Customers: 19.1 million equipping the people with financial skills Customer satisfaction ratio: 84.5% Contribution lent to social progress through corporate social responsibility projects Giving disadvantaged segments access to financial services irrespective of regions Total number of branches: 1,355 Delivering secure and uninterrupted service in digital Number of Bankamatik ATMs: 6,560 transactions * Excluding private security staff 26 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Capital SDG Financial Performance Financial Capital İşbank makes use of the financial capital available to it for creating value-added products and services, improving its human resource, and providing benefits for the society and the environment. İşbank’s Financial Capital Robust Equity Structure İşbank feeds its financial capital with: İşbank is the leader among private banks with a total shareholders’ equity of TL 49.7 billion as at year-end 2018. • Broad and stable customer and shareholder bases The Bank’s robust and consistent equity structure adds to its sustainable growth and competitive capabilities. • Robust equity structure • Sustainable profitability facilitating internal capital Sustainable Profitability generation İşbank maintained its leadership among private banks • Broad deposit base and capability to tap alternative funds in terms of total assets, total lending, total deposits and shareholders’ equity. The Bank’s total assets arrived at Its consistent financial performance forms the foundation TL 416,4 billion, up by 14.9% year-over-year. of İşbank’s value creation model. The Bank makes use of the financial capital available to it for creating value-added The Bank’s total lending increased by 8.7% on an annual products and services, improving its human resource, and basis and reached TL 260.3 billion as at the end of 2018. providing benefits for the society and the environment. Loans and securities portfolio made up 62.5% and 16.4% The Bank’s financial capital also contributes to its of total assets, respectively. improved productivity and efficiency. At 4.1%, the NPL ratio remained below the average figure Broad and Stable Customer and Shareholder Bases for all private banks combined at the end of 2018. The broad shareholder base made up of approximately The Bank’s total deposits increased by 20.4% in the 170,000 shareholders and institutional investors is one twelve months to December 2018 and reached TL 245.3 of the most important characteristics of İşbank. İşbank billion. Ranking first among private banks in terms of Members’ Supplementary Pension Fund, an institution total deposits, TL and FC deposits, İşbank maintained its that has the membership of nearly 50,000 current and leadership position among private banks also in demand retired bank employees, holds 40.47% of İşbank’s capital. deposits and TL savings deposits. Demand deposits constituted 24.4% of total deposits as at end-2018. Its broad customer base, on the other hand, allows İşbank Share of deposits in total liabilities stood at 58.9% as at to utilize its financial capital at the widest scale possible year-end. Aiming to diversify its funding sources while and to contribute to sustainable development through considering the funding costs, İşbank kept making use of different economic channels. non-deposit funds in domestic and international markets As at year-end 2018, İşbank was servicing 19 million as well. As at year-end 2018, 22.7% of total liabilities customers. were made up of non-deposit funds, which comprised of repo transactions, funds borrowed, securities issued in domestic and international markets, and subordinated loans. 103-1 | 201-1 | 203-1 | 203-2 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 27 İşbank’s shareholders’ equity grew by 15.7% and rose to Broad Deposit Base and Capability to Tap Alternative TL 49.7 billion in 2018. The capital adequacy ratio of the Resources Bank was 16.5% at the end of the year, well above the legal limit. İşbank boasts the highest TL funding volume among private sector banks. Taking the lead among funding While net interest margin* was 3.7% in 2018, the rise in items, deposits make up one of the basic constituents of net interest income* was 14.8%. Fees and commissions İşbank’s financial capital. Total deposits of İşbank grew by received, on the other hand, grew by 30.6% as compared 20.4% compared to year-end 2017 and reached TL 245.3 with 2018. billion. The increase in operating expenses was kept stable at Non-deposit funds the Bank utilized in domestic and 8.7%. international markets included repo transactions, syndicated and bilateral loans, securities issued in At the bottom line, İşbank booked a net profit of TL 6.8 domestic and international markets, and subordinated billion in 2018, registering an average return on equity loans. The share of non-deposit funds in total liabilities figure of 14.8%, and an average return on assets figure of was 22.7% at the end of 2018. 1.7%. * Adjusted according to Swap costs. Performance Indicators 2017 2018 2017 2018 Total Credit Expansion (%) 17.9 8.7 Leverage (%) 8.1 8.3 Non-Performing Loans (%) 2.2 4.1 Average Return on Equity (%) 15.4 14.8 Net Interest Margin (%) * 3.9 3.7 Average Return on Assets (%) 1.8 1.7 Net Fees and Commissions Growth (%) 18.8 30.6 Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 16.7 16.5 Operating Expenses Growth (%) 13.7 8.7 Tier I Capital Ratio (%) 14.0 13.7 Cost/Income (%) 42.3 37.2 * Adjusted according to Swap costs. Detailed information about İşbank’s financial performance can be found in the Annual Report. https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG.PDF 28 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report With our Sense of Responsibility We are developing environmentfriendly and innovative products and services, uncompromising from our prestigious and principled banking concept. These efforts focus on offering the solutions that are best fitting and the most beneficial for our children in our constantly evolving world. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 29 30 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Capital SDG Ethical and Transparent Banking Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital The transparent, fair and accountable management structure embraced by İşbank carries its brand that is identified with trust and prestige into the future. The firsts that it has introduced in the banking sector since Risk Management and Compliance the first years of the Turkish Republic and its deep-rooted corporate history made İşbank a bank that has been The activities related to risk management that takes place associated with trust and respectability. Moving forward, among the top priorities of İşbank are handled by the the Bank espouses a transparent, fair and accountable Risk Management Division, which reports to the Board of management structure while uncompromising from its Directors. The Risk Management Division reports financial principled and prestigious banking notion. and non-financial risks to, in the specified order, the Risk Committee and the Board of Directors via Audit Committee Corporate Governance on a monthly basis. The Board of Directors is the highest management body The risk management process, organized within steering İşbank’s strategies and policies, and is comprised the framework of risk management regulations and of eleven members, two of which are women. Covering emphasizing good corporate governance, is structured three independent members, the Board of Directors is to assure independence of units responsible for made up of non-executive members except the CEO, and internal audit and control from the executive functions the positions of the CEO and Chairman of the Board are undertaking the risk, so that the risk is defined in held by different individuals. accordance with international regulations, and measurement, analysis, monitoring, reporting and İşbank sets up management committees that are assigned control activities are carried out within this framework. with the formulation of strategies and policies about The risk management practices at the Bank also the matters deemed necessary, oversight of conformity serve to the creation of a common risk management with action plans, evaluation of performance, and similar culture throughout the organization. With respect to purposes. Various committees are active at the Bank, in risk management activities, the Bank is guided by the addition to the Executive Board, Audit Committee, TRNC regulations published by the Banking Regulation and Internal Systems Committee, Credit Committee, Credit Supervision Agency (BRSA) and good practice guides. Revision Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility Besides compliance with regulatory limits, the Bank also Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Risk seeks to ensure the capital and liquidity adequacy against Committee and Remuneration Committee that function all risks taken by the Bank within the scope of Internal within the above-mentioned framework. Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). The Risk Management Division operating under the Detailed information about İşbank’s corporate governance Board of Directors centrally handles the risk management structure can be found on pages 74 through 84 of the 2018 activities. On the other hand, the Risk Committee has been Annual Report and in the Corporate Governance Information set up to share risk management principles and approaches Form. https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/ with executive functions and to reflect the same on investor-relations/publications-and-results/annual-reports/ Documents/ISBANK18ENG.PDF decision-making and implementation processes. The Risk Committee prepares the risk management strategies and policies to be pursued by the Bank on a consolidated and bank-only basis, submits them for the approval of the Board of Directors, and monitors implementation. 102-25 | 102-26 | 102-27 | 102-28 | 102-29 | 102-30 | 102-31 | 102-33 | 102-34 | 103-2 | 103-3 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 31 The activities related to risk With respect to risk management management are handled in a activities, the Bank is guided by centralized structure by the Risk the regulations published by the Management Division, which BRSA and good practice guides. reports to the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors determines the structure of The financial and non-financial risks that may arise during the Risk Management Division, its organization with the activities of the Bank are defined and classified in respect to the performance of its activities, human the Bank’s “Risk Catalogue. Financial risks cover credit resources management processes, and its assigned risk, asset/liability management risk, and business risk. members. Reporting to the Board of Directors via the Operational risks include the business environment risk, Audit Committee, the Risk Management Division basically fraud risk, business and product practices risk, transaction handles the process of defining, measuring and analyzing and process risk, IT risk and HR risk. The Risk Catalogue risks using analytical methods, reporting , and constantly also covers strategy risk, reputational risk, underwriting monitoring the Bank’s risk level with the ultimate goal risk, securitization risk, and environmental management of systematically managing the risks that the Bank and risk. The measurement of operational risks uses impactits subsidiaries is/are exposed to individually and/or on likelihood analysis, loss event database, scenario analysis and a consolidated basis. In addition, the Division analyzes key risk indicators. The risks defined in the Risk Catalogue, the risk reports by Group companies and monitors their whose management principles are detailed in respective risk risk levels. The Risk Management Division follows up the policies, are regularly reviewed at least on an annual basis risk limits, which are set considering different risks; any and definitions and principles are kept up-to-date limit breach is reported to the Board of Directors together with the findings and opinions about the reasons of Reputational risk for the Bank is defined as loss that may the breach taking into account the market and sector result from diminished trust in the Bank or reputation conditions in the relevant period. Work flow and principles impairment as a result of non-compliance with existing for eliminating limit breaches are defined in detail in the legal regulations or negative view of parties such as related risk policies, which have been approved by the current or potential customers, partners, opponents Board of Directors. and supervisory authorities. The factors that can affect the Bank’s reputation are evaluated both individually The Risk Management Division carries out the activities on and as a whole. While monitoring the reputational risk, internal and regulatory capital adequacy in accordance with the Bank employs an internally devised reputational the Basel framework and consistent with international best index to activate an early warning system for elements practices, and works towards developing and validating with a potential impact on the Bank’s reputation. Each risk measurement methodologies and optimizing the assessment concerning the level of the reputational risk is capital adequacy management process. The Bank’s risk monitored individually and/or as a whole, and the results level is systematically measured, evaluated and monitored are reported to the senior management at least quarterly. according to documented risk policies and implementation On the other hand, the senior management monitors procedures. In this context, the Bank carries out the risk compliance with the corporate governance principles management activities in line with internal regulations that forms the basis of reputational risk, and handles approved by the Board of Directors, such as Capital improvement efforts in this respect. Adequacy, Credit Risk, Asset/Liability Management Risk, Operational Risk, Stress Testing, Reputational Risk, Compliance to rapidly changing banking regulations, Consolidated Risk and Information Systems Management is a matter that closely concerns the entire sector. Policies. The Corporate Compliance Division that reports to the Board of Directors via the Audit Committee supervises 32 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Ethical and Transparent Banking compliance functions and activities at İşbank. The main articles of the UN Global Compact, of which İşbank is a goal of corporate compliance activities carried out by the signatory in all of its business processes. Corporate Compliance Division is to help manage and keep under control the compliance risk properly and effectively Achieving full compliance with the policies at the Bank at the Bank, and to make the maximum contribution to and observing them in all work processes also serve to ensure execution and management of the Bank’s activities ensure that the policies are internalized by employees. in constant compliance with the applicable legislation, Disciplinary rules and ethical principles are provided regulations and standards in this framework. to new hires within the frame of the I Start My Career Training programs. In addition, the Bank’s disciplinary It is the primary duty and responsibility of all Bank practices and related matters are conveyed in the employees to carry out all of the banking activities in “Working Order and Disciplinary Practices” module covered accordance and compliance with the Bank’s goals and within the Branch Managers Development Program, policies, and legislation, regulations and standards. The which is an orientation and development program for Head of the Corporate Compliance Division also functions new branch managers intended to support their career as the legal “Compliance Officer” and fulfills his duties development and adjustment to their new roles. and responsibilities under the Law on the Prevention of Laundering Proceeds of Crime and other applicable The training programs given by the Board of Inspectors legislation within the scope of the Bank’s Policy and within the scope of orientation and development Compliance Program. programs addressing branch manager roles in different levels deal with the fight against bribery and corruption. Business Ethics Furthermore, training programs for identifying and preventing misconduct and irregularities are also held for It is critical that banks that undertake a fundamental role the members of the Bank’s Board of Inspectors. in the economy operate in a fair competitive environment as respectable establishments that instill trust. Ethical Number of Total Training Subject Matter of the Attending rules serve as a guide to ensure that the banking sector (person*hour) Training Employees operates in this direction. (2018) (2018) Anti-Bribery and Antiİşbank espouses the Principles of Banking Ethics Corruption 914 3,605 announced by the Banks Association of Turkey, and Ethical Principles 363 175 adheres to these principles in all of its operations. Besides Human Rights 379 1,086 the Principles of Banking Ethics, the other policies that İşbank bases its work processes on are Anti-Bribery and During its ordinary audits conducted according to Anti-Corruption Policy, Gifts and Hospitality Policy, Human International Internal Audit Standards, İşbank’s Board of Rights and Human Resources Policy, and the Policy on Auditors undertakes periodic and risk-based examinations Prevention of Laundering Proceeds of Crime and Financing in a scope that also includes anti-bribery and antiof Terrorism. corruption, and audit results are reported to the Bank’s authorized units as per the legislation in force and results The Bank also considers the principle of fighting against of reporting are followed up. bribery and corruption that is covered among the 10 102-11 | 102-16 | 102-17 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 205-1 | 205-2 | 205-3 | 412-2 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 33 İşbank observes the criteria and standards based on 97.9% In 2018, domestic suppliers made up environmental and social risks in 97.9% of total suppliers. its supplier/outsource selections. Potentially risky elements are identified, as well as existing been implicated in bribery and corruption events referred risks, and solutions are suggested for their elimination; to legal authorities, and/or who have questionable the approach adopted in this respect involves follow-up. morality and/or record regarding the provision of good If it is determinedduring the audits that the anti-bribery quality goods and services. and anti-corruption policies have been violated, then action is taken as per internal disciplinary regulations and In 2018, domestic suppliers made up 97.9% of total regulatory framework. In 2018, the Board of Directors suppliers, whereas purchases therefrom constituted finalized the auditing of 462 domestic branches and 91.2% of total procurements. one overseas branch. In the same year, the Board either completed or started the auditing of five subsidiaries and 12 Head Office Departments/Units. İşbank’s Procurement Policy can be accessed on the website. A new structuring for a more transparent, more Principles of Banking Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption efficient and more systematic procurement practice Policy, Gift and Hospitality Policy and other complementary policies that make up İşbank’s approach to business ethics can In 2018, İşbank made its transition to a new procurement be found on the website. structure, which is designed to achieve increased transparency of the Bank’s procurement processes and Relations with Suppliers expenditures, a holistic approach in the fulfillment of its business needs, and uniformity of processes. İşbank’s ethical banking notion also steers its supply chain management and procurement principles. The Thanks to the new structuring, strategic planning, Procurement Policy formulated accordingly sets out the demand management and follow-up are performed basic principles involved in the purchase of goods and systematically, cost efficiency has been increased, and services. purchasing operations are handled by a more efficient and focused team. While supply chain management becomes increasingly important for companies, management of risks that may The new procurement structure of İşbank enables stem from supply activities also come to the fore as a satisfaction of purchasing needs at lower costs (cost priority topic. efficiency, savings amounts) and in a faster manner (demand fulfillment times). Within the scope of its Procurement Policy, İşbank observes the criteria and standards based on İşbank establishes relationships that are built on mutual environmental and social risks in its supplier/outsource openness and trust with its suppliers. İşbank is focused selections. In this context, the environmental impact on sustaining a supply chain that is financially strong, of the product/service to be purchased is evaluated, operationally environmentalist, and reliable with respect and measures are taken to mitigate or eliminate to production quality and continuity. The Bank has made the environmental impact involved in view of the it a principle continuously drive its suppliers forward, requirements stipulated in the national legislation and the to ensure organizational excellence, and to constantly Bank’s internal guidelines. It is a fundamental principle not improve its work processes along this line. to procure goods and services from suppliers who have 102-9 | 102-10 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 204-1 34 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Capital SDG Responsible Banking Financial Capital Natural Capital Social and Intellectual Relationship Capital Capital With its responsible finance approach, İşbank serves to support highly feasible projects that generate a social benefit while protecting reputational and credit risks. İşbank manages its banking activities in a broad scope Environmental and Social Risk Management in extending from the development of products and Lending services that will contribute value to its stakeholders to the evaluation, controlling and/or elimination of the In the loan evaluation process, the traditional economic impacts originating from the investments it finances. This and project feasibility evaluations are very important, comprehensive perspective that forms the responsible but so are the environmental and social impacts. The banking approach requires product and service systems that gained prominence in the sector are those development in various areas ranging from the financing that incorporate the identification of environmental and of renewable energy projects that support a low-carbon social impacts originating from loan operations and their economy to empowering of SMEs that are the backbone analysis in the evaluation processes, identification of the of the economy. These initiatives also contribute to the dimensions of possible impacts and risks, determination of solution of issues that are emphasized in global targets as the obligations and practices required to limit the risk and well. impacts, and consideration of these determinations in the decision-making processes. The responsible banking approach of İşbank support the Bank’s value creation process in the areas of environmentAt İşbank, potential environmental and social risks of all friendly and innovative products and services, and new investment projects worth more than USD 10 million increases the Bank’s outputs in customer satisfaction and and the investors requesting loans are assessed by the social benefits. Environmental and Social Risk Evaluation Tool (ERET). The model determines the “customer” and “project” risk Responsible Finance categories of these investment loans, thus providing the roadmap for limiting and eliminating the possible İşbank recognizes the transformative power of financing. environmental and social impacts of the investment. The Bank directly and indirectly contributes to sustainable development and supports the national economy by way The ERET subjects the investments to an assessment of different projects that it funds. using 26 criteria, including such topics as the use of natural resources, solid waste, air, soil and water quality, With a responsible finance approach İşbank protects the noise, dust, occupational health and safety, public health its reputation with respect to reputational and credit risks, and safety, involuntary resettlement, and stakeholder and also serves to support highly feasible projects that engagement. These factors are addressed in the context generate a social benefit. of their effect on the company’s activities, their impact on the environment and/or local people, and possibility of media, NGO and public opinion reaction and their manageability, if applicable. Finally, relevant projects 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 412-3 | 413-1 | 413-2 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 35 Environmental and social risks of all new investment projects 26 criteria The ERET (Environmental and Social Risk worth more than USD 10 million Evaluation Tool) subjects the investments to an assessment using 26 criteria. are assessed by ERET. are classified according to risk levels in 4 categories: submission of an Environmental and Social Management high (Category A), medium high (Category B+), medium Plan (ESMP) for proper management of the project’s risks (Category B-), and low (Category C). and impacts by project companies. The investments subject to evaluation are assessed In addition to the above, environmental and social against national legislation and international best monitoring is carried out as part of field visits paid by practices such as the IFC (International Finance the Environmental Consultant and attended also by the Corporation) Performance Standards, EBRD Performance Bank’s ESRM Team at predefined intervals during the Requirements, and Equator Principles. A Project construction and operation phases of the investment Environmental and Social Evaluation Certificate is issued in relation to the matters specified in the ESAP (e.g. for each investment. compliance with the environmental legislation, waste management, emission measurements, earth and water An independent, acceptable Environmental Consultant analyses, socio-economic impacts, impacts on the is appointed to serve on behalf of the Bank to all projects ecosystem and habitat, compensation mechanisms, and deemed appropriate as evaluated by the Environmental occupational health and safety practices). and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Team, including but not limited to projects considered in the high risk category İşbank is also one of the first signatories of Turkey’s (Category A). The Independent Environmental Consultant Declaration on Sustainable Finance, which was put makes field visits, which are backed also by literature survey, into practice by Global Compact Turkey and foresees a to evaluate the potential environmental and social impacts commitment to undertake assessment of environmental of the current status and the investment within the scope and social impacts in credit processes. of the project. An Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) covering the current status of any legal permission/ Below are some examples of the commitments the Bank approval process in relation to environmental obligations, requires from investing companies in order to eliminate/ their conformity and the consultant’s comments, and an mitigate or compensate for the negative environmental Environmental and Social Action Plan (ESAP) for limiting/ and social impacts of the projects financed by it, which are eliminating these impacts and the management of the specified on project-basis: process, are issued and submitted to the Bank. For high-risk projects, an additional Environmental Impact Assessment • Carry out forestation efforts to reduce and offset Report (EIA) can also be required, which incorporates more carbon emissions, and use of indigenous species for detailed analyses of the current status, in addition to the forestation, relocate the trees in appropriate spots EIA application file prepared for regulatory requirements. within the project site to the extent possible and protect Moreover, the Bank demands the preparation and endemic species, 36 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Responsible Banking Renewable energy projects constituted 66% of İşbank’s 16.9 million MWh In 2018, 16.9 million MWh of clean energy was generated by total energy generation projects projects financed by İşbank. portfolio and 6.5% of its total financing. • Take necessary precautions to protect biodiversity in specific and protected areas, Number of projects subjected to 25 Environmental and Social Assessment • Prioritize the purchases of land through agreements, prepare resettlement plans and/or restructuring plans for income sources in the projects involving forced physical and economic displacement in the context of Number of projects financed following 15 Environmental and Social Assessment expropriation, While the total financing for these projects amounted • Develop social responsibility projects to create to USD 915.3 million, 36% thereof was classified in risk compensating and new income sources and livelihood category A based on the amount of financing, 22% in B+, for the affected local people, prioritize the local 41% in Band 1% in C. community in the investment’s labor and procurement requirements, USD 328,769,350 for 2 projects in risk class “A” • Establish “Stakeholder Engagement Plan” for investments by developing internal and external USD 202,844,584 for 3 projects in risk class “B+” complaint mechanisms in order to take into consideration the opinions of employees, locals and USD 375,291,574 for 9 projects in risk class “B-“ other stakeholders related to the project and eliminate USD 8,372,490 for 1 project in risk class “C” their disturbances, • Take additional measures in environmental and social In 2018, İşbank rejected to finance one of the projects management plans through additional work, such as assessed by the ERET model due to environmentcumulative impact analyses and ecological impact related reasons. Involving the installation of a biomass assessment, power plant, the said project planned to use reeds to be provided from major wetlands as raw material for • Ensure the investor’s compliance with the Occupational energy production; hence the financing of the project Health and Safety (OHS) legislation for both existing and was deemed unacceptable in view of the protection of investment activities, increase occupational health and wetlands. safety practices, and develop emergency action plans. In line with its responsible banking notion, İşbank refuses The compliance of investing companies with these loan demands for activities covered in İşbank Exclusion List commitments is guaranteed also through loan agreements appended to its Environmental and Social Impacts Policy, and monitored within the frame of the financing process. without giving them any consideration. Operations that The social impact is also controlled through management are not financed include new hydroelectric power plant of potential social risks. projects under 25 MW of installed capacity, investments involving forced child labor, the production of weapons In 2018, 25 projects were subjected to ERET rating and 15 of mass destruction and land mines, the production and were extended financing. trading of internationally prohibited chemicals, drugs or substances that are harmful to the ozone layer. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 37 and impacts stemming from climate change by financing İşbank Exclusion List can be found in attachment to the renewable energy projects. As at year-end 2018, Environmental and Social Impacts Policy available on the renewable energy projects constituted 66% of İşbank’s website. total energy generation projects portfolio and 6.5% of its total financing. In 2018, İşbank financed 87 projects with a Financing Renewable Energy total installed capacity of 617 MW, which were developed in the fields of biomass, solar energy, hydroelectric and Low carbon growth and reduction of carbon footprints wind. Total installed capacity of renewable energy projects of all industries can be made possible by promoting financed by İşbank reached MW 7,564 as of year-end alternative energy resources. Investments in renewable 2018. energy support not only the fight against the impacts of climate change but also social development by way of new In 2018, 16.9 million MWh of clean energy was generated employment areas it creates. by projects financed by İşbank. Undertaking a major role in the transition to low-carbon economy, İşbank contributes to mitigation of the risks 617 Share of renewable energy projects in total 66% Total installed capacity of renewable energy energy generation projects portfolio projects financed by İşbank in 2018 MW Total installed capacity of renewable energy 7,564 Share of renewable energy projects in total 6.5% financing projects financed by İşbank (as at year-end 2018) MW 16.9 Number of renewable energy projects 87 Clean energy generated by İşbank-financed million financed by İşbank in 2018 projects (as at year-end 2018) MWh Distribution of Renewable Energy Finance Extended in 2018 Risk Total Installed Loan Amount Commitment (USD Type Number (Cash + Non-Cash) Capacity (MW) (USD Million) Million) (USD Million) Biomass Power Plant 5 49 74 23 51 Solar Power Plant 76 148 125 89 36 Hydroelectric Power Plant 2 178 61 61 0 Wind Power Plant 4 242 52 52 0 TOTAL 87 617 313 226 87 38 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Responsible Banking İşbank finances renewable energy and energy efficiency projects of small and medium sized businesses through various loans secured from international financial institutions specialized in this area. Cooperation with International Financial Institutions While the legislation requires new buildings that are being or will be constructed to belong in no lower than Class C When extending financing to renewable energy and in energy ID certification classification, residential units energy efficiency, İşbank benefits from the funds obtained subject to financing are expected to belong in energy class on the basis of cooperation with international financial B at a minimum as a requisite of the TuREEFF program. institutions as well. In this context, renewable energy Accordingly, the scope of the program covers housing and energy efficiency projects of small and medium sized loans extended to finance new buildings in energy class businesses are financed through various loans secured B after being demolished within the scope of Urban from international financial institutions. Transformation, housing loans extended for purchasing a home subject to energy class B, loans extended to İşbank continued with the on-lending of funds in the total contractor companies for the construction of residential amount of EUR 175 million to renewable energy projects units in energy class B at a minimum (up to a certain of companies, which were provided from the European portion of the construction cost), loans to be extended Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and to vendors or installers of high energy-efficient home the European Investment Bank (EIB) under the Turkish improvement materials or equipment (e.g. A+++ washing Mid-size Sustainable Energy Financing Facility (MidSEFF). machines, etc.) and consumer loans to be extended to In 2016, İşbank obtained funds in the amount of USD 111.2 persons who will purchase these products. million from EIB and USD 55 million from EBRD as part of Phase III of the MidSEFF Program, and kept channeling As an extension of the same program, residential buildings them for the financing of its customers’ investments. in high energy-efficient class were constructed as a result of the technical advisory offered by program consultants On-lending of the I. and II. Packages under TurSEFF in 16 cities identified by the EBRD. With the amount of (Turkey Sustainable Energy Financing Facility) secured commercial loans they took out from İşbank, firms joining from the EBRD for financing the renewable energy and the program in this framework qualify for grants at energy efficiency investments has been completed; in predefined ratios of the project cost. 2017, a new fund worth USD 55 million was received under the III. Package of TurSEFF, and on-lending of the funds to finance the customers’ eligible investments Loans İşbank secured from international financial institutions, continue. which were open as at year-end 2018, can be found in the Appendices section of the report. In March 2015, İşbank joined the “Turkish Residential Energy Efficiency Financing Facility” (TuREEFF) program conducted by EBRD. USD 75 million in funds allocated to the Bank under this program are intended to finance customers for increasing home energy efficiency. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 39 Responsible Products and Services TEMA Foundation provide sustainable financial support to environmental projects. The fund, which invests in The products and services offered by İşbank fulfill the companies with effective environmental management needs of customers from different socio-economic systems with part of its portfolio, emphasizes that backgrounds. With its inclusive approach, the Bank companies overseeing their environmental impacts will aims to ensure that all segments of the society have achieve more successful financial results in the long term. access to banking services and to make its services more widespread. The Bank also contributes to the Supporting the SMEs improvement of social welfare by touching different segments through the special products and services it In order to help the SMEs get stronger and contribute provides for different customer groups. more to the economy, credit and service packages specifically designed for SMEs’ needs are offered and İşbank ensures that all segments of the society that add financial consultancy services are provided on the basis of value to the Turkish economy, ranging from renewable strong collaborations. energy to housing loans and from SMEs to farmers, benefit from banking services. The Bank aims to raise İşbank further broadens its support to small and medium customer awareness of saving up, help them save for the sized enterprises within the scope of collaborations future and promote their financial literacy. with various institutions and organizations in line with economic and conjunctural developments. Facilitating Maximum TEMA Card SMEs’ access to financing through CGF (Credit Guarantee Fund) guaranteed loans and support programs carried out The Maximum TEMA Card is a credit card developed for with KOSGEB (Small and Medium Enterprises Development customers wishing to support the activities of the Turkish Organization), İşbank intends to sustain its support based Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for Reforestation, on these collaborations also in the future. and the Protection of Natural Habitats (TEMA). Maximum TEMA Card has all the features of Maximum Card and the İşbank has participated in almost all of the CGF Programs, margin of contribution calculated based on the amount and has been one of the largest CGF-stakeholder banks on of transaction using the card is transferred to TEMA the basis of all programs combined. Through the KOSGEB Foundation from the resources of İşbank. Maximum programs which it has participated almost all, including TEMA Cards are produced from biodegradable card plastic regional interest rate supports to places that suffered materials. In the printed materials for the Card, raw from natural disasters, İşbank has been one of the largest materials manufactured by producers without harming banks to extend support to the SMEs. ecological life with an FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certificate are used. İşbank considers the SMEs as one of the key building blocks of the Turkish economy. Efforts are spent TEMA Environmental Variable Fund to facilitate SMEs’ access to financing through the international funds secured from time to time. For TEMA Environmental Variable Fund, a first in Turkey, is a financing customers’ investments, on-lending of the product developed to give environment-friendly investors USD 47.6 million-fund secured from the European the opportunity to support environmental activities with Investment Bank (EIB) in 2016 continued within the frame their savings. Resources allocated from the fund to the of the resource the Bank obtained for financing qualifying 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 417-1 40 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Responsible Banking Considering the SMEs as one of the key building blocks of the TL 59.3 billion Total lending to SMEs amounted to TL 59.3 billion in 2018, 7.1% Turkish economy, İşbank offers higher than what it was the year before. them special loans and services through strong cooperations. SMEs and businesses with 250 to 3,000 employees. In thousand. In addition, SUNUMATİK, a service exclusively addition, an Inclusive Access to Finance Project Loan for website members, gives the SMEs the chance to Agreement was signed by and between TSKB and the prepare presentations in Turkish or English languages, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development thus helping them better promote their products. (IBRD) and an Intermediary Institution Loan Agreement was executed between TSKB and İşbank for on-lending of The number of SMEs promoting their businesses and the facility created with the aforementioned agreement. advertising about their products and services on KOBİ Pazarı (SME Market), which is another service offered by İŞ’TE KOBİ website and enabling thousands of companies Total lending to SMEs amounted to TL 59.3 active in different sectors to come together under billion in 2018, 7.1% higher than what it was 7.1% the same roof, reached approximately 12,000. Having the year before. collected 34 awards in various national and international organizations to date, İŞ’TE KOBİ website features a wide In every host city of “İş’le Buluşmalar” gatherings variety of rich content including thousands of current that were organized for 42 times in 31 cities since news, articles, industrial reports, video interviews and 2008, industrialists, merchants, entrepreneurs, local expert comments for use by members and other users. government and CSOs, in short, all stakeholders in the commercial life, establish high-level face-to-face contacts. Technology Entrepreneur Package Held uninterruptedly since 2018, these meetings serve to manifest economic development opportunities, Under the Technology Entrepreneur Package, innovative, review possible commercial risks and processes, consider technology-based startups with high growth potential, potential business opportunities, and monitor the which have been founded no more than three years changes in the world and national economy. To date, these ago, make use of basic banking services free of charge gatherings were attended by 30 thousand participants. or at discounted rates for a certain period of time at the In addition, İŞ’TE KOBİ website for SMEs provides freebeginning of their operations. of-charge advisory service in a number of areas including business law, taxation, entrepreneurship, agriculture The Technology Entrepreneur Tariff has been allocated and livestock breeding. The SMEs can access current to over 300 firms to date. The types of products most news, articles and expert comments through the same frequently seen among the companies assigned with portal, and thus get the chance to improve. In 2018, the this tariff include Software as a Service (SaaS), market number of registered users of the website reached 85 solutions and platform applications. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 41 Workup Entrepreneurship Program Startup Banking training, which was held to propagate “Startup Banking” approach across the entire Bank, was İşbank is the main sponsor of multipartner Workup intended to raise increased awareness of what new Entrepreneurship Program which supports the rapid generation entrepreneurship is about and the Bank’s scaling of technology startups with high potential. At approach to this topic. Having been offered to 69 branch Kolektif House, a collaborative workplace where they employees in three different groups, the training program develop innovative ideas, entrepreneurs receive training commenced in May 2018 and will be carried on in 2019. on business idea development, entrepreneurship, team building and management, law, finance and accounting, Women Entrepreneurs Awareness e-Training, developed thus getting the opportunity to develop themselves as part of the initiatives targeting women entrepreneurs, and expand their customer portfolio with the support of was completed by 1,175 Bank employees as of year-end İşbank. 40 startups were admitted to the program as of 2018. year-end 2018, and 29 of them qualified to complete the program. Within the scope of the sponsorship agreement signed by and between İşbank and Arya Women Investment Support for Women Entrepreneurs Platform, Turkey’s only female oriented investment platform, initiatives were carried out which the Bank took In order for increased social and economic welfare, women part in and sponsored. need to contribute to household and national economy by setting up their own businesses; in this context, As part of the Arya Retreat event, training programs women entrepreneurs must be supported. İşbank acts were organized with 10 ventures for 6 weeks, and the not just as the financial partner of women entrepreneurs entrepreneurs were given the opportunity to share their but also as their solution partner sharing its experience projects with investors from various countries at the and knowledge. In addition to transferring resources finale event held in Bodrum. The winning projects in the from its own funds and international funds to women competition held as part of the event were given support. entrepreneurs, İşbank establishes cooperations and During Arya İş Workshops co-organized with Arya, women organizes training, seminars and workshops for women entrepreneurs received training in a total of five modules entrepreneurs and also supports them with mentoring. from expert executives and trainers: financial literacy, marketing, sales, data management and HR. A fund worth USD 55 million was secured from the EBRD and on-lent to eligible customers under the Financing In addition to the support initiatives described above, and Advisory Support Program to Women-Led Businesses women entrepreneurs are given the opportunity to (TurWib) jointly initiated by the European Union Turkey submit questions and receive free consultancy through a Delegation, T.R. Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and special area reserved on İŞ’TE KOBİ website. This section Turkish Employment Agency. also includes actual news about women entrepreneurs, 42 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Responsible Banking İşbank extended cash loans exceeding TL 4 billion in the agriculture and livestock industry, which are among the most significant sectors of Turkey, in 2018. articles on entrepreneurship, videos of success stories, operations with mobile teams on site and to deliver and informative interviews on products and services solutions to agricultural banking needs and services offered to women entrepreneurs. directly to customers’ doorsteps. Support for Agriculture and Livestock Industry İşbank organized the first Agriculture Workshop in May 2018, which is targeted at developing the Bank’s roadmap İşbank contributes to the society and the local production for agricultural banking, at more accurately identifying economy through the support and loans it extends to the the producers’ needs by making use of the participants’ agriculture and livestock industry, which it regards among own expertise, and creating new ideas that will serve the most significant ones in Turkey. İşbank has plenty of agribusiness. Themed “The Food System from the Field products for its customers in the agriculture and livestock to the Table”, the workshop was attended by producers industries such as its Tractor Loan, Agricultural Equipment in various production fields, academics, public sector Loan, Agricultural Business Loan, Pick-Up Type Land representatives and officials from sector-specific civil Vehicle Loan, Cattle Livestock Business Loan, Cattle Milk society organizations. Livestock Business Loan and Cattle Procurement Loan, Greenhouse Operating and Investment Loan, Apiculture Regional agricultural meetings organized under the name Business Loan, Agricultural Land Loan, Poultry Business “Agriculture Talks” in an effort to increase the efficiency of Loan, Turkish Grain Board Warehouse Receipt Loan and the broad service network İşbank specifically organized for Contracted Production Loan. its customers in agribusiness and to provide more focused service to the agricultural sector continued in 2018. The Cash loans extended in the agriculture and livestock topics addressed in the meetings include the needs of industry in 2018 exceeded TL 4 billion. regional production, development potentials and branding. In addition, farmer meetings were held in various localities The Bank offers producers a grace period for the first to introduce the Bank’s products and services addressing 6 months with its İmece Card designed to encourage the agricultural sector and TARSİM agricultural insurance, production for its customers in the agriculture and and to develop close relations with the producers. livestock industry. This way, producers can comfortably plan their production and make their payments in the In addition, under the protocol signed between İşbank harvest periods. İşbank continued to further develop and the Agricultural and Rural Development Support the services offered in the agricultural banking field Institution (TKDK) in relation to the European Union’s also in 2018. Besides the expansion of agricultural units “Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance Rural established in certain branches to provide service to Development” (IPARD) program, efforts were carried on in customers in the agriculture industry, İşbank formed line with the summons for applications by TKDK. Agricultural Field Teams to support agricultural banking İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 43 With the Mısır Danesi (Corn Grain) TV commercial Within the scope of Agile Atelier, 38 new digital channel addressing the agricultural sector, İşbank won the bronze functions were introduced for use by merchant customers Effie at the Effie Awards Turkey 2018 organized by the in the first 6 months, and product bundles developed Advertising Association and the Advertisers’ Association in specifically for merchant customers were also introduced cooperation with Effie Worldwide Inc. in this short time span. Support for Tradesmen As part of Agile Atelier activities, the number of active customers in the SME segment, the number of digital İşbank supports tradesmen, one of the professional banking customers, the profit generated and employee groups that makes a significant contribution to the Turkish satisfaction indicators are watched closely. The Agile economy, in order to protect their business areas as well Atelier, where teams’ output deliveries are 75% faster as to sustain local cultures and values. Developed for the as compared with the regular mode and employee needs of tradesmen, the Tradesman Support Loan gives satisfaction has risen to 91%, is an initiative of the nature small enterprises the opportunity to develop themselves to mold İşbank’s organization in the digital age. by offering low-interest loans up to TL 250,000. İşbank targets to carry on with, and further expand, the activities associated with agile organization in 2019. By the end of 2018, Tradesman Support TL 1.1 Loans extended amounted to TL 1.1 billion. billion Support for Disadvantaged Groups Agile Atelier İşbank uses the advantages of digital transformation of banking transactions to implement new projects that In 2018, İşbank set up Agile Atelier, an agile organization create value for disadvantaged customer groups. trial as part of its digital transformation initiatives. In order to help disadvantaged groups actively participate The Agile Atelier consisting of employees from various in the economy by using financial services and products, disciplines from the Bank works to satisfy customer İşbank continuously improves its banking services and needs in the most efficient manner on the basis of swift products beyond its legal liabilities. To this end, İşbank decisions with small trials and errors, without getting uses the advantages of digital transformation of banking caught up in obstacles. This way, the Bank achieved transactions to implement new projects that create value successful results in terms of delivering results quickly and for disadvantaged customer groups. employee satisfaction. In this frame, the Bank is also increasing the number of İşbank has been implementing this mode of operation audio Bankamatik ATMs enabling voice commands for that is becoming increasingly common in the world in visually impaired customers. With these ATMs, as soon the form of Agile Atelier in Tradesmen Banking segment. as the speech transaction starts, the ATM screen goes Representing the first model in the Turkish banking blank to provide customer privacy. In addition, after the sector with respect to its scope and objectives whereby transactions are completed, visually impaired customers a business segment is managed in an agile manner, can also double-check their transactions with audio the Agile Atelier is also among the few number of messages sent to their smartphones. By having reached implementations in the world. 3,594 in number in 2018, audio ATMs make up 54% of all Bankamatiks. FS13 | FS14 44 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Responsible Banking The number of audio Bankamatik ATMs enabling voice commands 3,594 By having reached 3,594 in number in 2018, for visually impaired customers audio ATMs make up 54% of all Bankamatiks. has been increased. The Bank is increasing the number of ATMs suitable for The main goal of these two e-trainings, titled the Right orthopedically disabled individuals as well. In this respect, Approach to Disability and Sign Language, is to ensure as of 2018, 641 Bankamatik ATMs were put into service correct communication with disabled customers, to learn throughout Turkey, located according to the geographical sign language, and to build solution development skills distribution of disabled individuals’ residences. The ratio for special needs. In 2018, 12,354 employees received of ATM devices accessible by orthopedically disabled the Right Approach to Disability e-training, and 134 individuals at İşbank is around 9.7% versus 2%, which employees received Sign Language e-training. is the required minimum pursuant to the Regulation on Accessibility of Banking Services published by the Banking Moneybox Hybrid Fund and Digital Moneybox Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA). İşbank also continues to increase the number of its wheelchair İşbank moneybox, which has become a symbol of saving in accessible branches regularly every year. Turkey, is being instrumental in instilling a habit of saving up in children since 1928. In addition to the moneybox, the Subtitles can be added to all promotional videos posted on Moneybox Hybrid Fund is being offered to parents, which the Bank’s website for the hearing-impaired customers. is a savings plan that secures the future of their children. In 2019, the Bank’s efforts will continue to improve A significant contributor to awareness of long-term displaying of subtitles as part of the revamping of the investing, Moneybox Hybrid Fund rose to 203,000 in the website. The Bank also targets to bring to completion and number of investors as at year-end 2018. launch an initiative that makes it possible for hearingimpaired customers to communicate with a call center The classic İşbank moneybox was remade into the agent that knows sign language upon request. Digital Moneybox, allowing the new generation of children under 18 to save money digitally. Money can The Bank continues to work on prioritizing disabled easily be transferred to the Digital Moneybox via İşCep customers when transacting in branches in order to and is deposited in the Time Moneybox Account. As of speed up the process for them. In addition, under the December 2018, the number of İşbank’s Digital Moneybox Regulation on the Accessibility of Banking Services, the users exceeded 10,000, and the total funds in the Time Banks Association of Turkey in cooperation with the Moneybox Account topped TL 7 million. Alternative Living Association (AYDER), e-trainings to raise awareness of important considerations when serving disabled customers were designed; these trainings are being provided by the Bank to the Head Office and branch employees. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 45 İşbank continued to support urban transformation projects in 2018, as well. Urban Transformation Project Üstü Kalsın (Keep the Change) The Urban Transformation Project, which was initiated Encouraging customers to make a habit of saving up, under the protocol signed between the Ministry of Üstü Kalsın (Keep the Change) application rounds up Environment and Urbanization and İşbank for the purpose outstanding credit card debt balances to a specified limit, of extending right owners with interest support loans and invests the difference in the investment account. The for renewing buildings which are risky in terms of natural application has been instrumental in saving up TL 36.4 disasters, completed their economic life and are non-ecomillion in 2018. friendly, is intended to be instrumental in building safe buildings equipped with social areas and are in compliance Yuvarla (Round Up) with energy efficiency legislation. The project is important as it provides safe housing for the society and upgrades With Yuvarla application that makes donation as easy as the quality of housing stock of the country. it is embedded into daily life, İşbank customers round up their fractional expenditures while using their individual In 2018, the Bank disbursed loans in the total amount of debit and credit cards and donate the rounded amount for TL 54,462,943 to 435 right owners within the frame of social and environmental causes, choosing from amongst Urban Transformation; of these right owners, 420 were nearly 20 associations, foundations or non-governmental individuals and 15 were commercial entities. Loans in organizations. the amount of TL 4,701,993 extended to 40 of these customers were made available for properties in energy Amount of donations raised for foundations/associations with implementations such as Round Up, TEMA card, etc. class B, whereas one loan of TL 325,000 disbursed to one (TL million) customer was for a property in energy class A. Loans for 2016 2017 2018 properties in energy classes B and A were reported to the 1.2 1.8 1.4 EBRD within the scope of the USD 75 million-fund secured as part of the TurEEFF in which the Bank joined in March 2015. 46 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Responsible Banking In 2018, İşbank kept on providing resources for projects satisfyingly feasible, suitable for lending principles and complying with environmental and social standards. Infrastructure Loans Some projects financed by a consortium of banks including İşbank received awards in the following categories from The financial funds allocated to infrastructure projects EMEA Finance, a leading finance magazine in Europe, support the development of national economy. İşbank kept Middle East and Africa: financing the investment projects in this area in 2018. • Financing of Kınalı-Odayeri Section and Kurtköy-Akyazı As growth decelerated as compared with the previous Section of the North Marmara Highway: years across the sector in 2018 in terms of project finance, “Best Syndicated Loan Deal in Europe, Middle East and the year has mainly been the scene to closures of financial Africa” transactions of infrastructure projects based on build“Best Highway Construction Deal in Central and operate-transfer (BOT) model, the financing negotiations Eastern Europe” of which had begun in earlier years. “Best Project Finance Deal in Central and Eastern In this context, project loan limits began to be allocated by Europe” consortiums composed of multiple banks, including İşbank, “Best Highway Construction Deal in Europe, Middle for the project finance of the construction of the following East and Africa” projects, and disbursements began gradually for financing mega infrastructure projects based on BOT model: • Financing of Alkumru-Çetin Hydroelectric Power Plants, “Best Infrastructure Deal in Central and Eastern Europe” • Kurtköy-Akyazı (Asia) and Kınalı-Odayeri (Europe) “Best Energy Power Plant Deal in Central and Eastern Sections of North Marmara Highway which extend from Europe” Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge • Malkara-Çanakkale (including Çanakkale 1915 Bridge) • Kangal Wind Power Plant Project Section of Kınalı-Tekirdağ-ÇanakkaleSavaştepe “Best Wind Power Plant in Central and Eastern Europe” Highway • Boğaziçi-Akdeniz-Çamlıbel Electricity Distribution Zones • Ankara-Niğde Highway Privatization “Best Energy Infrastructure Deal in Europe, Middle East On the other hand, from out of the city hospital and and Africa” integrated health campus projects based on public-private participation (PPP) model to which İşbank’s cash and • Yeniköy-Kemerköy Thermal Power Plant Privatization non-cash financing support in previous years amounted to USD 1 billion, several others were opened for service in “Best Refinance Deal in Europe, Middle East and Africa” 2018, and the Bank carried out negotiations with investor companies for extending resources to new projects that need financing. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 47 Responsible Marketing approach, the Bank provides information that is not misleading, that facilitates customers’ decision-making In our day, the success of businesses is driven by healthy processes and responds to their needs. It is important relationships that are based on trust with customers. that customers understand the risks of the products and Accurate and effective briefing by the finance industry services they will make use of, and how their choices will regarding its products and services is just one of the rising change their lives. In this respect, the Bank puts emphasis demands and expectations customers have, especially on providing effective guidance and asking the right the new generation. As a deep-rooted bank, İşbank is questions so that customers can select the products and associated with the sense of trust in the eyes of its services that best meet their needs. Moreover, İşbank customers. An important factor of the Bank’s prestigious invests in developing the relevant skills of its employees position built on trust is the fact that İşbank has adopted who provide this information to customers directly or it as a responsibility to always inform customers about indirectly. its products and services in a correct, reliable, open and transparent manner. Through a customer-centric Performance Indicators 2017 2018 2017 2018 Number of accessible 3,669 3,979 Number of people reached 1,600 4,325 Bankamatik ATMs (9 Farmer (25 Farmer through Farmer Meetings Number of women Meetings) Meetings) entrepreneurs placed in events for supporting 350 Number of technology startups provided with women entrepreneurship facilitated entry into the 192 136 Number of events for banking system supporting the SMEs 22 26 Number of campaigns organized to promote the Number of İŞ’TE KOBİ SME 4.1 4.3 products of technology 1 6 website viewings million million startups 48 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report With the Importance We Attach to Technology We are designing the banking of tomorrow already today through digitalization that we position as a high-priority matter, and we are gearing up for the imminent technological innovations with our constant investments. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 49 50 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Capital SDG Customer Focus Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital The objective of İşbank is to maximize customer satisfaction by offering a banking experience that gets better and higher quality by the day. When developing its products and services, İşbank Customer Experience and Satisfaction works hard to deliver a better banking experience aligned with customer expectations and needs. İşbank is aware that being the most preferred bank is While the Bank’s service concept putting emphasis on closely related to ensuring high customer satisfaction. customer experience enhances satisfaction, it also Today, İşbank works to provide an experience that contributes to the organization’s profitability and will ensure high satisfaction for its 19 million banking success. customers in total from individual, commercial, corporate and private banking segments from all over Turkey. Being the most preferred bank, the objective of İşbank is to offer a banking experience that gets better and The Bank has established its Customer Experience higher quality by the day, to establish effective customer Principles in order to gain an insight into customers’ communication and to retain the trust of customers at needs and expectations, to satisfy the needs the all times. While doing that, the Bank aims to give access moment they arise in real time, in a personalized, to financial products and services to all segments of the affordable and easily accessible manner, and to provide society and to present responsible products and services. a consistent and integrated customer experience. The Customer Experience Principles reflect İşbank’s customer Within the scope of the Digital Transformation Program experience vision in relation to being the bank that works initiated in 2015 in line with the customer focus concept, for its customers and provides its customers with the work was begun to migrate banking processes onto most relevant products and services by ensuring easy digital platforms. İşbank carries on with its investments in interaction and understandable communication. digitalization with the goal of offering a faster and more enjoyable banking experience for customers. The Bank In line with its mission of being the bank closest to also regards digitalization as an opportunity allowing it to customers, İşbank updates its business processes in a way present personalized products and services for different to improve the banking experience of customers. Adapting customer segments. The details of İşbank’s efforts in the traditional banking methods to today’s conditions this department can be found in the section titled Digital and customer needs, and redesigning them as part of Transformation of this Report. its digital transformation, İşbank ensures high customer satisfaction by offering a more enjoyable and fast banking experience. In addition, İşbank reviews communication processes, and designs applications to improve them in line with customers ‘needs and expectations. In this process, İşbank uses Design Thinking and Customer İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 51 Improvements are continued at full speed at branches and in 59% 59% of active customers use the digital service channels through Internet Branch or İşCep. digital transformation. Journey methods. Through Design Thinking, the Bank aims The first instance of artificial intelligence use by the to identify customers ‘needs and problems by empathizing Bank for identifying customer needs was an analytical with them, solve their problems using innovative model employing advanced machine learning techniques, solutions, and measure success by testing the solutions which was able to establish product requirements of with the customers. commercial customers. Developed using the Python programming language, the model has been processing İşbank recognizes that being the most preferred big data on a monthly basis since mid-2017 and calculating bank is closely related to ensuring high customer the specific products each customer would need. As a satisfaction. result, customers’ interactions with the Bank got to a much better point with respect to speed and customer Customer Journeys refer to the illustration of all customer satisfaction in terms of the process of acquiring the interactions using design thinking method, in a way that products they need at the time they need them. includes the whole process and emotional reactions from the perspective of the customer. Customer journey During 2018, the number of commercial business unit is designed as a map because customer experience is a digital banking customers increased by 21% and that combination of experiences of the customers at all touch of İşCep Commercial users by 75%. Nearly 45% of points. In this way, all hitches for customers are identified commercial customers and 59% of active customers use and looked into together with their main reasons. The the Internet Branch or İşCep. hitches are used as input to improve products, services and processes, and to develop them in a way to make a In 2018, Instant Commercial Loan product was introduced difference. to offer real person merchant customers end-to-end digitalized customer experience. In this frame, customers were given the possibility to take out commercial loans of The details of the products and services developed by the Bank up to TL 50 thousand and up to a maturity of 36 months through its customer-centric approach can be found in the via digital channels without paying a visit to a physical Responsible Banking and Digital Transformation sections. branch. In addition, POS applications of all customers began to be collected via digital channels. Customers, Improvements are continued at full speed at branches who wish to do so, are given the chance to make POS and in digital service channels in order to let commercial applications via İşCep Commercial or Commercial Internet customers perform their transactions quickly and Branch and to conclude their commercial banking practically through digital transformation. transactions via our field teams that deliver service to our customers’ doorsteps. 52 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Customer Focus İşbank registers and evaluates customer applications conveyed through various channels into the Customer Relations Program, and spends efforts to respond to the demand or resolve the problem in the fastest manner possible. In addition, member merchants that are not obliged to use The Bank gets back to customers quickly also through new generation cash registers are given the possibility to social networks. accept payments via mobile phones thanks to the QR POS application. The dynamic QR code generated by member The Bank regularly monitors the responses to messages, merchants through Maximum İşyerim, the commercial leg as much as the messages themselves. The quality of of the Maximum Mobile app, is scanned by the Maximum responses, the operation of processes and the response Mobile app installed on the customers’ own mobile times are followed up and controlled, and feedbacks are phones, and thus, payment can be accepted via mobile given to related teams to help them achieve their targets phones eliminating the need to involve a POS device in this respect. The response times and manners, quality and a physical card in the process. Hence, the payment score, and negative feedback score can be listed among transaction can be completed digitally by way of mobilethe measurable, transparent and standardized (SMART) to-mobile interaction. targets assigned to related teams. Decreasing customer complaints is another primary goal for İşbank. Development efforts are ongoing for the telephone branch in order to enable calling back the customers Customer expectations, products and services that once an agent becomes available instead of holding customers frequently experience problems with or stages them on the line until they can be connected to an agent. thereof are analyzed based on the data recorded and This configuration is intended to secure high customer regularly reported. Moreover, customer satisfaction and satisfaction by preventing loss of time by customers feedback measured by questionnaires are directly referred because of holding on the line. to the agenda of the Board of Directors. Committed to establish and enhance the quality of service rendered Customer feedback is very important to İşbank, by the Call Center, İşbank holds EN ISO 15838 Customer who regards their views as an opportunity for selfContact Centers Standard certification since 2011. development. Customer complaints, suggestions and opinions directly conveyed through the corporate website, Through the channels mentioned above, İşbank received the internet branch, call center, branches, Customer Care 709,389 customer feedbacks in 2016, 730,204 in 2017 Unit email, fax or post are entered into the Customer and 562,468 in 2018. Besides responding to customer Relations Program and evaluated, and efforts are spent messages received through the above-mentioned to respond to the demand or resolve the problem in the channels and besides fulfilling customer needs, the fastest manner possible. Hence, İşbank makes continuous related department of the Bank works towards forming improvements to its business processes. useful insights. Customer contacts are evaluated regularly, categorized and reported, and the insight formed in In addition to these channels, customers’ indirect cooperation with the departments that are owners of the communications or social media comments in which the product or service based on customer feedbacks are used Bank is mentioned/tagged or comments they post under as input in product or service development processes. İşbank products on app stores are also tracked instantly. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 53 Based on research by independent research companies, İşbank set up the Security Intelligence and Defense Center customer satisfaction, Net Promoter Score (NPS) and (SIDC) to follow up security incidents 24/7 within the Customer Effort Score assigned to İşbank and its peer group scope of cyber security program and to detect emerging are compared. At the end of 2018, overall satisfaction of security vulnerabilities and malware so as to prevent them retail customers with the Bank was 84.5% and İşbank from causing injury to the Bank. Warnings generated ranked at the top among the benchmarked banks. by security devices installed in various layers of the Bank’s IT infrastructure are monitored by the SIDC and In a bid to enhance customer satisfaction, besides actions concerning possible security violations are taken research company support, İşbank administers customized forthwith. Employee development is encouraged in order research using Internet branch exit polls, phone surveys to strengthen SIDC’s capability to respond to security and kiosk surveys, and continues to take actions to incidents, and current technology trends are followed up improve customer experience according to the outcomes so as to make sure that best practices are established at from the questionnaires. the Bank. Data Security and Privacy In addition, information security awareness training programs are given at regular intervals and social İşbank continues to earn the trust of its customers with engineering testing is administered to achieve increased its meticulous work on data privacy. The Bank exercises awareness of information security across the organization. utmost sensitivity to fulfill the obligations stipulated by the Personal Data Protection Law that came into Ensuring compliance with the information security rules force on 7 April 2016, besides the banking legislation set by the Bank is not just an internally heeded matter; and other applicable regulations. İşbank keeps working the suppliers from which the Bank procures services are towards ensuring the security of the Bank’s information also expected to exercise the same degree of sensitivity. assets with a holistic perspective and within the frame In this context, performances of outsource companies of international standards, and to raise Bank-wide are watched regularly, and assurance is provided by way awareness of the matter. of penal clauses incorporated in contracts signed with supplier companies. As part of the designed digital transformation process, all banking transactions are transferred to digital platforms. Members of the Board of Inspectors regularly inspect In connection with the digitalization process, continuous the adequacy and effectiveness of the measures taken improvements are made in the field of data security and across the Bank. In this context, banking processes and privacy, and the Bank’s rapid decision-making capacity is information systems at İşbank undergo annual risk-based improved by increasing its resistance to possible threats. audits by the Board of Inspectors. These internal audit activities serve to assess whether necessary controls In order to take the necessary measures regarding data and structures regarding the security of the information security, İşbank goes beyond simply following the legal systems and the data thereon have been established. regulations, and continuously improves its business processes. 103-2 | 103-3 54 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Customer Focus In connection with the digitalization process, İşbank makes continuous improvements in the field of data security and privacy, and takes preventive measures against possible threats. Information security controls verify whether a process sensitivity in terms of data security. These technical covering the following activities is in place: examinations focus on applications/systems and prioritize information security, and are conducted based on • Conducting risk assessments, requirements released by the BRSA, in particular, and are targeted directly at guaranteeing information security. • Approval of corporate information security policy by the Board of Directors and supervision of its implementation Similar to the audit activities carried out internally, the by Senior Management, information security-related internal control environments of the Bank’s subsidiaries and affiliates and of their • Performance of activities for increasing awareness support services providers are also evaluated as part of of information security by the Bank’s employees; audit activities. classification of all data according to their security vulnerability, Internal audit also covers reporting of all examination results from the audits to the Board of Directors via the • Running appropriate level of security controls for each Audit Committee and monitoring of all measures taken by class, the heads of related sections within the frame of audit reports. • Administration of information security testing, All employees are regularly informed about process • Updating existing controls and the structures developments. In addition, regular announcements established according to technological advancements. are made and training programs are offered to build on the knowledge and awareness of all employees and all As part of its information technology (IT) audits, the Board subcontractors about cyber security. During 2018, 2,813 of Inspectors conduct examinations that will contribute Head Office and branch employees received a total of to the realization of fundamental goals regarding proper 7,957 hours of training addressing Social Engineering management of IT risks and efficient and effective use of and Information Security subjects as well as the scope IT resources. The scope of these activities is determined mentioned above. based on risk assessment made in view of the criticality of the applications and systems for the Bank and their İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 55 Regular announcements are made and training programs 7,957 hours During 2018, 2,813 employees received a total are offered to build on the of 7,957 hours of training addressing Social Engineering and Information Security subjects. knowledge and awareness of all employees about cyber security. In case of any suspicious circumstances, İşbank initiates a speedy information sharing process with the Details about the Bank’s Privacy Policy and processing of customers. Decisions on measures are made and deployed personal data can be found on İşbank website. immediately in line with internal protocols and legal regulations. Performance Indicators 2017 2018 2017 2018 Number of Customers (million) 18,3(1) 19,1 Customer satisfaction score 76,3 84,5 25 37 Successful Transactions Index Net Promoter Score (Ranking) (2) (ranks 1st (ranks 1st for IT Critical Services 4.73 4.78 among private among private (6 Sigma) (3) sigma sigma banks) banks) (1) Calculated taking into consideration the criteria for determining active (3) The IT Index is the ratio of the number of successful transactions customers in 2018. through critical channels used or directly affected by the Bank’s customers (İşCep, Bankamatik ATMs, internet branch, card systems, (2) According to 2018 results of Futurebright, an independent research Maximum Mobile app, branch systems) to all transactions performed company, İşbank is the private bank with the highest net promoter through these channels. score when compared against five closest peers in terms of size. The questionnaire has been administered on the phone employing CATI method with bank customers all over Turkey. No customer segmentspecific quota has been applied, and random sampling has been used. 56 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Capital SDG Digital Transformation Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital Using its intellectual capital, İşbank continuously upgrades the banking experience delivered to its customers. Being innovative is essential for products and services in Through its investments in digital transformation, the our day characterized as a period of constantly advancing Bank contributes to the creation of decent work and technology and rapidly evolving customer expectations. productive employment within the context of Sustainable Development Goals, and also to the development of It is important to create new areas of income, as much durable and modern infrastructures that will increase as to correctly understand customer expectations and inclusiveness. embed them in the product and service range. Improvements are being made in branches and digital Along this line, İşbank draws on its intellectual capital and service channels to maximize both retail and commercial continuously upgrades the banking experience delivered customers’s satisfaction by enabling them to perform to its customers. The Bank designs more inclusive, their transactions more rapidly and practically. In 2018, the accessible and -in a bid to respond to evolving customer number of customers transacting through İşbank’s digital expectationsinnovative products and services enabled banking channels that cover mobile and Internet Branches by digital transformation. went up by 22% and reached 7.2 million. The number of transactions performed through these channels, on the İşbank makes life easier for its customers and guarantees other hand, boomed by 45% to 3.3 billion. Digital channels uninterrupted service delivery with the products it offers. increased their share to 60% in time account opening and to 58% in general-purpose loan disbursements. Various forms of technology that are becoming increasingly common lately such as cloud, big data, In addition, İşbank has 9.9 million customers receiving Internet of things (IoT) and artificial intelligence make service from Bankamatiks, Turkey’s first ATM. The Bank an impact on the banking industry as well. Digitalization adheres to its notion of inclusive banking being the private provides opportunities in a number of areas including bank with Turkey’s broadest ATM network with 6,560 efficient customer relations, personalized products and Bankamatik ATMs as at year-end 2018. services, high-efficiency operations and expansion of banking activities, etc. Given pace in recent years, digital transformation initiatives are positioned among the Bank’s While mobile banking applications got 39% high-priority matters and the Bank makes significant share out of total transactions in 2017, the 53% investments in this department. same rose to 53% in 2018. İşbank targets to deliver a better banking experience to its customers by keeping the expectations of In the same timeframe, the share of non different customer segments in its focal point, and branch channels in total transactions went 88.5% up from 86.2% to 88.5%. to design the banking of tomorrow already today. 103-1 | FS13 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 57 İşbank has 9.9 million customers receiving service from 7.2 million The number of customers transacting Bankamatiks, Turkey’s first through digital banking channels went up by 22% and reached 7.2 million. ATMs. Transactions Performed Using Digital Service Channels (%) Share of Non-Branch Mobile Bankamatik ATMs Internet Branch Channels 2015 82.26 24.32 28.03 26.28 2016 83.78 31.85 25.09 22.91 2017 86.23 38.62 22.62 21.10 2018 88.49 52.87 18.37 13.67 In 2018, with the aim of expanding the change emanating İşCep and Internet Branch from digitalization, İşbank became the main sponsor of “Digital Anatolia” project by TÜRKONFED (Turkish The growing use of mobile devices through digitalization Enterprise and Business Federation) that addresses the further added to the importance of mobile banking and problems of the business world and the society with a applications. In line with its mission of being the bank multivocal, impartial and constructive point of view. In this closest to customer, İşbank constantly improves its İşCep frame, meetings participated by numerous sector leaders application, which it considers as the key for contacting its were organized in Antalya, İzmir, Kocaeli, Bursa and Adana customers in the fastest manner. where the contribution of digitalization to companies and its advantages were communicated and solution The number of customers using İşCep, the sector’s leader suggestions were proposed. TÜRKONFED and İşbank in terms of product diversity among mobile banking apps decided to carry on with the project in 2019 to tell about with 274 functions as at year-end 2018, rose to 6.6 the importance of digitalization. million, with a 28% increase compared to the previous year. Innovative Products and Services % of transactions Performed via İşCep In a bid to upgrade customers’ banking experience, and to offer more inclusive, more accessible products that 49.75% better respond to customer expectations, the Bank develops innovative products and services within the 38.42% scope of digital transformation. The products offered 31.85% by İşbank make life easier for its customers and ensure 24.32% uninterrupted service delivery. 2015 2016 2017 2018 58 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Digital Transformation Through “Maxi”, the personal assistant introduced within the frame of the conversational banking vision, İşbank responded to 2.3 million questions from 1.3 million users. Maximum Mobile The dynamic QR code that İşbank’s member merchants generate via Maximum İşyerim are scanned by Maximum The main goal of Maximum Mobile is to maintain the Mobile app on customers’ own mobile phones, thus perspective of “delivering an ecosystem offering end-toallowing acceptance of payment through mobile phones end shopping experience” to all İşbank customers together without the need for a POS device and a physical card. with retail business partners from different sectors. The Hence, the payment transaction can be completed app gives instant and easy access to various card services digitally by way of mobile-to-mobile interaction. and campaigns for not only the Bank’s customers but for all credit card-holders by offering solutions making their İşCepMatik lives easier. To this end, 24/7 shopping campaigns were executed covering a variety of sectors including culture/ İşbank’s share of monetary transactions conducted in its arts, e-commerce, clothing/food, fuel, airlines, education wide ATM network throughout Turkey has exceeded 50%. and restaurants, taking into account periodic needs of Customers can easily withdraw and deposit money via existing and potential customers. Bluetooth or Qr code without having to carry the Bank’s cards with them through the İşCepMatik application, which Launched in 2017 and featuring numerous features from is an integrated operation of İşCep and Bankamatik. The card management to campaign tracking, Maximum Mobile Bank aims to provide customers with a faster and better reached more than 3.2 million downloads in total as at banking experience by expanding the use of İşCepMatik, year-end 2018. which is the product of the integration of different digital service channels. Maximum İşyerim Artificial Intelligence Investments Designed as the commercial leg of the Maximum Mobile application that accompanies retail customers’ Artificial intelligence gains the foreground in banking shopping experience and is intended to enable end-totransactions in terms of giving the fastest response to the end management of the Maximum world as a holistic variable demands of different customers. In this regard, ecosystem, Maximum İşyerim app went live in September İşbank introduced an AI-based chatbot, “Ask İşbank”, on 2018. Initially, the app lets İşbank POS device owners to its website in 2017. Developed using Machine Learning closely watch financial reports covering comprehensive and Natural Language Processing technologies, the information, to view sales data on real-time basis, and chatbot offers an innovative banking experience. Capable monitor and easily control sales trends. Additionally, of responding to questions related to more than 800 Maximum İşyerim app also presents financial analyses, headings, the chatbot continues to be improved in scope. sales/campaign management, inventory management, employee/shift management and many similar guiding reports for the users. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 59 The chatbot works through intelligent decision deposit balances and reduce costs, and captured the mechanism models. The infrastructure of the Bank possibility to create value for its customers in line with the that analyzes big data gets customers to see instant aspects they are sensitive about. campaigns that are personalized for them, through real time transaction data. Hence, İşbank responds In the future, the Bank intends to introduce numerous AIto its customers more quickly in addition to achieving based projects so as to increase its business efficiency and operational efficiency and savings. value creation capability. Maxi, the personal assistant app that combines the Digital Loans experience gained from the chatbot with investments in personal finances management, was introduced on In 2015, through Instant Loan, İşbank started offering İşCep for the use of our customers. İşbank has positioned customers loans via digital channels without visiting Maxi, which runs on artificial intelligence and natural branches. The Bank added new products to its digital language processing technology and also delivers credit product range in 2017. The Credit Ready application, one-on-one dialogue experience, as a multi-faceted, which enables customers to authenticate agreements accessible, thoughtful and easily adaptable personality digitally and use the loan provided that the loan that constantly learns and is focused on making life easier. applications initiated from branches are approved, went The Bank has carried on with its communication activities live in 2017. The same year also saw the introduction of accordingly. the Instant Shopping Loan, another innovative digital credit product initiated considering the increasing volume Through Maxi, the personal assistant introduced within of e-commerce and the needs in this area. Work was the frame of the conversational banking vision, İşbank completed for the API integration of the Instant Loan responded to 2.3 million questions from 1.3 million users. application with loan comparison websites; accordingly, In the future, the Bank will integrate Maxi with digital customers choosing İşbank product on hesapkurdu. platforms on which the Bank contacts its customers, and com and hangikredi.com websites are were given the particularly with Maximum Mobile and telephone banking opportunity to complete their transactions by taking out channels. an Instant Loan. I n 2018, Instant Commercial Loan product was introduced Through Maxi, the personal assistant, İşbank 2.3 to offer real person merchant customers end-to-end responded to 2.3 million questions from 1.3 million digitalized customer experience. In this frame, customers million users. questions were given the possibility to take out commercial loans of up to TL 50 thousand and up to a maturity of 36 months The investments in artificial intelligence developments via digital channels without paying a visit to a physical contributed to sustainable profitability through the branch. positive effect created on customer satisfaction and sales activity. 73.5% The use of learning and self-improving models in financial Share of digitally disbursed retail loans via in terms of Instant Loan, Credit Ready, API Loans and quantity services thanks to the progress in AI technology results Instant Shopping Loan in new consumer in the automation of low value-added tasks, thus freeing up İşbank employees to be allocated to areas where they loans has reached 73.5% in terms of quantity and 56.5% in terms of amount in 56.5% December 2018. in terms of can create higher added value. In keeping with this vision, amount the Bank realized a number of successful projects in 2018, specifically Deposit Pricing Model, New Product Sales In addition to these applications, the Instant Overdraft Model and Bankamatik ATM Location Allocation Model. Account, which enables making overdraft account Thanks to these projects, the Bank was able to preserve applications 24/7 and makes the account available for 60 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Digital Transformation By presenting the “Exporter Card” to SMEs, and thus undersigning a first in the sector, İşbank supports their sales activities abroad. use immediately upon approval, was offered to customers İşbank provides in this department resolve payment needs also through Bankamatik ATMs as of December 2018, in of businesses and support those that will be engaged in addition to İşCep and the personal Internet Branch. e-exportation. Moreover, customers who receive insufficient balance Undersigning a first in the sector, the Bank presents warning while withdrawing money from Bankamatik ATMs exporter SMEs a special commercial card. The “Exporter are proposed Instant Overdraft Account, and thus they Card” gives exporter companies all the features of a are provided with solutions to their short-term financing company credit card and allows them earn MaxiPuan needs at the time they most need it. bonus points in export transactions they carry out via İşbank, an unprecedented practice in Turkey. Efforts are ongoing to promote wider use of e-exportation Number of loans obtained with 397 solutions made available to small and medium sized “Credit Ready” 397 thousand thousand exporter companies and of the Exporter Card, which offers additional benefits, and thus, to support the country’s exports. Paper saved thanks to “Credit Ready” ~8 million ~8 million sheets of A4 sheets of A4 Social Account Foreign Trade One of the applications developed in line with the demands and needs of the customers is the Social İşbank offers credit and service bundles that specifically Account. Customers can send money from their accounts cater to the Bank’s exporter customers on the basis of to their joint Social Account shared via İşCep with a single strong collaborations in order to help strengthen the real touch, and easily raise the funds they need for their event sector and increase their contribution to the economy. organization. In this framework, collaborations are developed with regional and national chambers, associations and unions, Other Innovative Applications and an Export FC-Loan campaign with special rates is conducted to drive the thriving of exports and to help Other innovative solutions offered by İşbank to customers exporter companies access financing. include the execution of money transfers through Western Union over İşCep, viewing of instant stock Thanks to the virtual POS service offered to businesses market data via Mobil Borsa on İşCep, trading in stocks and making sales to foreign companies as part of İşbank’s warrants , execution of stock and futures transactions in initiatives in payment systems, merchants can now make 26 stock exchanges operating in Europe, USA and Asia their collections via card brands with almost worldwide with İşCep Overseas Markets, finding the locations of coverage such as Visa, Mastercard, American Express, the nearest branches and ATMs and displaying exchange JCB and UnionPay, and via alternative payment methods rates via widgets on iOS and Android operating systems, that are heavily used locally in 49 countries. The solutions sending money through the Siri application and imessage İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 61 The number of credit card applications made on İşbank 10% The transformation optimization initiatives on websites increased by three isbank.com.tr corporate website resulted in nearly 10% increase in such transactions as application, bill times as compared with the payment, account balance queries and the number of İşCep downloads. previous year. feature on Apple phones, bill payment with the Siri The new branch model that was introduced in 117 application, and playing advertisement videos on İşbank’s branches in 2018 will be rolled out across the entire logo in various media through augmented reality features. branch network throughout 2019. In this context, various projects will go live directed toward the implementation With user experience improvements İşbank made on of the digital work process, such as the transition to websites, the Bank was able to increase the number of digital approval, execution of customer instructions by the credit card applications by three times as compared with operation center, and the inception of the use of screens the previous year. designed for customer relationship management. The transformation optimization initiatives on isbank. Within the scope of the branch working model com.tr corporate website resulted in nearly 10% increase improvement; in such transactions as application, bill payment, account balance queries and the number of İşCep downloads. • Paperless agreements for consumer loans and HGS (Rapid Pass-Through) etc. can now be approved by Digital Transformation Initiatives in Branches customers using tablet PCs with the support of digital devices, in addition to process improvements such as While İşbank’s Digital Transformation initiatives manifest respondent intelligence; the working forms that will produce the highest value, the branches are being remodeled in a more modern • Faxes received from customers are now directly and ergonomic design, and in-branch working order and forwarded to central operation teams without being architecture are being remade to suit the new working referred to branches. This allows quick completion of model which is designed to create maximum value. To various transactions including money transfer, EFT, this end, the Bank carries on with training support, critical Social Security Insurance, overseas money transfers, process improvements and digitalization efforts for mutual fund trading, etc. by a specialized team at the successful implementation of the model. center, thus alleviating the operational workload on branch employees; In order to convey the changes that result in the physical structure of digitalized branches and in the roles of the • Branches can now allocate more time to the customers employees under the new working model by using the thanks to use of digital channels and process virtual reality technology, Virtuality Studio at İş has been improvements; set up. • Desks were lowered in the new model, creating a setting that is more conducive to communication; • New generation sales leads are created via use of AI and advanced analytical models for the purpose of paying focused customer visits and ensuring proactive customer contacts. 62 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Digital Transformation İşbank began effectively employing new trends and technological facilities introduced by digitalization, such as the ecosystem approach, artificial intelligence, cloud technology, application programming interface (API), internet of things (IoT), and robotic process automation. Innovation and Entrepreneurship Having been a perpetual supporter of entrepreneurs and ventures since its establishment, İşbank continued Growing customer expectations and big data management to extend support in different extents for the needs of brought about by digitalization make it ever-increasingly technology startups in this framework. important to ensure that banking transactions are faster and are uninterrupted. Along this line, İşbank carried on Intended to serve as a bridge between the startup with its research and investments in new generation ecosystem and the İşbank Group, the Entrepreneurship technology. Unit is instrumental in contacting startups, and creating value for İşbank Group companies, its customers and In 2018, the Bank set up the Entrepreneurship Unit to ventures. These values come to life in the form of sustain and further increase its concentration both on the acquisition of products or services of startups so as startup ecosystem and on internal entrepreneurship and to enhance the Bank’s service quality or operational innovation activities. efficiency; delivering the products of startups to customers that need them so as to offer more than With the purpose of supporting the collaborations traditional banking, or co-developing products with between the Bank and FinTechs, and contributing to startups. broadening İşbank’s ecosystem, the API (Application Programming Interface) Portal was opened for use by nonOne other concrete link of the support furnished to Bank developers and startups in June. startups is the Workup Entrepreneurship Program that has İşbank as its main sponsor and is run under Kolektif By the end of 2018, 17 API applications were put to use House Levent, one of the major shared working spaces of through the portal launched by the Bank, whereas the the ecosystem. Under this program, the Bank keeps giving website’s visitors topped 14,000 people. sustainable support to scale up technology startups that are past the idea stage. Initiated in 2017, the third batch İşbank also began effectively employing new trends and of the program was completed by the end of 2018, and technological facilities introduced by digitalization, such 40 startups were included in the program, 29 of which as the ecosystem approach, artificial intelligence, cloud qualified to complete the program. technology, application programming interface (API), internet of things (IoT), and robotic process automation, As part of the Bank’s activities addressing the startup with the purpose of making customers’ lives easier and ecosystem, İşbank also aims to give a material form to presenting new value propositions that suit their needs. its strategic and financial partnership with startups with the Innovative Venture Capital Fund set up in November 2018 under Maxis Venture Capital Portfolio Management Company, which has İşbank as its sole investor. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 63 İşbank focuses on supporting startups and on driving Digital Transformation Banking Awards 2018: their flourishing so as to contribute added value to the • With Digital Transformation Project; national economy and help their penetration into new First place markets. The Bank’s objectives also include embedding entrepreneurship within İşbank’s culture and gearing MarCom Awards 2018: up the organization for the future with new-generation • With Maximum Mobile App Capabilities: working methodologies. Platinum in Digital Media | Mobile App/Web | Mobile Buying Experience category In 2018, İşbank was recognized with the following awards • With Maximiles Taste Tours; for its digital transformation and retail banking initiatives Platinum in Digital Media | Social Media | Influencer as well as related communication activities. Content category • With the Fathers’ Day Case Video; Most Startup-Friendly Companies 2018: Gold in Digital Media | Social Media | YouTube Video • First rank among the Top 10 Most Startup-Friendly category Companies • With Maximum Gaming Social Network Platform; Gold in Digital Media | Social Media | Social Engagement Effie Awards Turkey 2018: category • With İşCep advertising campaign; • With Yuvarla (Round Up) Integration; Gold in Bank and Card Payment Systems Category Honorable Mention in Video/Audio I Video/Film I • With Maximum Mobile; Nonprofit category Bronze in Bank and Card Payment Systems Social Media Awards 2018: Global Finance World’s Best Digital Banks 2018: • With Maximum Card; • Digital Bank of Distinction Jury’s Special Award Gold in Credit Cards category • With İşCep; IDC Turkey Finance Technology Awards 2018: Gold in Online Banking category • With its Digital Transformation Program; • With Maximiles; Second place in Enterprise Transformation category Bronze in Credit Cards category • With Instant Shopping Loan; • Video clips aired for Valentine’s Day, Mothers’ Day, Third place in Customer Experience category Fathers’ Day and New Year’s Eve • With Digital Moneybox; APPENDICES First place in Customer Experience category Maximum Card social network accounts received Second place in Digital Channels category bronze in jury awards in the Special Day Campaign category The Smarties MMA 2018: • With Maximum Mobile YemekSepeti integration; Silver in Mobile Payment category 64 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Digital Transformation İşbank was recognized with various awards for its communication works related to digital technologies developed towards newgeneration technologies as per big data management. Crystal Apple 2018: Red 2018; • With İşCep Instant Loan ‘Marriage’; • With “İş Cepte” campaign; Bronze in R-Radio/SERVICE category Red in Campaign/Best Financial Services category • With İşCep Instant Loan ‘Marriage’; • With Moneybox Dreams advert; Silver in A-Outdoor/POSTER BILLBOARD/Service Red in Mastery in Execution/Best Art Director (Printed category Media) category • With Cinemaximum ‘Detective’, ‘Castle’, ‘Dark Alley’; • With Moneybox Dreams advert; Silver in B-PRESS/BANK, INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL Achievement Award in Printed Media/Best Financial SERVICES category Services Advertising category • With Maximum Mobile Maximum Card in the Shadow of the Dark; Felis 2018: Bronze in O-Online Film/BANK, INSURANCE AND • With Maximum Mobile Launch Campaign; FINANCIAL SERVICES category FELIS in Transformative Marketing Effect Section • With “O İş Cepte” Campaign; Financial Services category Crystal in F-FILM-TV and Cinema/BANK, AND FINANCIAL SERVICES category 16th Golden Spider Web Awards; • With “O İş Cepte” Campaign; • With İşCep; Silver in E-Integrated Campaigns/SERVICE category Second Place in Most Accessible Mobile App category • With “O İş Cepte” Campaign; Crystal in T-Design/EXCELLENCE IN DESIGN/Character PSM Awards; category • With AKİL; • With “O İş Cepte” Campaign; Second place in Best Payment Systems Infrastructure Crystal in UM-Excellence in Execution/PRODUCTION category AND DIRECTION/Best Dubbing category • With Alternative Payment Systems; • With “O İş Cepte” Campaign; First place in Best Online Payment category Crystal in M-Media/Product and Service/Service • With Maximum Mobile; category Second place in Best Mobile Payment category İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 65 With the improvements made in branches and digital service channels, the customers are enabled to perform their transactions more rapidly and customer satisfaction has been moved to the top level. Performance Indicators 2017 2018 2017 2018 Saving from paper Number of Bankamatik ATMs 6,545 6,560 consumption secured by 4.9 11.9 digitalization million sheets million sheets Number of digital banking 5.9 7.2 YoY rise in the number of users (1) million million digital banking customers 27.8% 22.5% Number of mobile banking 5.2 6.8 Share of non-branch channels 86.2% 88.5% users (1) million million Share of digital channels Number of users reached by 1.3 in non-cash financial 77.2% 81.8% Maxi million transactions (2) Number of questions 2.3 Share of digital channels in answered by Maxi sales 25.6% 30.9% million 279 Number of cardless customers, transactions performed 30.1 32.5 Volume of end-to-end digital 389 loans million million commercial loan disbursement (3) through Bankamatik ATMs through Instant Loan TL 6.9 Amount of cardless transactions performed TL 17.06 TL 20.02 million through Bankamatik ATMs billion billion (1) Based on 12-month channel activity. (2) Based on mobile and Internet banking channels. (3) Instant Commercial Loan was introduced in April 2018. 66 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report With High-Quality Training We are carrying the investments we make in corporate culture and human resources that support personal and professional development into the future. We are providing our employees with various training opportunities in keeping with the lifelong learning notion, and we are working to make sure that these gains are permanent. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 67 68 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Capital SDG Working Life Human Capital In line with its vision of being “the most preferred employer”, İşbank provides a respectful, fair, egalitarian and safe working environment that is conducive to personal and professional development. The competence, experience and happiness of its human Developing practices that will ensure employee resource enable provision of competitive and reliable satisfaction while observing employee rights and being a products and services by an organization, and directly bank preferred by talented young people are among top contribute to the achievement of corporate goals. priority topics for İşbank. The human capital of İşbank made up of happy and Equal Opportunity and Diversity qualified people is at the same time one of the key elements defining the Bank’s competitive strength. Equal opportunity and diversity make the foundation of İşbank’s corporate culture. This foundation is based on With its HR management concept focused on equal non-discrimination of employees on any basis including opportunities, the Bank secures high-level of employee gender, religion, political affiliation, race, cultural or social satisfaction and engagement through investments that origins, at any point from the recruitment process to support individual and professional development in human resources practices. keeping with its HR management approach focused on equal opportunity. The Bank believes that gender equality is critical to ensuring equal opportunity. Hence, İşbank supports the Investments in corporate culture and in people are participation of women in business life both through its retained within the Bank and carried forward. This activities and the employment opportunities. Attesting continuity the Bank secures also allows maximum to this is the composition of the Bank’s workforce made contribution from the highly competent human resource up of men and women employees by 44% and 56%, to added-value product and service development. Efficient respectively. transfer of professional talent and knowledge from one term to the other also allows forward-looking planning of 41% of the Bank’s managerial positions, including the the human resource by adopting a right approach. position of the Chairperson of the Board, are held by women. In line with its vision of being “the most preferred employer”, İşbank provides a dignified, fair, egalitarian and safe working environment that is conducive to personal and professional development. 2016 2017 2018 Number of Employees Women Men Women Men Women Men 12,669 12,087 12,755 12,113 12,583 11,987 Total 24,756 24,868 24,570 102-8 | 202-1 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 69 İşbank’s workforce made up of men and women employees by 41% 41% of the İşbank’s managerial 44% and 56%, respectively. positions are held by women. Distribution of Employees in Managerial Positions (Assistant Distribution of Employees by Distribution of Employees in Manager and Above) by Gender Gender (%)* Senior Management by Gender (%) (Excluding Senior Management) Women Women Women 56% 22% 41% Men Men Men 44% 78% 59% * Excluding private security Human Rights and Human Resources Policy whereby The Board of Inspectors diligently addresses any incident the Bank sets out the basic principles it has espoused of violation of the principles covered in the Human in relation to equal opportunity and diversity are made Rights and Human Resources Policy reported to it. All available to all employees on the internal portal. Relevant such reports are subjected to preliminary examination disciplinary actions up to and including termination of by the Inspectors on the Board, and actions are taken the employment contract are taken against acts that are forthwith for detailed review and onsite examination of established to be in violation of the Bank’s policies within the incident in the event that it is suspected to be serious the framework of the related provisions and procedures and real. Following examination, reports describing the of the Personnel Bylaws and Collective Agreement. A problems and suggested solutions, which are drawn up case is referred to legal authorities in the event that legal for taking necessary administrative decisions about faulty conditions materialize. employees within the frame of the Bank’s Collective Agreement and legal legislation, are reviewed by the Board of Inspectors and then referred to the related Head Office Departments for necessary action. 70 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Working Life İşbank offers a working environment where employee 88% The rate of participation in the rights are respected, and employee satisfaction and engagement questionnaire was 88% across the Bank. opportunities for long-term employment are provided. Employee Rights and Satisfaction allowance, dividend payout as defined by the Articles of Incorporation of İşbank, and other fringe benefits İşbank believes that employees who enjoy their jobs and depending on seniority and/or job scope. There are work in a fair environment will contribute positively to the some additional practices under which high-performer financial performance of the Bank as well as to customer premiums, product-based sales premiums and managerial satisfaction. In order to become the most preferred bank bonuses defined according to individual performance are of new talents, İşbank offers a working environment paid. Union of Banking, Finance and Insurance Workers where employee rights are respected, and opportunities (BASİSEN) and İşbank sign Collective Agreements every for long-term employment are provided. two years. Under the Collective Agreement signed with BASİSEN, employees receive health benefits as per the Employees’ compensation and benefits are determined guidelines covered in İşbank’s Regulation on Health according to the Remuneration Policy devised on the basis Benefits. of the Collective Agreement and applicable legislation. The Remuneration Policy of the Bank covering executives Over the last three years, 98% of İşbank’s women and employees at all levels is under the responsibility employees who took maternity leave have returned of the Remuneration Committee under the Board of to work. When women employees of the Bank take Directors. İşbank remunerates employees according to maternity leave, their positions are preserved, and they their seniority and performance based on a transparent are reinstated in their respective positions upon their and measurable system. The Performance Management return. The key drivers behind the high rate of return System at İşbank relies on a yearly competencyand from maternity leave are the retention of the positions objectives-based evaluation. Competency assessment of employees giving birth, breastfeeding leave for up to 2 evaluates competence sets under the names Basic, hours per day beyond the legal regulation, option to take Managerial, Functional and Leadership Competencies, part-time maternity leave or exercise part-time working which are determined according to the positions of the right, and the availability of the Bank’s comprehensive employees. In the assessment of objectives, evaluation is healthcare benefits both for the mother and the child. In based on performance scorecard results or 5 subjective addition, male employees whose spouses give birth are goals defined on the system depending on the titles of the granted a 5-business day paternal leave. employees. The Bank has been regularly measuring employee Senior executive compensation is determined in a engagement and satisfaction using questionnaires manner that complies with the Bank’s strategies, longsince 2009. The rate of participation in the employee term targets and risk management structure, prevents satisfaction and engagement questionnaire of 2018 excessive risk-taking. was 88% across the Bank. While the results of the questionnaires help spread good practices, they also The Bank’s remuneration package consists of salary, provide guidance for improvement in areas where bonus, lunch allowance, foreign language proficiency deficiencies are identified. 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-4 | 407-1 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 71 At İşbank, through practices such as the Practitioner Trainer and Training Volunteer, employees who have good command of technical and practical banking knowledge share their knowledge, experience and skills with all employees. Investment in Talent In addition to these programs, employees can also take advantage of the training programs offered in the Training As one of Turkey’s leading banks, İşbank provides its Catalogue in line with their needs and preferences. In employees with various training opportunities for 2018, more than 1,300 employees attended the training developing their skills and building on their knowledge sessions held under a total of 24 topics covering technical and abilities over the course of their careers, in line with banking, competency and skill building within the scope its philosophy of lifelong learning, in order to ensure of the Training Catalogue. Besides the Training Catalogue, continuous development of its human resource. seminars with different concepts continued to be held under the names Tower Talks and TUTOM Talks, during Executives at İşbank are promoted from within. This which subjects are presented by experts in their fields. tradition gives all employees the opportunity to rise to managerial positions based on their performance. Every year, various technical and managerial training This practice also helps retain the Bank’s investment in courses are offered as part of the Branch Managers its people within the organization and to transfer it to Training Catalogue in order to add to the banking future generations. The intellectual capital that builds business knowledge of branch managers who lead digital up and is passed on to new hires within the organization transformation at the Bank, to help them more effectively guarantees competitive product and service delivery by manage the evolving customer experience process in the the Bank. This way, İşbank navigates towards achieving its digitalizing world, and to consolidate their leadership skills. corporate goals drawing on its investment in its people. 414 branch managers attended the courses organized within this framework in 2018. Through the Bank’s practices such as the Practitioner Trainer and Training Volunteer, employees who have good The Bank also offers intramural and extramural training command of technical and practical banking knowledge opportunities to managers and management trainees share their knowledge, experience and skills with all along their career paths. employees. Under these practices, experts in a topic spread professional knowledge; also, managerial roles Management development programs contribute to the such as branch managers share their experiences through leadership and management skills of managers and experience sharing sessions. During 2018, approximately management trainees, and at the same time, form the 300 employees acted as Practitioner Trainers in sessions basis of networking between participants serving in of more than 7,000 hours. different branches, in different provinces and markets. Thanks to these shared platforms, knowledge of the “I Start My Career” training is organized for new hires sector circulates throughout the organization over at the Bank as part of the orientation program. Sales different channels. Academy, Innovation Academy, Marketing Academy and Data Analytics Academy programs support the personal and professional development of field and Head Office employees working in various roles and at different levels. 103-2 | 103-3 | 404-2 72 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Working Life İşbank carries out the Management for the Future Development Program for management trainees, which focus on critical managerial competencies such as effective communication, team management, problem solving and decision making, and which cover different learning tools. Employees who are promoted to managerial positions • Management Development Program: Commenced take part in career training that concern their respective in February 2018, the program addresses Regional field of expertise to support the competency and Managers, Branch Managers and managers working knowledge needed in these new roles, such as Rising in in the Head Office Departments and is run in a My Career, My Career as a Specialist and My Career as a modular format. Blending different approaches to Manager, Branch Manager Development Program and development, the program presents the participants II. Manager Development Program. The Bank carries out with a personalized learning journey. Starting with the Management for the Future Development Program the basic module focused on the Basics of Leadership for management trainees, which focus on managerial theme, the program will continue with different competencies believed to be critical such as effective themes (Strategic Bank Management, the Art of communication, team management, problem solving Persuasion, Digital Transformation of the Business and decision making, and which cover different learning World and Change Management, Evolving Customer tools designed to raise awareness of the participants Experience in the Digitalizing World, Future Trends and and improve their performances. Also the Development Technologies, Innovation and Internal Entrepreneurship, Academy program is in place to give a branch perspective Data Analytics for Managers and Law in Data-Driven to managers assigned in the Head Office and to help Economy). enhance the quality of service offered to branches. • Other Development Programs: In addition to the In addition to the training programs organized for field training programs mentioned above, İşbank employees and Head Office managers, the Bank also conducts the have the opportunity to attend international training following development programs: programs organized by various academic institutions and organizations depending on the skills and talents • Leadership Development Program: The first they require in their careers. module of the program designed exclusively for İşbank and conducted in modular format in collaboration Within the frame of İşbank’s new business model with ESMT (European School of Management and introduced as part of its Digital Transformation Program, Technology GmbH) took place on ESMT Berlin Campus various classroom and digital training sessions have and the second one in İstanbul with the participation been designed that build on the skills and the knowledge of Department Heads. The first module dwells on required by the roles with a particular focus on sales the decision-making process as an individual and competencies, in order to help the employees quickly team, building high-performer teams, making use of adjust to their changing roles and responsibilities. In this strategic networks, getting to know self as a leader framework, employees of 150 combo branches included in and enhancing individual awareness. In addition, visits the deployment program completed the training in 2018 were paid to FinTech start-ups and incubation centers. and over 2,500 employees were given more than 33,000 The second module, on the other hand, focuses on hours of classroom training under 18 different headings understanding and leading change, stakeholder designed specifically for each role. management and motivation. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 73 More than 15,000 hours of training in total were given gamification project presented with the tagline “A Banking to 1,410 employees in 2018 as part of “Sales Academy” Adventure”, İşGame was played by 3,903 employees in in addition to the programs organized for digitalized 2018. branches. Moreover, training sessions were held to support technical knowledge and sales capabilities of 964 employees received training via the Live Digital Retail Direct Sales teams, Commercial Direct Sales teams Training app, which delivers rapid and instant live and Order Coordinators within the scope of centralized streaming enabled by the Cisco Webex solution that tasks. takes place among İşbank’s communication network facilities. Housed in İşbank’s TUTOM campus, Reality at İş For the purpose of supporting also the cultural studios delivered a virtual reality experience emphasizing transformation designed for the Head Office, a seminar the physical structures of branches covered in the series titled “Digital Days” was designed, inspired by Digitalization Program and the changes in the modes of the most demanded topics by employees. Addressing doing business to 495 employees. various subjects including Industry 4.0, Big Data, Financial Technology and Design Thinking, the seminars were In parallel with the Bank’s digitalization process, the attended by 492 employees. Innovation Academy carries on with its activities to raise awareness of the innovation concept and to ensure that In an effort to support effective use of new practices decision-makers expected to co-manage this innovation and highlighted products introduced within the scope of process are equally knowledgeable about the same. Digital Transformation Program in the field, digital training The training provided at the Academy focuses on the programs formulated according to microlearning principles culture of innovation, the importance of innovation for are being made available to all employees through the organizations, the creation of an innovation strategy that Learning World platform. is aligned with an organization’s structure and processes, prominent trends and technology in the sector, and inIn addition to classroom training, employees have access house entrepreneurship and design thinking methodology. to a variety of learning tools such as videos, games and e-learning through the Learning World, a digital learning Employees at İşbank are given access to training and platform. In 2018, employees were offered 99 different development opportunities within the frame of equal e-learning courses and a total of 74,561 e-learnings were opportunity through various learning tools and practices completed. The number of videos presented on İşTube including the training catalogue mentioned earlier, roleincreased to 274, and the number of viewings reached 115 specific training courses, academies, the Learning World thousand. platform, etc. As a result of the activities in this vein, average number of training hours per person rose to 23.1 In addition, Digital Culture videos describing 20 concepts hours in 2018. associated with technology and digitalization and are set to affect the future of the banking sector as well are open to all employees through the Learning World for raising Average number of training hours per 23.1 person rose to 23.1 hours in 2018. hours increased awareness and knowledge among all employees about digital concepts. Satisfaction with the Training score, whereby employees Besides the Learning World, the İşVille game, the first evaluate the training activities offered to them as part of gamification project designed to support employees’ the Working Life Evaluation Survey administered at the banking knowledge with new generation learning tools, Bank, rose to 73, above the targeted level, in 2018. was used by 3,272 employees in 2018, and created 40,471 hours of learning experience. The Bank’s second 74 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Working Life İşbank provides an online communication environment for 19.7% In 2018, average rate of OHS training its employees, whereby they per employee was 19.7%. can convey any demands and complaints directly to the senior management. Communication with Employees detailed information, and to let the employees convey the matters that they deem necessary to be made known to The fundamental goal of İşbank is to ensure uninterrupted the HR function. Information entered on this screen can communication at all levels with a respectful attitude be viewed only by the authorized HR personnel and the towards its employees. In this context, the Bank attaches employee himself/herself, and the information shared is great importance to communication with its employees, treated in confidence. respects its employees’ freedom of expression, and provides feedback opportunities by creating a complaint Occupational Health and Safety and reporting mechanism. The banking and finance sector embodies various physical, İşbank provides an online communication environment for environmental and psychological stress factors and its employees, whereby they can convey any demands and difficulties for the employees. İşbank makes it a priority complaints directly to the senior management. One of the to provide a healthy working environment both physically most important channels of trust-based communication and psychologically to its employees in order to eliminate between employees and the Bank is the Negative the sector-specific negative factors, which include, Feedback Line. Through the Negative Feedback Line that among others, non-ergonomic working conditions, fear can be reached over the corporate Intranet, employees of unemployment, and the stress caused by sales and are able to report the violations and/or any irregularity marketing targets. In this respect, the Bank takes utmost they become aware of at the Bank and offer suggestions care to create the ideal working environment for its for their correction. Matters reported by employees employees with occupational health and safety initiatives through the Negative Feedback Line are seen only by a that go beyond legal obligations. limited number of system recognized senior managers. The confidentiality of employees who report through the Considering employee health, well-being and job Negative Feedback Line is protected at the highest level, satisfaction among its priority issues, İşbank’s and they are never subjected to mistreatment because Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) practices are of their reporting. During 2018, the Bank’s employees managed by the Occupational Health and Safety Unit created 299 entries, all of which were evaluated according established under the Human Resources Division. The to the Bank’s strategies, and the reporting employees Occupational Health Safety Policy applies to all employees, were responded to by Mr. Adnan Bali, the CEO. “About interns, customers, visitors, subcontractors and service Me” screen, another online communication platform providers of the Bank. offered by the Bank, has been formed to support the Bank’s decision-making processes with accurate and more 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-1 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 75 İşbank makes it a priority to provide a healthy working environment both physically and psychologically to its employees with its activities in the field of Occupational Health and Safety. The Head of the Human Resources Division is the highest 19.7%. OHS training constitutes 3.1% of all training authorized person in charge of OHS, and works two provided to employees. The OHS training duration per reporting levels below the General Manager. In line with employee is 0.71 hours. the provisions of the Occupational Health and Safety Law, occupational health and safety committees are set up in Bank buildings with more than 50 employees, and İşbank’s Occupational Health and Safety Policy can be accessed the employees are represented on these committee. on the website. As of 2018 year-end OHS Committees exist in 35 Bank buildings. 127 OHS Committee meetings were held during the year. 312 Committee members, 205 of whom are Data about İşbank’s human resource can be found in employee representatives, attended these meetings. In Appendices to this Report. 2018, average rate of OHS training per employee was Performance Indicators 2017 2018 2017 2018 Average number of training Training hours per person for hours per employee per year * 21.3 23.1 managerial and leadership 11.7 16.8 Share of digital training within development programs * total training * 30% 35% Training hours per person for Number of applications IT competency development 32.0 27.6 programs * supporting customer 10 16 Training hours per new hire in satisfaction the first year of employment * 146 156 Total number of ideas collected from employees 7,712 7,168 Satisfaction with the training Ratio of women employees to score as part of the Working 70 73 total employees ** 55.73 55.71 Life Evaluation Survey (WLES) Ratio of women employees Employee Turnover Rate 1.75 2.00 in senior and middle 40.95 40.63 * Private security and servant staff are not included in training figures. management ** Excludes private security. Participation rate in the employee satisfaction survey 90% 88% Unionization rate 98% 99% 102-8 76 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Capital SDG Environmental Impact Natural Capital At every operation point, İşbank implements environment-friendly efficiency initiatives. İşbank champions conscious and careful use of the natural Environment-Friendly Buildings capital, which is the shared asset of the entire humanity. The Bank carries out various activities and takes on İşbank Head Office building (Tower 1) located in Levent, guiding roles to this end. İstanbul holds a BREEAM In-use ‘Excellent’ certificate. The Tuzla Technology and Operations Center (TUTOM), which In addition to the indirect environmental impact it creates was designed as an office complex with smart building via the environment-friendly, clean energy supporting systems and started its operations in 2015 upon the projects that it finances, İşbank’s consumption arising from relocation of information technologies and operational its own operations constitutes the organization’s direct units of the Bank to this facility, received the LEED Gold environment impact. The Bank espouses a long-term point certification in 2017. of view to minimize its direct impact and to back its natural capital. Tuzla Data Center of İşbank (Atlas) is a custom-designed facility observing green IT practices so as to minimize To this end, İşbank monitors its environmental impact environmental impact and to secure energy efficiency. stemming from its operations and works towards Possessing high technology and security standards continually bettering its performance. besides its environment-friendly character, Atlas has been certified with LEED v4 Gold for Data Centers. Atlas is the At every operation point, İşbank implements efficiency one and only data center that meets these standards in initiatives that will increase employee and customer Turkey. comfort, in addition to optimizing resource consumption. The Bank espouses responsible production and The implementation of environmental efficiency projects consumption models in its activities, and contributes to in the Bank’s service buildings are spread over time with the fight against climate change. a continuous improvement perspective. In this respect, ATLAS Data Center uses the energy generated during The Bank evaluates its environmental impacts stemming cooling operations to heat office areas, thereby reducing from its operations, and works to improve its performance energy consumption. in this respect. For this purpose, a variety of environmental indicators related to the main fields of influence are being followed up such as wastewater formation, water and energy consumption, and carbon emissions in the Bank’s Head Office buildings and branches. 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-2 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 77 The implementation of environmental efficiency projects 6% With LED lighting fixtures in 160 branches, it is in the Bank’s service buildings are targeted to bring about nearly 6% saving per branch in total electricity consumption. spread over time with a continuous improvement perspective. At the Head Office and TUTOM buildings: Efficient Branches • Waste oil is collected by oil traps located between the In keeping with the objective of increasing efficiency in kitchen and the sewer line and sent for recycling, branches, LED lighting fixtures, photocell urinals and highefficiency climate control systems that are not harmful • Photocell urinals are used for water saving purposes, to the ozone layer are preferred in all renovated or new branches. The branches are designed so as to ensure • Rainwater is collected and used for landscape irrigation, maximum use of daylight. • Waste is sorted, and recycling of eligible waste is From 2018, the Bank began installing split AC units using encouraged, R32 refrigerant, which is harmless to the ozone layer and is more advantageous as it is easy to recycle. Since it runs • Thanks to the rainwater filtering system installed on lower pressure, it will require less gas charging, hence in TUTOM, the collected water is filtered and then the higher energy efficiency classification. used for landscape irrigation and toilet flush tanks. According to precipitation data for 2018, it is estimated Within the scope of the renovation of approximately that approximately 13,800 cubic meters of water 160 branches under the Digital Transformation Project, will be collected and reused assuming that a similar lighting fixtures will be replaced with LED products, which precipitation pattern will occur in 2019. is targeted to bring about nearly 6% saving per branch in total electricity consumption. Emissions caused by transportation are reduced by the use of systems such as WebEx and Telepresence for inUnder the project for installing a “Branch Remote house meetings. In this way, approximately 182 tons* of Monitoring System” for tracking and analyzing the carbon emissions were avoided in 2018. resource consumption of branches for making necessary saving plans within the scope of environmental efficiency * Calculated based on a 90 HP car. efforts, trial runs were initiated at 12 branches, and approximately TL 100,000 has been spent as of 2018 for this purpose. The remote monitoring system allows monitoring the electricity consumption of branches. In 2019, the Bank targets to include the energy consumption of branches in this system for monitoring and control purposes. In this context, the estimated investment for rolling out the project at 200 branches in the 2019 budget is TL 2.5 million. This way, the Bank aims to analyze the consumption data and establish the available spots for reduction. 78 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Environmental Impact Through digitalization projects, İşbank carries on with its efforts to reduce paper consumption and generation of waste paper, and also attaches importance to recycling of used paper. In 2018, İşbank initiated the necessary work for The Credit Ready application saves 16 minutes of time and setting up an environmental management system at 20 sheets of paper in average per each loan disbursed in international standards. The Bank plans to obtain ISO branches within the scope of this practice. During 2018, 14001 Environmental Management System certification a total of 45,327 consumer loans have been extended for its Head Office (Tower 1) and Tuzla Technology and within the frame of the Credit Ready application. Operations Center buildings and 34 branches located in İstanbul in 2019. It is also targeted to receive the ISO In addition to paper savings, İşbank also attaches 14001 Environmental Management System certification importance to recycling of used papers. Besides 200 tons so as to gradually cover all locations of the Bank. of paper recycled in 2018, under the collaboration with the TEMA Foundation, documents to be discarded are sent to Paperless Banking TEMA. The Foundation plants a sapling for every 100 kg of papers donated. This year, 451 tons of paper were sent to Paper is a major item among resources consumed in TEMA for which 4,510 saplings were planted, bringing the banking operations. Through digitalization projects, İşbank total to 2,187 tons of paper shipped to TEMA and 21,865 carries on with its efforts to reduce paper consumption saplings planted in various parts of Turkey since the and generation of waste paper. Significant amount of inception of the project in 2012. Under the collaboration paper is saved both in operational processes and banking of the Bank with TEMA, 6 forests were created on behalf services through practices such as receiving approvals of İşbank in Balıkesir, Çanakkale, Manisa, Lefkoşa (Nicosia) by İşCep or SMS in cash loan processes, reducing receipt and Edirne. printouts and increasing double-sided printouts. Years Location Recycled Paper (kg) Number of Trees 2012-2013 Manisa, Salihli-Gökköy Memorial Forest 380,000 3,800 2014-2015 Northern Cyprus, Nicosia Ulupınar, Çanakkale 516,800 5,168 2016-2017 Dedeburnu, Balıkesir 338,700 3,387 2017-2018 Lapseki, Çanakkale 500,000 5,000 2018-2019 Subaşı, Edirne 451,030 4,510 The Digital Approval initiative, which allows customers to In addition, the use of Credit Ready, a digital loan product, digitally view and approve the contracts and forms related has been instrumental in saving a total of 7,945,540 to the products they use from the Bank, was launched in sheets of paper in 2018. With the process improvements 2017, and began to be used in selected pilot branches. The and infrastructure revisions in progress, operational initiative served to save 13,658 sheets of paper in 2018. efficiency increases will continue also in 2019. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 79 Performance Indicators GHG Emissions (ton CO2e) 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 4,455 4,886 20,472 Scope 2 17,663 21,248 68,599 Scope 3 1,431 2,461 10,563 Total 23,549 28,595 99,635 Energy Consumption 2016 2017 2018 Total Electricity Consumption (kWh) 39,735,302 37,961,619 135,408,773 Total Natural Gas Consumption (m3) 1,715,992 1,709,335 4,126,643 Total Energy Consumption (Gj) 202,290 203,343 756,517 Water Consumption (m3) 2016 2017 2018 Total Water Consumption 127,633 112,707 371,244 Mains Water (Blue) 117,648 105,559 365,424 Waste Water (Grey) 0 0 0 Spring Water (Green) 9,985 7,148 5,820 Recycled/Reused Water 9,985 7,148 5,820 Fuel Consumption of Vehicles (lt) 2016 2017 2018 Fuel Consumption by Company Vehicles (Diesel Oil) 239,874 204,804 2,718,367 Fuel Consumption by Company Vehicles (Gas) 1,621 6,205 15,335 Fuel Consumption by Personnel Service Vehicles (Diesel Oil) 534,616 562,655 Paper Consumption (ton) 2016 2017 2018 Paper Consumption 161.8 104.62 807.69 Amount of Waste (ton) 2016 2017 2018 Recycled Hazardous Waste 3.13 12.71 Recycled Non-Hazardous Waste (glass, plastic, metal) 23.1 28.8 Recycled Paper 200.46 The consumption data for 2016 and 2017 take into account the Head Office buildings in İstanbul, whereas 2018 data cover all operation and service locations of İşbank in Turkey. Emission Intensities 2018 Emission per employee (tCO2e/number of employees) 4.40 Emission according to consolidated total assets (tCO2e/million TL) 0.20 Emission according to consolidated net profit (tCO2e/million TL) 14.94 302-1 | 302-2 | 302-3 | 302-4 | 302-5 | 303-1 | 303-3 | 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-3 | 305-4 | 305-5 | 306-1 | 306-2 80 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report With Social Progress We are implementing comprehensive and longlasting social investment programs with our responsible corporate citizen identity. Our initiatives focused on education, environment, culture and art help bring up generations who will play a role in advancing the society to the level of contemporary civilization. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 81 82 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Capital SDG Social Investment Programs Social and Relationship Capital İşbank takes on a pioneering and guiding role in social progress and development. In line with its founding mission, the Bank implements comprehensive and long-lasting social investment programs based on the principle of sustainability. İşbank supports social progress employing a long-lived Education approach on the back of comprehensive social investment initiatives carried out with its responsible corporate İşbank’s support for bringing up generations who espouse identity. the principles of Atatürk and will play a role in advancing the society to the level of contemporary civilization has İşbank builds on its brand equity by making use of its been ongoing at an increasing rate since the first day of social-relationship capital in the broad sphere of influence its inception, to the present day. Aware of the effective it creates with its efficient stakeholder communication role education has in ensuring the permanence of social capability, collective capital and its subsidiaries, and development and progress, the Bank carries out inclusive enhances customer and stakeholder satisfaction. and long-term projects in this field. İşbank takes on a pioneering and guiding role in social Chess progress and development. In line with its founding mission, the Bank implements comprehensive and longİşbank contributes to the transformation of chess into lasting social investment programs based on the principle an easily accessible and popular sport especially among of sustainability. children, and to compensating the lacking aspects of chess education. The Bank forms collaborations to make chess Targeting to deliver the added value generated in its a popular and sought after sport across the country, and principal field of activity to the broadest segment of present gifted youngsters with opportunities in this field the society possible, İşbank focuses on the areas of so as to increase the level and frequency of international education, environment, culture and arts. The Bank’s achievements. social investment programs covering corporate social responsibility projects, donations and sponsorships With the goal of making chess a widely played sport in the are carried out under the supervision of the Corporate country, İşbank entered into cooperation with the Turkish Social Responsibility Committee that reports directly to Chess Federation. the Board of Directors. İşbank develops collaborations with different stakeholder groups and mainly with civil society organizations, thus ensuring active stakeholder involvement in social investment programs. These initiatives are designed in a framework that is aligned with Corporate Social Responsibility principles, contributes to Sustainable Development Goals, and responds to the current needs of the community. 203-1 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 83 With the goal of making chess a widely played sport in the 886,547 Since 2005, the number of licensed country, İşbank entered into players increased to 886,547. cooperation with the Turkish Chess Federation. Main Sponsor of the Turkish Chess Federation Chess Classes in Schools The Bank has been the main sponsor of the Turkish Chess classes are being opened in primary and secondary Chess Federation since 2005. Since the inception of the schools in order to encourage children to play chess, to sponsorship, attract the attention of teachers and parents to this area, and to supply lacking materials at schools with limited • licensed players increased from 30,000 to 886,547, means. Within the scope of the sponsorship, the Bank donates 10 chess sets, one chess board and 10 Chess • chess trainers increased from 2,000 to 86,211, Textbooks from Kültür Yayınları to each school. In 2018, over 2,000 chess classes were opened, bringing the total • chess tournaments increased from 400 to 9,000, number of chess classes in schools across Turkey to over 22,000. • chess clubs increased from 600 to 2,016, Main sponsor of the Northern Cyprus Chess • title-holder chess players increased from 29 to 171. Federation Medals claimed in international tournaments reached 434. In parallel with its sponsorship of the Turkish Chess The titles won to date are presented below: Federation, İşbank became the sponsor of the Northern Cyprus Chess Federation as well in 2013 with the same • 23 world championships, 29 second place and 35 third objectives. Upon initiation of the sponsorship, chess has place titles in worldwide organizations, become a club activity once a week in primary schools in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. • 62 European championships, 56 second place and 52 third place titles in Europe-wide organizations, and • 4 European Championships as a country. 84 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Social Investment Programs The 81 Students from 81 Cities initiative, launched in 2008-2009 academic year within the collaboration between İşbank and Darüşşafaka, is one of the most comprehensive and longest-lived corporate social responsibility projects in the area of education in Turkey. Hands with Sight Project Türkiye İş Bankası Chess League In 2018, “Hands with Sight” project was launched for The strongest league in its field in Turkey, Türkiye İş visually-impaired children as a joint initiative of the Turkish Bankası Chess League is also recognized as one of the Chess Federation and the Ministry of National Education strongest ones in Europe. Hatay Metropolitan Municipality General Directorate of Special Education and Guidance Youth and Sports Club has claimed championship of the Services with the support of İşbank. Within the scope Türkiye İş Bankası Chess League in the 2017-2018 season. of the project, chess classes designed with accessible materials were opened in 13 schools for the visually 81 Students from 81 Cities impaired children in Turkey. The 81 Students from 81 Cities initiative, launched in Turkey Junior, Youth and Veterans Chess 2008-2009 academic year within the collaboration Championships between İşbank and Darüşşafaka Educational Institutions, was implemented as the most comprehensive and 2,726 players from 81 cities in Turkey and from the Turkish longest-lived corporate social responsibility project in Republic of Northern Cyprus competed in the Turkey Junior the area of education in Turkey. Under the project, each (aged 7-12), Youth (aged 13-18) and Veterans (50-65+) year İşbank covers all educational expenses of 81 children Chess Championships held concurrently in Antalya in from 81 cities who pass the Darüşşafaka Educational 2018. Institutions admission exam from the fifth grade through to the end of high school. School Sports Turkey Chess Championship Within the scope of the project, 84 students graduated School Sports Turkey Chess Championship is being from high school at the end of 2017-2018 academic year. organized since 2015 as a cooperative effort of the Turkish İşbank keeps supporting to university students among Chess Federation and School Sports Branch under the Darüşşafaka graduates who are granted merit scholarship Ministry of Youth and Sports Directorate General of Sports as per Darüşşafaka’s scholarship regulations. Furthermore, Department of Sports Activities. School Sports Turkey every year İşbank covers the educational costs of a certain Chess Championship 2018 was held in Kütahya and number of Darüşşafaka graduates who attend the Koç was participated by 116 teams and 593 players from 48 University under the university’s “Anadolu Scholarship provinces and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Holders” program. Including the students who have graduated in earlier years, the total number of students reached 700. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 85 One Million Books, One Million Children Culture and Art İşbank launched the “One Million Books, One Million İşbank contributes to advancement of the country’s arts Children” campaign, one of the biggest book campaigns landscape, and to bringing international art and culture ever undertaken in Turkey, at the end of the 2007-2008 events to Turkey. The Bank also sponsors projects aimed academic year. at bringing the country’s rich archaeological heritage to light, introducing supports them to new generations, and With this campaign, the Bank aims to help build children’s preserving it for the future. cognitive and cultural skills, support the formation of a generation that reads and questions, and contribute to Kültür Yayınları establishing a cordial communication between the Bank and children at an early age. Established in 1956 by Hasan Âli Yücel, the former Minister of Education, Kültür Yayınları has since been an With the book titled Robotlar Hapşırabilir Mi? Bilim Yolunda indispensable publishing house for all the readers with its Eğlenceli Adımlar Kitabı (Can Robots Sneeze? The Book publications that are both rich in content and superior in of Entertaining Steps to Science) distributed for the 11th print quality. Carrying on with its publication activities with year of the campaign carried out at the end of 2017-2018 the principles of high quality publishing, contribution to academic year, 13 million books in total were distributed the advancement of the Turkish language, and instilling to primary and secondary school students. The book the habit of reading from young ages, Kültür Yayınları has distributed for the campaign was sent to Bahrain, Georgia, brought more than 8 million books to the readers in 2018. Iraq, the UK and Kosovo branches, and to İşbank AG and İşbank Russia, besides İşbank branches in Turkey and İş Sanat T.R.N.C. Founded in 2000 with the objective of further upgrading As in previous years, a certain number of books were the artistic and cultural life in İstanbul, İş Sanat is today printed in the Braille alphabet and delivered to the libraries one of the most prestigious culture and art centers of of schools providing education to visually impaired Turkey. The Center brings service to art lovers with İş children in 2018. In addition, books were sent to students Sanat Concert Hall and Kibele Art Gallery in music and of Regional Boarding Secondary Schools and to children plastic arts disciplines. boarding in the housing of the General Directorate of Children’s Services. İş Sanat Concert Hall Book donations to schools and libraries Hosting numerous events from classic music to jazz and world music, from local projects to dance performances, As an extension of the Bank’s social responsibility the Concert Hall opens its stage to national and foreign initiatives seeking to contribute to education, İşbank leading artists. One of Turkey’s most important art continued sending books published by İş Bankası Kültür platforms, İş Sanat Concert Hall welcomed more than Yayınları publishing house to schools and public libraries 500,000 art lovers of all ages to date with its modern and all over the country. In 2018, over 52,000 books were dynamic program and innovative and original projects. delivered to 2,844 schools and libraries. Kibele Art Gallery Golden Youth Award Opened in 2000 as part of İşbank’s gallery management Since 1971, İşbank has presented awards to students who operations that have been ongoing since 1976, Kibele Art excel in the university admission exams every year under Gallery showcases the exhibitions of masterful artists the “Golden Youth” award program. The number of the producing plastic arts. Having hosted the exhibitions of award recipients topped 3,000. BUBİ, Ali İsmail Türemen, Onay Akbaş and Hanefi Yeter in the 2017-2018 season, Kibele Art Gallery opened the 2018-2019 season with Mustafa Ayaz exhibition. 86 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Social Investment Programs Opened its doors on 14 November 2007 as the first museum specialized in the history of economy, the İşbank Museum reflects the transformation phases of banking in Turkey since the foundation of the Bank until today. Türkiye İş Bankası Müzesi (İşbank Museum) Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University Artworks Conservation and Restoration Laboratory The İşbank Museum opened its doors on 14 November 2007 as the first museum specialized in the Republic Turkey’s first scientific “Artworks Conservation and era history of economy. The Museum offers a narrative Restoration Laboratory” was co-established at Mimar of the Bank’s deep-rooted institutional history and Sinan Fine Arts University by İşbank and the University in Turkey’s economic development with documents, banking 2012. Conservation and restoration of artworks included equipment, communication devices, photographs, in İşbank Art Collection are carried out at this laboratory. In pictures, advertisements, promotional materials and films. addition, education is ongoing at the University’s Artworks Conservation and Restoration BA program, which was İşbank Museum collection mainly consists of threeestablished in the 2013-2014 academic year as part of dimensional objects that depict the transformation phases this cooperation. of banking in Turkey during the Republic Era and objects that have become an indispensable part of people’s daily Sponsorship of Archeological Projects lives. The pieces in the collection have been obtained from İşbank’s branches. In order to secure longevity of the Zeugma Ancient City “House of the Muses” pieces, international museum protection standards are applied to preserve the collection for posterity. Zeugma Ancient City, which is one of Turkey’s important historic and cultural venues, lies on the banks of Birecik Various workshops targeted at children are conducted at Reservoir in the southeastern province of Gaziantep’s the Museum, including Budgeting and Saving, Money of Nizip district. The objects unearthed in the excavations the World, Museum Memory, and My Pocket Money in my that have been in progress since 1987 are displayed in Pocket. Additionally, Financial Literacy Training courses are the Zeugma Open Air Museum. İşbank undertook the provided for adults. Over 20,000 students attended the sponsorship of the “House of the Muses” excavation workshops held at the Museum in 2018. located in the Zeugma Ancient City for a period of 5 years starting from 2012. In 2017, the duration of the İşbank Museum welcomed 275,000 visitors in 2018 and sponsorship was decided to be extended. In 2018, it was the total number of visitors since the initial opening of decided to increase the amount of sponsorship allocated the museum exceeded 1.1 million. In its history of more by İşbank to the excavations, and to give support to the than 10 years, İşbank Museum also authored significant construction of the Excavation Home and Restoration exhibitions. “İşbank Proudly Presents” exhibition put on Center, which began on the site. The excavation of the display 450 commercial films, nearly 400 printed materials “House of the Muses” is targeted to be completed in 2019. and about 60 original objects to depict the communication activities İşbank carried out with advertisements throughout its 94 years of history. The exhibition was visited by more than 280,000 people. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 87 Ancient City of Patara In this regard, the Bank aims to reduce its environmental impacts, contribute to the protection of Turkey’s İşbank decided to sponsor the excavations ongoing since biodiversity and raise awareness by collaborating with civil 1988 in the ancient city of Patara in the Kaş district of society organizations. Antalya, which is one of the most important archeological sites in Turkey, for a period of 5 years. Besides İşbank, its 81 Forests in 81 Cities subsidiaries Şişecam and TSKB have become sponsors of the excavations in 2016. The “81 Forests in 81 Cities” project of İşbank was initiated in 2008 in collaboration with the TEMA Foundation and İstanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. Aiming to International İstanbul Music Festival protect the environment and to increase environmental awareness of the society, particularly of children, the İşbank sponsored the English Chamber Orchestra, Güher project has been instrumental in planting 2,205,000 & Süher Pekinel concert performed within the scope of saplings over a total area of 1,500 hectares in all cities in the 46th İstanbul Music Festival organized by the İstanbul Turkey and 35,200 saplings were planted on 22 hectares Foundation for Culture and Arts. in the T.R.N.C. In addition, 1,486 km of land was terraced as part of the efforts to fight erosion that causes loss of land. Environment Under the project, the upkeeping efforts, which cover the Assuming a pioneering role in protecting the environment care of the saplings for a five-year period following the and raising environmental awareness among the planting, continued in 2018. As part of the upkeeping efforts, public make an integral part of İşbank’s environmental about 950,000 complementary plantings were made to date. responsibility approach. Including the complementary plantings, the total number of saplings planted exceeded 3 million. The success rate in forested areas was 83% as at year-end 2018. Performance Indicators 2017 2018 81 Students from 81 Cities 81 Students from 81 Cities Contribution to equal opportunity in education Including those who graduated, the Including those who graduated, the number of students exceeded 600. number of students closed in on 700. One Million Books, One Million One Million Books, One Million Children Children Under the campaign held for the Under the campaign held for the 11th time at the end of 2017-2018 Helping the formation of 10th time at the end of 2016-2017 a generation that reads academic year, 13 million books in academic year, 12 million books in total and questions, supporting total were given as gifts to primary children’s cognitive and were given as gifts to primary and and secondary school students to cultural development secondary school students to date. date. Book donations to schools Book donations to schools In 2017, over 41,000 books were sent In 2018, over 52,000 books were sent to 2,281 schools and libraries. to 2,844 schools and libraries. More than 15,000 students in total More than 20,000 students in Financial literacy and awareness of saving up participated in the workshops total participated in the workshops organized at İşbank Museum. organized at İşbank Museum 88 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Risks and Opportunities Paying attention to maintaining and continually improving its financial structure, İşbank adopts various measures against the factors that may create a risk upon its financial capital. The world is undergoing different processes in financial, structure. Along this line, the Bank closely watches the social and environmental terms. In 2018, certain factors that may create a risk upon its financial capital and developments that might potentially impact the banking adopts various measures against them. sector both globally and nationally started to become evident. These developments are defined as potential In 2018 that was dominated by deteriorated risk risk and opportunity areas as they might impact İşbank’s perception and an environment of uncertainty, İşbank future activities and value creation capacity. İşbank was governed with a dynamic and proactive strategy that keeps a close eye on the economic, social and regulatory prioritized healthy and sustainable growth with a focus developments in these main headings and displays a on its balance sheet, solid liquidity and quality assets. In proactive attitude. this framework, the Bank observed all the elements and in particular, efficient management of credit and investment Change and Transformation in the Markets portfolios as well as of FC and liquidity positions, broadening the deposit base that constitutes the main The markets are undergoing a transformation process due funding item, and pursuing diversified funding policies, to economic and political developments alike. The steps and created a flexible balance sheet composition. the central banks of developed countries take in relation to monetary policies, trade wars and geopolitical events lead In the period ahead, İşbank will continue to stand by its to deteriorated risk perception on a global scale, which customers and to create value by optimally managing results in volatilities in the markets. Manifestly, these the risks stemming from the changes in the market and volatilities bear a greater impact upon emerging markets. drawing on its customer-centric service concept even amid challenging operating environments. Parallel to global developments, the markets in Turkey have also had a bustling year. Economic slowdown in the Social Change country got even more pronounced in the second half of 2018. It is considered that, apart from financial developments, changes in the operating environment act as a crucial Volatilities in domestic and overseas markets have the factor that will make an impact on the Bank. Geopolitical potential to create risks in the short and medium term risks stemming from the political instability in Turkey’s with respect to financial services providers, which may put near geography, the demographic movement resulting pressure on operational income, profit and market shares. from the said instability, and the security concerns that While sustaining its growth with the support of its robust accompany the two afore mentioned circumstances financial capital, İşbank has been paying equal attention are regarded as the basic considerations that gain the to maintaining and continually improving its financial foreground in terms of the operating environment risk. It 102-15 | 201-2 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 89 The concepts of sustainable growth and sustainable Social equality In the framework of social equality expectations, development establish there arises a demand for equal and unobstructed access to services including themselves more in the policies education, healthcare and social security. of countries by the day. is observed that the risks originating from political -and infrastructures such as potable water, roads and energy. to a certain extent geopoliticalbalances that Turkey This situation gives rise to a new market and business is exposed to lead to uncertainty also in the financial opportunity for financial institutions that fund the environment, negatively influence the investment superstructure and infrastructure projects associated appetite, and change spending tendencies and patterns of with these services. A similar situation is observed also households as we know them. in Turkey. Various projects are being developed in recent years in the healthcare, transportation and education In the event of political instability, new business sectors, which are based particularly on public-private opportunities might arise as new anticipations in the partnership (PPP) models. İşbank regards these projects society are triggered, although risks might increase in as an opportunity. Last year, the Bank took part in the geopolitical terms. Increased global mobility coupled with financing of various highway and transportation projects the multi-dimension quality acquired by communication handled by multi-bank consortiums for funding mega is accompanied by new social changes in many countries, infrastructure projects based on build-operate-transfer which are expressed with different methods and tools. (BOT) model. These changes and differentiated expectations give rise to changes in mentality, habits and consumption forms. In keeping with its perspective of supporting social This change creates different demands in individuals and advancement and fulfilling expectations, İşbank various stakeholder groups within the society; as a result, targets to be actively involved also in the period ahead a new demand market is formed in response. in investments focused on sustainable development directed towards social welfare, and closely follows up the Sustainability is a key notion that triggers this change. developments in this department for this purpose. The concepts of sustainable growth and sustainable development gain increased recognition and heightened Climate Change and Environmental Dynamics importance by the day, and they establish themselves in the policies of countries. The impact of manufacturing processes and business activities on the environment and natural resources have In addition to the change in national policies, inclusiveness gotten to an irreversible point all over the world. The and equality approaches act as important factors in consumption tendency of the mankind increase at a much changed demand. There arises a demand for equal and faster pace than the time needed to regenerate or recover unobstructed access to fundamental services including the resources. education, healthcare and social security and to basic 90 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Risks and Opportunities İşbank manages the environmental and social risks stemming from its own operations and also from the projects it finances with an integrated perspective. Various awareness initiatives have been launched to Aware of these risks, İşbank takes an integrated approach, increase the visibility of the impacts and harms production addressing environmental and social risks together with models that charge ahead without replenishing the financial risks, and manages them within the scope of depleted resources have upon the world. For instance, integrated risk management approach. The environmental the date when humanity’s demand for ecological and social risk evaluation process introduced for credits resources and services in a given year exceeds what in pilot scale in 2012 allows the Bank to manage the Earth can regenerate in that year has been defined as environmental and social risks stemming from its own the Earth Overshoot Day. According to the calculation, operations and also from the projects it finances with the Earth Overshoot Day, which is accepted as the date an integrated perspective. All risks that may affect the when the humanity consumes a given year’s ecological financial profitability, as well as the environment, are resources and starts borrowing from those of the monitored based on awareness approach. following year, moves forward every year. In 2018, the Earth Overshoot Day was on August 1st. For Turkey, it The threats created by the risks emerging in the sector was July 11th. The change in these dates indicates at dog the international agenda as well. Apparently, national uninformed consumption of available resources and and international policies will be subject to changes due the implementation of a business model that is not to the approaches for managing these risks and mitigating sustainable. Continuation of business models in this their impacts. Governments and international associations manner gives a sign that the companies will be confronted are anticipated to establish new and more comprehensive with resource problems in the medium and long term, environmental legislation and standards in the future. and their operations will be affected. This is a potentially This will, undoubtedly, affect Turkey. Any environmental important risk for banks and other financial institutions legislation that will be introduced in Turkey for the that extend financing for companies and projects. purposes of harmonization with the EU acquis or for any Environmental and social impacts of funded projects other reason will incorporate the risk of change to the can ultimately lead to emergence of financial risks. Due manufacturing model and processes and modes of doing to environmental or social issues, the customer that business, which will potentially give rise to compliance is extended with financing can be exposed to various risks with respect to the customers. risks up to and including the cessation/slowdown of its activities, cessation of its sales, loss of turnover, reduced Customers’ failure to achieve compliance with new total assets, and even attachment of a company because expectations and regulations governing climate of regulatory non-compliance. Materialization of these requirements could pose a risk element that could risks can affect the credit repayments to the financing lead to weakened solvency and their eradication from bank. the sector by losing competition in the event of total İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 91 İşbank takes on an important role in transitioning to lowUSD 463 billion The estimated climate finance flows for carbon economy. 2015 and 2016 is average USD 463 billion per annum globally. detachment from the process. İşbank strictly adheres to energy projects assume a greater role within the context the environmental and social risk management approach of adjustment to climate change. New products and it implements in lending activities, and builds on its risk services will need to be developed in the finance sector management experience against potential impacts that as well in line with the emerging market demand within may arise in the future. the process of fighting against climate change. Active in various aspects in relation to climate change, İşbank also Taking on an important role in Turkey’s transitioning to capitalizes on potential opportunities in this department. low-carbon economy, İşbank extends support directly to the mitigation of risks and impacts arising from climate It is considered that developments related to climate change by financing renewable energy projects. change can also give rise to new opportunities in terms of diversification of financial resources. It is possible In the same framework, it is highly probable that the that there will be a rise in resources themed around environment-related criteria imposed by international climate change on a global scale. According to IPCC financial institutions will get increasingly stricter (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change), the total and introduce additional obligations. For the banks, amount of investments in energy systems necessary this situation creates the risk of being put in a less for keeping global warming within a 15 degree Celsius advantageous position as compared with other market scenario add up to USD 1.6 to 3.8 trillion1. The same players in terms of the relations with international study estimates that global climate finance flows for financial institutions. For İşbank, management of 2015 and 2016 average USD 463 billion per annum environmental risks is a material issue, and new practices globally. This shows that there is a significant gap and are constantly followed up. The Bank examines best area for improvement in climate finance. Therefore, it is practices, and adopts successful implementations. anticipated that international financial institutions and development banks will begin to channel their theme Climate change and environmental dynamics open the funds to adaptation to climate change and fighting door for new opportunities, as much as posing risks climate change. Having espoused it as its goal to utilize its for the financial sector. The increased importance of natural capital in the most efficient manner, the Bank has environment-friendly applications, green economy and increasing power to access theme funds that thrive on an clean energy result in a growing number of investments international scale. in this field. In particular, infrastructure and renewable 1 https://climatepolicyinitiative.org/publication/global-climate-finance-an-updated-view-2018/ 92 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Risks and Opportunities Expectations grow by the day in relation to digital products such as Internet banking and mobile applications, thanks to changing consumer needs due to digitalization. Digitalization Cyber security is another critical heading accompanying digital transformation. Cyber threats create significant Digitalization has become a phenomenon that bears an financial loss and also reputational risk for financial impact in every stage of life from the daily life to business institutions. According to the IMF, the loss sustained by processes. Moreover, transition to digital applications is financial institutions in the US only between 2014 and not specific to a region or country, but it is a global change. 2017 due to data leaks is estimated at USD 38 billion.3 According to the calculations of the World Economic Forum, digitalization could create up to 6 million jobs İşbank goes beyond closely monitoring the regulatory worldwide between 2016 and 2025. Similarly, various framework to take the necessary measures concerning digital initiatives in the industry could deliver 26 billion data security, and continuously improves its work tons of net avoided CO2 emissions in the same timeframe.2 processes. The Bank continually makes betterments in the area of data security and privacy in relation to digital Digital transformation radically changes and reshapes transformation, and increases resilience against potential consumer expectations as well. The effects of threats, and builds on the Bank’s quick decision-making digitalization transform consumer demands in all areas capability in case of contingencies. from shopping habits to communication. This also applies to the banking sector. Expectations grow by the day in Innovation relation to Internet banking, mobile applications, digital products in commercial banking and similar matters. Innovation can be most extensively defined as turning an idea or invention into a value-added product or New cooperation areas created by transformed demands service that customers are willing to pay for. Innovation due to digitalization will offer a significant opportunity. requires more than customary business development Yet, it is predicted that the accelerated competition in or R&D activity, and calls for following up the trends the sector resulting from the digitalization process will and developments, coupled with an approach that can possibly push quicker adjustment to expectations. proactively process the society’s needs and expectations. Competitive progress that will differentiate the businesses 2 http://reports.weforum.org/digital-transformation/understanding-the-impact-of-digitalization-on-society/ 3 Cyber Risk for the Financial Sector: A Framework for Quantitative Assessment, WP/18/143, July 2018 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 93 İşbank continuously improves its work processes to take the Innovation For financial sector, innovation is not only about necessary measures concerning increased diversity of products and services, but it is about the ability to offer a variation also in the data security. transformation of business models. in the future will probably be realized by companies that In the future, it is anticipated that these needs will be have espoused innovation and embedded it into their identified in greater detail through data analytics and corporate cultures. digital analyses, and personalized experiences will be developed on the basis of individuals rather than on a Innovation offers opportunities to the service sector, as group scale. The quickly changing demand conditions and much as to the real sector. With respect to the financial the evolving needs of the society will probably complicate sector specifically, innovation is not only about increased the competitive conditions in the financial services sector diversity of products and services, but it is about the as well. Having always carried out its operations with a ability to offer a variation also in the transformation of close eye on the society’s needs and maintained its focus business models. on timely catering to evolving needs in every department drawing on its agile structure, İşbank will continue to For instance, banks could re-evaluate the segmentation correctly analyze these trends and to improve its work of their products and services from the viewpoint of processes. innovation. In our day, the conventional approach to banking targets segments based on demographic or vocational sets such as youth, retirees, farmers, etc. both in Turkey and around the world. However, some banks attempt to change this approach. Along this line, studies are carried out in relation to customers’ lifestyles, values and their unfulfilled needs, and these groups are targeted in product and service development processes. 4 4 https://thefinancialbrand.com/77869/innovation-trends-banking-ai-api-personalization-payments/ 94 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Annexes Human Resources Data 2016 2017 2018 Number of Employees Female Male Female Male Female Male Total Number of Employees 12,669 12,087 12,755 12,113 12,583 11,987 Number of Employees Covered by Collective 12,490 11,947 12,504 11,927 12,381 11,845 Bargaining Agreements Number of Employees Subjected to Regular 11,591 11,345 11,707 11,346 11,521 11,351 Performance and Career Development Evaluation Number of Employees per Employment Type 2016 2017 2018 Full Time 24,719 24,806 24,524 Part Time 37 62 46 Total 24,756 24,868 24,570 Number of Employees per Region and Branch 2016 2017 2018 Head Office 6,217 6,235 6,571 Branch 17,811 17,863 17,204 Region 728 770 795 Total 24,756 24,868 24,570 Number of Employees by Gender and Age 2016 2017 2018 Upper Management Female Male Female Male Female Male (Executive Committee and BoD) Over 50 1 13 2 14 2 16 30-50 2 5 3 5 3 2 Under 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 Employees in Management Position Female Male Female Male Female Male (Division Manager and Upper Position) Over 50 3 24 4 20 6 23 30-50 10 36 8 45 6 41 Under 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of Employees by Age 2016 2017 2018 Over 50 228 235 271 30-50 20,942 21,408 21,596 Under 30 3,586 3,225 2,703 Total 24,756 24,868 24,570 Number of Employees by Seniority 2016 2017 2018 0-5 Years 3,918 4,001 3,650 5-10 Years 7,489 6,554 5,615 10+ years 13,349 14,313 15,305 Total 24,756 24,868 24,570 Employee Turnover Rate 2016 2017 2018 2.19 1.75 2.00 401-1 | 401-2 | 401-3 | 403-1 | 403-2 | 403-3 | 404-1 | 404-3 | 405-1 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 95 Number of Employees by Educational Background 2016 2017 2018 Secondary School 85 77 68 High School 4,248 4,083 3,954 Graduate School (2and 3-year college) 538 554 548 University (4-year college) 18,851 19,096 18,908 Post Graduate 1,022 1,043 1,075 PhD Degree 12 15 17 Number of Employees Benefiting from Parental 2016 2017 2018 Leave and Returning After Parental Leave Female Male Female Male Female Male Benefiting from Parental Leave 998 0 970 0 986 0 Returning After Parental Leave 996 0 969 0 970 0 Total Employment Created In Subsidiaries 2016 2017 2018 Number of Subsidiaries 108 105 110 Number of Employees in Subsidiaries 32,415 32,597 33,388 Trainings Provided to Employees * 2016 2017 2018 Average Annual Training Hours per Employee 15.8 21.3 23.1 Total Training Hours Provided to Employees 354,838 479,723 513,769 Average Annual Training Hours per Female 13.6 19.0 20.8 Employees Average Annual Training Hours per Male Employees 18.7 24.2 26.1 *The private security staff and orderly personnel are not included in the number of trainings. 2018 Anti-Corruption Ethical Principles Human Rights Sustainability Number of Trainees 914 363 379 733 Person*Hour 3,605 175 1,086 1,829 2016 2017 2018 Occupational Health and Safety Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of Incidents 75 28 25 10 58 26 Number of Work Related Fatalities 0 0 0 1 0 0 Number of Occupational Diseases 0 0 0 0 0 0 Absenteeism 133 40 550 246 380 30 Injury Frequency Rate (Injury Rate-IR) 0,59 0,23 0,196 0,083 0,236 0,105 Occupational Disease Rate (ODR) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lost Day Rate (LDR) 1,050 0,331 4,312 2,031 1,540 0,122 Absenteeism Rate (AR) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Calculations are based on the formulas below: Injury Frequency Rate (IR): Total number of injuries/(Total working hours-Lost hours) * 200,000 Occupational Disease Rate (ODR): Number of occupational diseases * 200,000/Total working hours Lost Day Rate (LDR): Total number of lost days * 200,000/Total working hours Absenteeism Rate (AR): Lost working hours/Total working hours 96 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Annexes Corporate Memberships • Association of Corporate Communicators • AKUT Search and Rescue Association • International Chamber of Commerce Turkey Commission on Banking Techniques and Practices • European Association for Banking and Financial History (EABH) • National Education Foundation • European Financial Management and Marketing • Advertisers’ Association of Turkey Association (EFMA) • Association of Risk Manages • European Association of Communication Directors (EACD) • Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA) • The Research Institute of Banking and Commercial Law • Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for • The Interbank Card Center (BKM) Reforestation and Protection of Natural Habitats (TEMA) • Call Centers Association • Turkish Historical Society • Darüşşafaka Society • The Banks Association of Turkey Ethics Commission • Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association • Ethics and Reputation Society (TEİD) (TURMEPA) • Working Group of the Banks Association of Turkey on • Foreign Economic Relations Board of Turkey (DEİK) the Role of the Finance Sector in Sustainable Growth • Elginkan Community • The Institute of Internal Auditing Turkey • The Bankers’ Association for Finance and Trade (BAFT• Quality Association of Turkey (KalDer) IFSA) • Turkish Institutional Investment Managers’ Association • Financial Literacy and Inclusion Association (FODER) • Turkish Human Resources Management Association • Financial Managers’ Foundation of Turkey (Finans Kulüp) (PERYÖN) • Global Relations Forum • Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD) • Global Compact Turkey Sustainable Banking and • Institute of International Finance (IIF) Finance Working Group • Vehbi Koç Foundation • Economic Development Foundation • Platform of Entrepreneur Institutions • İstanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts (İKSV) 102-12 | 102-13 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 97 Stakeholder Dialogue Stakeholder Group Communication Frequency Communication Method Customers Continuous Branches, ATM, Internet Branch, Telephone Branch and mobile banking channels, customer relations representatives, meetings, customer satisfaction surveys, social media Shareholders and Investors Continuous General Assembly and investor meetings, investor presentations, analyst/investor days, introductory meetings, teleconferences, daily communications by the Investor Relations Division, İşbank Investor Relations web page, Public Disclosure Platform, Information Society Services Platform established as per the Turkish Code of Commerce, Annual Report, Sustainability Report, joint projects Analysts Annually and quarterly Analyst days, communications by the Investor Relations Division, Annual Report, Sustainability Report Employees Continuous Employee satisfaction surveys, stakeholder analysis as part of sustainability, training activities, performance assessment, internal communication platforms, regular executive meetings Subsidiaries Continuous Joint projects Public Institutions and Regulatory Agencies Minimum four times a year Reporting processes, consultation meetings Nongovernmental Organizations and Sector Very frequent Informative or press conferences, special meetings, Unions answering written questions, joint projects Financial Institutions and Rating Agencies Minimum once a year Assessment and information meetings, Annual Report, Sustainability Report, answering written questions International Organizations and Initiatives Very frequent Conferences, seminars, congresses, workshops, answering written questions Media Continuous Information communication, press conferences, special meetings, answering written questions Suppliers Continuous Daily communication with goods and service suppliers, initiatives aiming at raising sustainability awareness among suppliers 102-40 | 102-43 | 102-44 98 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Annexes Loans Granted by International Financial Institutions International Maturity Date of Signature Amount Purpose of Extending Loans Financial Institution (years) 13.04.2009 € 250.000.000 12 Financing SMEs 09.12.2011 € 150.000.000 10 Financing SMEs Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy 28.06.2012(1) € 75.000.000 12 projects as part of the MidSEFF Program Financing of SMEs and enterprises with 250 to 3,000 04.12.2013 € 150.000.000 8 employees Financing the loans to be extended to residential European buildings that fall under the scope of Law No. 6306 Investment Bank 09.05.2014 € 200.000.000 10 and conform to the EIB criteria, in order to improve (EIB) earthquake safety and energy efficiency in residential buildings Financing of SMEs and enterprises with 250 to 3,000 30.10.2015(1) $ 221.200.000 10 employees Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy $ 111.200.000 13 projects as part of the MidSEFF Program 01.12.2016(1) Financing of SMEs and enterprises with 250 to 3,000 $ 47.600.000 10 employees Financing of energy efficiency projects as part of the 27.10.2011 $ 6.660.000 15 TurSEFF Program Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy 28.06.2012(1) € 50.000.000 12 projects as part of the MidSEFF Program Financing of female entrepreneurs as part of the WiB € 25.000.000 Program Financing of energy efficiency projects as part of the 09.05.2013 € 15.000.000 7 TurSEFF Program Financing of agricultural investments as part of the € 10.000.000 TuRAFF Program Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy 18.12.2013(1) € 50.000.000 12 European Bank for projects as part of the MidSEFF Program Reconstruction Financing of female entrepreneurs as part of the WiB $ 12.500.000 and Development Program (EBRD) Financing of energy efficiency projects as part of the 19.12.2014 $ 90.000.000 5 TurSEFF Program Financing of agricultural investments as part of the $ 25.000.000 TuRAFF Program $ 60.000.000 7 Financing of energy efficiency in residences as part of the $ 15.000.000 15 TurEEFF Program 30.03.2015 (1) Financing of female entrepreneurs as part of the TuRWiB $ 55.000.000 5 Program Financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy 21.10.2016(1) $ 55.000.000 12 projects as part of the MidSEFF Program Financing of renewable energy and resources efficiency 06.12.2017(1) $ 55.000.000 7 investments as part of the TurSEFF Program Financing of renewable energy and energy efficiency 09.12.2010 € 50.000.000 12 projects PROPARCO Financing of loans extended to residential buildings 01.03.2013 € 50.000.000 10 conforming to domestic energy efficiency criteria in Turkey Financing of SMEs, prioritized regions in development, OPIC 10.12.2014(1) $ 220.000.000 14 and female entrepreneurs Financing of housing loans, especially green mortgages $ 105.000.000 conforming to IFC energy efficiency criteria. IFC 28.12.2017(1) 9 Provided for use in financing green mortgage loans $ 20.000.000 ensuring energy efficiency, by the Clean Technology Fund through IFC (1) Resources provided through the transactions made within the scope of the securitization program based on cash flows. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 99 Reporting Guidance 1. General Principles and Scope This reporting guide provides information on the data collection and calculation methodologies of indicators such as environmental, social and basic, within the scope of the independent audit in the 2018 İşbank Integrated Report. In reporting guide, data are prepared on the basis of consistency and reliability principles. In the process of reporting the data, the principles of understandability, comparability with data from previous years and transparency are taken into consideration. The data included in the scope of the independent audit are stated in the Independent Audit Report and under the heading of Limited (Independent) Assurance Report on pages 93 of the Integrated Report. Each heading in the Reporting Guide also contains detailed information about the data and indicators included in the scope of the audit. 2. Audit Scope Within the scope of the limited assurance carried out by EY Turkey, the following data have been checked. Data controlled as of 01.01.2018-31.12.2018: Basic Indicators • Number of renewable energy projects financed during the year, the capacity of installed power and the loan amount provided to these projects • Total size of installed power of financed renewable energy projects as of year-end • Total amount of cash commercial loans extended to the agriculture sector • Total amount of loans extended to SMEs • Total amount of sustainability related credit agreements signed with international financial institutions during the year • Environmental and social risk management in loans • Total number of saplings planted in cooperation with TEMA Foundation Social Indicators • Total number of employees • Employee training number of participants and information on total hours • Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) The number of Established OHS Committees and the total number of members and employee representatives on the committees • Injury rate • Lost day rate • Number of work related deaths 100 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Annexes Environmental Indicators • Carbon footprint Scope 1 • Carbon footprint Scope 2 • Carbon footprint Scope 3 • Electricity (kWh) • Natural gas (m³) • Total energy consumed (GJ) • City water Blue (m³) • Spring water Green (m³) • Waste water Gray (m³) • Total water consumption (m³) 3. Principles Related to the Preparation Process of Indicators and Data Basic Indicators The number of projects, installed power and the amount of loans provided under the renewable energy projects stated under the Financing of Renewable Energy heading, another sub-heading under the Responsible Finance heading, are checked under independent audit for 2018. In this context, the amount of loans extended to Hydroelectric Power Plant (HPP), Wind Power Plant (WPP), Biomass Power Plant (BPP), and Solar Energy Plant (SEP) renewable energy projects by the Corporate Loans Underwriting, Commercial Loans Underwriting, and SMEs Loans Underwriting sections of the Bank is determined on the basis of total limit information by calculating the sum of cash and non-cash loans. In this process, project loan allocation files are taken as reference in determining both the total loan amounts provided for projects and the installed power of projects. During the year, the loan agreements under sustainability topic signed with the international financial institutions are checked through independent audit for 2018 and discussed with responsible units. In this regard, issues such as the amount of resources provided by international financial institutions and the scope of the projects financed are audited by examining on-site the information in the contracts signed between the Bank and the international financial organizations. The amount of cash loans extended by the Bank to the agriculture and livestock industries under the Support for Agriculture and the Livestock Industry heading is checked under the independent audit for 2018. The amount of cash loans extended to the agriculture and livestock industries has been determined through sectoral breakdown using A-B financing codes corresponding to the agriculture and livestock industries after separating performing loans in KR202 (AS) forms and reported to the BRSA. The labeling and classification method of the loans extended to SMEs over the systems by credit allocation teams are checked and tested with examples. Total loan amount was examined. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 101 The number of projects evaluated using the evaluation model of Environmental and Social Risk Evaluation Tool (ERET) under the heading of Responsible Finance in the Responsible Banking section of this Report, the number of projects financed after the evaluation, and the risk categories of these projects obtained within the frame of this evaluation are checked under an independent audit for 2018. Projects included in the scope of ERET process are evaluated with reference to national and international legislation such as the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) Performance Requirements, and Equator Principles, and a Project Environmental and Social Evaluation Certificate is issued for each project. The risk categories of the projects are determined after these documents are checked. The details of the project carried out with the TEMA Foundation were examined and the number of saplings planted throughout the year within the scope of the country-wide cooperation model was checked with the documents obtained from TEMA. Records of the amount of paper sent to the TEMA Foundation from various Bank branches in Turkey, archive warehouses in Ankara, İstanbul and İzmir, and other centers are kept monthly on the basis of kg by both the Bank and the TEMA Foundation. The number of saplings is determined by the tonnage of these lists after they are checked and agreed upon by both sides. Social Indicators During the interviews with Human Resources Management Unit, total number of employees was controlled over the Bank’s internal systems. All İşbank employees, including private security staff, were taken into account in this process. Number of employees: Calculation takes all İşbank employees into account including those such as private security staff. Employee numbers are also categorized by sex, full and part-time, specific age groups and state of education. However, employees who had been assigned to Subsidiaries and returned to the Bank are not included in these numbers. Employee turnover rate: This is the ratio of the total number of employees who leave work over the year to the average number of employees. Hours of training per employee: Within the scope of independent audit, information about total trainings, number of participants and total training hours were controlled over the system, and attendance signature forms and electronic records were also tested. Calculated considering all trainings given to employees during the year. In this regard, calculations are made by dividing the total number of hours of training given to employees during the year by the number of employees (private security staff is not included). Although there are no training courses directly allocated to the issues of Human Rights, Fight Against Bribery and Corruption, and Ethical Principles included in the Ethical and Transparent Banking section within the Bank, these issues were dealt with in certain training programs within certain periods. Therefore, in the calculation of training hours per employee, time allocated to the related subject in the training programs is taken into account. At the same time, the duration of training in these areas given in the training programs organized by the Board of Inspectors for the Members of the Board of Inspectors is not included in the calculation of the training periods. 102 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Annexes The private security staff is not included in the calculation of the number of employees. Human rights are covered within the Law on Private Security Services and Individual Rights course provided under the refresher training to the private security staff. This issue is not taken into account in the calculation of duration since it is a subject covered in a 10-hour course within the refresher training delivered by different suppliers in different cities. The information on OHS indicators under the Working Life heading of this Integrated Report are checked under the independent audit for 2018. In this regard, data is determined according to the Bank’s OHS policies and legislation. Also, calculations of OHS indicators are made taking into consideration the occupational accident forms filled out by employees and hospital reports. Absence due to Accident: Calculated considering the days of absence due to accidents counting as work accidents. In this regard, calculations are made according to the period as stated in the doctor/hospital reports the employees reporting work accidents presented to Human Resources Management Division. Total Injury Frequency Rate (IR Injury Rate): The ratio of accidents during the year to total working time is calculated. In this regard, calculations are made by the formula of “Total number of accidents/(Total working hours Lost hours) * 200.000”. The number of accidents in this form is reported according to the accident report forms filled out by employees. Total human working hours are calculated based on 250 work days in 1 year and 1 work day equals 8 hours. Lost hour data is reported by calculating how many work hours were lost per the number of daily absences due to accident. Occupational Disease Rate (ODR): Calculated according to the ratio of employees who have experienced temporary or permanent illness because of a recurring cause due to the nature of the work or the conditions involved in carrying out their work to the total number of work hours. This calculation uses the formula “(Number of occupational diseases * 200.000)/Total working hours”. Lost Day Rate (LDR): Calculated according to the ratio of the number of days lost due to work accidents to total work hours. This calculation uses the formula “(Total number of lost days * 200.000)/Total work hours”. The lost days in the formula reference absences due to accident. Absentee Rate (AR): Calculated according to the ratio of lost work hours to total work hours. This calculation uses the formula “Lost work hours/Total human work hours”. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 103 Environmental Indicators The data on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope -1, Scope -2, and Scope -3), Energy Consumption (Electricity and Natural Gas and Total Energy Consumption) and Water Consumption (City Water, Spring Water, Waste Water and Total Water Consumption) under the Environmental Performance Indicators are checked through the independent audit for 2018. There have been changes in the calculation methodologies and the scope of limitations of environmental performance data over the years. In the calculations of Environmental Data for 2016 and 2017, only İşbank Head Office buildings have been taken into consideration. 2018 data includes all operation and service points of İşbank. The following definitions, limits and calculation methodologies apply to the terms in the performance indicators tables in the Environmental Impact heading of this Report. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2): Greenhouse gas emissions refer to carbon emissions arising from energy consumption during the reporting year (January 1st December 31st). The greenhouse gas emissions resulting from İşbank activities are calculated by S360 Sürdürülebilirlik Hizmetleri A.Ş., which provides strategy, management and reporting consultancy services in the field of sustainability, in accordance with the GHG Protocol. Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated in three different scopes: Scope 1 (Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions), Scope 2 (Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions) and Scope 3 (Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions). For emission factors, IPCC 5th Assessment Report factors were used. Grid Emission Factor was calculated on the basis of the data provided by Turkish Electricity Transmission Corporation (TEİAŞ). Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) and Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2) were calculated according to GHG Protocol-Location Basis criteria. Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) were reported in accordance with GHG Protocol. For emissions of business travels by airplane, DEFRA emission factors; for paper consumption, Environmental Paper Network emission factors were used. In the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions, the limits of the energy resources causing carbon emissions has changed over the years and the energy consuming items included in the scope has been expanded. The table below gives information on which energy sources have been included over the years while calculating Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions. 104 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Annexes Resources Included in Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Years 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 Natural Gas Consumption Natural Gas Consumption Natural Gas Consumption Fuel used in generators Fuel used in generators Fuel used in generators (Diesel fuel) (Diesel fuel) (Diesel fuel) Fuel Consumption of Fuel Consumption of Fuel Consumption of Company Vehicles (Diesel and Company Vehicles (Diesel and Company Vehicles (Diesel and Gasoline) Gasoline) Gasoline) Refrigerant Gases Refrigerant Gases Scope 2 Electricity Consumption Electricity Consumption Electricity Consumption Scope 3 Personnel Service Personnel Service Personnel Service Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles Domestic Business Travels Domestic Business Travels (Airplane, Bus, Taxi) (Airplane, Bus, Taxi) Paper Consumption Business Travels Abroad (Airplane) Paper Consumption Energy Consumption (GJ): Electricity and natural gas consumption are included in total energy consumption calculations. Electricity consumption was first calculated in kWh and then converted to GJ. A conversion factor of 1 kWh = 0.0036 GJ was used. For natural gas consumption, the monthly consumption values for 2018 were calculated in m³ and converted to kWh using the monthly lower calorific values on the invoice. Total annual consumption, figured up by monthly consumption values, was converted to GJ by using the above conversion factor. Water Consumption (m3): Water consumption is evaluated in three different categories: City water (Blue), Waste water (Gray) and Spring water (Green). City water (Blue) includes water received from municipalities or other suppliers such as İSKİ (İstanbul Water and Sewerage Administration), while Waste water (Gray) includes water previously used for any reason and then reused. Spring water (Green) includes naturally formed surface and underground water. İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 105 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Principles Report Section Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Working Life of internationally proclaimed human rights. Ethical and Transparent Banking Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not Working Life complicit in human rights abuses. Ethical and Transparent Banking Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Working Life and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms Working Life of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of Working Life child labor. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of Working Life discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach Ethical and Transparent Banking to environmental challenges. Responsible Banking Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Environmental Impact greater environmental responsibility. Annexes (Corporate Memberships) Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and Responsible Banking diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Ethical and Transparent Banking forms, including extortion and bribery 106 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Statement To the Board of Directors and Management of Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş., Istanbul, Turkey This Assurance Statement (‘hereinafter ‘Statement) is intended solely for the management of Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş. (hereinafter ‘the Company’) for the purpose of evaluation of ‘Selected Information’ in its 2018 Integrated Report (hereinafter ‘the Report) that has been prepared by the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018. Subject Matter Information and Applicable Criteria We were engaged by the Company to provide limited assurance on the items listed below which are defined in the ‘Reporting Guidance’ section of the Report. The scope of our assurance The scope of our assurance service is limited to the 2018 Subject Matter Information for the Bank’s operations in Turkey, which is listed below. Our assurance report should be read in conjunction with the criteria explained in the Reporting Guidance section of the Report. General Indicators Renewable energy finance portfolio (number of projects, installed power and loan amount) (p.37) Total size of installed power of financed renewable energy projects as of year-end (p.37) Total amount of cash commercial loans extended to agriculture (p.42) Total amount of loans extended to SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) (p.39) Total amount of sustainability related loans granted by international financial institutions during the year (p. 98) Number of financed projects subject to environmental and social risk assessment (p.36) Total number of saplings planted in cooperation with TEMA Foundation (p. 78) Social Indicators Total number of employees (p. 94) Employee trainings – (The number of trainees and total training hours). (p. 95) Occupational health and safety Number of OHS Committees established (p. 75) and the total number of members and representatives in committees, Accident frequency rate, Lost day rate, Number of work-related fatalities (p. 95) Environmental Indicators Carbon footprintScope 1 Emissions (tCO2e) (p.79) Carbon footprint-Scope 2 Emissions (tCO2) (p.79) Carbon footprint -Scope 3 Emissions (tCO2e) (p.79) Electricity consumption (kWh) (p.79) Natural gas consumption (m3) (p.79) Total energy consumed (GJ) (p.79) Total main water consumption (blue) (p.79) Total spring water consumption (green) (p.79) Total waste water consumption (gray) (p.79) Total water consumption (m3) (p.79) The Company’s Responsibilities The Company’s management is responsible for ensuring that the documentation provided to the practitioner is complete and accurate. The Company’s management is also responsible for maintaining the internal control system that reasonably ensures that the documentation and information described above is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. 102-56 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 107 Our Responsibilities We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with International Assurance Standards, particularly International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000 (revised) and ISAE 3410). These regulations require that we comply with ethical standards and plan and perform our assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance about the Selected Information. We comply with the independence and other ethical requirements of the IESBA Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which establishes the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. We apply International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1), and accordingly, we maintain a robust system of quality control, including policies and procedures documenting compliance with relevant ethical and professional standards and requirements in law or regulation. The assurance engagement performed represents a limited assurance engagement. The nature, timing and extent of procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement is limited compared with what is necessary in a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is lower. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgment. The procedures include, in particular, inquiry of the personnel responsible for collecting and reporting on the Selected Information and additional procedures aimed at obtaining evidence about the Selected Information. In respect of the Selected Information mentioned above the procedures performed include the following procedures: I. Interviewed select key senior personnel of the Company to understand the current processes in place for capturing the Selected Information pertaining to the reporting period; II. Reviewed Selected Information for the Company’s operations in Turkey on a sample basis III. Undertook substantive testing, on a sample basis, of the Selected Information; IV. Used the Company’s internal documentation to evaluate and measure the Selected Information; V. Evaluated the design and implementation of key processes and controls over the Selected Information; VI. Re-performed, on a sample basis, calculations used to prepare the Selected Information for the reporting period. VII. Evaluated the disclosure and presentation of Selected Information in the Report. Our conclusion As a result of our procedures, nothing has come to our attention that indicates the Selected Information reviewed for the year ended 31 December 2018 is not prepared in all material respects with the Reporting Guidance section of the Report. We permit this report to be disclosed in Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş.’s Integrated Report for the year ended 31 December 2018, to enable the Directors of Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş. to show they have addressed their governance responsibilities by obtaining an independent assurance report in connection with the Subject Matter Information. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Directors as a body and Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş. for our work or this report except where terms are expressly agreed between us in writing. for Güney Bağımsız Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A. Ş. A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited Zeynep Okuyan Özdemir, SMMM Partner Istanbul, 26.08.2019 108 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report GRI Content Index GRI STATEMENT: “The service was performed on the Turkish language version of the report. GRI STANDARDS INDEX COMPREHENSIVE GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE OMISSIONS NUMBER GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102: GENERAL 102-1 Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş. DISCLOSURES 2016 102-2 About İşbank, Page: 12 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/Pages/about-isbank. aspx 102-3 Head Office İş Kuleleri 34330 Levent/İstanbul-Turkey www.isbank.com.tr 102-4 Turkey 102-5 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ shareholder-information/Pages/shareholder-information.aspx 102-6 The main operation area of İşbank is Turkey. The Bank also offers service out of 22 overseas branches in total, 15 in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC), two each in the UK, Iraq and Kosovo, and one in Bahrain. https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ corporate-overview/participations/Pages/participations.aspx 102-7 About İşbank, Page: 12 102-8 Working Life, Page: 68-69, 75 Human Resources Data, Page: 94-95 102-9 Relations with Suppliers, Page: 33-34 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/ProcurementPolicy.pdf 102-10 There are no significant changes in İşbank’s size, structure and ownership during reporting period. In 2018, İşbank made its transition to a new procurement structure. Relations with Suppliers, Page: 33-34 102-11 Business Ethics, Page: 32-33 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ corporate-governance/ethical-principles/Documents/BankingEthics. pdf 102-12 Corporate Memberships, Page: 96 102-13 Corporate Memberships, Page: 96 STRATEGY 102-14 Chairperson’s Message, Page: 6-7 Message from the CEO, Page: 8-11 102-15 Risks and Opportunities, Page: 88-93 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Business Ethics, Page: 32-33 102-17 Business Ethics, Page: 32-33 102-55 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 109 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE OMISSIONS NUMBER GOVERNANCE GRI 102: GENERAL 102-18 2018 Annual Report, Page: 74-84 DISCLOSURES 2016 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 102-19 Sustainability Management at İşbank, Page: 14 102-20 Sustainability Approach, Page: 14-17 102-21 Sustainability Approach, Page: 14-17 102-22 2018 Annual Report, Page: 74-84 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 102-23 The Chairperson İşbank has no executive duty. 102-24 2018 Annual Report, Page: 88-97 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 102-25 Corporate Governance, Page: 30 2018 Annual Report, Page: 90-91, 94-97 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF Disclosure Policy: https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/ investor-relations/corporate-governance/disclosure-policy/ Documents/disclosure%20policy.pdf 102-26 Corporate Governance, Page: 30 2018 Annual Report, Page: 90-91, 94-97 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 102-27 Corporate Governance, Page: 30 2018 Annual Report, Page: 90-91, 94-97 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 102-28 Corporate Governance, Page: 30 2018 Annual Report, Page: 90-91, 94-97 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 102-29 Corporate Governance, Page: 30 2018 Annual Report, Page: 98-99, 101-104 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 102-30 Corporate Governance, Page: 30 2018 Annual Report, Page: 98-99, 101-104 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 102-31 Corporate Governance, Page: 30 2018 Annual Report, Page: 98-99, 101-104 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 110 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report GRI Content Index GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE OMISSIONS NUMBER GRI 102: GENERAL 102-32 Sustainability Management at İşbank, Page: 14 DISCLOSURES 2016 102-33 Corporate Governance, Page: 30 102-34 Corporate Governance, Page: 30 102-35 Remuneration Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/TR/hakkimizda/ Documents/Ucretlendirme_Politikasi.pdf 2018 Annual Report, Page: 91 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 102-36 Remuneration Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/TR/hakkimizda/ Documents/Ucretlendirme_Politikasi.pdf 2018 Annual Report, Page: 91 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 102-37 Remuneration Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/TR/hakkimizda/ Documents/Ucretlendirme_Politikasi.pdf 2018 Annual Report, Page: 91 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 102-38 Remuneration Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/TR/hakkimizda/ Documents/Ucretlendirme_Politikasi.pdf 2018 Annual Report, Page: 91 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 102-39 Remuneration Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/TR/hakkimizda/ Documents/Ucretlendirme_Politikasi.pdf 2018 Annual Report, Page: 91 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 Stakeholder Dialogue, Page: 92 102-41 98.6% 102-42 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 2017 Sustainability Report, Page: 26-28 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourreports/Documents/SustainabilityReport2017.pdf 102-43 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 Stakeholder Dialogue, Page: 92 102-44 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 Stakeholder Dialogue, Page: 92 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 2018 Annual Report, Page: 239 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 102-46 About this Report, Page: 3 102-47 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 111 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE OMISSIONS NUMBER GRI 102: GENERAL 102-48 This is the first Integrated Report of İşbank. DISCLOSURES 2016 102-49 This is the first Integrated Report of İşbank. 102-50 01.01.2018-31.12.2018 102-51 This is the first Integrated Report of İşbank. The previous report was published as a Sustainability Report in 2017. 102-52 Annual 102-53 Investor Relations İş Kuleleri Kule: 1, Kat: 15, 34330 Levent/İstanbul-Turkey Tel: (+90 212) 316 16 02 E-mail: sustainability@isbank.com.tr 102-54 This report is prepared in accordance with GRI StandardsComprehensive option. 102-55 GRI Standards Index, Page: 108-118 102-56 Independent (Limited) Assurance Report, Page: 106-107 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE OMISSIONS NUMBER GRI 200: ECONOMIC STANDARD SERIES ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Chairperson’s Message, Page: 6-7 APPROACH 2016 Message from the CEO, Page: 8-11 103-3 İşbank’s Way of Banking, Page: 20-21 GRI 201: ECONOMIC 201-1 Value Creation Model, Page: 22-23 PERFORMANCE 2016 Financial Performance, Page: 26-27 201-2 Environmental Impact, Page: 76-79 Risks and Opportunities, Page: 88-93 201-3 2018 Annual Report, Page: 216-217 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investor-relations/ publications-and-results/annual-reports/Documents/ISBANK18ENG. PDF 201-4 In the scope of the reduction in order-based R&D, innovation and design activities introduced by the Regulation on Implementation and Supervision of Support for Research, Development and Design Activities published in the Official Gazette dated 10.8.2016 and numbered 29797, an R&D discount of TL 16,689 thousand has been achieved. MARKET PRESENCE GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Chairperson’s Message, Page: 6-7 APPROACH 2016 Message from the CEO, Page: 8-11 103-3 İşbank’s Way of Banking, Page: 20-21 GRI 202: MARKET 202-1 Working Life, Page: 68-75 PRESENCE 2016 Remuneration Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/TR/hakkimizda/Documents/ Ucretlendirme_Politikasi.pdf 202-2 All İşbank senior managers are citizens of Turkish Republic. INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Chairperson’s Message, Page: 6-7 APPROACH 2016 Message from the CEO, Page: 8-11 103-3 İşbank’s Way of Banking, Page: 20-21 GRI 203: INDIRECT 203-1 Financial Performance, Page: 26-27 ECONOMIC IMPACTS Social Investment Programs, Page: 82-87 2016 203-2 Financial Performance, Page: 26-27 112 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report GRI Content Index GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE OMISSIONS NUMBER PROCUREMENT PRACTICES GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Procurement Policy APPROACH 2016 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/ProcurementPolicy.pdf 103-3 Relation with Suppliers, Page: 33-34 Procurement Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/ProcurementPolicy.pdf GRI 204: 204-1 Relation with Suppliers, Page: 33-34 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Business Ethics, Page: 32-33 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Business Ethics, Page: 32-33 GRI 205: ANTI205-1 Business Ethics, Page: 32-33 CORRUPTION 2016 205-2 Business Ethics, Page: 32-33 205-3 Business Ethics, Page: 32-33 ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Business Ethics, Page: 32-33 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Business Ethics, Page: 32-33 GRI 206: ANTI206-1 There are no cases of anti-trust and anti-competitive behavior in the COMPETITIVE reporting period. BEHAVIOR 2016 GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARD SERIES ENERGY GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-2 Environmental Impact, Page: 76-79 Environmental and Social Impact Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/environment_and_social_impact_policy.pdf 103-3 Environmental Impact, Page: 76-79 Environmental and Social Impact Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/environment_and_social_impact_policy.pdf GRI 302: ENERGY 302-1 Environmental Impact/Performance Indicators, Page: 79 2016 302-2 Environmental Impact/Performance Indicators, Page: 79 302-3 Environmental Impact/Performance Indicators, Page: 79 302-4 Environmental Impact/Performance Indicators, Page: 79 302-5 Environmental Impact/Performance Indicators, Page: 79 WATER GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Environmental Impact, Page: 76-79 APPROACH 2016 Environmental and Social Impact Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/environment_and_social_impact_policy.pdf 103-3 Environmental Impact, Page: 76-79 Environmental and Social Impact Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/environment_and_social_impact_policy.pdf İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 113 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE OMISSIONS NUMBER GRI 303: WATER 303-1 Environmental Impact/Performance Indicators, Page: 79 2016 303-2 There are no water sources significantly affected by the operations of İşbank. 303-3 Environmental Impact/Performance Indicators, Page: 79 EMISSIONS GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Environmental Impact, Page: 76-79 APPROACH 2016 Environmental and Social Impact Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/environment_and_social_impact_policy.pdf 103-3 Environmental Impact, Page: 76-79 Environmental and Social Impact Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/environment_and_social_impact_policy.pdf GRI 305: EMISSIONS 305-1 Environmental Impact/Performance Indicators, Page: 79 2016 305-2 Environmental Impact/Performance Indicators, Page: 79 305-3 Environmental Impact/Performance Indicators, Page: 79 305-4 Environmental Impact/Performance Indicators, Page: 79 305-5 Environmental Impact/Performance Indicators, Page: 79 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Environmental Impact, Page: 76-79 APPROACH 2016 Environmental and Social Impact Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/environment_and_social_impact_policy.pdf 103-3 Environmental Impact, Page: 76-79 Environmental and Social Impact Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/environment_and_social_impact_policy.pdf GRI 306: EFFLUENTS 306-1 Environmental Impact/Performance Indicators, Page: 79 AND WASTE 2016 306-2 Environmental Impact/Performance Indicators, Page: 79 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Environmental Impact, Page: 76-79 APPROACH 2016 Environmental and Social Impact Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/environment_and_social_impact_policy.pdf 103-3 Environmental Impact, Page: 76-79 Environmental and Social Impact Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/environment_and_social_impact_policy.pdf GRI 307: 307-1 There are no significant fines or sanctions in the reporting period. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 2016 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Relation with Suppliers, Page: 33-34 APPROACH 2016 Procurement Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/ProcurementPolicy.pdf 103-3 Relation with Suppliers, Page: 33-34 Procurement Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/ProcurementPolicy.pdf 114 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report GRI Content Index GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE OMISSIONS NUMBER GRI 400: SOCIAL STANDARD SERIES EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Working Life, Page: 68-75 APPROACH 2016 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf 103-3 Working Life, Page: 68-75 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf GRI 401: 401-1 Human Resources Data, Page: 94-96 EMPLOYMENT 2016 401-2 Human Resources Data, Page: 94-96 401-3 Human Resources Data, Page: 94-96 LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Corporate Governance, Page: 30 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Corporate Governance, Page: 30 GRI 402: LABOR/ 402-1 Minimum legal notice periods are applied regarding operational MANAGEMENT changes. RELATIONS 2016 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Working Life, Page: 74-75 APPROACH 2016 Occupational Health and Safety Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/OHS_Policy.pdf 103-3 Working Life, Page: 74-75 Occupational Health and Safety Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/OHS_Policy.pdf GRI 403: 403-1 Working Life, Page: 74-75 OCCUPATIONAL Human Resources Data, Page: 94-96 HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-2 Human Resources Data, Page: 94-96 2016 403-3 Human Resources Data, Page: 94-96 403-4 Working Life, Page: 74-75 TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Working Life, Page: 71-73, 75 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Working Life, Page: 71-73, 75 GRI 404: TRAINING 404-1 Human Resources Data, Page: 94-96 AND EDUCATION 404-2 Working Life, Page: 71-73, 75 2016 404-3 Human Resources Data, Page: 94-96 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 115 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE OMISSIONS NUMBER DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Working Life, Page: 68-69 APPROACH 2016 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf 103-3 Working Life, Page: 68-69 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf GRI 405: DIVERSITY 405-1 Human Resources Data, Page: 94-96 AND EQUAL 405-2 This ratio is one since there is no gender-based wage discrimination in OPPORTUNITY 2016 İşbank. NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Working Life, Page: 68-70 APPROACH 2016 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf 103-3 Working Life, Page: 68-70 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf GRI 406: NON406-1 İşbank takes all decisions about its employees independent of race, DISCRIMINATION religion, language, 2016 sect or any belief, gender, mental or physical disability, age, cultural or social class differences; it refuses any discrimination against or among the employees and managers FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Working Life, Page: 68-70 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Working Life, Page: 68-70 GRI 407: FREEDOM 407-1 Working Life, Page: 68-70 OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 2016 CHILD LABOR GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Working Life, Page: 68-75 APPROACH 2016 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf 103-3 Working Life, Page: 68-75 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf GRI 408: CHILD 408-1 During the reporting period, no risk of child labor was observed in LABOR 2016 İşbank’s operations. 116 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report GRI Content Index GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE OMISSIONS NUMBER FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Working Life, Page: 68-75 APPROACH 2016 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf 103-3 Working Life, Page: 68-75 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf GRI 409: FORCED OR 409-1 During the reporting period, no risk of forced or compulsory labor was COMPULSORY LABOR observed in İşbank’s operations. 2016 SECURITY PRACTICES GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy APPROACH 2016 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf 103-3 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLE GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy APPROACH 2016 https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf 103-3 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Working Life, Page: 68-75 APPROACH 2016 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf 103-3 Working Life, Page: 68-75 Human Rights and Human Resources Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/Human_Rights.pdf GRI 412: 412-2 Business Ethics, Page: 32-33 HUMAN RIGHTS 412-3 Responsible Banking, Page: 34-37 ASSESSMENT 2016 LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Responsible Banking, Page: 34-37 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Responsible Banking, Page: 34-37 GRI 413: LOCAL 413-1 Responsible Banking, Page: 34-37 COMMUNITIES 2016 413-2 Responsible Banking, Page: 34-37 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report 117 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE OMISSIONS NUMBER SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Relation with Suppliers, Page: 33-34 APPROACH 2016 Procurement Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/ProcurementPolicy.pdf 103-3 Relation with Suppliers, Page: 33-34 Procurement Policy https://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/sustainability/ourpolicies/Documents/ProcurementPolicy.pdf GRI 414: SUPPLIER 414-1 While suppliers are expected to consider their environmental impact, SOCIAL ASSESSMENT there are no suppliers subject to environmental inspection. 2016 414-2 No negative social impacts were observed in the supply chain. PUBLIC POLICY GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Sustainability Approach, Page: 14-17 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Sustainability Approach, Page: 14-17 GRI 415: PUBLIC 415-1 İşbank does not provide aids to political parties. POLICY 2016 MARKETING AND LABELING GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Responsible Banking, Page: 39-45 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Responsible Banking, Page: 39-45 GRI 417: MARKETING 417-1 İşbank’s Way of Banking, Page: 20-21 AND LABELING 2016 Responsible Banking, Page: 39-45 417-2 No such case occurred during the reporting period. 417-3 No such case occurred during the reporting period. CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Customer Focus, Page: 53-55 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Customer Focus, Page: 53-55 GRI 418: CUSTOMER 418-1 Number of complaints is not disclosed due to data privacy. PRIVACY 2016 SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE GRI 103: 103-1 Material Issues, Page: 14-15 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Responsible Banking, Page: 39-45 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Responsible Banking, Page: 39-45 Business Ethics, Page: 32-33 MATERIAL TOPICS THAT ARE NOT COVERED BY THE GRI STANDARDS RESPONSIBLE FINANCE INTEGRATING ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) CRITERIA GRI 103: 103-1 Responsible Banking, Page: 39-45 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Sustainability Approach, Page: 14-17 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Sustainability Approach, Page: 14-17 118 İşbank 2018 Integrated Report GRI Content Index GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE OMISSIONS NUMBER DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION GRI 103: 103-1 Digital Transformation, Page: 56-65 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Sustainability Approach, Page: 14-17 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Sustainability Approach, Page: 14-17 FINANCIAL INCLUSION GRI 103: 103-1 Financial Performance, Page: 26-27 MANAGEMENT Responsible Banking, Page: 39-45 APPROACH 2016 103-2 Sustainability Approach, Page: 14-17 103-3 Sustainability Approach, Page: 14-17 RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PORTFOLIO GRI 103: 103-1 Financial Performance, Page: 26-27 MANAGEMENT Responsible Banking, Page: 39-45 APPROACH 2016 103-2 Sustainability Approach, Page: 14-17 103-3 Sustainability Approach, Page: 14-17 FINANCIAL SERVICES SUPPLEMENT FINANCIAL SERVICES FS13 Responsible Banking, Page: 39-45 SUPPLEMENT Digital Transformation, Page: 56-65 FS14 Responsible Banking, Page: 39-45 www.isbank.com.tr
